Serving our

customers

every day

NatWest Group plc

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

NatWest Group is a UK-focused banking 
organisation, serving over 19 million customers, 
with business operations stretching across retail, 
commercial and private banking markets. 

Our 2023 reporting suite

Annual Report  
and Accounts

Climate-related 
Disclosures Report 

ESG Disclosures Report and  
ESG Frameworks Appendix

Company Announcement  
and Financial Supplement

Annual

results

for the year ended 31 December 2023 and

Serving our

customers

every day

Serving our

customers

every day

Serving our

customers

every day

Q4 2023

Financial

Supplement

NatWest Group plc

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

NatWest Group plc

2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report

NatWest Group plc

2023 Environmental, Social  
and Governance Disclosures Report

NatWest Group plc

Disclosures related to our strategic 
performance, governance and 
remuneration, risk and capital 
management, along with our financial 
statements and related notes, including 
the independent auditor’s report.

Progress against our climate ambitions 
and Climate transition plan.

Progress on Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) matters and 
our frameworks appendix, prepared 
with reference to industry-wide 
sustainability standards.

Our latest company information, 
including our financial performance 
for the year.

Read more and download our reports  
at natwestgroup.com

On the cover: Royal Bank of Scotland Personal Banker, Laura McWhinnie, at our 
Lanark branch. Laura works with customers to build their financial resilience and offers 
personalised support. Read the story on page 35.

Our investment case and shareholder value

105 Report of the Group Nominations and  

Inside this report

1
  3

Strategic report
Our 2023 performance

Chairman’s statement

Group Chief Executive’s review

Outlook statement 

Our strategic framework

4

6

8

9

10

12

Our business model

14 Market environment

18

20

24

26

30

43

44

48

50

58

60

66

68

Delivering our strategy

Key performance indicators

Section 172(1) statement

Stakeholder engagement

Stakeholder focus areas

30

32

36

40

41

43

Investors

Customers

Colleagues

Regulators

Communities

Suppliers

Respecting Human Rights

Business performance

45

46

47

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Commercial & Institutional

NatWest Group’s climate strategy and 
progress highlights

Task-force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) overview

Our own operational footprint

Risk overview

Viability statement

Non-financial and sustainability information statement

70
71

72

76

82

Financial review
Group Chief Financial Officer’s review

Financial summary

Segment performance

Summary financial statements

83 Governance and remuneration
84

Our Board

88

89

Chairman’s introduction

Governance at a glance

Governance Committee

110 Report of the Group Audit Committee

115 Report of the Group Board Risk Committee

122 Report of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

127 Directors’ remuneration report

131 Remuneration at a glance

135 Wider workforce remuneration

138 Summary of Policy for executive directors

141 Annual remuneration report

162 Compliance report

165 Report of the directors

169 Statement of directors’ responsibilities

170 Risk and capital management
172 Risk management framework

181 Credit risk

243 Capital, liquidity and funding risk

262 Market risk

274 Pension risk

275 Compliance and conduct risk

276 Financial crime risk

277 Climate risk

279 Operational risk

281 Model risk

282 Reputational risk

1

283 Financial statements
285 Independent auditor’s report

298 Consolidated financial statements

305 Accounting policies

313 Notes to the consolidated accounts

389 NatWest Group plc financial statements and notes

407 Non-IFRS financial measures

413 Additional information
417 Risk factors

445  Shareholder information

448 Presentation of information

448 Forward looking statements

Approval of Strategic report
The Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 
2023 set out on pages 1 to 69 was approved by 
the Board of directors on 15 February 2024.

By order of the Board

Jan Cargill
Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary

15 February 2024

Chairman: 
Howard Davies

Executive directors:  
Paul Thwaite (Group CEO) 
Katie Murray (Group CFO)

Non-executive directors:  
Frank Dangeard  
Roisin Donnelly
Patrick Flynn 
Rick Haythornthwaite 
Yasmin Jetha 
Stuart Lewis  
Mark Seligman  
Lena Wilson

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts2

Serving our

customers

every day

We’re dedicated to serving our customers. By being there 
throughout their lives, we can build long-term value, invest 
for growth and drive attractive returns for shareholders. 
Our focus is to continue building a great bank, powered 
by great people and delivering fantastic service to our 
19 million customers. 

Creating sustainable value 

Read the story on page 17.

Read the story on page 23.

Read the story on page 35.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts3

Our 2023 performance

Strong financial 
performance 

Robust balance sheet 
underpinning growth

Strong capital  
generation

Income

Operating expenses

£14,752m

(2022: £13,156m)

£7,996m

(2022: £7,687m)

Loans to customers 
(amortised cost)

£381.4bn

(2022: £366.3bn)

Customer  
deposits

£431.4bn

(2022: £450.3bn)

Common Equity Tier 1  
(CET1) ratio(1)

13.4%

(2022: 14.2%)

Total capital returned  
to shareholders(2)

£3.6bn

(2022: £5.1bn)

Profit before tax

£6,178m

(2022: £5,132m)

Profit attributable  
to shareholders

£4,394m

(2022: £3,340m)

Loan:deposit ratio (LDR)  
(excl. repos and reverse repos) 

Liquidity coverage 
ratio (LCR)

84%

(2022: 79%)

144%

(2022: 145%)

Risk-weighted assets (RWAs)(1)

£183.0bn

(2022: £176.1bn)

Return on tangible 
equity (RoTE)

17.8%

(2022: 12.3%)

Supporting our customers

Driving efficiency

Delivering capital returns

Gross new mortgage lending 
in Retail Banking

Assets Under Management 
(AUM) net flows

Cost:income ratio  
(excl. litigation and conduct)(4)

Operating expenses  
(excl. litigation and conduct)(4)

Total ordinary dividend(2)

Buybacks

£29.8bn

(2022: £41.4bn)

£1.3bn

(2022: £2.0bn)

51.8%

(2022: 55.5%)

£7,641m

(2022: £7,302m)

£1.5bn

(2022: £1.3bn)

£2.1bn

(2022: £2.0bn)

Climate and sustainable 
funding and financing (*)

Net loans to customers in 
Commercial & Institutional

Retail Banking customers 
exclusively using digital 
channels(*)

Commercial & Institutional 
customers actively using digital 
channels to interact with us

Dividend per ordinary  
share(2)

Increase in ordinary  
dividend per share(2)

£29.3bn(3)

(2022: £24.5bn)

£131.9bn

(2022: £129.9bn)

67%

(2022: 63%)

86%

(2022: 83%)

17.0p

(2022: 13.5p)

26.0%

(1)  On 1 January 2022 the pro forma CET1 ratio was 15.9% and RWAs were £176.3 billion following regulatory changes.
(2)  Distributions paid and proposed. We paid a special dividend of £1.7 billion in 2022 as we returned surplus capital to 

shareholders. For full details of our distributions over the last five years refer to page 11.

(3)  Cumulative contribution of £61.9 billion towards £100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025 target.
(4)  Litigation and conduct costs of £355 million (2022: £385 million).
(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

Read more in our Financial Review on pages 70 to 83.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsChairman’s 
statement

‘Our capital generation 
remained strong, which allowed 
us to invest in the business 
and provide shareholders 
with attractive returns and 
distributions. We have created 
a strong track record of 
distributing surplus capital to 
shareholders and this intention 
has not changed; we remain 
committed to a ~40% pay-out 
ratio on distributions.’

4

‘At NatWest Group, we have 
built a robust balance sheet 
with strong capital and liquidity, 
a largely secured retail loan 
book and well-diversified 
commercial lending.’

In 2023, we announced £3.6 billion of capital returned to 
shareholders, including an interim dividend of £0.5 billion and 
a proposed final dividend of £1.0 billion. We were pleased to 
complete a directed buyback of £1.3 billion in May 2023 and 
the £0.5 billion on-market buyback announced in July 2023 
which is expected to complete in Q1 2024. At full year 2023 
we announced a new on-market buy back of £300 million, 
which we expect to be completed by the time we announce 
first-half results at the end of July 2024.

We maintain capacity for further directed and on-market 
buy backs and will continue to consider them as 
appropriate. As a result of these actions, and following an 
extension to the UK Government’s trading plan, the UK 
Government’s shareholding in the bank reduced from 
45.97% at the end of December 2022 to 37.97% by 
31 December 2023.

At the Autumn Statement in November 2023, the 
Chancellor announced that the Treasury remains 
committed to exiting its stake in the bank by 2025/26 
and that it will explore options for a retail investor share 
sale in the next 12 months. Overall, good progress has 
been made in recent years and we believe the UK 
Government’s ambition to sell down its stake in NatWest 
Group in the next two years is in the best interests of the 
bank and its shareholders.

This will be my last Chairman’s statement for NatWest 
Group after nine years in the role. As you will have seen, 
the bank announced in September 2023 that Rick 
Haythornthwaite who joined the Board as a non-executive 
director in January 2024, will take over as Chair in April 
2024, ahead of our AGM.

I am confident that Rick’s experience and range of skills will 
complement and further strengthen the Board in the years 
to come and support NatWest Group’s continued progress.

2023 has been a challenging year for some of our 
customers as well as for our industry and the UK’s 
economy. Inflation remained for much of the year and 
we saw 14 successive interest rate rises by the Bank of 
England, the fastest rate cycle since the 1970s. There are 
now, however, some grounds for optimism. Importantly, 
unemployment remains low and, by the end of 2023, 
inflation had started to come down, albeit still remaining 
well above the Bank of England’s 2% target.

This uncertain environment has also had implications for 
the stability of a number of banks, both in Europe and in the 
United States. In general, banks in the UK have remained 
resilient. At NatWest Group, we have built a robust balance 
sheet with strong capital and liquidity, a largely secured 
retail loan book and well-diversified commercial lending.

Disciplined risk management continued to underpin 
our strategy and helps to ensure we are well positioned 
for the future. We closely monitor customer activity and 
behaviours for signs of stress, with a focus on maintaining 
good credit quality.

We have seen volatility in UK banking stocks prices through 
2023, as the impact of changes in customer behaviour and 
market dynamics were reflected in the earnings outlook. 
However, against this challenging economic backdrop it is 
pleasing that NatWest Group performed well in 2023, with 
continued growth in our lending and progress against our 
strategy. In 2023, we delivered an operating profit of 
£6.2 billion, with an attributable profit of £4.4 billion.

Our capital generation remained strong, which allowed 
us to invest in the business and provide shareholders 
with attractive returns and distributions. We have created 
a strong track record of distributing surplus capital to 
shareholders and this intention has not changed; we 
remain committed to a ~40% pay-out ratio on distributions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts5

‘In 2023, we announced £3.6 billion 
of capital returned to shareholders, 
including an interim dividend of 
£0.5 billion and a proposed final 
dividend of £1.0 billion.’

Chairman’s statement continued

Following the departure of Alison Rose as our Group Chief 
Executive Officer in July 2023, we welcomed Paul Thwaite 
as our Chief Executive Officer for an initial period of 
12 months. He had been identified as her immediate 
successor six months before and took over at once, 
which stabilised the bank at a difficult time.

As is appropriate, it has fallen to my successor to manage 
the process of appointing a permanent CEO, supported 
by the Group Nominations and Governance Committee. 
The succession process has been completed and I am very 
pleased to see Paul secure the appointment. We can now 
look ahead to the future knowing we have both an incoming 
Chair and CEO with proven skills and who care deeply 
about this business and its customers.

To understand the facts of what happened in relation 
to customer decision-making during the summer of 2023, 
the Board commissioned the legal firm, Travers Smith, to 
conduct an independent review over two phases. We have 
now received and published the findings of the independent 
review. Furthermore, the bank is committed to implementing 
all of the recommendations made by Travers Smith and 
we are making changes to our policies and procedures to 
deliver better, more consistent outcomes for customers. 
The Board also decided on how these findings would impact 
Alison Rose’s remuneration, which we announced to the 
market in November 2023.

As well as changes to our management, a number 
of changes were made to the Board during the year. 
Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepped down as directors 
on 25 April and 31 July 2023 respectively. I would like to 
record our thanks to them for their significant contributions 
to the Board during their tenures. Stuart Lewis was 
appointed as a director on 1 April 2023, succeeding Morten 
Friis as the Chair of the Group Board Risk Committee on 
1 August 2023.

Graham Beale, who became the Senior Independent 
Director of NatWest Holdings Limited in 2018, also stood 
down on 31 August 2023. We thank him for his excellent 
work in that role. Mark Rennison joined the Board of 
NatWest Holdings Limited as an independent non-executive 
director and became a member of the NatWest Holdings 
Audit Committee, with effect from 1 September 2023. 
Mark joined the NatWest Holdings Performance & 
Remuneration Committee in December 2023.

In July 2024, Geeta Gopalan will join the Board as an 
independent non-executive director. Geeta will be a 
valuable addition, bringing substantial financial and 
banking expertise, combined with a strong track  
record as a plc non-executive director.

My own intention to step down from the Board before 
I reached my nine-year tenure in July 2024 was disclosed 
at our AGM in April 2023.

The bank my successor inherits is very different to the one 
I joined in 2015. NatWest Group has returned to profitability, 
is more customer focused and is fundamentally stronger, 
delivering strong returns and regular distributions to 
shareholders. Despite the economic uncertainty that we 
have experienced in recent years, we remain well positioned 
to stand by our customers, to continue growing our lending 
responsibly and to play a vital role in the UK economy.

I am proud of what we have achieved over the past nine 
years and I wish Paul and Rick every success in this next 
chapter in NatWest Group’s history.

Howard Davies
Chairman

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsGroup Chief 
Executive’s review

‘Our leading positions across our 
three customer businesses, and 
19 million customer base provide 
strong foundations on which to 
create further long-term value 
for shareholders and make a 
meaningful contribution to the 
UK economy.’

6

Overview
NatWest Group performed well in 2023, delivering for our 
customers, our shareholders, and the wider UK economy.

Despite the macroeconomic uncertainty, our customers 
remained resilient, navigating both inflation and rising 
interest rates. Throughout the year, we supported them 
to manage their finances, meeting our goal to help 2 million 
customers save over £100 for the first time(1), and lent an 
additional £9 billion to the UK economy. Our investment in 
digital and data capabilities continues to make it easier for 
our customers to manage their money, and for our 
colleagues to provide great service.

As we look to 2024 and beyond, I am optimistic about the 
opportunities ahead for NatWest Group, building on our 
UK heritage, leading customer businesses, deep regional 
connections and financial strength. It is therefore an honour 
to be asked to lead the bank and to have the opportunity to 
shape the future of NatWest Group.

Business performance
Our overall operating profit of £6.2 billion was up 20% 
on 2022 and our return on tangible equity was 17.8%, 
compared with 12.3% at the end of 2022. Income, excluding 
notable items, was up 10% on 2022 at £14.3 billion, with 
total expenses up 5%.

Our disciplined approach to capital allocation and balance 
sheet management delivered attractive returns and 
distributions for our shareholders in 2023. We announced 
£3.6 billion of capital returns to shareholders, including an 
interim dividend of 5.5p at the half year and a proposed 
final dividend of 11.5p, bringing the total for 2023 to 17.0p, 
representing a 26% increase on 2022.

Our business performance was grounded in helping 
customers. In 2023, we increased our lending to customers 
by £9 billion, opened over 100,000 new start-up accounts 
for entrepreneurs, and over a million new personal current 
accounts, as well as helping 379,000 Retail banking 
customers to buy or re-mortgage their home.

We also made progress against our Climate transition plan 
in 2023, helping to build a more sustainable economy. We 
are working to support our customers’ transition to net zero 
across a range of sectors and we have been a leading loan 
arranger to the UK power infrastructure(2) and renewables 
sector over the last 10 years(3). We have now provided 

‘Our overall operating profit of 
£6.2 billion was up 20% on 2022 
and our return on tangible equity 
was 17.8%, compared with 12.3% 
at the end of 2022.’

£61.9 billion in climate and sustainable funding and financing 
against our target of £100 billion between 1 July 2021 and 
the end of 2025.

Supporting our customers
During a year of macroeconomic uncertainty, we focused 
on supporting our customers to better manage their 
finances. In 2023, we helped six million customers by 
conducting financial health checks, providing improved 
personal insights on credit scores, and helping customers 
to save for the first time. We were also one of the first high 
street banks to sign up to the Mortgage Charter in July 
2023 to ease the pressure of increasing mortgage costs, 
and we allowed our customers to lock in their next 
mortgage up to six months before the end of a  
fixed-rate deal.

Over 1.5 million new savings accounts were opened 
in 2023. By making our fixed term savings accounts 
available to more people, including those without an existing 
account with NatWest Group, and providing a broad range 
of flexible savings accounts, we met our goal to help 
two million people save more than £100 for the first time.

We are the biggest supporter of UK businesses, serving 
more than 1.5 million businesses across the country. During 
2023, our extensive network of relationship managers 
continued to help corporate customers grow, manage 
costs, find the right funding solutions, and reduce risk in 
volatile markets. In the context of macroeconomic volatility, 
we also provided centralised resources such as a cashflow 
tool, energy calculator and supply chain navigator to 
manage costs, in response to business customers’ demand 
for help on managing high energy prices. In response 

(1)  2020 goal: To help two million customers save over £100 for the first time with NatWest Group since 2020.
(2)  Power infrastructure comprise battery storage, electricity distribution, electricity smart meter and electricity transmission.
(3)  NatWest Group ranked first among Loan Arrangers by deal value for the period 2014-2023. Source: Infralogic 31 December 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts7

‘We want to make it easier for 
customers to do business with us 
and are investing in technology 
and partnerships to be a simple, 
safe, and smart bank, driven by 
data and digital innovation.’

Chief Executive Officer review continued

to broader concerns from our SME customers, we 
collaborated with the Federation of Small Business to give 
them access to independent support and advice on topics 
such as obtaining funding and managing late payments.

Our 19 million customer base means we are well-placed to 
support our customers to make sustainable choices, while 
driving value and growth from the commercial opportunities 
arising from the transition to a net-zero economy. Through 
initiatives such as partnering with WWF-UK and food 
manufacturer McCain we are reducing financial barriers for 
farmers transitioning to sustainable agricultural practices. 
Through Lombard, no.1 in UK asset finance, we supported 
customers with financing for electric vehicles, renewables, 
and cleaner energy alternatives.

Simple for customers
We want to make it easier for customers to do business 
with us and are investing in technology and partnerships to 
be a simple, safe, and smart bank, driven by data and digital 
innovation.

In 2023, our Retail Banking mobile app was used by more 
than 9.8 million customers and there were 10.9 million active 
digital users(4) of our online and mobile banking platforms. 
94% of our retail customer needs are now met digitally – 
up from 53% in 2019. In Commercial & Institutional, 86% of 
customers are now actively using digital channels to interact 
with us, and our innovative card and payments solution, Tyl, 
continued to grow. We were one of the first banks to offer 
Apple and Android Tap to Pay, a low-cost service removing 
the need for businesses to use hardware to accept payments.

We are also making it easier and quicker for our business 
customers to access financing with the launch of a new 
online lending platform, enabling customers to apply for 
a loan digitally in a matter of minutes.

By harnessing digital capabilities, we have also improved our 
customer service and productivity. In 2023, we collaborated 
with technology partners to responsibly use artificial 
intelligence (AI) to enhance customer engagement and 
improve efficiency. This led to the development of new AI 
capabilities, analysing customer behaviour to help us detect 
scams and fraud earlier to reduce financial loss.

(4)  An active digital user is a customer who has accessed either their online banking 

platform or mobile banking app.

Investing for the future
As set out in our Investment Case (refer to page 10), 
we have capacity for disciplined growth across our three 
customer businesses. Our focus is on delivering long-term 
value for our shareholders by putting our customers at the 
heart of our strategy and deepening our relationships with 
them to better meet their needs. Using data and technology 
will make the business more efficient and effective, making 
it easier for our customers to do business with us and 
improving engagement and productivity for our colleagues. 
Accompanied by a disciplined approach to cost, investment, 
and capital allocation, I am confident that these actions will 
deliver long-term sustainable value for our customers, 
shareholders, and the wider UK economy.

Building our team and culture
It is clear to me that our people are at the heart of our 
business, and I am grateful to our colleagues for their 
hard work, enthusiasm, and dedication throughout 2023. 
We have an engaged and resilient colleague base, and  
I am particularly pleased that our colleagues feel proud 
to deliver a great service to our customers.

We are also continuing to invest in future talent by 
providing colleagues with the skills and capabilities to fulfil 
their potential and build a high-performing culture. This 
includes offering reskilling programmes to build skills in 
software and data engineering, testing automation and 
human-centred designs, supporting future talent through 
our early career programmes and developing a new 
approach to performance management. These initiatives 
are equipping our people with the tools and opportunities 
to develop their own careers.

Conclusion
Our leading positions across our three customer businesses, 
and 19 million customer base provide strong foundations on 
which to create further long-term value for shareholders. 
In 2024, we will focus on disciplined growth, improving 
bank-wide simplification to make it easier to do business 
with us, and deploying capital efficiently while maintaining 
strong risk management to drive strong capital generation. 
This will enable us to continue supporting our customers, 
reinvest in the business, generate attractive distributions to 
shareholders, and make a meaningful contribution to the 
UK economy.

Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive Officer

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts8

The economic outlook remains 
uncertain. We will monitor and 
react to market conditions and 
refine our internal forecasts as 
the economic position evolves. 
The following statements 
are based on our current 
expectations for interest 
rates and economic activity.

Outlook(1)

In 2024 we expect:

 – to achieve a return on tangible equity of around 12%.
 – income excluding notable items to be in the range of 

£13.0-13.5 billion.

 – NatWest Group operating costs, excluding litigation and 
conduct costs, to be broadly stable compared with 2023.

 – our loan impairment rate to be below 20 basis points.

In 2026 we expect:

 – to achieve a return on tangible equity for the NatWest 

Group of greater than 13%.

Capital

 – target a CET1 ratio in the range of 13-14%.
 – expect RWAs to be around £200 billion at the end 

of 2025, including the impact of Basel 3.1, however 
this remains subject to final rules and approval.
 – expect to pay ordinary dividends of around 40% of 

attributable profit and maintain capacity to participate in 
directed buybacks from the UK Government, recognising 
that any exercise of this authority would be dependent 
upon HMT’s intentions. We will also consider further 
on-market buybacks as appropriate. 

(1)  The guidance, targets, expectations, and trends discussed in this section represent NatWest Group plc management’s 

current expectations and are subject to change, including as a result of the factors described in the Risk Factors section. 
These statements constitute forward-looking statements. Refer to Forward-looking statements in this document.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts9

Our strategic framework

Serving our customers every day

We champion potential, helping people, families, and businesses to thrive. 

Our strategy is to grow our business by anticipating and meeting our customers’ needs, using data and 
technology to ensure we are simple to deal with, alongside a disciplined approach to cost, investment and 
capital allocation. Together these actions aim to deliver sustainable long-term value for our shareholders.

Supporting customers at every 
stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital allocation

Powered by people, technology, 
innovation and partnerships

Read more on pages 18 and 19. 

We are informed by the 
needs of our stakeholders

We aim to balance the different 
interests of our stakeholders in 
all decision-making

C u st o m e r s

s
r
e

i
l
p
p
u
S

Investo

r

s

Our values are central to how  
we work together to deliver our strategy

C

o

l

l

e
a
g
u
e
s

Read more on pages 26 to 43.

C

o

m

m

unities

u l a tors

g

R e

Creating a positive impact 

From supporting the day-to-day financial needs of 19 million customers to the other positive impacts we can have

Climate

Enterprise

Learning

We have made helping to address the climate 
challenge and supporting our customers in their 
transition to net zero a key strategic priority.

Our ambition is to remove barriers to enterprise 
and to provide businesses in the UK the support 
they need to grow.

We are helping people to take control of their 
finances, to make the most of their money,  
safely and securely – now and in the future.

Read more on pages 48 to 59 and in our 2023 Climate-
related Disclosures Report.

Read more on pages 44 to 47 and in our 2023 ESG 
Disclosures Report.

Read more on pages 32 to 33 and in our 2023 ESG 
Disclosures Report.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts10

Our investment case

Our focus is on creating sustainable long-term 
value for our shareholders

With strong market positions across our three customer businesses, we have solid foundations on which to build and capacity for 
disciplined growth, positioning us well for 2024 and beyond. We are focused on continuing to simplify the business and controlling costs 
while actively managing our balance sheet so that we generate capital, allowing us to both deliver returns to shareholders and reinvest 
in the business. 

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Commercial & Institutional

Leading positions in an attractive UK market serving  
19 million customers

Attractive returns to 
shareholders

Disciplined 
growth

Simplification  
and cost  
efficiency

Serving our 
customers  
well

Reinvestment 
into the  
business

Active  
balance  
sheet and risk 
management

Strong 
capital  
generation

We expect a return on tangible 
equity of greater than 13% 
in 2026

Target an ordinary dividend 
payout ratio of ~40% with 
capacity for share buybacks

Underpinned by a 
robust balance sheet
Target a CET1 ratio in the range 
of 13-14% 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts11

Shareholder value

We have a strong track record of returning surplus capital to shareholders and remain committed to a ~40% payout ratio with capacity 
for buybacks whilst operating within our 13-14% CET1 ratio target range.

£3.6bn
Shareholder distributions in 2023(1)

Shareholder distributions 2019– 2023  
(£bn)(1)

17p
Ordinary dividend per share in 2023, up 26% on the prior year

Ordinary dividend per share  
(pence)(1)

Ordinary shares 
outstanding(3) (bn)

UK Government 
ownership(3) (%)

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

2
0
2
0

2
0
1
9

1.5

0.8

1.3

£3.6bn

1.3

1.2

1.7

0.8

1.2

£5.1bn(2)

1.5

1.1

£3.8bn

0.4

£0.4bn(6)

0.2

1.5

£1.7bn(6)

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

2
0
2
0

2
0
1
9

5.5

3.5

3.0

3.0

3.0p(6)

2.0

2.0p(6)

11.5

17.0p

10.0

13.5p

7.5

10.5p

Ordinary dividend

Special dividend

On-market buyback

Directed buyback

Interim dividend

Final dividend

8.8bn

9.7bn

11.3bn

12.1bn

12.1bn

37.97%

45.97%

52.96%

61.91%

62.09%

Shareholder returns for the three years 2021-2023

£12.5bn
total distributions to  
shareholders(1) including

49.7%(4)
Total shareholder return

£5.8bn
ordinary and  
special dividends(2)

£6.7bn
share  
buybacks

28%
reduction  
in share count(7)

UK Government’s  
shareholding reduced to
37.97%
at the end of December 2023

£1.8bn
returned to the UK Government  
in 2023(5)

(1)  Paid and proposed.
(2)  Does not cast due to rounding.
(3)  As at 31 December.
(4)  Source: Bloomberg.

(5)  Includes 2022 final dividend, 2023 interim dividend and directed buyback executed in May 2023.
(6)  In response to a formal request from the Prudential Regulation Authority, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board cancelled the final ordinary and special dividend payments in relation to 

the 2019 financial year. In 2020, NatWest Group plc decided not to undertake interim dividend payments or share buybacks.

(7)  Over the three year period since 31 December 2020.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsOur business model
We are a UK-focused bank, serving over 19 million customers.

Our key relationships 
and resources

What we do

Our corporate governance 
framework helps 
support the effective 
implementation 
of our strategy and 
decision-making, and 
promotes long-term 
sustainable success:

Retail Banking 

Through the NatWest,  
Royal Bank of Scotland and 
Ulster Bank NI brands we provide 
a comprehensive range of banking 
products and related financial services 
including current accounts, mortgages, 
personal unsecured lending and  
personal deposits.

Private Banking 

We provide private 
banking and wealth 
management services 

to UK-connected 

high-net-worth individuals 
and their business interests 
through the Coutts brand. 

As the Investment Centre  
of Expertise for NatWest  

Group, we service all client 
segments across Retail, 
Premier and Private 

Banking.

We earn income 
from interest 
charged on lending 
to our customers 
and fees from 
transactions and 
other services.

Commercial 
& Institutional 

We provide the 

expertise and  

tailored solutions needed by  
businesses, from entrepreneurs  
through to large corporate  

organisations, multi-nationals  
and financial institutions.

Refer to pages 44 to 47 
and 78 to 81 for our 
segment performance.

Relationships :
 – Strong and deep customer 

relationships so we can help 
them thrive .

 – Providing our colleagues with 

the capabilities and future skills 
they need to fulfil their potential.

 – Creative and innovative 
partnerships across the 
organisation .

 – Strong links to communities .
 – Diversifying our supply chain, 
ensuring focus on minority- 
owned, women-owned and 
socially/environmentally 
aware businesses.

Resources :
 – Strong balance sheet 

and financial position with 
active balance sheet and 
risk management.

 – Targeted investment in data, 
technology, and digitalisation 
to develop infrastructure.
 – A highly engaged, customer-
focused, diverse workforce 
with significant expertise 
and experience.

Our stakeholders

12

Our strengths

Our distinct strengths 
collectively create a 
strong organisation: 

 – We are the primary banking 
relationship(1) for 74% of our 
retail customers.

 – c.10% growth in customers 

investing digitally, with 
£40.8 billion Assets Under 
Management and 
Administration (AUMA) across 
our Private Banking segment.

 – 94% of our Retail Banking 

customer needs are now met 
digitally (up from 53% in 2019).

 – 86% of our Commercial & 
Institutional customers use 
digital channels to interact 
with us (up from 76% in 2019).

(1)  Where the customer initiated Money 

Transmission Account debit and credits 
and credit card debits is >=10 for the 
month across all accounts held. Student 
accounts >=5, youth accounts >=2.

Investors – We have 
an active programme of 

Customers – We want to 
know what our customers 

engagement with institutional and 
private shareholders, alongside 
fixed-income investors, and will 
continue to help support the 
reduction of the UK Government 
investment in NatWest Group.

think about us and actively seek 
feedback from them across all 
our operations. It helps us better 
understand their needs and 
improve the products and 
services we offer.

Colleagues – 
By supporting our 
colleagues in what they 
do and by striving to make 
NatWest Group a great place 
to work, we can champion 
their potential and collectively 
deliver our strategy.

Regulators – 
We understand 

the need to have an 
ongoing, constructive 
and open dialogue with 
all relevant regulatory 
bodies and embed this in 
our business as a priority.

Communities – 
As a leading bank in 
the UK, we believe we can 
make a real and positive 
difference to people’s lives. 

Suppliers – We are 
committed to creating 

a diverse and responsible 
supply chain, being fair and 
transparent with our suppliers 
and to reach net zero by 
2050 across our operational 
value chain.

Refer to our stakeholder focus areas on pages 30 to 43 for information on how we engage with all our stakeholders.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
Our business model continued

Strong businesses with capacity for growth

Retail Banking
Youth to mass affluent

Private Banking
Affluent to high net -worth

Commercial & Institutional
Start-ups to large corporates  
and financial institutions

Multi-channel brands serving our 19 million customers

13

Strong market positions with extensive product and service offering

15.6%
share of 
current 
accounts(1)

12.7%
share of UK 
mortgages(2)

6.3%
share of 
unsecured 
lending(3)

Award- 
winning
UK Private Bank

£41bn
AUMA

Cushon
Extending our 
capabilities to 
workplace 
pensions

25%
share of  
deposits(4)

20%
share of  
lending(5)

~19%
share of UK 
start ups(6)

£5.9bn
income

£61.6bn
risk-weighted 
assets

23.8%
return on 
equity

£1.0bn
income

£11.2bn
risk-weighted 
assets

14.8%
return on 
equity

£7.4bn
income

£107.4bn
risk-weighted 
assets

15.4%
return on 
equity

Delivering strong returns in 2023

Creating value for our stakeholders

300,771(*)
Interventions 
delivered to start, 
run and grow a 
business(7,8)

15,553
Young people 
supported 
through 
CareerSense

1.1m
Young people 
reached through 
MoneySense(8)

£11.1m(*)
Direct community 
investment(8)

93%
Our View 
colleague survey 
inclusion score(8)

0.6m
Financial Health 
Checks 
delivered(8)
(includes Digital Financial 
Health Checks) 

£3.8m
raised for good 
causes and over 
125,000 hours 
volunteered(8)

£3.6bn
capital returned 
to shareholders

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

(1)  Current account stock. Full year 2023 share based on November 2023 CACI data.
(2)  Stock share of Retail Banking and Private Banking mortgages, calculated as a percentage of Monthly amounts outstanding of 
total sterling net secured lending to individuals (in sterling millions) not seasonally adjusted as per December 2023 BoE data.

(3)  Based on Unsecured lending including Cards, Loans, Overdrafts and central items calculated as a percentage of Monthly 
amounts outstanding of total (excluding the Student Loans Company) sterling net unsecured lending to individuals not 
seasonally adjusted based on Dec’23 BoE data.

(4)  Based on customer deposits (£bn) for Commercial & Institutional excluding NatWest Markets and RBSI, calculated as a 
percentage of M4 liabilities for Private Non-financial Businesses (PNFC’s) as per December 2023 Bank of England data. 

(5)  Based on gross loans and advances to customers at amortised cost for Commercial & Institutional excluding NWM and RBSI, 
calculated as a percentage of monthly amounts outstanding of sterling and all foreign currency loans to SMEs and large 
businesses as per December 2023 Bank of England data. 

(6)  Based on the % of 647 businesses, less than two years old, that name a NatWest Group brand as their main bank (19%). 

Source: MarketVue Business Banking from Savanta, YE Q4 2023. Data weighted by region and turnover to be representative 
of businesses in Great Britain.

(7)  Represents approximate number of interventions delivered and individuals supported through enterprise programmes during 

2023, which is based upon data provided by third parties.

(8)  For further details refer to the Stakeholder focus areas on pages 26 to 43.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsMarket environment

Adapting to evolving  
market trends

The environment we operate in is constantly changing. 
Understanding the multiple influences on our business and our 
customers enables us to be prepared for change, respond quickly 
and create value for the long term.

Read more about our support for customers on pages 32 to 34.

14

Economy

Overview
2023 saw UK inflation start at very high levels of over 10% before falling through 
the year. Monetary policy was tightened substantially with the Bank of England’s 
base rate reaching 5.25% in August 2023. Interest rates rose for customers 
across most markets. These changes prompted a slowdown in the housing 
market with lenders’ indices of house prices falling. They also drove a shift 
into retail fixed-term saving products where balances grew rapidly. Businesses 
also managed their cash flows more tightly resulting in a weak environment 
for lending and falling deposit balances in the corporate sector. Business 
confidence fluctuated through the year, while wage growth was strong 
by historical standards and the number of job vacancies reduced. Sterling 
strengthened against both the US dollar and the euro, whilst the FTSE 100 
index of shares closed modestly higher than it opened in 2023.

Our response
High interest rates and the rising cost of living have forced many people to 
re-evaluate the way they spend and save. In response to the changing needs of 
savers, we increased the interest rate on all variable savings products in 2023 and 
made our Fixed Term Savings Accounts available to more people, including those 
without an existing account with NatWest Group.

We also spent time thinking about how we better communicate and engage 
with customers. In particular, through our digital platforms, to make sure that as 
rates changed we could provide customers with timely, personalised information. 
Support to our mortgage customers has included forbearance, breathing space 
(no charges or contact for 60 days while the customer is encouraged to seek 
money advice), repayment plans, or if it’s a right and affordable option for the 
customer, extending a mortgage term to spread payments, or a temporary 
switch to an interest-only mortgage.

To support our business customers with high energy costs and deal with ongoing 
financial pressures, we launched a business Cost of Living Hub, providing helpful 
resources such as a free cash flow tool, energy calculator, supply chain navigator, 
sector support, and workplace wellbeing resources. We also announced a 
£1 million collaboration with the Federation of Small Businesses to provide 
NatWest Group business customers with access to independent support and 
education, covering areas such as getting ready for funding and managing 
late payments. During 2023, our extensive network of relationship managers 
continued to help our corporate business customers to grow stronger, manage 
costs, find the right funding solutions and reduce risk in volatile markets, 
including internationally.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsMarket environment continued

Technology, data and digital services

Cyber threats and digital security

15

Overview
Business models and customer behaviours continue to evolve rapidly as the role 
of technology – in how our customers communicate, shop, do business and bank 
– continues to grow and progress at pace, with more sophisticated technology 
becoming available, in particular in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). We 
recognise the growing role of technology for our customers, suppliers and 
colleagues in everything from remote working and learning, to accessing 
and delivering goods and services.

Our response
We continued the digital transformation of our systems in 2023 to make it easier 
for customers to access our services when and where they want. Through our 
payments service Tyl, we were one of the first banks to offer Apple and Android 
Tap to Pay, a low-cost service removing the need for any hardware to accept 
payments. For our Retail Banking customers, we further developed our mobile 
banking app and we’re using data ethically to better understand our customers’ 
needs and behaviours. This is to help keep their money safe, as well as offer 
personalised insights to support their financial wellbeing.

We’re also focusing on how we use AI and machine-learning technologies safely 
and ethically to improve the support we can offer to our customers and ensure 
that our use of data continues to be secure, accountable, fair and ethical. In 
September 2023, we announced the expansion of our collaboration with Amazon 
Web Services Inc. to accelerate the use of, and develop, responsible AI products 
to help customers manage their financial wellbeing through personalised support. 
Through the collaboration, we have developed AI models that analyse customer 
behaviour and help us to detect if customers are being scammed, allowing us to 
intervene more quickly and reduce financial loss.

We also, announced in November 2023, a collaboration with IBM on a generative 
AI initiative with enhancements to our virtual assistant Cora. This will provide 
our customers access to a wider range of information through conversational 
interactions with Cora+. We aim to harness the power of responsible and ethical 
AI to form part of our wider strategy, collaborating with IBM and other experts 
to help our customers achieve financial wellbeing through personalised support.

Overview
Cyberattacks pose a constant risk to our operations, both directly in relation to 
our own digital estate and indirectly to our supply chain. Cybercrime continues to 
evolve rapidly, including geopolitical, ransomware and vulnerability management 
threats. Attacks may come from individuals or highly organised criminal groups 
intent on stealing money, sensitive data or potentially holding organisations 
to ransom.

Through the COVID-19 pandemic, consumers quickly became increasingly reliant 
on digital channels and fraudsters responded just as quickly. In 2023, research 
commissioned by NatWest Group, combined with our own data, showed that 
almost two-thirds (63%) of people feel apprehensive about their financial online 
safety – with 60% worried about losing money to a scammer online. The importance 
of digital security, in both keeping our customers safe from criminals and ensuring 
the bank is compliant with regulatory and legal requirements, is paramount.

Our response
We use biometric security features to help make online banking more secure 
for our customers, deploy rigorous due diligence on third parties and work to 
protect and educate our colleagues and customers on fraud and scam activity. 
We regularly review, measure and test controls. In 2023, we created a ‘Security 
Profile’ tool on our mobile banking app that offers customers tailored security 
features and content designed to keep them safe.

To provide service continuity for customers and limit disruption, we monitor 
and assess a diverse and evolving array of external and internal threats. We also 
develop, strengthen and adapt our existing control capability to absorb and adapt 
to disruptions that could impact our customers.

While new technological advances, such as machine learning, bring new security 
challenges, they can also offer significant business opportunities when used safely. 
In addition to the standard security assessments performed on new technologies, 
our Digital Security team is working closely with the NatWest Group Artificial 
Intelligence Centre of Excellence and third parties to support their safe and 
secure deployment.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts16

Market environment continued

Climate change

Regulation

Overview
Climate change and environmental degradation are inextricably linked, and each 
require immediate and significant action to avert potentially irreversible impacts.

Climate and nature-related risks have the potential to affect asset values, 
operational costs and business models, not only through increasing frequency 
and severity of extreme weather events and biodiversity loss, but also as the 
transition to a net-zero economy accelerates.

These risks, transmitted through the economy to NatWest Group, continue to 
evolve, reflecting increasing regulatory, legislative, political and societal change. 
Likewise, our response continues to develop.

Our response
We have an ambition to be net zero across our financed emissions, assets under 
management and operational value chain by 2050, aligned with the UK’s legal 
commitment to be net zero by 2050. We continue to support our customers’ 
transition to a net zero economy and monitor further developments, including 
progress on supplier and fund decarbonisation. During 2023, we continued to 
implement our Climate transition plan, focusing on prioritising climate-related 
opportunities based on their relative commercial and decarbonisation potential 
to support our customers and the wider economy transition to net zero. We also 
recognise the role of partnerships and collaborations in the transition to net zero. 
We have now provided £61.9 billion in climate and sustainable funding and 
financing against our target of £100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end of 
2025. We have now analysed 90% of our loans and investments exposure as at 
31 December 2022 for Scope 3 category 15 financed emissions and reduced our 
Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 own operations emissions by 54% against a 
2019 baseline.

The achievement of NatWest Group’s Climate transition plan has a significant 
dependency on factors and uncertainties beyond our direct control, including timely 
and appropriate UK Government policies, technology developments, as well as 
supplier, customer and societal response. Delays to a range of net zero-related UK 
Government policies indicate the pace of implementation is slower than required for 
the net-zero transition as outlined in the UK Committee on Climate Change’s sixth 
carbon budget issued in 2020. As a result, NatWest Group considers achievement 
of the following ambitions increasingly challenging: (i) 50% of our mortgage portfolio 
to have an EPC rating of C or above by 2030 and (ii) to at least halve the climate 
impact of our financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline.

Read more on pages 48 to 59 and in our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

Overview
We operate in a highly regulated market which continues to evolve in scope. 
Areas of current regulatory focus include delivering good customer outcomes, 
in particular, the introduction of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) new 
requirements for a Consumer Duty, which expands its rules and principles 
to require firms to provide better consumer protection.

Our response
We constantly monitor regulatory change and work with our regulators to help 
shape those developments that materially impact the bank, responding when 
necessary either bilaterally or in partnership with one of our affiliated industry 
bodies. We implement new regulatory requirements where applicable and use our 
frequent engagement meetings with regulators to discuss key regulatory priorities. 
Focus areas in 2023 were:

 – The implementation of the Smarter Regulatory Framework following Royal 

Assent of the Financial Services and Markets Bill.

 – Climate change and the development of the regulatory framework for 

sustainable finance (IFRS S1 & S2).

 – Fraud and financial crime, with a focus on protecting customers from ever 

more sophisticated scams.

 – Capital and liquidity management, including the UK’s approach to the 

implementation of Basel 3.1.

 – Following the European Central Bank’s (ECB) approval of the NatWest 

Group’s dual intermediate EU parent undertaking (IPU) structure, the ongoing 
consolidated direct supervision by the ECB for our five subsidiary entities in 
Europe, commenced on the 1 January 2024.

 – The risks and opportunities presented by ‘Big Tech’ companies’ entry into 

the retail financial services sector.

 – Responding to the consultation on improving diversity, equity and inclusion 
in financial services, through policy developments focused on improved 
data collection and reporting, and the use of targets for representation.

Read more about how we’ve responded to the implementation of the Consumer Duty 
on page 40.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts17

Serving our

customers

every day

Helping UK  
businesses to grow 

For Mikael Rosen, Relationship Director in Corporate 
& Commercial Banking, great service is about 
understanding our customers’ needs…

Businesses come in all shapes and sizes. They face different challenges as 
they evolve and need different support as they grow.

As a relationship manager, I’ve learned that there’s never a one-size-fits-all 
approach to helping our business customers. Often, it’s about providing a 
wide range of support, from meeting a business’s everyday banking needs 
to assisting with its longer-term goals for growth.

In 2023, it was great to continue our work with South Coast Insulation 
Services (SCIS), a national, Trustmark-accredited energy efficiency provider.

The business is ambitious about its growth journey and the 
role it could play in improving energy efficiency in the UK 
housing and property market. To support this, in 2023 
SCIS acquired Cotswold Energy Group, a renewable 
energy specialist offering solar, ground and air source 
heat pumps, and electric vehicle solutions.

We supported SCIS with the acquisition, providing a 
£6 million revolving credit facility to fund the transaction. 
We’ve worked with the customer for a long time and been 
able to build a good relationship. Our knowledge of the 
company meant that we could structure a deal which 
suited SCIS’s business model and expansion plans, 
providing funding for growth and supporting its working 
capital needs. We have since further supported SCIS, 
providing asset finance as it continues to scale its 
operations and national coverage.

As one of the biggest banks for businesses in Great Britain, 
I like to think we champion our business customers by 
working with them to understand their needs, finding 
the right solutions to help them grow.

Supporting business in 2023

101,700
start-ups supported

95.1 million
Tyl payments processed

24 months
of free everyday business 
banking provided by our 
Current Account Switch 
Service launched in 2023

over  1,300
entrepreneurs supported 
via the NatWest 
Accelerator

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts18

Delivering our strategy

It’s our focus on our strategic priorities that underpins our progress. Our business is 
resilient and we’re supporting growth with our long-term investment plans and our 
digital transformation.

Supporting customers at every  
stage of their lives
We believe that sustainable growth will come from building closer 
relationships with our customers and our ability to better serve 
them at every stage of their lives.

Simple to deal with
By being simple to deal with we will improve both customer 
journeys and colleague engagement, providing an easier and 
more intuitive banking experience. Our focused investment allows 
us to further simplify processes and deliver cost efficiency. 

Progress in 2023

Progress in 2023

 – We continue to help future generations develop good money habits through our 
Youth accounts – including Rooster Money – which have now grown to over 
574,000 customers, a 1-in-5 share of the youth market.(1)

 – In 2023, we helped c.6 million(*) Retail Banking customers with their financial 

wellbeing. We also carried out over 300,000(*) business support interventions through 
initiatives such as Dream Bigger and Business Builder, providing advice to help start, 
run or grow a business.

 – In 2023, we increased our lending to customers by £9 billion, up 3% compared 

with 2022.

 – As one of the first banks in the UK to offer Apple and Android Tap to Pay, we made 
payments easier, faster and cheaper for businesses in 2023 by removing the need 
for hardware and providing a low-cost, pay-as-you-go service.

 – More than 100,000 customers now invest through our digital investment service 

provided by the Coutts Investment Centre of Expertise and over 93% of payments 
in Private Banking are now made digitally.

 – We now have 10.9 million(*) active digital users(2). We have 9.8 million(*) customers who 
have accessed the Retail Banking mobile app and 3.5 million(*) customers who have 
accessed online banking in 2023.

 – To help our customers feel more money confident, have greater control of their 

 – In 2023, Cora, our AI virtual assistant, handled 10.8 million(*) Retail Banking 

day-to-day finances and plan for the future, we launched the Insights feature in our 
Retail Banking mobile app in November 2023. The feature had 3.6 million users at the 
end of 2023.

 – As a committed champion of new businesses, we supported 101,700 start-ups 

finance their operations in 2023.

conversations, almost half of which required no human input.

 – We have created 17.2 million positive interactions with customers through 

personalised messages. 

Outcome

We can leverage the expertise we have across our bank to 
deliver products and services that are relevant throughout 
the lifecycles of our customers.

Outcome

Through understanding our customers better and being 
simple to deal with we can offer more relevant products, 
more quickly and at the right time.

(1)  As at October 23 (latest available), Sources: CACI – UK youth flow share (11-18 years old) cash card and no overdraft; NatWest Rooster Money (11+ years old) accounts opened (12 months rolling).
(2)  An active digital user is a customer who has accessed either their online banking platform or mobile banking app.
(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDelivering our strategy continued

Sharpened capital allocation
Through balance sheet growth we use our capital to invest in 
the people and infrastructure of our organic business. This allows 
us to react to regulatory change and to distribute capital to our 
shareholders while operating in a 13–14% CET1 ratio range.

19

Powered by people, technology, 
innovation and partnerships
We need to continually evolve our capabilities, investing 
in people, technology and partnerships so we can be a 
simple, safe and smart bank that is driven by data and 
digital innovation.

Progress in 2023

Progress in 2023

 – Our capital generation remained strong in 2023 and as a result, £3.6 billion 

 – In June 2023, we completed our acquisition of a majority shareholding in the 

shareholder distributions were paid and proposed in 2023.

 – We invested £1.3 billion in our business during 2023 across growth, simplification, 

technology enablement and keeping our business safe and secure.

 – Our continuing exit from the Republic of Ireland has resulted in a reduction in RWAs 

during 2023 from £5.4 billion to £1.4 billion, with the close-down process substantially 
complete. The sale of performing tracker and linked mortgages to AIB announced in 
Q2 2022 is now 79% complete. The remaining migration is expected to occur during 
2024. Meanwhile, the sale of the portfolio of mostly non-performing mortgages, 
unsecured personal loans and commercial facilities to CarVal announced in Q3 2023 
is now 71% complete. Two further migrations will take place during 2024 to complete 
this transaction. In addition, the sale of non-tracker mortgages, micro-SME loans and 
the Asset Finance business to Permanent TSB Group Holdings plc was completed 
in 2023.

 – We have now provided £61.9 billion in climate and sustainable funding and financing 
(£29.3 billion in 2023(*)) towards our £100 billion target between 1 July 2021 and the 
end of 2025.

workplace savings and pensions fintech, Cushon. The acquisition enables us to offer 
a suite of financial wellbeing services to our Commercial & Institutional and Private 
Banking customers.

 – To reduce financial barriers for farmers transitioning to sustainable agricultural 
practices, we announced strategic partnerships with WWF-UK and with food 
manufacturer McCain.

 – In collaboration with the University of Edinburgh, NatWest Group announced in June 
2023 the investment of £2 million to create a Centre for Purpose-Driven Innovation 
in Banking.

 – In November 2023, we announced the launch of our Home Energy Hub – a one-stop 
shop for home energy improvements, enabling customers to connect to an ecosystem 
of suppliers including British Gas, TrustMark, Vibrant, Wickes and Snugg. 

Outcome

We aim to continue to deploy our financial capital to create 
value for our stakeholders and society over the long term 
as well as generating sustainable returns.

Outcome

By scaling new and existing relationships through 
technological and digital expertise, we aim to meet our 
customers’ evolving needs and fulfil our growth ambitions.

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

Learn more about our strategy

How we measure our progress: refer to our Key performance indicators on pages 20 to 22.

How we shape our decisions: refer to our Market environment section on pages 14 to 16.

How we balance our actions: refer to our Risk management overview section on pages 60 to 65.

How we reward for progress: refer to our Annual remuneration report on pages 141 to 161.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts20

Key performance indicators

Measuring our performance

Financial measures

Income (excluding notable items)

Cost:income ratio  
(excl. litigation and conduct)

CET1 ratio

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

£14,339m

£13,061m

£10,184m

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

51.8%

55.5%

69.9%

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

13.4%

14.2%

18.2%

 Expect total income excluding notable items to be around 

£14.8 billion in 2023.

 Achieve a cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) 

 Operate with a CET1 ratio in the range of 13-14% over 

below c.52% or c.£7.6 billion of operating costs in 2023.

the medium term.

Our performance
Total income, excluding notable items(1) of £14,339 million, 
was £1,278 million, or 9.8% higher than 2022, but was below 
our guidance of around £14.8 billion given in our 2022 year 
end results. In our Q3 2023 results we updated our guidance 
to around £14.3 billion reflecting changes in customer 
behaviour and revised assumptions on interest rates.

(1)  Notable items of £413 million (2022: £95 million).

Our performance
The cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) was 51.8% 
compared with 55.5% for 2022. Total operating expenses 
were £309 million higher than 2022. Other operating 
expenses were £339 million, or 4.6%, higher for the year 
at £7,641 million. The increase was principally due to higher 
staff costs, including a payment to support our colleagues 
with cost of living challenges, inflationary pressures on 
utility and contract costs and a property impairment. 

Our performance
The CET1 ratio remains strong at 13.4%, or 13.2% excluding 
IFRS 9 transitional relief. The 80 basis point reduction 
compared with 31 December 2022 principally reflected 
proposed distributions deducted from capital of c.200 basis 
points, and increased RWAs of c.50 basis points, partially 
offset by the attributable profit.

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
In 2024 we expect income, excluding notable items, to be in 
the range of £13.0-13.5 billion.

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
In 2024 we expect operating costs, excluding litigation and 
conduct costs, to be broadly stable compared with 2023.

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
Target a CET1 ratio in the range of 13-14%.

Read more: Our investment case on page 10 and in our Outlook statement on page 8.

For details on how the KPIs are aligned to executive directors’ remuneration refer to our Annual remuneration report on pages 141 to 161.

Key

Supporting customers 
at every stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital  
allocation

Powered by people, 
technology, innovation 
and partnerships

Climate

Enterprise

Learning

Achieved

On track

Below guidance 
provided in 
2022. In line 
with Q3 2023 
guidance 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts21

Key performance indicators continued

Financial measures

Return on tangible equity

Climate and sustainable funding  
and financing(1)

Supporting enterprise through unique 
programmes

Non-financial measures

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

12.3%

9.4%

17.8%

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

£29.3bn(*)

£24.5bn

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

£9.4bn

£8.1bn

45,000

53,000

c.55,000

 Achieve return on tangible equity target of 14-16% over 

the medium term.

Our performance
Return on tangible equity was 17.8%, above our guided 
range, compared with 12.3% in 2022.

 Provide £100 billion of climate and sustainable funding and 

financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. As part 
of this we aim to provide at least £10 billion in lending for EPC 
A and B rated residential properties between 1 January 2023 
and the end of 2025.

Our performance
In 2023 we provided £29.3 billion(*) of climate and sustainable 
funding and financing towards our £100 billion target. This 
took our cumulative total since July 2021 to £61.9 billion(*) 
towards our target to provide £100 billion of climate and 
sustainable funding and financing by the end of 2025.

 Support removal of barriers to UK enterprise 
growth through provision of learning, networking, 
and funding interventions.

Our performance
In 2023 we have supported 57,155(*) young people and 
45,263(*) individuals and businesses through our enterprise 
programmes with 300,771(*) customer interventions delivered. 
Of those supported:

 – 34%(*) were from ethnic minority backgrounds.
 – 55%(*) support provided to women.
 – 75%(*) were in regions outside London and south-east England.

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
In 2026 we expect to achieve a return on tangible equity of 
greater than 13%.

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
Funding and financing provided to support climate and 
sustainable activities in line with our climate and sustainable 
funding and financing inclusion (CSFFI) criteria.(1)

Read more: Our climate-related disclosures on pages 48 
to 59 and in our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
Support provided through enterprise programmes and 
customer interactions to start, run or grow a business.

Read more: Our Annual remuneration report on pages 
141 to 161 and in our 2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

Key

Supporting customers 
at every stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital  
allocation

Powered by people, 
technology, innovation 
and partnerships

Climate

Enterprise

Learning

Achieved

On track

(1)  For the year ended 31 December 2023, the NatWest Group CSFFI criteria published in December 2022 has been used to determine the assets, activities and companies that are eligible to be counted. For the year ended 31 December 2022, our CSFFI 
criteria published in October 2021 was applied. For the year ended 31 December 2021, the CSFFI criteria published in February 2021 was applied. The CSFFI criteria includes lending to personal customers for properties with EPC A and B ratings, and 
these were included within climate and sustainable funding and financing reporting from 1 July 2021. NatWest Group’s own Green, Social and Sustainability (GSS) bond issuances are not included in the figures above.

Below guidance 
provided in 
2022. In line 
with Q3 2023 
guidance 

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts22

Key performance indicators continued

Non-financial measures

Build and strengthen a healthy culture(1)

Net Promoter Score® (NPS) Retail(2)

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

83

82

83

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2
(
3
)

2
0
2
1

21

22

13

Net Promoter Score® (NPS)(2)
Business

Commercial Mid-Market

-8

-6

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

-3

2
0
2
3

2
0
2
2

2
0
2
1

8

16

13

 Achieve our culture target of 80 points as measured 

through the Our View colleague engagement survey.

 Achieve 2023 NPS targets for our core  

customer-facing businesses.

 Achieve 2023 NPS targets for our core  

customer-facing businesses.

Our performance
In 2023, we exceeded our target on Culture by 3 points. 
We have introduced an experimentation index to support 
leaders to assess the extent to which colleagues have an 
experimentation mindset, feel empowered to drive change 
and try new ways of thinking. Our View survey results across 
2023 show that our experimentation culture is improving. 

Our performance
2023 was a high-profile year for the retail banking industry 
with rates being a key focal point for customers over the 
12 months. Against this backdrop, the NPS for NatWest 
Retail Banking dropped slightly from 22 in Q4 of 2022 to  
21 in Q4 of 2023. 

Our performance
Businesses continued to face into elevated rate conditions 
in 2023. NPS for NatWest Business dropped two points 
from -6 in Q4 of 2022 to -8 in Q4 of 2023 and the NPS for 
Commercial Mid-Market Banking dropped from 16 in Q4 of 
2022 to 8 in Q4 of 2023. Compared with other banks, our 
ranking in Business Banking has not changed; we remain 
a leader in Commercial Mid-Market. Our focus in 2024 is 
to enhance customer journeys and platforms, deepen 
relationships and free up front-line capacity.

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

Alignment with our strategic framework

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
Achieve our culture target as measured through our 
colleague engagement survey, Our View.

Read more: Our colleagues section on page 36 to 39, 
Annual remuneration report on pages 141 to 161 and in 
our 2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
2024 NatWest Retail Banking NPS 22. 

How we measure our progress and  
our future priorities
2024 NatWest Business Banking NPS -6. 
2024 NatWest Commercial Banking NPS 11.

Read more: Our customers section on pages 32 to 34 and 
our Annual remuneration report on pages 141 to 161.

Read more: Our customers section on pages 32 to 34 and 
our Annual remuneration report on pages 141 to 161.

Key

Supporting customers 
at every stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital  
allocation

Powered by people, 
technology, innovation 
and partnerships

Climate

Enterprise

Learning

Achieved

On track

(1)  The culture index used to measure culture consists of 10 questions as defined and measured in Our View, our colleague engagement survey. All scores shown are for NatWest Group and include Ulster Bank RoI. To enable like-for-like year-on-year 

comparisons, all scores shown are based on the Willis Towers Watson (WTW) calculation methodology.

(2)  NPS® and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld.
(3)  During 2022, a methodological change was made to retail NPS measurement which resulted in an uplift in NPS scores for all brands including NatWest. 2022 performance has been measured removing the impact of this positive change. 2023 goals  

have been set from a new +22 baseline which takes into account the positive impact of the methodological change.

Below guidance 
provided in 2022. 
In line with Q3 
2023 guidance 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts23

Images TBU

Serving our

customers

every day

Keeping our customers 
digitally secure

Lead Product Owner in our Digital Channels team, 
Sue Duka, explains how she’s helping mobile banking 
customers take control of their digital security…

Mobile apps have become fundamental to many people’s lives. They’re now 
an essential offering of banking services, giving customers control of their 
finances and the freedom to bank where and when they want to.

With nearly 10 million customers regularly using our mobile banking service, 
we know how important digital security is. We’ve invested significantly in digital 
security and our mobile banking apps are built with sophisticated levels of 
protection. Despite this, new scams emerge every day and fraudsters are 
learning new and inventive ways to exploit customers’ vulnerabilities, with 
potentially devastating financial and emotional impacts.

It’s not always easy for customers to know what they can 
do to protect themselves. That’s why in 2023 we created 
Security Profile, a dedicated space in our mobile banking app 
where customers can see how we safeguard them and what 
they can do to stay secure.

Security Profile shows customers steps they can take 
to improve their security, such as setting controls like 
transaction notifications and turning on biometric approvals. 
We’ve also added personalised education to help customers 
avoid fraud and scams.

Our approach to developing Security Profile has customers 
at its heart, and I’ve worked closely with our Digital Security 
and Fraud colleagues, along with many other teams from 
across the bank, to respond to our customers’ needs and 
feedback. This work has included improving our biometric 
approvals to make them more secure and easier to use. 
We’ve enhanced these features to better spot things such 
as deep fake technology that could be used in fraudulent 
transactions. We’ve also removed the need for customers 
to blink when they use the feature, making it more 
accessible to people who can’t complete this action.

Being part of such important work is something I really value. 
It’s hugely rewarding to know about the impact these 
features have on our customers and the difference 
they make in helping us to prevent fraud.

Enabling digital security in 2023

9.8 million
Retail Banking 
customers used mobile 
banking in 2023

3.1 million
customers used Security 
Profile in 2023

1.8 million
customer actions to boost 
security on Security 
Profile in 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsSection 172(1) statement

In this statement, we describe how our directors have had regard 
to the matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the Companies 
Act 2006 (section 172) when performing their duty to promote the 
success of the company.

The Board reviews and confirms its key stakeholder groups for the purposes of section 172 
annually. For 2023, they remained investors, customers, colleagues, regulators, communities 
and suppliers.

Our directors are mindful that it is not always possible to achieve an outcome which meets 
the expectations of all stakeholders who may be impacted, and that there may be impacted 
stakeholders outside the six key groups the Board has identified. Examples of how the Board 
has engaged with stakeholders can be found in this statement and in the Corporate 
governance report pages 101 and 102.

Our Board and committee terms of reference (available at natwestgroup.com) reinforce 
the importance of considering the matters set out in section 172 (the s172 factors, as set 
out below). Our paper template also supports consideration of stakeholders and enables 
good decision-making.

The spotlights on this page provide illustrative examples of how the section 172 factors were 
considered by the Board during 2023. They describe how the Board played an important 
oversight role in relation to key focus areas for the bank and its customers. On the following 
page we provide insights into how two principal decisions were made by the Board during 
the year, on capital distributions and Chair succession. Principal decisions are those decisions 
taken by the Board that are material or of strategic importance to the company, or are 
significant to NatWest Group’s key stakeholders. 

The s172 factors

Likely long-term consequences

Employee interests

Relationships with customers, 
suppliers and others

The impact on community 
and environment

Maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct

Acting fairly between members 
of the company

24

Artificial intelligence (AI) and data

During a two-day strategy session the Board held with executive management 
in June 2023 there was significant focus on the impact of emerging technologies, 
including AI and digital currencies. Customer and colleague impacts were an 
important consideration, particularly over the longer term. This session was 
supplemented by two Board deep dives during the year on the Digital X strategy, 
which management refreshed in March 2023. The Board noted that the change 
in strategy for the function would position it well to meet future customer needs 
and offered the opportunity to double the number of engineering roles over 
three years.

Nature

The Board provided oversight of various matters relating to nature throughout 
2023, reflecting the growing understanding of the importance of this element of 
sustainability and its potential long-term impacts. In July 2023 the Board discussed 
strategic ambitions with management, and the opportunities available to the bank 
to take action in this area. Bespoke Board training on nature and biodiversity later 
in 2023 helped to build directors’ knowledge of the impact on local communities 
and how the bank might support efforts in this area. Given the increasing 
importance of nature and biodiversity, when reviewing the Board skills matrix 
for 2023, directors were also invited to consider their experience in this area  
in the context of ESG. The Board skills matrix is on page 90.

Consumer Duty

Having previously approved the plan to comply with the Consumer Duty by July 
2023, the Board closely monitored management’s progress towards the initial 
regulatory deadline and the future milestones. Directors considered how good 
customer outcomes would be measured and documented, and how to ensure 
colleagues have the tools to fulfil their roles and responsibilities to best serve 
customers. A dedicated training session on the requirements was provided 
by the external consultancy Oxera to build directors’ understanding of the 
requirements and how the bank can best deliver good customer outcomes. 
The Board appointed Roisin Donnelly as NatWest Group Consumer Duty Board 
Champion from 26 April 2023. Ms Donnelly also joined the Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee which supports the Board in the oversight of Consumer Duty. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsSection 172(1) statement continued

Chair succession
What was the decision-making process?
On 6 September 2023 the Board approved the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as the next Chair of NatWest Group plc. Rick joined the Board as 
an independent non-executive director and Chair Designate on 8 January 2024 
and will succeed Howard Davies as Chair on 15 April 2024. The appointment 
followed a rigorous search process led by the Senior Independent Directors 
of NatWest Group plc and NatWest Holdings Limited, overseen by the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee (N&G), and supported by an external 
search firm. The wider Board was closely involved through regular updates and 
broader discussions. To support the Board’s decision, a detailed paper described 
the N&G process leading to Mr Haythornthwaite’s identification as the preferred 
candidate. This included our role-specification criteria, how candidate long and 
short lists were compiled and reviewed, directors’ interview feedback on skills, 
experience and suitability, and a review of external appointments, time 
commitment and independence. The Board approved the appointment, 
noting that Mr Haythornthwaite was a highly experienced Chair who combines 
a successful commercial career with a deep knowledge of financial services 
markets and technology. He also has a strong track record of delivery at 
significant customer-facing organisations.

How did the directors fulfil their duties under section 172?  
How were stakeholders considered?
The Senior Independent Director updated regulators and institutional investors at 
appropriate points during the Chair search process. The Board carefully considered 
Mr Haythornthwaite’s fitness and propriety, supported by references from 
Mr Haythornthwaite’s current and previous boards, alongside other background 
reports. The Board noted that Mr Haythornthwaite’s appointment would ensure 
a smooth and orderly handover of the Chair role, providing stability and ensuring 
strong leadership.

Actions and outcomes
Mr Haythornthwaite started his induction shortly after the September 2023 
announcement, meeting internal and external stakeholders to cover an agreed 
list of topics, to which Mr Haythornthwaite contributed.

Further details of the Chair search process can be found in the N&G report on 
pages 105 and 109, and the induction programme is described in more detail 
on page 96. Mr Haythornthwaite’s biography is on page 86.

25

Capital distributions
What was the decision-making process?
The Board approved a number of external capital distributions in 2023. These 
included full-year and interim dividends and participating in a directed buyback 
of ordinary shares held by HM Treasury. In addition, two on-market buybacks 
of ordinary shares were approved during 2023. As part of our quarterly 
results announcements the Board also approved external guidance on capital 
distributions. The Board considered the proposed distributions in the context 
of the agreed budget and capital plans for the year, including current and 
future regulatory capital requirements and the available funds for distribution. 
Consideration was also given to the macro-economic environment including the 
impact of higher interest rates on customer behaviour. The Group Board Risk 
Committee reviewed all capital distribution proposals prior to submission to 
the Board, making appropriate recommendations informed by the views of 
the second and third lines of defence.

How did the directors fulfil their duties under section 172?  
How were stakeholders considered?
The decisions in relation to capital distributions fulfilled the commitment made in 
the NatWest Group plc 2022 Annual Report and Accounts to return significant 
capital to shareholders through 2023 in line with our strategy for growth which 
drives attractive returns to shareholders. The Board was particularly focused on 
ensuring the proposed distributions would support the long-term success of the 
company to the benefit of all stakeholders. Feedback gained via ongoing investor 
engagement by executive directors regarding the capital distribution narrative 
also informed the Board’s decision-making. A key consideration in the decision to 
use capital to undertake the two on-market buybacks was the share price – the 
valuation on each occasion meant that this course of action would be materially 
more accretive than alternative options. Investors, and their expectations in terms 
of capital distributions, were another important factor. The Board considered the 
financial implications the distributions might have and any potential impact on the 
bank’s ability to serve our customers every day.

Actions and outcomes
The final dividend of 10 pence per ordinary share was approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting in April 2023 and an interim dividend of 5.5 pence 
per ordinary share was approved by the Board in July 2023. In May 2023 the 
Board approved participation in a standalone directed buyback of 469,200,081 
ordinary shares (worth £1.3 billion) in the company from HM Treasury. Two 
on-market buybacks were approved by the Board – the first in February 2023, 
up to a value of £800 million, and the second in July 2023, up to a value of 
£500 million. These actions were in line with the external guidance provided 
in February 2023, and reviewed as part of each results announcement.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts26

Investors

Customers

Colleagues

Regulators

Communities

Suppliers

Stakeholder engagement

Our business is made up of a network of relationships. Listening, engaging 
and partnering with stakeholders helps us to address our business impacts 
and improve outcomes for our customers. On pages 27 to 29 we highlight 
our key stakeholders and provide examples of how we have collaborated 
with them to create value.

Stakeholder focus areas

Engaging with our stakeholders is vital to the success of our business. It helps 
us improve outcomes for our customers, communities, and the environment. 
On pages 30 to 43, we look at some of the ways that we supported our 
stakeholders’ needs in 2023.

Key ESG topics for our stakeholders

We understand the importance of responsible environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) practices to our strategy and how our stakeholders play an 
essential role in ensuring we can succeed. We engage with our stakeholders 
to review the key ESG-related topics that matter most to them. This may 
allow us to better address sustainability related matters of interest to our key 
stakeholders and supports our voluntary ESG disclosures in our 2023 ESG 
Disclosures Report. 

Learn more about our stakeholder engagement

For further information on how stakeholder considerations influenced the Board’s discussions 
and decision-making: refer to our Section 172(1) statement on pages 24 and 25, and in our 
Corporate governance report on pages 101 and 102.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts27

Stakeholder engagement continued

Investors

Providers of our capital and funding

How we engaged

Outcome of engagements

The Chairman, Group CEO and Group CFO took part 
in a programme of engagement through quarterly results 
presentations and meetings with our largest shareholders.

An open dialogue was maintained with our institutional shareholders, updating them on progress against our strategic 
priorities and financial targets. 180 meetings were hosted by the Chairman, CEO and CFO during 2023 which also gave 
investors the opportunity to provide feedback to the Board.

Meetings with our wider senior management team, 
presentations at industry conferences and an investor spotlight 
on our climate strategy.

Programme of meetings for our largest institutional shareholders 
with the Senior Independent Director upon announcement of the 
new Chair.

In addition to the AGM, our Chairman and Group CEO 
represented the Board at a virtual shareholder event with 
private shareholders.

Challenges we faced:

Institutional shareholders, fixed income investors and research analysts gained a deeper understanding of our business 
and were able to ask questions of the wider management team to inform their investment decisions.

Institutional shareholders were able to discuss the appointment process for the new Chair and share their feedback with 
the Board. 

Private shareholders had the opportunity to engage with Board members on topics including the cost of living crisis, 
our strategy and our ambition to be a leading bank in the UK helping to address the climate challenge.

On 26 July 2023, the Board announced that Alison Rose had agreed by mutual consent to step down as CEO of NatWest Group and that Paul Thwaite had been appointed as CEO for 
an initial period of 12 months. It was recognised that the unexpected change in management was likely to generate a number of questions for investors, and so it was important to engage 
quickly. After the news had been communicated to the market, we contacted our largest shareholders to offer them a meeting with the Chairman. A number of investors then spoke with 
Howard Davies, with discussions focusing on the events surrounding the CEO’s departure and the scope of the independent review that would take place. In September 2023, Paul Thwaite 
began a programme of meetings with our largest shareholders to discuss his immediate priorities and listen to their feedback on the business.

Customers

How we engaged

The people and businesses we serve

Outcome of engagements

Through our Carbon Planner, a free digital tool designed to help 
UK businesses reduce their carbon footprint, and our Carbon 
Footprint Tracker for retail customers.

Customer listening programme, delivered through small focus 
groups of six to eight customers discussing their experiences.

Through our customer-facing websites and written 
communications, detailing our support in response to 
the UK Government’s Mortgage Charter.

NatWest Accelerator, Entrepreneur hubs and key 
commercial partnerships. 

Challenges we faced:

We have made helping to address the climate challenge and supporting our customers in their transition to net zero a 
strategic priority. Our tools could help customers and UK businesses to understand and reduce their carbon footprint.

In 2023, we held customer listening sessions on fraud, financial capability among customers in vulnerable situations, 
financial management apps, financial networks and finance and investment planning for people over the age of 55. 
These sessions were attended by ExCo members and other senior leaders across NatWest Group. We launched an 
intranet page to share the content from these sessions with all colleagues and now provide a range of media for 
colleagues, including reports, videos and podcasts. 

We offered our customers additional support in response to the charter, building on our existing features for mortgage 
customers who may be facing financial difficulties. In 2023, our mortgage cost of living support web pages were visited 
over 57,000 times, with more than 30,000 customers utilising one of our additional support features.

We continued to collaborate with organisations such as Business in the Community, Hatch, Digital Boost, Women in 
Business, and the Centre for Research in Ethnic Minority Entrepreneurship to support entrepreneurs from a diverse 
range of backgrounds and sectors. In 2023, we supported over 1,300 entrepreneurs via the NatWest Accelerator, 
of which businesses 56% were led by women and 21% by people from ethnic minority backgrounds.

With the rapid rise in interest rates from late 2022 into 2023, customers urgently needed our support to understand the potential impacts and make informed decisions about their savings. 
We mobilised with a combination of new products and engaging communications, resulting in existing customers taking action and over 100,000 new customers joining the bank to take 
advantage of our savings products. This engagement strategy will continue to play a major role in supporting our customers as we help them to navigate the anticipated base rate changes 
over the coming 12 to 18 months.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts28

Stakeholder engagement continued

Colleagues

How we engaged

Our View colleague engagement survey.

Wellbeing Champions, Inclusion Champions,  
Our Colleague Experience Squad and employee-led networks.

Through our Climate Change Fundamentals 
education programme.

Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP).

Challenges we faced:

The people who deliver our strategy

Outcome of engagements

Our View September 2023 response rate was 84%, our highest-ever participation rate. The survey provided insights 
to support leaders in developing clear action plans and improve the colleague experience across NatWest Group. 
Understanding sentiment and using insight to drive people-based decisions means we are better equipped to help 
our colleagues to thrive. By understanding where we can improve the colleague experience, we are better placed 
to champion our colleagues’ potential, supporting them to do the same for our customers.

We continued to support our employee-led networks (ELNs), which collectively have over 24,000 members globally. 
We launched our global ELN event calendar continuing to promote cultural diversity and faith celebrations focusing 
on impact and engagement.

In 2023, we committed to educate all colleagues through our Climate Change Fundamentals programme which was 
completed by c.55,000 colleagues across the bank. The 60-minute programme, created in partnership with University of 
Edinburgh Centre for Business, Climate Change and Sustainability, focused on building awareness of our climate ambitions 
whilst helping colleagues build their own knowledge, skills, and behaviours to understand their role in climate change.

The CAP continued to provide an important communication channel between the Board and colleagues. Panel members 
and directors shared views on executive remuneration and the wider workforce, ESG, Consumer Duty, and human rights. 
Discussions are reported to the Board by the CAP Chair, who also subsequently updates panel members. Refer to page 
102 for more details on Board-level engagement.

The unprecedented rise in the cost of living experienced by our colleagues created new challenges in 2023 through rising inflation and energy prices. We provided financial support 
to our colleagues most likely to be impacted by making a significant investment in our annual pay review effective April 2023, and we continue to support colleagues with our suite 
of financial wellbeing materials. Focusing on our lowest paid colleagues, we immediately implemented the changes to the real living wage and also increased our lowest starting salary 
to £22,000 effective April 2023, an increase of 16% since April 2022. For 2024 this will further increase to £23,500, with a significant wider investment in colleague pay recognising the 
pressures colleagues continue to face. 2023 also saw the announcement of our Sharing in Success (SiS) scheme which is intended to be a valuable addition to our colleague pay proposition.

Regulators 

How we engaged

Whose rules and expectations we seek to comply with

Outcome of engagements

With the FCA on its Discussion Papers and Call for Inputs on 
Big Tech firms entering the financial services sector.

Regulators have greater insight into the risks and opportunities posed by Big Tech firms’ entry into the sector and the 
potential ramification of their use of technology. 

Engagement with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) 
on the latest Basel 3.1 capital proposals.

Engagement with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 
our implementation of the new Consumer Duty.

Challenges we faced:

We are awaiting final rules from the PRA; however, through our discussions with the regulator we have highlighted the 
potential impacts on the real economy of increased capital requirements of the wider management team to inform their 
investment decisions.

Transparency on our implementation, consistent with the FCA’s stated ambition to iterate on approach with firms.

NatWest Group has been keen to support the FCA in understanding the potential competition impacts of Big Tech’s entry in retail financial services. As such, we responded to the FCA’s 
October 2022 Discussion Paper on ‘The potential competition impacts of Big Tech entry and expansion in retail financial services’, and are now subsequently working with the regulator on 
its more recent November 2023 Call for Input on the ‘Potential competition impacts from the data asymmetry between Big Tech and firms in financial services’. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts29

Stakeholder engagement continued

Communities

The places where we have an impact

How we engaged

Outcome of engagements

Meetings, roundtable events and working groups with 
the UK Government, engagement with personnel within 
the government and the opposition.

Stakeholder engagement, combined with analysis of customer data, enabled us to better support those impacted by increased 
cost of living. We issued regular communications on the economy, the cost of living support we provide, and guidance about 
managing finances to MPs and researchers. We met with MPs and local groups and representatives to discuss alternative 
ways of banking in areas affected by branch closures.

We collaborated with partners through the Sustainable 
Homes and Buildings Coalition and the Energy 
Efficiency Taskforce.

We continued to help to address the climate challenge, focusing on helping customers reduce energy costs by supporting 
behavioural change and adapting their homes. We hosted events at Westminster in conjunction with former MP, Chris Skidmore 
and the UK Net Zero Coalition – where we published the third Home is Where the Heat is report. We also continued to progress 
our home retrofit plans and we participated in the UK’s representation at COP28.

We continued a regular series of constituency roundtable 
events and visits, bringing together business customers 
and local politicians to discuss the issues that matter 
most to them.

Establishing and building charity relationships to 
explore how we can help communities to thrive through 
customer giving, colleague fundraising and volunteering.

Challenges we faced:

We participated in events on fraud awareness, cost of living support and help with banking for senior citizens through 
constituency engagement and liaison with local MPs. We demonstrated how NatWest Group adds value to local economies 
by creating jobs and offering apprenticeships, as well as by supporting and nurturing startups and small businesses.

Through our colleague Do Good Feel Good campaign, good causes received £3.8 million and 125,026 hours of volunteering time. 
Through our reward account, charities have received £987,000 in customer donations to support their vital work. We are a 
long-standing partner of the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) and our campaign for the Turkey–Syria Earthquake Appeal 
led to donations of over £3 million, which includes £1.87 million raised through our donation facility on our mobile banking app.

Cost of living challenges following so quickly on from COVID-19 mean that charities continue to face challenges on fundraising while facing increased demand for their services. We have 
collaborated with charities working most closely with those impacted by cost of living to explore ways we can support more.

Suppliers

Where we source our goods and services

How we engaged

Board sessions with suppliers.

Our Supplier Charter.

Supplier Decarbonisation Programme pilot group. 

Outcome of engagements

In 2023, the Board met with representatives of suppliers to strengthen relationships, to understand their experiences of working 
with NatWest Group and to identify future opportunities and challenges. Refer to page 101 for details on Board-level engagement. 

We have amended the intent of the Supplier Charter to create a ’one-stop-shop’ for our suppliers. The charter highlights our 
ambition to create a diverse and responsible supply chain and in 2023 we added new guidance around digital accessibility, 
including valuable learning opportunities for our suppliers to share with their wider value chain.

Our Supplier Decarbonisation Programme was formed to help us achieve our ambition to reduce our operational value chain 
scope 3 emissions by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and achieve net zero by 2050 across our operational value chain. 
The programme enabled colleagues to work with a test group of suppliers to understand the most effective way to build 
awareness and capability and, ultimately, to have deeper and more informed conversations with suppliers about climate-related 
matters. Refer to page 58 for further details on our Operational value chain. 

Evidence-based supply chain sustainability assessments 
for our suppliers by third-party provider, EcoVadis.

528 of our suppliers participated in an EcoVadis assessment in 2023. Where a supplier falls below the global EcoVadis average 
(45.9%), a corrective plan is initiated and, if appropriate, is discussed at supplier meetings. 

Challenges we faced:

Customers, employees, investors and governments increasingly demand that companies demonstrate how they’re working to be socially responsible and provide greater environmental 
stewardship. With new sustainability legislation, standards and guidelines, the need to do more to support our suppliers is clear. That’s why in 2023, we’ve continued to enhance our 
Supplier Charter to include guidance on digital accessibility, new developments and valuable learning opportunities for suppliers to share with their wider value chain.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas

Investors

We continued to return capital to 
shareholders through a combination of 
dividends and buybacks over the course 
of 2023. A £1.3 billion directed buyback of 
shares held by the UK Government in May 
2023 helped to reduce the UK Government’s 
stake in NatWest Group to 37.97% at the  
end of 2023.

Highlights

Share count reduction
We reduced the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding by 9% over the year through 
our directed and on-market share buyback 
programmes. This contributed to a 26% 
increase in total dividend per share in 2023 
compared with 2022.

Virtual shareholder 
events in 2023
We hosted live online events for our retail 
shareholders in April and December 2023, 
which remain a key component of our 
stakeholder engagement programme.

Strong attendance for 
our investor events 
on climate
A wide audience including equity and 
fixed-income investors, ESG specialists 
and sell-side analysts attended our 
climate-focused event in March 2023.

30

Private shareholders
We engaged with our private shareholders through our 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), virtual shareholder events 
and our annual and strategic report communications. The 
AGM was held in April 2023 in person at our headquarters 
in Edinburgh and available to watch live online via webcast.

We also held a live virtual shareholder event before the AGM 
to give shareholders the opportunity to engage with our 
Chairman and CEO prior to voting on the business of the 
AGM. Virtual shareholder events remain a key component 
of our stakeholder engagement programme. They provide 
an opportunity for shareholders to hear from, and ask 
questions of, Board members and senior management 
on topics such as innovation, enterprise, sustainability and 
our financial performance (including changes in the macro 
economy and the impact on deposit offers and customer 
behaviour). We intend to deliver further virtual events in 
2024. Shareholder updates and recordings of our AGM 
and virtual shareholder events can be found on our 
website at natwestgroup.com.

Institutional shareholders and  
fixed-income investors
Our well-established programme of global institutional 
investor engagement saw management host 373 meetings 
with institutional shareholders and 324 meetings with 
fixed-income investors in 2023. The financial year began 
with a presentation on our annual results in February 2023, 
hosted by our Chairman, CEO and CFO. This live event 
took place virtually and included an interactive question and 
answer session to give research analysts, shareholders and 
fixed-income investors an opportunity to engage with our 
management team. Further quarterly results presentations 
took place virtually alongside the release of our financial 
results in April, July and October 2023.

Our CEO and CFO engaged regularly with UK Government 
Investments and our largest active institutional shareholders 
throughout the year to update them on our progress. As 
in-person contact continued in 2023, we hosted a hybrid 
programme of in-person and virtual one-to-one and 
group meetings with institutional shareholders from around 
the world. Meetings with shareholders and fixed-income 
investors covered key topics such as progress against 
our financial targets, interest rate sensitivity, capital return 
policy, regulation and the macroeconomic environment.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues 
were regularly discussed at our one-to-one meetings. 
We participated in several ESG focused roadshows 
and investor events and we continued to engage 
with sustainability rating agencies and data providers.

In 2023, NatWest Group won the 2023 Finance for the 
Future Awards for ‘Embedding an Integrated Approach’ 
and ‘Communicating Integrated Thinking’. We were also 
named as a Climate Leader at the 2023 Finance for the 
Future Awards, recognising our progress in integrating 
sustainability into financial decision-making.

Our ongoing Investor Relations programme also 
allows investors the opportunity to hear from the wider 
management team. In March 2023 we hosted a spotlight 
event, inviting shareholders, fixed-income investors and 
research analysts to join a presentation on our climate 
strategy. Throughout the year, our business CEOs and 
CFOs attended industry conferences and hosted broker-
organised meetings to talk about their strategic priorities 
and recent business performance with groups of investors.

Change in management
On 26 July 2023, the Board announced that Alison Rose 
had stepped down as CEO of NatWest Group and that 
Paul Thwaite had been appointed as CEO for an initial period 
of 12 months. After the news had been communicated to 
the market, we contacted our largest shareholders to offer 
them a meeting with the Chairman. A number of investors 
took up the offer and spoke with Howard Davies over the 
days and weeks that followed. Discussions focused on the 
events surrounding the CEO’s departure and the scope of 
the independent review that would take place. Shareholders 
gave their feedback directly to the Chairman and he was able 
to provide them with reassurance about the appointment of 
the new CEO and the strength of the underlying business. 
In September 2023, Paul Thwaite began a programme 
of meetings with our largest shareholders to discuss 
his immediate priorities and listen to their feedback 
on the business.

On 6 September 2023, the Board also announced that Rick 
Haythornthwaite will succeed Howard Davies as Chair. Rick 
joined the Board of NatWest Group plc as an independent 
non-executive director on 8 January 2024 and following a 
handover period will take over as Chair on 15 April 2024, 
when Howard Davies will stand down from the Board.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

2023 Investor Engagement Roadmap

Our Investor Relations programme is planned to inform existing shareholders and potential new investors about our financial 
performance, strategic progress and investment case. To support our quarterly results presentation, we proactively organise 
investor roadshows covering the major financial centres, further deepening engagement by joining broker-organised conferences, 
sales force presentations with major investment banks and round tables with sell-side analysts who publish research on NatWest Group. 
Our calendar also includes stewardship meetings with shareholders on ESG topics and corporate governance. Private shareholders 
have the opportunity to engage directly with our management team and Board members at the Annual General Meeting and virtual 
shareholder events held throughout the year.

31

17 February: 
Annual results

30 March: 
Climate 
Spotlight

18 April: 
Virtual 
Shareholder 
Event

28 April: 
Q1 results

28 July: 
H1 results

Shareholder 
meetings with 
Chairman on 
change of CEO

Management roadshows 
and conferences

4 December:

Virtual Shareholder Event

February

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

October

November

December

Management 
roadshows and 
conferences

Corporate 
Governance 
meetings with 
investors 
(Chairman)

25 April: 
Annual 
General 
Meeting

Management 
roadshows and 
conferences

Management roadshows 
and conferences

Shareholder meetings 
with Senior Independent 
Director to the Board 
on appointment of 
new Chair

27 October:  
Q3 results

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Customers

We’re working to meet our customers’ 
needs and provide better, more 
personalised products and services.

Highlights

Helping 2 million 
people save £100 
for the first time
We reached our 2020 goal to help more 
people build a savings habit. Saving more 
than £100 for the first time with NatWest 
Retail Banking since 2020.

Fuel and electric vehicle 
(EV) charging cashback 
for business customers
We helped business customers offset their 
costs when they use their business 
credit card.

Empowering more 
people to understand 
their credit score
We made our Know Your Credit Score 
tool available to everyone in the UK, even 
if they’re not a customer.(1)

Support for customers 
in vulnerable situations
We launched new training for our colleagues 
to help customers in vulnerable situations.

Building financial wellbeing and resilience
A tough economic environment means that we need to 
be there for our customers more than ever. In 2023, we 
reached our goal, set in 2020, to help 2 million people build 
a savings habit and resilience for the future by saving more 
than £100 for the first time with NatWest Retail Banking 
since 2020. Now, we have set a 2027 ambition to help 
10 million people to manage their financial wellbeing.  
We’re aiming to reach this target through digital tools and 
personalised engagements with customers, like our Financial 
Health Checks and the Know Your Credit Score tool, which 
is now available free to anyone over 18 living in the UK, 
even if they’re not a customer.(1)

For our personal customers, we’ve also provided breathing 
space in times of financial difficulty. Where customers have 
missed several payments on unsecured debt, like a loan 
or an overdraft, we extended the time they have to repay 
from 18 to 24 months. We also offered tailored support to 
personal mortgage customers in persistent financial difficulty 
who are receiving help from our specialist Financial Health 
and Support teams. In 2023, we delivered 4.3 million(*) 
financial capability interactions, with a cumulative total 
of 18.4 million(*) interactions delivered between 2020 and 
2023 against our strategic target of 15 million interactions 
by 2023. This includes use of our financial capability 
programmes, services, products and features.

Developing a savings habit is an essential element of building 
financial resilience. Tools like the Savings Goal feature in 
our mobile banking app can help customers to understand 
and organise their spending, identify savings opportunities 
and set realistic savings goals for the short and long term. 
Our Round Ups tool is also helping customers boost their 
savings. Available in our mobile banking app, Round Ups 
allow customers to round up their spending to the nearest 
pound, with the spare change directed to their savings 
account. During 2023, over 394,000 customers have 
turned on savings Round Ups.

NatWest Group plays a vital role in supporting financial 
inclusion and giving customers access to the cash they 
need. Short-term borrowing can be a valuable tool to help 
manage financial wellbeing. We offer different short-term 
borrowing propositions to suit our customers’ needs. These 
include instalment plans, which let customers pay off large 
credit card purchases by making fixed repayments over 
a set period of time in return for a lower interest rate.

(1)  Free for ages 18+ with a UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man address, following successful registration. Data provided by TransUnion.
(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

32

Understanding the 
trends shaping young 
people’s finances
We want to be the easiest bank for parents to 
interact with and the most relevant for young 
people. That’s why we’re working hard to know 
our customers better.

In May 2023 we published the NatWest Rooster 
Money Pocket Money Index. It’s a study of 
activity of over 125,000 NatWest Rooster Money 
app users between March 2022 and February 
2023 and reveals the trends shaping young 
people’s finances – from average earnings to the 
importance of saving. The index showed that 
children’s average earnings increased by 11% 
to £338.84 a year (or £6.42 per week), 
outpacing Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation 
for the period of the study. As the cost of living 
crisis continued, far fewer families committed to 
a regular pocket money allowance, while 
children were more entrepreneurial than ever, 
earning 16% more in 2022/23 than the previous 
year from side hustles like babysitting or reselling 
old clothes and games.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts33

Offering greater choice to 
mortgage customers
In August 2023, we launched the Coutts 
NatWest Mortgage to give our Coutts clients an 
improved choice of mortgage options and access 
to NatWest Group’s One Bank Mortgage Centre 
of Expertise.

The Coutts NatWest Mortgage will offer Coutts 
clients access to NatWest mortgage products 
through our broker channel or one of our Coutts 
mortgage specialists. It means that clients with 
straightforward lending requirements will benefit 
from having access to the full NatWest mortgage 
range, while those with more complex needs will 
still have access to the tailored solutions already 
offered by Coutts.

Stakeholder focus areas continued

We monitor usage of these propositions closely and have 
processes in place to protect customers. These help us quickly 
identify anyone who could be facing financial difficulty or using 
our products in a way that could create longer-term problems 
– for instance, by paying for gambling or cryptocurrency.

We’ve listened to business customers about the challenges 
they face. With one in three business customers telling 
us that reduced banking fees would help them deal with 
ongoing pressures, in January 2023 we launched fuel and 
EV charging cashback on our Business Credit Cards to 
help offset the cost of doing business.

In July 2023, we launched a new business banking 
switcher offer for SMEs. Customers with a turnover of up 
to £2 million who switch to NatWest, Royal Bank of Scotland 
or Ulster Bank NI using the Current Account Switch Service 
will get 24 months of free everyday business banking. 
The new offer is expected to save business customers on 
average around £2,000 over two years, depending on the 
size of the business turnover and its transaction activity.(1)

Business Account customers could also benefit from a 
range of features to support their growth, including access 
to FreeAgent accounting software; Business Builder, an 
online platform packed full of business tools and tips; and 
MentorDigital, which helps businesses navigate the world 
of human resources, health and safety and employment law.

Delivering personalisation to help customers 
meet their goals
We’ve worked to enhance our customers’ experience 
through greater personalisation and by embedding our 
services in their digital lives. In 2023, our retail mobile banking 
app was regularly used by 9.8 million(*) customers and there 
were more than 10 million active digital users of our online 
and mobile banking platforms. Tools like the Spending and 
Budget Tracker features in our mobile banking app give 
customers a personalised view of their spending and how 
they’re doing against budgets they’ve set for the month.

We’ve also championed Open Banking through the 
development of new Application Programming Interfaces – 
pieces of code also known as APIs. APIs allow applications 
to connect and talk to each other, letting us bring digitised 
services to more of the online channels our customers use. 
They’re helping us to create better digital experiences for 

our customers, like enabling our pioneering payments 
solution Payit.

Putting accessibility at the heart of banking
It’s important that we create experiences that work for 
all our customers. We want to be accessible by design and 
make this part of our culture and mindset across the bank.

In 2023, we established our Digital Accessibility team to 
monitor digital accessibility across the bank’s customer 
journeys. This team delivers the vision of creating an 
accessible bank by design through embedding repeatable 
processes and practices. We’re also working with our 
Inclusive Design Panel, which brings together customers 
and colleagues to provide feedback on new ideas, 
products, tools and communications. The panel share 
different perspectives to help us make more informed 
decisions when it comes to delivering inclusive and 
accessible services.

We know that at any time, our customers could find 
themselves in a vulnerable situation where they need 
extra support. In 2023, the impact of the rising cost 
of living meant that for many, this was a reality. We’ve 
provided more training to all our colleagues to help them 
recognise and respond to customers in vulnerable situations.

Our Banking My Way service allows our customers to tell us 
more about themselves so we can provide the right support 
in the future. It’s a free service that allows customers to 
record information about their situation – for instance a 
change to their finances or a diagnosis of a serious illness – 
as well as the support and adjustments they need.

Creating a unified brand experience
We track the performance of our brands and campaigns 
each month, speaking to hundreds of people, businesses 
and customers. In March 2023, we relaunched our Royal 
Bank of Scotland brand and Ulster Bank brand in Northern 
Ireland. We’re now using our Tomorrow Begins Today 
brand position across the UK, creating a consistent look 
and feel and a more unified experience for our customers, 
no matter where they live in the UK. Insights gathered 
independently and analysed by our Brand Insights team 
six months after launch showed increased levels of 
branded communication awareness, particularly 
among under-35s in Scotland and Northern Ireland.

(1)  £2,000 over two years is based on existing NatWest, Royal Bank of Scotland or Ulster Bank NI business customers in June 2023 with a £1.95m–£2m turnover who currently 

pay an average of £909 per year in charges (NatWest and RBS customers) and £1,017 per year in charges for Ulster Bank NI customers.

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts34

Stakeholder focus areas continued

Customer trust and advocacy

Listening to our customers
We monitor a framework of independent customer 
feedback surveys to measure customer satisfaction, 
advocacy and trust for our key brands and services. 
These insights are reported at the most senior levels 
of the bank and play a crucial role in how we address 
the evolving needs of our customers.

Customer trust

Overall trust in the sector has remained broadly stable 
among the general public. During 2023, our trust 
scores slightly declined by 3 points for NatWest and by 
4 points for Royal Bank year on year. NatWest tracked 
in line with the sector average score of 72% for 2023.

NatWest

Q4 2023
72%
Q4 2022
75%

Source: Yonder reputation 
tracker, GB, Trust among 
Retail Banking customers, 
12-month rolling

Royal Bank of 
Scotland
Q4 2023
63%
Q4 2022
67%

Source: Yonder reputation 
tracker, GB, Trust among 
Retail Banking customers, 
12-month rolling

Customer advocacy

We track customer advocacy for our key brands using 
the Net Promoter Score® (NPS), a commonly used 
metric in banking and other industries across the 
world(1). Royal Bank NPS increased for Retail and 
Business Banking, but fell for Commercial Mid-Markets. 
For NatWest we have seen a decline in NPS. In Retail 
NatWest remained in 3rd place compared to our peers. 
Businesses continued to face a challenging economic 
environment in 2023. Our ranking in Business Banking 
is unchanged, and we remain a leader in Commercial 
Mid-Market compared to our peers.

Overall Net Promoter Score®

NatWest

Royal Bank of Scotland

Retail Banking

Retail Banking

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

21

22

Source: Strategic NPS benchmarking study 
run through InMoment, England & Wales, 
12-month rolling

Q4 2023
18

Q4 2022
10

Source: Strategic NPS benchmarking study run 
through InMoment, Scotland, 12-month rolling

Retail Banking  
- key measures

Account opening

Q4 2023
34

Q4 2022
32

Source: NatWest Strategic NPS benchmarking 
study run through InMoment, Current Account 
& Savings Account opening, England & Wales, 
12-month rolling

Business Banking

Business Banking

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

-8

-6

Q4 2023
-5

Q4 2022
-6

Mortgages

Q4 2023
23

Q4 2022
24

Source: MarketVue Business Banking from 
Savanta, England & Wales, Businesses with 
a turnover up to £750k, 12-month rolling

Source: MarketVue Business Banking 
from Savanta, Scotland, Businesses with 
a turnover up to £750k, 12-month rolling

Source: NatWest Strategic NPS benchmarking 
study run through InMoment, England & Wales, 
12-month rolling

Commercial Mid-Market Banking

Commercial Mid-Market Banking

Mobile banking

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

8

16

Q4 2023
7

Q4 2022
12

Q4 2023
47

Q4 2022
49

Source: MarketVue Business Banking from 
Savanta, England & Wales, Businesses with 
a turnover above £750k, 12-month rolling

Source: MarketVue Business Banking 
from Savanta, Scotland, Businesses with 
a turnover above £750k, 12-month rolling

Source: NatWest Strategic NPS benchmarking 
study run through InMoment, England & Wales, 
12-month rolling

Online banking

Q4 2023
31

Q4 2022
33

Source: NatWest Strategic NPS benchmarking 
study run through InMoment, England & Wales, 
12-month rolling

(1)  NPS® and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsBuilding financial 
resilience

Laura McWhinnie, a Royal Bank of Scotland Personal 
Banker, explains how we’re continuing to help 
customers deal with financial pressures…

We’re working to build financial resilience and offer personalised support 
to the people who need it most. In 2023, NatWest Group announced new 
support focused on financial wellbeing for both our customers and people 
who don’t bank with us.

This has included opening our Know Your Credit Score tool to non-customers 
in the UK, providing breathing space for personal customers in financial 
difficulty and extra training for colleagues, like me, to help customers with 
money management and fraud awareness.

The way I help customers with financial wellbeing is by discussing it openly, 
and one of the main tools I use is the free Financial Health 
Check. It’s open to anyone, not just our customers. During 
the Financial Health Check, we review the participant’s 
personal finances and go through how we could help them 
to save money. We can also look at ways to make banking 
easier for them and offer helpful tips and ideas to help 
them get financially fitter, both now and in the future.

I’ve seen first-hand the positive impact a Financial Health 
Check can have. After a regular customer became 
unemployed due to ill health, it was clear that he was 
seriously worried about money. I offered him a Financial 
Health Check. Together, we discussed budget saving  
options and cancelled small direct debits he didn’t need. 
We also set up separate accounts for his bills, so he could 
budget better.

A few months later, you could see he had a spring in his step again. 
The change was just fantastic. It gives me a great sense of achievement 
when I can help customers with their financial wellbeing.

35

Serving our

customers

every day

Our support for financial wellbeing in 2023

c.6 million

Retail Banking 
customers helped 
with their financial 
wellbeing

175,112

customers used 
our Savings 
Goal tool

4.2 million

394,863

people used Know 
Your Credit Score

customers who 
have switched 
on the Round 
Ups feature in the 
mobile banking app

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Colleagues

Our colleagues are the heart of our business. 
By supporting them in what they do and 
by ensuring that NatWest Group is a great 
place to work with a healthy culture, we can 
champion their potential and collectively 
deliver our strategy and purpose.

Highlights

Partner Leave
policies to help families to spend more 
time together after the arrival of a child.

Launched Beyond
our new approach to managing 
performance.

93%
Our View Inclusion
score remained strong +7 vs GHPN 
(Global High Performance Norm) and +10 
vs GFSN (Global Financial Services Norm).

1,435

graduates, apprentices and interns hired 
compared to 1,135 in 2022.

301

Colleagues re-skilled as part of a formal 
programme since 2022.

Listening to our colleagues
We listen to our colleagues and use this insight to attract, 
engage and retain the best talent for the future. Our 
colleague listening strategy contributes to our deeper 
understanding of colleague sentiment and includes: our 
colleague opinion surveys including pulse surveys; a 
Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) that connects colleagues 
directly with our Board; the Colleague Experience Squad, 
a group of colleagues who volunteer to provide feedback 
on colleague products and services; and Engage, our social 
media platform. We also track metrics and key performance 
indicators which we can benchmark with sector and 
high-performing comparisons.

Over 51,000 colleagues across all countries and levels 
participated in our September 2023 Our View colleague 
engagement survey.(1) At 84%, this is our highest ever 
participation rate. Despite tough economic conditions, our 
results remain strong showing an average +1 percentage 
point improvement across the survey compared to 
September 2022. While purposeful leadership fell marginally, 
our culture and purpose measures have improved, 
exceeding NatWest Group targets. Across all comparable 
categories, NatWest Group sits an average of eight 
percentage points above the Global Financial Services 
Norm (GFSN) and three percentage points above the 
Global High Performing Norm (GHPN).

Regular interactions with our employee representatives such 
as trade unions, elected employee bodies and works councils 
are a vital means of transparency and engagement for us 
and we remain committed to respecting our employees’ 
rights of freedom of association across all our businesses.

Supporting our colleagues’ wellbeing
Our initiative, Live Well Being You, helps our colleagues 
to bring the best of themselves to work, to thrive 
and be healthy.

We recognise that taking proactive action to support 
positive mental health and wellbeing plays a crucial part in 
achieving our strategy and purpose. We have launched our 
most comprehensive mental health learning programme, 
working with Steps Drama to provide a set of eight 
modules. We have also extended our partnership with Just 
Ask A Question (JAAQ), an interactive mental health and 
wellbeing platform that provides information from trusted 
experts, academics and people with lived experience.

In addition to our mental health awareness we continue to 
focus on Menopause, with 2,700 colleagues now accessing 
and interacting with the Peppy Health App for personal 
support and access to specialist clinicians.

36

To support our colleagues’ financial wellbeing, our NatWest 
Group Benefits Hub online platform allows employees to 
manage their benefits, pension, healthcare and lifestyle 
options, including NatWest Group offers and discounts. 
We also have a financial wellbeing zone available, which 
includes tailored guides and support for all colleagues 
and their families.

Our market-leading Partner Leave policies launched 
in January 2023 and as at 31 December 2023, over 
1,200 colleagues have benefited from the policy.

For full details of our partner leave policy and our wellbeing 
focus, including financial wellbeing, refer to our 
2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

‘An opportunity that 
I couldn’t pass up’
Since January 2023, we’ve offered new Partner 
Leave policies to help families to spend more 
time together after the arrival of a child. The 
policies are open to same sex and heterosexual 
parents, and offer support for eligible fathers, 
partners of mothers and other new parents, 
regardless of whether the child has arrived 
through birth, adoption or surrogacy.

Our Partner Leave policies offer eligible colleagues 
significantly enhanced pay and leave to share the 
caring responsibilities. For John, who works in Retail 
Banking, Partner Leave meant he could take up to 
52 weeks off, while receiving full pay for the first six 
months and the equivalent of Statutory Maternity 
Pay for just under four months.

‘When I found out that Partner Leave was 
available, I just thought it was an amazing 
opportunity that I couldn’t pass up,’ says John. 
‘It lets us be a lot more flexible, support each other 
much better and spend time together as a family’.

(1)  NatWest Group Our View results exclude Ulster Bank RoI.
(2)  Colleagues mean all permanent employees and, in some instances, members of the wider workforce e.g. temporary employees and agency workers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

We’re going

Beyond

Performance Management: 
Beyond
In December 2023, we launched Beyond, our 
brand new performance management approach.

In 2024, working with MindGym, we will be 
upskilling colleagues on the six conditions from 
MindGym’s research that are key to performing 
at your best – purpose, challenge, attention, 
growth, recognition and choice. We are going 
to take our time making the change, launching in 
four chapters, so we can really upskill and practice 
the new way of doing performance management.

These chapters are:

1. Setting the ambition – Goals that are created 
collaboratively by colleagues and managers, 
making them meaningful, adjustable and 
better aligned to the team and wider business.

2. Creating meaningful conversations – Proper 
coaching check-ins that happen at least four 
times a year and focus on the whole self, how 
colleagues impact others, and how they are 
doing against their goals.

3. Unlocking talent and growth – Revamping 

the calibration process, we will no longer have 
ratings, we will shift the focus to having deeper 
conversations about the performance and 
potential of our people.

4. Assessing reward choices – We’re keeping the 
relationship between performance and pay but 
will no longer focus on a rating.

We know that regular, timely and quality 
feedback is critical to unlocking great 
performance. This is why there will be a 
continued focus on feedback throughout each 
chapter. What this means to our colleagues is 
that we will cultivate a culture where feedback is 
provided continuously, given/asked for in a timely 
and proactive way and can be received from 
anyone in the organisation. 

Performance and reward
We continue to ensure employees are paid fairly for the 
work they do and are supported by simple and transparent 
pay structures in line with industry best practices. We keep 
our policies and processes under review to make sure we 
do so.

We are proud to be accredited as a Living Wage 
Employer by the Living Wage Foundation, demonstrating 
our commitment to paying wages that meet the true cost 
of living in the UK, our rates of pay continue to exceed the 
Living Wage Foundation benchmarks. For our hubs outside 
the UK, we continue to pay above the minimum and living 
wage rates.

In 2023, we furthered our commitment to fair pay by 
achieving accreditation as a Regional Living Wage Employer 
from the Fair Wage Network and are now recognised as 
a Global Living Wage Employer. This demonstrates how 
we take steps, in every location we operate, to ensure our 
colleagues are paid enough to have a decent standard of 
living, including food, water, housing, education, healthcare, 
transport, clothing and other essential needs, such as 
provision for unexpected events.

We help colleagues to have an awareness of financial 
and economic factors affecting our performance through 
quarterly Results Explained communications and Workplace 
Live events with our Group Chief Executive Officer and 
Group Chief Financial Officer.

Refer to our Directors’ remuneration report for full details on 
our remuneration policies and employee share plans.

Helping colleagues realise their potential
We’re investing in our workforce to deliver long-term, 
sustainable performance by providing our colleagues 
with the capabilities and future skills they need to fulfil 
their potential. It’s why we give everyone a minimum 
of two dedicated learning days, annually, to build the 
skills they need, underpinned by our ambition to be a 
learning organisation.

We’re supporting our businesses to close the future skills 
gap, through our reskilling programmes. Predominantly 
focused in data and digital, teaching colleagues all the 
skills they need to take their careers in a new direction. 
Since 2022, 301 colleagues have completed rapid reskilling 
programmes to build skills in software and data engineering, 
testing automation, human centred design and MS 
Dynamics with 153 starting programmes in 2023.

37

We’re continuing to invest in building future talent capability 
through our early career programmes. In 2023, we 
increased our intake across all programmes; hiring over 
1,400 graduates, interns and apprentices, including 158 
apprentices from a lower-income socio-economic 
background. Since 2022, we have also improved our gender 
and ethnicity representation within our graduate intake.

For a full breakdown of our early career programme profiles, 
refer to our Non-Financial information datasheet at 
natwestgroup.com.

Over 5,000 of our leaders have enrolled on the Thrive 
Leadership experience, giving them opportunities to 
learn and experiment in order to lead successfully. Thrive 
Leadership sits alongside our Leadership Fundamentals 
programme, which was launched in 2023, to provide a 
blended learning offering for new and aspiring leaders. 
We are also developing the strategic leadership skills 
of a targeted group of our most senior leaders in the 
One Bank Leadership Team (OBLT).

Following the launch of our refreshed values in 2022, 
we have focused on embedding these values in 2023. 
Our values are an integral part of the Thrive Leadership 
journey and feature heavily in the priorities of our OBLT 
programme. They have also been translated into One 
Bank Leadership Behaviours. Our bank wide recognition 
programme on our values, Living Our Values (LOV), 
continues to recognise colleagues for the great work they 
have done to support each other, the communities we 
serve and our customers. In December 2023, our LOV 
awards were a great testament to how colleagues are 
demonstrating our refreshed values. We will continue 
to prioritise embedding further in 2024.

We continue to embed our One Bank talent cycle, including 
succession planning, which drives talent activity throughout 
the year – proactively spotting, developing, and mobilising a 
diverse pool of our most promising talent supported by our 
Executive Committee and leaders across NatWest Group.

Refer to our 2023 ESG Disclosures Report for full details on how 
we support colleagues to realise their potential.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts38

Stakeholder focus areas continued

Diversity, equity and inclusion

Core to our strategy and purpose as a bank, 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) is part 
of our collective identity. Our business needs 
to reflect the communities we serve, so that 
we cater to them to the best of our ability.

Our contribution towards an inclusive workplace
The One Bank Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Action Committee 
chaired by Jen Tippin (Chief People & Transformation 
Officer), and Marg Jobling (Chief Marketing Officer), and 
made up of senior leaders from across the bank as well 
as colleague representatives, has a vision for DE&I to be 
everyone’s experience, every day. The committee aims 
to share best practice, agree, and drive a focused, action-
orientated and impactful One Bank approach to DE&I.

The committee has three workstreams that are continuing 
to drive action to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
workplace: recruitment and attraction; learning and 
development; and leadership and retention.

Recruitment and Attraction
To make our recruitment processes as inclusive as possible, 
we have improved and mandated our interview skills 
training to ensure DE&I is front of mind for hiring managers 
during the recruitment process. This complements the 
Recruitment Yes Check which all colleagues can use in 
every hiring scenario. We have trained a new cohort of 
Inclusive Interview Ambassadors, increasing our team of 
ambassadors to over 600.

For further details on recruitment refer to our  
2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

Learning and Development
We have several learning and development opportunities 
to encourage building a more inclusive workplace at 
NatWest Group. Over 53,000 colleagues completed our 
enhanced learning module, Choose to Challenge, which  
is a 24 percentage point increase from 2022. It features 
real-world scenarios and educates participants in the 
importance of challenging non-inclusive behaviours. We 
have also encouraged colleagues to enrol in other learning 
modules, such as LGBT+ Awareness (81% completion since 
January 2022 launch, and a 37 percentage point increase 

since December 2022) and Disability Smart (79% completion 
since December 2021 launch, and a 33 percentage point 
increase since December 2022).

Sisters. Leveraging our partnership with Team GB, we 
held an event with former athlete Christine Ohuruogu, 
MBE, which c.500 colleagues attended.

Leadership and Retention
Sponsorship plays a key role in breaking down barriers to 
help under-represented groups progress to senior leadership 
roles. In 2023, our ExCo members sponsored 29 colleagues 
from ethnic minority groups. We use our best practice 
Sponsorship guide to support leaders to take responsibility 
for supporting and advancing individuals. We have supported 
322 colleagues through our Ignite development programmes 
for gender and ethnicity since its launch in 2022, accelerating 
the advancement of diverse talent.

We continuously support our eight Employee-Led Networks 
(ELNs), which collectively have over 24,000 members. Our 
ELNs are made up of volunteer colleagues from across the 
bank who play a key role in delivering, raising awareness 
of, and influencing our bank-wide DE&I strategy, providing 
development and networking opportunities for members. 
We also support a community of c.1,000 Inclusion Champions, 
who take action to create a culture where our colleagues 
and customers feel they are treated fairly and respectfully.

Gender
We celebrated International Women’s Day in March 2023, 
themed around Embracing Equity, and International Men’s 
Day in November 2023, with a spotlight on male suicide. 
A variety of events and activities were held to connect 
colleagues across the globe, educate and raise awareness.

We are a signatory of HM Treasury’s Women in Finance 
Charter and our Executive Sponsor for Gender, David 
Lindberg (CEO, Retail Banking), is part of the Accountable 
Executive Taskforce for the Charter. We have utilised the 
Women in Finance Blueprint, alongside other external 
benchmarks, to ensure we remain focused on the 
interventions that will make the most difference.

Ethnicity
This year we welcomed a new Executive Sponsor for 
Ethnicity, Keiran Foad (Group Chief Risk Officer), working 
alongside Scott Marcar (Group Chief Information Officer). 
We celebrated Race Equality Week in February 2023, with 
the theme of Its Everyone’s Business, and Black History 
Month in October 2023, with the theme of Saluting Our 

Our Ethnicity Advisory Council comprises nominated 
external specialists from different industries who meet 
regularly to provide critical challenge, guidance, and 
direction to our strategy. They will work in collaboration 
with three newly appointed Racial Equality Taskforce 
Leads who will continue to listen to the experience of our 
colleagues from ethnic minority groups and identify the 
steps we will take to support colleagues, customers, and 
communities. We are a signatory of the Business in the 
Community Race at Work Charter and we have also been 
recognised as a Top 25 Outstanding Employer based on 
our submission to the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix.

LGBT+
As well as celebrating Pride, NatWest India launched a 
second cohort of TRANSpire to promote employability 
skills for the transgender community and partnered with 
Pride Circle to host a Rainbow Bazaar championing LGBT+ 
entrepreneurs. For the sixth time NatWest Poland organised 
the LGBT+ Diamond Awards to recognise individuals 
and organisations making a significant contribution to 
LGBT+ awareness.

Our LGBT+ Executive Sponsor, Jen Tippin (Group 
Chief People and Transformation Officer), continues to be 
recognised for her equality efforts through the Involve Top 
Ally Executive Role Model list for a second year in a row, 
and shortlisted in the 2023 Diva Awards for LGBT+ Allyship.

Disability
We celebrated International Day of Persons with Disabilities 
with the theme of Enable Don’t Disable in December 2023. 
During the year, Enable, our Disability & Neurodiversity 
Network, sponsored by our Executive Sponsor for Disability, 
Olly Holbourn (CEO, RBS International), hosted several events 
which celebrated and recognised the power of role models 
with disabilities in society, and focused on the importance of 
creating an accessible bank for our colleagues and customers.

We were privileged to sponsor and host the Business Disability 
Forum’s annual conference in 2023. We were recognised as a 
Disability Confident Leader in the UK Government’s Disability 
Confident scheme and introduced a Neuro-Developmental 
Pathway through our Private Medical cover.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Socio-Economic
With the support of our Executive sponsor, Matt Austen 
(Director of Strategy & Corporate Development), we have 
continued to gather data on the socio-economic diversity of 
our workforce and supported the compiling of an industry 
perspective with our trusted partners.

We continue to use insight gained from our colleague 
engagement survey, Our View, to form future solutions 
that will ensure opportunities to advance for all colleagues.

For further details on diversity, equity and inclusion refer to our 
2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

Our progress and targets
Colleague sentiment on inclusivity remained strong in 
2023, 93% of colleagues told us that they believe NatWest 
Group promotes an inclusive culture. Although sentiment 
has remained consistent in all our colleague groups, our 
focus remains on where scores may vary for colleagues 
from minority groups and the actions we need to take to 
address the disparity.

We ran a smaller pulse survey in May 2023, focused on 
championing belonging, in which 95% of colleagues told 
us they feel comfortable being themselves at work (a 2 
percentage point increase from 2022). In 2023, for the 
first time, we asked our colleagues whether they thought 
our work environment is accepting of everyone. 94% of 
colleagues agreed (+6 vs Global Financial Services Norm).

Our Board composition meets the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review (formerly the Hampton Alexander Review target of 
a minimum of 40% women’s representation on the Board 
by 2025, with a figure of 40% as at 31 December 2023. Our 
Executive Management Committee (ExCo) is 27%, with the 
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief People 
& Transformation Officer, Chief Governance Officer and 
Company Secretary roles held by women.

We continuously monitor and report against our diversity 
targets. We have a target for full gender balance in CEO-3 
positions and above globally by the end of 2030. As at 
31 December 2023, we had 41% of women in our top 
three layers(*) an increase of 1 percentage point, since 2022. 
This represents an increase of 12 percentage points since 
targets were introduced in 2015.(1)

We are committed to pay equality. The mean gender pay 
gap for NatWest Bank, our largest reporting entity, is 27.6% 
(median: 29.7%) closing the gap by 1.2 percentage points 

since last year. The mean gender bonus gap is 26% 
(median: 17.7%), closing the gap by 4.5 percentage points 
since last year. If we include recognition vouchers in our 
calculation, the bonus gap increases to 49.7% (median 
91.8%), closing the gap by 2.9 percentage points since last 
year. This means every colleague who received a small 
recognition award – for example £10 – is included in the 
calculations, whether or not they received a bonus. Most 
colleagues in our more junior jobs only receive fixed pay 
– a change made to provide more certainty over earnings. 
We currently have a higher proportion of women in these 
roles. We believe the figures excluding recognition vouchers 
are more accurate reflections of our gender bonus gap.

Introduced in 2018, our ethnicity target is to have 14% of 
colleagues from ethnic minority groups in CEO-4 and above 
positions in the UK by end of 2025. As at 31 December 
2023, of 84% of colleagues who disclosed their ethnicity, 
we have an aggregate 13% of colleagues from ethnic 
minority groups in our CEO-4 and above positions.(*) This 
represents a 5 percentage point increase since targets 
were introduced(1) and a 2 percentage point increase from 
2022. Overall, of those who disclose their ethnicity, 20% 
of all colleagues in the UK identify as being from an ethnic 
minority group.

In line with our commitment to transparency under the UK 
Government’s Race at Work Charter, we have voluntarily 
disclosed our aggregated ethnicity pay gap for NatWest 
Group UK. The mean ethnicity pay gap for NatWest Group 
is 6.2% (median: 9.2%), closing the gap by 1 percentage 
point since last year. The mean ethnicity bonus gap for 
NatWest Group, excluding recognition vouchers, is 19.9% 
(median: 22.4%), closing the gap by 1.9 percentage points 
since last year. We have broken down our ethnicity pay 
gaps to compare Asian, Black, mixed/multiple, and other 
ethnic minority colleague’s average hourly pay to that 
of White colleagues for NatWest Group in Great Britain. 
This highlighted a wider pay gap between Black and White 
colleagues than the average ethnicity pay gap. The target 
set in 2021 to increase the number of Black colleagues in 
CEO-5 and above UK roles is intended, alongside other 
initiatives, to address underrepresentation in this area.

For our full gender pay gap and ethnicity pay gap report  refer 
to natwestgroup.com.

The NatWest Group Racial Equality Taskforce set out 
10 commitments in the Banking on Racial Equality Report, 
including a UK target to have Black colleagues occupying 
3% of UK CEO-5 positions and above by end of 2025.  

39

As at 31 December 2023, we have 1.9% of colleagues who 
identify as Black in CEO-5 positions in the UK, which is a 0.4 
percentage point increase from 2022. Overall, of those who 
disclose their ethnicity, 3% of all our colleagues in the UK 
identify as Black. We are committed to achieving our 
current targets, and to ensuring that they evolve 
appropriately.

Our full Banking on Racial Equality Report can be found at 
natwestgroup.com.

For a full breakdown of our colleague data, including our 
gender and ethnicity profiles by level, refer to our Non-financial 
information datasheet at natwestgroup.com.

Companies Act 2006, section 414C (8)(c) 
disclosure

Male #

Female #

Directors of the company
Executive employees
Directors of subsidiaries
Permanent employees (active and inactive)

6
63
180
32,400

4
29
67
30,100

13 Directors of subsidiaries have not declared their sex.
There were 352 senior managers (in accordance with the definition contained within 
the relevant Companies Act legislation), which comprises our executive population 
and individuals who are directors of our subsidiaries.
UK Corporate Governance Code Provision 23: As at 31 December 2023, the gender 
balance of senior management and their direct reports was 39% female and 61% 
male. For the purposes of this note, senior management means our executive 
management team (which includes the Company Secretary).

For Board and executive management diversity disclosures 
(Listing Rule 9.8.6 (10)), refer to page 107.

Our partners and recognition

For full details, refer to our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pages  
at natwestgroup.com.

(1)  NatWest Group’s management structures were revised during 2023. For the purpose of remuneration reporting, the representation targets were set based on the management structures in place at the start of 2023 with performance assessed at 31 December 2023.
(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts40

Stakeholder focus areas continued

Regulators

We operate in a highly regulated market 
which continues to evolve. We understand 
the need to have an ongoing, constructive  
and open dialogue with all relevant 
regulatory bodies.

Highlights

Implementing 
Consumer Duty to 
ensure good customer 
outcomes
We continued to engage with the FCA to 
keep them up to date with our progress.

Basel 3.1 implementation
We provided a key consultation response to 
the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA) 
proposals on the implementation of  
Basel 3.1.

Responding to 
consultations
We provided input and comment to  
consultations from government, regulatory  
and standard-setting bodies.

Maintaining dialogue 
with regulators
In an evolving regulatory landscape, 
we have maintained constructive, 
open dialogue with our regulators.

Ongoing dialogue
In July 2023, the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) 
Consumer Duty went live for on-sale products and services. 
The Consumer Duty is designed to set higher and clearer 
standards of consumer protection across financial services 
and requires firms to deliver good outcomes for customers. 
As part of the Consumer Duty, firms must: ensure products 
and services provide fair value, enable customers to make 
informed financial decisions to help them pursue their goals, 
and provide support that meets the needs of all customers.

Throughout our implementation of the Consumer Duty, 
we continued to engage openly and collaboratively with 
the FCA. We have made sure that the regulator has 
been fully informed of our progress and is comfortable 
that the changes we have made reflect both the spirit and 
substance of the new standards. Our regular rhythm of 
engagement with the FCA will continue as we implement 
the Consumer Duty for all of our off-sale products and 
services by the regulatory deadline of July 2024.

Aside from the Consumer Duty, the broader regulatory 
landscape has also continued to evolve. As such, it has been 
imperative for the bank to maintain ongoing, constructive 
and open dialogue with all our regulators.

During 2023, this included several responses to material 
consultations or other requests for comment and input 
from various government, regulatory and standard-setting 
bodies. Key consultation responses have included the 
Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA) proposals on the 
implementation of Basel 3.1, the FCA’s discussion paper 
on the role of Big Tech in financial services and the reform 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 led by HM Treasury.

We formally engage with our regulators at senior executive 
and Board level, as well as via individual non-executive 
directors, through continuous assessment and proactive 
engagement meetings. Most notably during 2023, there was 
increased focus by regulators on how we have supported 
our customers to address the challenges of the increased 
cost of living, as well as the associated credit risk impacts.

Good customer outcomes
In preparation for the implementation of Consumer 
Duty in July 2023, we completed a comprehensive 
review across our business segments – and 
more than 330 on-sale products and services – 
to identify and address areas that represented 
the greatest risk of foreseeable harm.

We’ve committed to over 300 improvements to 
make sure that our products and services work 
as intended, and expanded our data monitoring 
to measure good customer outcomes. We’re also 
supporting our colleagues with the new regulations 
by providing targeted training to our teams and 
recognising and celebrating successes.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Communities

As a leading financial firm in the UK, we 
believe we can make a real and positive 
difference to people’s lives.

Highlights

Direct community 
investment of over 
£11m in 2023
We invested more than £11 million(*) in 
programmes and funding to support the 
communities we operate in.

More than 125,000 
hours volunteered
Our colleagues gave their time in 2023 to 
support a range of good causes.

Helping to train new 
youth workers
We’re transferring £3 million of our 
apprenticeship levy to train 220 youth 
workers in England over five years.

Supporting more 
than 45,000 
entrepreneurs
In 2023, we helped more than 45,000(*)
individuals and businesses through our 
enterprise programmes against a target of 
35,000 in 2023.(1)

Continuing to give back
Our ambition is to support and give back to the 
communities we operate in. Our direct community 
investment in 2023 amounted to more than £11 million,(*) 
as measured using the Business for Societal Impact 
benchmarking standard. This includes the funding we 
make available to support colleague giving and the direct 
costs of delivering our community programmes.

In 2023, our Do Good Feel Good campaign once again 
gave our colleagues the chance to support good causes 
they care about by volunteering their time and fundraising. 
Across all our fundraising and volunteering programmes, 
our colleagues raised £3.8 million and gave 125,000 
volunteering hours, offering their skills and expertise 
to support a range of causes.

Read more about our fundraising activities in our  
2023 ESG Disclosures Report.

Building young people’s financial confidence
NatWest Thrive is a programme to help young people 
grow in confidence and get into good money habits. It’s 
been developed by specialist youth workers at the National 
Youth Agency, working closely with young people. The 
programme is a unique collaboration between NatWest 
Group, the National Youth Agency and the footballer 
and campaigner Marcus Rashford MBE.

Following the pilot and summer roll-out of the programme 
to youth clubs in 2022, in February 2023 we announced 
new commitments to support the programme and young 
people across England. This included doubling the number 
of NatWest Thrive youth clubs from 15 to 30 by the end 
of 2023, which we achieved. Over five years, we will also 
transfer £3 million of our apprenticeship levy to the National 
Youth Agency to support the training of 220 youth workers 
across the industry in England.

(1)  Represents approximate number of interventions delivered and individuals 

supported through enterprise programmes during 2023, which is based upon 
data provided by third parties delivering these interventions without further 
independent verification by NatWest Group.

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

41

Helping community 
groups realise their 
climate ambitions
The Royal Bank of Scotland launched a new 
£150,000 fund to support 50 community groups 
across Scotland to deliver sustainability projects.

Delivered with the community investment 
platform, Neighbourly, The Royal Bank 
Regenerate Fund offers schools, charities 
and community groups the chance to apply 
for funding to make their sustainability projects 
a reality. It focuses on four areas: energy 
efficiency and buildings; environment, nature 
and biodiversity; food, water and waste; and 
transport and mobility.

Three groups who helped develop the Royal 
Bank Regenerate Fund received a £3,000 grant 
to support their projects. Bike for Good, a charity 
based in Glasgow refurbishes bikes to give 
people affordable access to cycling and divert 
old bikes from landfill. For founder, Gregory 
Kinsman-Chauvet, the grant is helping them 
make a difference: ‘We’ll now be able to 
refurbish more bikes and increase our skills 
workshops in the community to help get 
more people on their bikes.’

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Supporting enterprise
In 2023, we delivered more than 300,000(*) interventions 
to help people start, run and grow a business. We helped 
more than 45,000(*) individuals and businesses through our 
enterprise programmes, including over 1,300 entrepreneurs 
through the NatWest Accelerator Programme. Throughout 
2023, we delivered our Accelerator Programme through 
in-person and virtual coaching sessions, workshops, 
thought leadership and events across our 13 hubs in  
the UK and online.

In 2023, we launched our Entrepreneur Hub, which helps 
users find education, tools and events across NatWest 
Group brands, while our Business Builder and Business 
Insight content continues to provide learning and thought 
leadership to support businesses.

Helping Black entrepreneurs thrive
We’re supporting a new ‘mini’ Master of Business 
Administration (MBA) course designed to address the 
challenges faced by Black people entering the world of 
business. MBA 30, a targeted education programme, has 
been developed by the Black British Initiative (BBI) and 
SOAS, University of London. The programme, which 
opened to students in September 2023, provides Black 
entrepreneurs with the skills, knowledge and networks 
to thrive in their respective industries.

Our support of MBA 30 builds on our work to champion 
the UK’s ethnic minority businesses. Since the launch of 
the Time to Change report by Aston University’s Centre 
for Research in Ethnic Minority Entrepreneurship in 
collaboration with NatWest Group in 2022, we’ve formed a 
strategy to help tackle the multiple barriers faced by ethnic 
minority businesses in the UK. We’re focusing on fostering 
local networks of support to boost business survival and 
growth, building long-term, trust-based relationships with 
businesses, and breaking down barriers to finance.

Financial learning and education
In 2023, our MoneySense programme focused on helping 
young people to prepare for the transition from school to 
living independently. During 2023, we reached more than 
1.1 million young people through the MoneySense schools 
programme. Activities included an immersive escape room 
that allows participants to explore the social and economic 
impact of financial decisions and a carbon footprint tracker, 
which helped young people to review the impact of their 
purchasing decisions and lifestyle choices on the environment.

Our free Financial Foundations workshops are designed to 
empower participants to take control of their money and 
future. In 2023, we added bespoke cost of living content 
to our workshop series, exploring budgeting tips, savings 
strategies and what to do if someone is struggling with debt. 
The interactive sessions included follow-up resources to help 
embed the learning. In 2023, our trained bank volunteers 
delivered workshops totalling almost 250 hours of support.

NatWest Social & Community Capital
NatWest Social & Community Capital (S&CC) is an 
independent charity, supported by NatWest Group. Its 
mission is to help social enterprises and trading charities 
to make a positive impact in communities up and down the 
UK, with a focus on Scotland and the north west Midlands.

It does this by providing flexible funding and wider support 
to groups who might otherwise struggle to get funding. 
Offering funding of between £30,000 and £500,000 
dependent on the purpose of the borrowing, S&CC aims 
to support its customers to make a lasting social impact. 
Loans that are repaid are recycled back to the charity 
for further investment.

It supports organisations like The Ledge, a community-
focused climbing centre with a social mission. Based in 
Inverness, The Ledge is a home for the local climbing 
community, as well as a charity designed to help people 
overcome life challenges through the shared experience 
of climbing. Alongside support from sportscotland, the 
S&CC team provided flexible funding to help The Ledge 
complete the climbing centre and make their community 
project a reality.

Power of Helping Hands Fund
Our Regional Boards, which operate in seven regions and 
nations across the UK, supported communities in 2023 
through the Power of Helping Hands Fund. The £1 million 
fund is designed to give quick, on-the-ground support to 
help people with the rising cost of living. More than 120 
charities received support in 2023, helping to deliver 
projects supporting people experiencing loneliness, 
foodbanks, youth worker outreach and children’s 
health programmes.

The Power of Helping Hands Fund formed part of a 
wider £5.7 million in support provided to help communities 
throughout the UK, delivered by partner organisations 
including the Federation of Small Business, the Trussell 
Trust and Responsible Finance.

(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

42

Proud to be a 
Homewards Activator
In June 2023, NatWest Group joined Homewards, a 
five-year, locally led programme launched by His 
Royal Highness The Prince of Wales and The Royal 
Foundation. The programme aims to demonstrate 
that it is possible to end homelessness. Working 
with six flagship locations across the UK, 
Homewards will provide space, tools and 
partnerships to showcase what can be 
achieved through a collective effort focused 
on preventing homelessness.

NatWest Group is a Homewards Activator, 
working alongside organisations from a range 
of sectors and industries to contribute skills, 
resources and investment to support the 
programme to deliver solutions to prevent 
and end homelessness for good.

NatWest Group is already working with The 
Royal Foundation of The Prince and Princess of 
Wales as part of the Business Taskforce for Early 
Childhood, launched by Her Royal Highness The 
Princess of Wales in March 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStakeholder focus areas continued

Suppliers

Our Supplier Charter
Our Supplier Charter clearly sets out our progress to 
date and our ask in the areas of ethical business conduct, 
real living wage, prompt payment, human rights and 
modern slavery, environmental sustainability and 
diversity, equity and inclusion. We’ve also added new 
guidance around digital accessibility, included some 
developments on the horizon and valuable learning 
opportunities for our suppliers and the wider value chain.

We’ve re-designed the charter to ensure it’s a useful 
and accessible guide to working as a supplier with 
NatWest Group.

Highlights

57.6% supplier 
sustainability score
Of the 528 NatWest Group suppliers that 
took part in EcoVadis, the average score 
is higher than the Global EcoVadis average 
of 45.9%.

Supplier Decarbonisation 
Programme
We established our Supplier 
Decarbonisation Programme in 2022 
to support the delivery of our 2030 
and 2050 carbon reduction ambitions.

Committed to prompt 
payment
Our standard payment terms are 30 days 
and we maintain immediate payment on 
goods and services received.

Fast Payer Award
For the third year running NatWest 
Group was recognised for fast payment 
throughout our organisation.

Sustainability performance
We continue to work with the global sustainability rating 
company EcoVadis to conduct individual sustainability 
performance assessments of our suppliers.

In 2023, EcoVadis also conducted a sustainability 
assessment of NatWest Group, in which it scored 67% 
overall, which is significantly higher than the global EcoVadis 
average of 51%, ranking us in the 91st percentile.

Working together
We continue to collaborate with our suppliers to create a 
diverse and responsible supply chain, be fair and transparent 
with our suppliers and reach net zero by 2050 across our 
operational value chain.

We’ve set ourselves clear goals to achieve our ambition 
of reaching net zero by 2050 across our operational value 
chain. To achieve this, we need to work hand in hand with 
suppliers who share our purpose and commitment to 
building a sustainable future.

In 2022, we established a (multi-year) Supplier Decarbonisation 
Programme to support delivery of the 2030 and 2050 
carbon reduction ambitions related to our operational value 
chain. In 2023, the Supplier Decarbonisation Programme 
completed a pilot with a small sample of suppliers to 
understand the most effective way to meet NatWest 
Group’s supply chain decarbonisation goals and embed 
climate objectives into our supply chain strategy.

The pilot enabled us to agree on our engagement 
approach and communications strategy. In addition, it 
gave us a clearer understanding of education requirements 
for suppliers and colleagues to ensure that they have the 
right skills to engage in climate conversations. We were 
also able to better understand our data requirements and 
opportunities to share good practice. Learnings from the 
pilot and external reviews have been used to inform our 
2024 supply chain decarbonisation approach and plan. 
We aim to set clear expectations within the overall 
procurement framework and work collaboratively with our 
suppliers within the wider sustainability and ESG agendas.

43

Prompt payment
We pay our suppliers promptly for the services they provide 
to us. Our standard payment terms are 30 days, but we 
continue to maintain immediate payment on goods and 
services on receipt, resulting in average days to pay in H1 
as seven days, and six days in H2. This goes beyond our 
commitment as a signatory to the government’s Prompt 
Payment Code, which requires payment to be made 
in 60 days.

Read more about how we’re working with our Suppliers  
in our 2023 ESG Report.

Respecting human rights
At NatWest Group, we understand we have an important 
role to play in promoting respect for human rights. We seek 
to do this by continuing to align our approach to a range of 
voluntary international standards including the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and 
through the continued application of policies and practices 
covering our colleagues, customers and suppliers, but 
we know that there is more that we could be doing.

In 2023, our Human Rights Action Group prioritised 
independent validation that we are paying above the 
minimum and living wage rates for our major hubs outside 
of the UK. We achieved accreditation as a Regional Living 
Wage Employer from the Fair Wage Network and are 
now recognised as a Global Living Wage Employer.

We published our Salient Human Rights Issues, and 
enhanced due diligence on high-risk sectors through a new 
Environmental, Social & Ethical (ESE) Human Rights Risk 
Acceptance Criteria (RAC) which will be rolled out in 2024. 
We intend to test, evolve and adapt the scope of the ESE 
Human Rights RAC over time to maximise effectiveness.

NatWest Group was the highest scoring bank in the 2023 
CCLA Modern Slavery UK Benchmark. We published our 
seventh Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 
and engagement with various stakeholders, including 
charities, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and 
campaign groups has continued to help further our 
knowledge and understanding of human rights issues.

Further information on our approach to human rights, 
including our annual Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement. Salient Human Rights Issues and Human Rights 
Position Statement can be found at natwestgroup.com.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsBusiness performance

Strong businesses to meet customers’ needs

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Commercial & Institutional

44

We’re here for our customers every day and at every 
important life moment – whether they’re opening their first 
account, buying their first home, saving for the future or 
investing for the next generation.

Our focus on supporting our customers to reach their 
financial goals has helped us to build deeper relationships 
by understanding their needs and engaging with them with 
more meaningful insights. Through our digital and mobile 
experience, we’re helping our customers to improve their 
financial wellbeing through personalised experiences, along 
with the support of our excellent colleagues.

We serve the banking, lending and wealth management 
needs of UK-connected high net-worth individuals and 
their business interests through the Coutts brand.

We also deliver the investment requirements of customers 
across NatWest Group through our Investment Centre of 
Expertise. As the first UK-headquartered private bank to 
become a certified B Corp, we aim to manage our clients’ 
wealth responsibly.

As a leading commercial bank in Great Britain(1), we’re 
focused on supporting every stage of our customers’ 
journey and helping them to manage a challenging 
economic environment. Through our specialist sector 
knowledge and capabilities, we deliver comprehensive 
products and solutions for businesses ranging from 
start-ups to corporates and large institutions. We’re 
working to make banking simpler for our customers by 
developing our digital capabilities and investing in climate 
financing solutions to support their transition to more 
sustainable practices.

(1)  Based on the % of 10,550 businesses, with an annual turnover up to £1 billion, 

that name a NatWest Group brand as their main bank (19%) and 2,463 businesses 
with a turnover over £2 million in Great Britain who scored NatWest +10 NPS. 
Source: MarketVue Business Banking from Savanta at Q4 2023.

Net loans to customers

Total income

Net loans to customers

Total income

Net loans to customers

Total income

£5,931m

2022: £5,646m

£205.2bn

2022: £197.6n

£990m

2022: £1,056m

£18.5bn

2022: £19.2bn

£7,421m

2022: £6,413m

Operating profit

Customer deposits

Operating profit

Customer deposits

Operating profit

£2,638m

2022: £2,824m

£188.0bn

2022: £188.4bn

£291m

2022: £436m

£37.7bn

2022: £41.2bn

£3,236m

2022: £2,547m

Return on equity

Risk-weighted assets

Return on equity

Risk-weighted assets

Return on equity

Risk-weighted assets

23.8%

2022: 28.6%

£61.6bn

2022: £54.7bn

14.8%

2022: 24.5%

£11.2bn

2022: £11.2bn

15.4%

2022: 12.2%

£107.4bn

2022: £103.2bn

£131.9bn

2022: £129.9bn

Customer deposits

£193.4bn

2022: £203.3bn

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsBusiness performance continued

Retail Banking

We’re here for our customers every day and at 
every important life moment – whether they’re 
opening their first account, managing day-to-day 
expenses, buying their first home, saving for the 
future, or investing for the next generation.

We’re focused on understanding our customers 
and supporting them to reach their financial goals. 
Our tailored insights, engaging products, skilled 
colleagues and digital and mobile experience 
provide personalised experiences to help our 
customers to improve their financial wellbeing.

2023 focus and highlights

Serving our customers everyday means responding to their 
changing needs. During 2023, we created 17.2 million positive 
interactions with customers through tailored messages. 
We also met 94% of our customers’ requirements digitally, 
with high satisfaction levels for our mobile banking app. 
And as part of our ambition to develop more engaging, 
personalised experiences for our customers, we launched 
our Insights feature in our mobile banking app in October 
2023. The feature, which was designed in collaboration with 
our customers, aims to support them to build better financial 
habits, manage everyday spending and plan for the future. 
At the end of 2023, over 3.6 million users had tried the 
Insights features. Meanwhile, our AI virtual assistant, Cora, 
fully supported 49% of customer queries through 10.8 million(*) 
conversations handled without colleague intervention.

We understand the cost of living crisis continues to 
put pressure on household finances. High interest rates 
significantly impacted the housing and mortgage market 
in 2023. Against this backdrop, we remain committed to 
helping customers buy and refinance their homes. In June 
2023, we were one of the first high street banks to sign up 
to the UK Government’s Mortgage Charter, formalising the 
flexibility we already offered to our customers.

We have grown our share of new lending to around 13% 
and stock balances to £193 billion.

We know high energy bills are a major concern for our 
customers and our new Home Energy Hub aims to help 
customers improve the energy efficiency of their home 
and reduce their bills. So far, over 24,000 plans have 
been created through the tool which launched in 
November 2023.

We also want to help our customers to use credit 
responsibly. Since 2021, we have reduced the number of 
customers in persistent credit card debt by 28% through 
tailored engagement and digital enhancements, like 
personalised repayment options. We offer a range of 
innovative solutions to our customers and our Borrowing 
Needs tool helps them to find the right solution for their 
circumstances. We’re continuing to help customers in 
financial difficulty to access the independent support and 
advice they need. In 2023, we funded 17% of the Citizens 
Advice Help Through Hardship helpline, allowing 50,000 
calls to be answered and the implementation of 7,800 
support plans.

In 2023, we enabled greater access to our products and 
services. For example, by making our Know Your Credit 
Score tool available to customers, 4.2 million people 
accessed instant, detailed credit score insights in the year. 
We also made our credit cards available to those who 
don’t bank with us and our new fully digital integration 
with aggregators has helped in growing our market share 
to 8.5%. In the face of a higher interest rate environment, 
we have continued to support our customers’ savings goals. 
Customers no longer need to have a NatWest Current 
Account to open one of our fixed rate savings products. 
This has helped us meet more savings needs, maintaining 
our deposits position to the end of 2023 with strong balance 
growth of £3.5 billion in Q4 2023. We met our goal to help 
two million save more than £100 for the first time(1).

We’ve continued to improve the way we meet needs across 
the customer lifecycle. We’re helping future generations to 
create good money habits through Rooster Money with 
215,000 new cardholders’ building financial resilience in 
2023. Our Youth accounts, including Rooster Money, grew 
to over 574,000 customers in 2023. We’ve also refreshed 
our Premier proposition, delivering features on our Premier 
Select account for Affluent customers. New customer flow 
to this segment has more than doubled across the year.

(1)  2020 goal: To help two million people save over £100 for the first time with NatWest Group since 2020.
(*)  Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

45

2024 priorities

Our customers are the heart of our business, and we are 
proud of the way we have served them in 2023. In 2024 we 
are committed to raising our ambition to provide meaningful, 
personalised experiences through a consistent, connected 
experience for our customers at every life moment.

We will continue to invest in more compelling, seamless 
journeys and embed our financial services into life moments 
to enable customers to access related and relevant services 
when and where they need them. We will further scale 
personalised engagement with customers with meaningful 
insights throughout their lifecycle and experiment with new 
artificial intelligence capabilities to enhance experiences.

Helping customers build 
better financial habits
In October 2023, we launched Insights, the new 
financial wellbeing function in our mobile Retail 
Banking app. Insights makes it easier for our 
customers to find relevant features and tools 
in the app that can help them better manage 
their money, like Savings Goals, Round Ups, 
and Know Your Credit Score. It can also help 
customers with challenges such as reducing their 
household bills and finding ways to save money.

Customers can use all the Insights features in 
the app on their own or with a NatWest Group 
colleague as part of a Financial Health Check to 
better understand their financial health. We want 
our customers to feel in control of their day-to-
day finances and confident about their life goals, 
so we’ll continue to evolve the way Insights can 
help them in 2024 and beyond.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsBusiness performance continued

Private Banking

We serve the banking, lending and wealth 
management needs of UK-connected high  
net-worth individuals and their business interests 
through the Coutts brand. We also deliver the 
investment requirements of customers across 
NatWest Group through our Investment Centre 
of Expertise.

Our Private Banking strategy continues to help our 
customers to meet their financial goals. Through 
our relationship-led, digitally enabled, proactive 
client engagement model, we aim to deliver good 
outcomes for our clients and manage their wealth 
responsibly, while supporting the wider NatWest 
Group to deliver on our strategy.

2023 focus and highlights

We continue to focus on meeting our customers’ 
needs as they evolve towards more digital engagement. 
Our investment is focused on increasing clients’ ability to 
self-serve when they want and in ways more suited to their 
needs. We improved how our customers can invest with 
us digitally, including deepening integration with the mobile 
banking app, digitising and simplifying more journeys and 
developing new digital journeys for customers receiving 
investment advice through our face-to-face channel. As a 
result, adoption of our digital services within our customer 
base is high and maturing. In 2023, over 90% of payments, 
were made digitally and more than 100,000 customers from 
across NatWest Group invested more than £2 billion with us 
through our digital investment service.

In a high interest rate environment, we saw client demand 
and needs change rapidly both in deposits and lending, and 
the market became increasingly competitive, particularly in 
the first quarter of 2023. We reviewed our proposition and 
in August 2023, we launched the Coutts NatWest Mortgage 
to give Coutts clients an improved choice of mortgage 
options. Our research has shown that 30% of Coutts 
clients have simpler mortgage needs and could benefit 
from NatWest products, which on retail policies offer 
lower mortgage rates, a broader product range, and 
a more digitised client journey.

We have continued our climate commitments and in 
2023, our Coutts Asset Management published its first 
detailed climate disclosures within NatWest Group’s 
overall climate disclosures, which were compliant with the 
TCFD recommendations and the FCA’s ESG sourcebook 
requirements for asset managers. We also assessed 81 of 
our funds using our Net Zero Investment Framework and 
published progress against our portfolio alignment target 
for the first time. As at the end of 2023, 49% of funds 
within our managed assets were portfolio aligned.

Continuing our collaboration with the Business Growth Fund 
(BGF), with the close of UK Enterprise Fund (UKEF 3) in 
January 2024 we have now raised more than £110 million. 
So far 89 companies, spread throughout the UK and 
diversified across sectors, have been backed in the first 
two funds (UKEF 1 & 2). Around 70% of investment is in 
companies based outside of London and the South East. 
UKEF is proud to support female founders and their 
businesses with c.15% of investment from the portfolio 
and BGF going towards female-led companies, alongside 
providing additional support including investment-ready 
workshops run by BGF and NatWest Group.

46

2024 priorities

In 2024, we are continuing to focus on delivering what 
matters most to our customers while driving profitable 
growth and long-term efficiencies for the business segment. 
We will sharpen our focus on core clients, supporting them 
with their banking, lending and wealth management needs. 
We are taking actions to ensure that we meet the evolving 
client needs and more competitive market, and are creating 
a platform to meet this in an effective and efficient way.

With the rise of Generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen AI) 
in 2023, we have been exploring options to embed Gen AI 
into our internal ways of working to improve the efficiency 
of our colleagues. The focus of development is to use Gen AI 
as a tool to help our colleagues and teams strengthen our 
approach to client interactions and service delivery, centring 
around developing lasting and positive relationships

Stepping into the growing 
market of workplace 
pensions through Cushon
In June 2023, we completed the acquisition of 
workplace savings and pensions fintech Cushon. 
Leveraging Cushon’s proposition enables NatWest 
Group to offer a suite of financial wellbeing 
services to its customers and their employees.

With £2.3 billion in assets under administration as 
at the end of 2023, Cushon was the fifth-largest 
Master Trust (a pooled investment vehicle that 
combines the management of funds contributed 
from multiple sources) by number of employees 
in the UK for the second half of 2023. Its primary 
products are its workplace ISA and master trust 
pension. Following a successful pilot in 2022, its 
proposition is currently available to NatWest 
Group’s commercial mid-market customers in 
certain regions, with broader roll out planned 
in the first half of 2024.

‘Our mission is to offer UK savers a convenient 
way to save,’ explains Ben Pollard, CEO and 
co-founder of Cushon. ‘As a result, we hope to 
end the status quo of too many people being 
excluded from life-long savings.’

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsBusiness performance continued

Commercial & 
Institutional

Commercial & Institutional provides 
specialist banking services and expert 
advice to a broad range of businesses, 
from supporting start-ups at launch to 
partnering with large companies and 
global institutions. We help our Commercial 
& Institutional customers achieve their 
financial goals and manage their risks, 
while navigating change, by providing 
financing, transaction banking, trading 
and risk management services.

2023 focus and highlights

Commercial & Institutional proactively supported customers’ 
needs across the full range of our services, connecting them 
to the knowledge, solutions and products critical for success 
in the sectors, regions and markets they operate in. The 
benefits of bringing the franchise closer together were 
seen through deepened relationships with our customers.

We maintained our position as the UK bank of choice for 
SMEs, banking 1 in 5 of every small business in the UK. 
We remained the biggest high-street bank for start-ups, 
growing our market share from 10% two years ago to 
19% in 2023(1). For these smaller business owners, we 
introduced several initiatives to support them as they 
faced a challenging economic environment: providing 
free everyday business banking to new start-ups opening 
a bank account for the first time, cash-back on business 
credit cards and making payments easier, faster and 
cheaper for small businesses. Over 1,300 businesses 
went through our Accelerator programme in 2023 
across our 13 regional and digital hubs, accessing 
advice, coaching, training schemes and peer support.

We also supported, in conjunction with key partners, over 
300,000 businesses with interventions such as learning and 

development events, including providing over 4,400 financial 
health checks for businesses. We aim to be a simpler bank 
to deal with and during 2023 continued to invest in digital, 
data and technology capabilities to better connect 
customers to the products and services they need.

Over 80% of our business banking customers now primarily 
use digital channels to interact with us, up from 63% at the 
beginning of 2023. Meanwhile, our payments platform Tyl 
continued to scale, doubling to over 30,000 merchants, in 
2023. We were one of the first banks to offer Apple and 
Android Tap to Pay, a low-cost service removing the 
need for any hardware to accept payments. We have 
also incorporated Generative Artificial Intelligence into our 
webchat channel to provide better service to our business 
customers. We continued to improve our digital and product 
offering for small business owners, supported by the 
popularity of Mettle, our free digital-only business account.

Our extensive network of relationship managers remained 
critical to our success, and during 2023 they continued to 
help our commercial and corporate customers to grow 
stronger, manage costs, find the right funding solutions 
and reduce risk in volatile markets, including internationally. 
At the Euromoney Foreign Exchange Awards 2023, we 
were recognised as the ‘Best FX Bank for Corporates’ 
and named the ‘Best Sterling Lead Manager’ at the 
Global Capital Covered Bond Awards 2023.

We continue to support our customers with their transition 
towards a net-zero economy, providing digital tools to help 
customers measure and reduce their carbon footprint, with 
a large number of customers using these tools during 2023. 
Through Lombard, the No.1 UK provider for asset finance, 
we continued to support customers with financing for 
electric vehicles, renewables and cleaner energy 
alternatives(2). In June 2023 we were proud to be the sole 
arranger on Ørsted’s €100 million privately placed Blue 
Bond issuance, with proceeds going towards financing 
initiatives that target offshore biodiversity and sustainable 
shipping and in October 2023 we provided our first Green 
labelled facility to a Funds customer, a GBP and EUR Green 
use of proceeds facility to a UK clean energy fund.

We maintained our position as a leading green, social, 
sustainability debt (GSS) bookrunner in our chosen markets 
and geographies, ranking #1 lead manager for Global GBP 

(1)  Based on the % of 647 businesses, less than two years old, that name a NatWest Group brand as their main bank (19%). Source: MarketVue Business Banking from Savanta, 

YE Q4 2023. Data weighted by region and turnover to be representative of businesses in Great Britain.

(2)  Based on net leasing data (£m) as at 31 December 2022.
(3)  At 31 December 2023, NatWest Markets ranked first by deal value among bookrunners for supporting UK issuers for green, social and sustainability (GSS) debt issuance. 

Source: Dealogic, 31 December 2023 â•ﬁ excludes money market and short-term debt.

47

issuance, #1 for UK Financial Institutions and #4 Western 
European Corporates (including Nordics)(3).

2024 priorities

In 2024 we will contribute to NatWest Group plans for 
disciplined growth and supporting a long-term stable return 
on equity. To achieve this, we will invest in our platforms to 
improve the customer experience, implement a more agile 
deposit strategy and free up colleague capacity to spend 
more time with our customers and deepen relationships. 
We will support growth by providing our corporate 
customers with access to international markets and 
expertise in structured finance, payments, trade finance 
and risk solutions. We will continue to maintain a disciplined 
approach to management of our balance sheet and 
optimise our capital utilisation to create capacity to 
support more of our customer needs.

The UK launch of Tap to Pay 
on iPhone
In July 2023, Tyl by NatWest supported Apple’s 
UK launch of Tap to Pay on iPhone. Tap to 
Pay lets businesses seamlessly and securely 
accept contactless payments using iPhone 
and NatWest’s supporting app – without the 
need for extra hardware or card readers.

By bringing together the agility of our fintech 
payments business and Apple’s technology, 
we were one of the first UK banks to launch the 
Tap to Pay service on iPhone. This followed our 
successful pilot of Tap to Pay on Android in May 
2023 and marks an important milestone in our 
payment ambition.

When businesses join Tyl by NatWest, they can 
benefit from our all-in-one NatWest Tap to Pay 
app on both iPhone and Android. Through the 
app, they can take contactless payments and 
monitor sales and transactions day to day. 
Businesses can also use insights and support 
available in Tyl’s customer portal to track 
sales trends, payments and invoices, and 
set up marketing and loyalty programmes 
to drive further business.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts48

NatWest Group’s climate strategy

We champion potential. Helping people, families and businesses to thrive.

Our climate ambition is to be a leading bank in the UK, helping address the climate challenge.

We have an ambition to be net zero by 2050 across our financed emissions, assets under management (AUM) and our operational value chain.

Our 2030 climate ambitions

1

We have an ambition to at least halve the climate 
impact of our financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 
baseline, and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement.

2

We plan to reduce carbon intensity of our Managed 
Assets by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and to 
move 70% of Managed Assets to a net-zero trajectory.(1)

3

We plan to reduce emissions for our operational 
value chain by 50%, against a 2019 baseline.(2)

How we are helping to address the climate challenge

Supporting customer transition to net zero

We have a target to provide £100 billion climate and sustainable 
funding and financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. 
As part of this, we aim to provide at least £10 billion in lending for 
EPC A and B rated residential properties between 1 January 2023 
and the end of 2025.

We have an ambition to support our UK mortgage customers to 
increase their residential energy efficiency and incentivise purchasing 
of the most energy efficient homes, with an ambition that 50% of 
our mortgage portfolio has an EPC rating of C or above by 2030.

Helping to end the most harmful activities

We plan to phase out of coal for UK and non-UK customers who have UK coal production, coal fired generation and coal related 
infrastructure by 1 October 2024, with a full global phase-out by 1 January 2030.(3)

Powerful partnerships and collaborations

We plan to collaborate cross industry and create products and services to enable customers to track their transition to net zero.

Getting our own house in order

Each year, we plan 
to include targets for 
executive remuneration 
that reflect our latest 
climate ambitions.

We continue to 
integrate the financial and 
non-financial risks arising 
from climate change 
into our EWRMF(4) in 
accordance with our 
multi-year climate risk 
maturity approach.

We have a target to 
reduce our direct own 
operations emissions by 
50% by 2025, against a 
2019 baseline.(5)

We plan to use only 
renewable electricity in 
our direct own global 
operations by 2025 
(RE100) and improve our 
energy productivity 40% 
by 2025 against a 2015 
baseline (EP100).

We plan to install 
electric vehicle charging 
infrastructure in 15% of 
spaces across our UK 
portfolio by 2030 and 
upgrade our fleet of 
around 100 vehicles to 
electric by 2025 (EV100).

NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its climate ambitions and targets entails significant risks and will significantly depend on many factors and uncertainties beyond 
NatWest Group’s control. The most important of these uncertainties and factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-
looking statements are summarised in the Risk factors included on pages 417 to 441 (with special regard to the risk factors in relation to climate and sustainability-related risks that describe 
several particular uncertainties, climate and sustainability-related risks to which NatWest Group is exposed and which may be amended from time to time). For more information, refer to 
section 7 of the 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report (Cautionary statements).

(1)  Our net zero by 2050 AUM ambition encompasses total AUM, including Managed Assets, Bespoke and Advisory, refer to page 76 of the 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report for details. We consider Managed Assets (those assets we invest on our customers’ 

behalf, which represented 84% of AUM as at 31 December 2023) to be in-scope for our interim 2030 portfolio alignment target and weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) ambition. For details, refer to pages 38 to 39 of the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative’s 
Initial Target Disclosure Report (May 2022) https://www.netzeroassetmanagers.org/media/2022/05/NZAM-Initial-Target-Disclosure-Report-May-2022-1.pdf.

(2)  Our operational value chain captures greenhouse gas emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (Categories 1-14, excluding Categories 8, 10, 14). Scope 3 category 15 (financed emissions) is discussed in section 5.2 and 5.3 of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
(3)  Data challenges, particularly the lack of granular customer information, create challenges in identifying customers with coal-related infrastructure (e.g. transportation and storage) and other customers with coal-related operations within NatWest Group’s large 

and diversified customer portfolios.

(4)  Enterprise-wide risk management framework.
(5)  Direct own operations is defined as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, commuting and work from home) emissions. It therefore excludes upstream and downstream emissions from our value chain.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsClimate progress highlights

In 2023, we continued to implement and refine our Climate transition plan. We focused on delivery of our 
2030 decarbonisation ambitions by supporting customer transition to net zero, helping to end the most 
harmful activities, building powerful partnerships and collaborations, and getting our own house in order. 
These initiatives provided us with a greater understanding of the dependencies NatWest Group and our 
customers have on timely and appropriate government policy and technological developments that will 
support customer transition.

£61.9bn(*)

cumulative contribution 
towards £100 billion climate 
and sustainable funding 
and financing target(1)

2023: £29.3bn(*)

2022: £24.5bn

1 Jul – 31 Dec 2021: £8.1bn

Four out of 
nine

sectors are aligned 
to decarbonisation 
convergence pathway(2)

90%

of our loans and 
investment(3) exposure as at 
31 December 2022 analysed 
for Scope 3 financed 
emissions measurement

£0.4bn(*)

exposure to oil and gas 
major customers(4)
2022: £0.9bn

£0.3bn(*)

exposure to in-scope coal 
customers(4)
2022: £0.3bn

49%

of Managed Assets were 
considered portfolio aligned 
to a net-zero pathway as 
at 31 December 2023(5) 
against our ambition of 
70% by 2030

54%

reduction in Scope 1 and 
location-based Scope 2 
emissions(6)

26%

reduction in Scope 3 
operational value chain 
emissions(6)

(1)  Between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
(2)  Based on 2022 emissions, reflecting sectors included in our Climate transition plan. Refer to section 2.3 of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures 

Report for further details.

(3)  Loans and investments relate to on-balance sheet gross lending and investment exposure, accounted at amortised cost (including finance leases) 

and FVOCI.

(4)  Our Credible Transition Plan (CTP) assessment undertaken in 2021, which is monitored annually, employed a top-down approach to identification 
of existing coal-related customers, utilising the expertise of our frontline teams. However, we recognise that this was a point-in-time assessment. 
During 2024, we are working to review our ESE policies. We have also set up a working group within the Commercial & Institutional business 
segment to support development of guiding principles for assessment of thermal and lignite coal embedded within activities like transportation, 
storage, supply chain and value add services, additionally ensuring due consideration is given to external factors such as energy security.

(5)  We consider Managed Assets (those assets we invest on our customers’ behalf, which represented 84% of AUM as at 31 December 2023) to be 

in scope for our interim 2030 portfolio alignment target and weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) ambition.

(6)  Against a 2019 baseline. Scope 3 emissions relate to our operational value chain, see pages 58-59 for further detail. Scope 3, category 15 

financed emissions is covered in our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

(*)  Within scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

49

Risks related to our climate ambitions
We have an ambition to be net zero across our financed emissions, 
assets under management and our operational value chain by 2050, 
aligned with the UK’s legal commitment to be net zero by 2050. 
We continue to engage with and support our customers’ transition 
to a net-zero economy and monitor further developments, including 
progress on supplier and fund decarbonisation. Refer to section 2 
of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report for our Climate 
transition plan, which also includes details of our external 
dependencies. Our climate ambitions are unlikely to be achieved 
without timely and appropriate government policy, and technology 
developments, as well as supplier, customer and societal response.

We expect to achieve our Scope 1 and 2 own operations ambitions 
and targets. With regards to our 2030 Scope 3 financed emissions 
ambitions, while UK Government policies are expected to provide 
incentives for customer transition and technology development, 
delays to a range of net-zero related UK Government policies 
indicate the pace of implementation is slower than required for 
the net-zero transition as outlined in the UK Climate Change 
Committee’s (UK CCC) sixth carbon budget, issued in 2020. The 
UK CCC ‘Progress in reducing emissions’ 2023 report to Parliament, 
issued in June 2023 (UK CCC June 2023 Progress report) states 
that the rate of emissions reduction will need to significantly increase 
for the UK to meet its 2030 commitments, and continued delays 
in policy development and implementation mean achievement is 
increasingly challenging. Accordingly, we consider achievement 
of the following ambitions increasingly challenging:

i.  50% of our mortgage portfolio of EPC rating of C or above 

by 2030; and

ii. halving the climate impact of our financing activity by 2030, 

against a 2019 baseline.

We will continue to review our climate ambitions and targets as the 
external environment develops.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts50

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
overview

NatWest Group committed to support the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations in 2017 and has published climate-related disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations since February 2022. 
The latest assessment of consistency with the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures is included on this page, supported 
by summary disclosure on pages 51 to 57, and in our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

Natwest Group’s governance around climate-related risks  
and opportunities.
 – The Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
 – Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks 

and opportunities.

Governance

Refer to page 51.

The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on NatWest Group’s business, strategy and financial planning.
 – Climate-related risks and opportunities identified over the short, medium 

Strategy

and long-term.

 – The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on our businesses, 

strategy and financial planning.

Refer to pages 52-53.

climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

 – The resilience of our strategy, taking into consideration different  

Risk  
Management

Refer to pages 54-55.

Metrics  
and Targets

How the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages  
climate-related risks.
 – Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
 – Processes for managing climate-related risks.
 – How our processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related 

risks are integrated into overall risk management.

The metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant  
climate-related risks and opportunities.
 – The metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line 

with our strategy and risk management process.

 – Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the 

related risks.

 – The targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 

Refer to pages 56-57.

performance against targets.

NatWest Group confirms that it has:
 – made climate-related financial disclosures for the year ended 

December 31, 2023 that it believes are consistent with the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations and 
Recommended Disclosures (as defined in the FCA’s Listing Rules, 
as amended by the Disclosure of Climate-Related Financial Information 
(No. 2) Instrument 2021) which include:

(i)  Final Report – Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-

related Financial Disclosures (June 2017) (focusing in particular on 
the four recommendations and the eleven recommended disclosures 
set out in Figure 4 of Section C of the TCFD Final Report);
(ii)  Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on  

Climate-related Financial Disclosures (October 2021 version);
(iii)  Technical Supplement – The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure 

of Climate-related Risks and Opportunities (June 2017);
(iv)  Guidance on Risk Management Integration and Disclosure 

(October 2020); and

(v)  Guidance on Metrics, Targets and Transition Plans (October 2021 

version); and summarised on pages 51 to 57;

 – we have set out these disclosures in this report and in its “2023 

NatWest Group Climate-related Disclosures Report”, both published on 
16 February 2024 (and available on natwestgroup.com); and

 – we have adopted this approach given the detailed and technical content 

of the climate-related financial disclosures as it believes these 
presentations best present its climate-related financial disclosures in a 
decision-useful manner to the users of these reports.

Disclosures addressing our regulatory obligation to report 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions pursuant to the Companies 
(Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy 
and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 which implement the 
government’s policy on Streamlined Energy and Carbon 
Reporting (SECR) has been included on pages 58 and 59.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsTCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

Governance

NatWest Group’s governance around  
climate-related risks and opportunities

Board and senior management oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities is supported by embedding 
climate within our established governance structure and operating rhythm.

51

The Board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities

Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related  
risks and opportunities

The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of the 
NatWest Group, sets strategic aims, and monitors and oversees progress against our 
climate ambitions. During 2023, the Board considered climate-related matters at five of 
eight scheduled meetings. The Group CEO updated the Board on climate-related risks 
and opportunities impacting NatWest Group, our customers, and key stakeholders.

Climate accountabilities for identifying and managing the financial and non-financial risks 
of climate change at management-level continue to be held jointly by the Group CEO 
and Group CRO. Executive-level committees and cross-bank working groups assist the 
Group CEO and CRO to discharge their responsibilities and support collaboration across 
the organisation.

In February 2023, the Board approved the 2022 Climate-related Disclosures Report, 
including the initial iteration of NatWest Group’s Climate transition plan. In February 
2023, the Board also approved the Executive Director bonus scorecard, including 
performance against climate targets. Subsequent climate-related updates were 
made to the Board in July, September, October and December 2023. These included a 
discussion of the key climate-related opportunities and challenges, as well as a spotlight 
on supporting customers’ transitions and broadening the sustainability opportunity.

In advance of every Board meeting, a Board business insights pack was provided, 
which includes a snapshot of NatWest Group’s progress against our climate ambitions. 
The Board also received regular updates through the Group CEO report, risk management 
report and business updates. Committee chairs provided the Board with an overview of 
relevant discussions of climate-related matters at committee meetings.

Looking ahead
The Board and Executive Committees will maintain oversight of climate progress and 
ongoing climate-related risks and opportunities impacting NatWest Group. In February 
2024, the Board reviewed progress and challenges against the initial Climate transition 
plan, and approved disclosure on NatWest Group’s Climate transition plan included in 
our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

For details of our Board skills and experience in relation to Environmental, Social 
and Governance (including climate), refer to page 90.

Under our integrated governance structure, business areas ensure that climate 
considerations are built into decision-making. Accountable executives are empowered 
to make decisions within their areas of accountability and responsibility. There are clear 
escalation and reporting routes in place to executive-level committees and cross-bank 
working groups, which assist in discharging responsibilities and supporting collaboration 
across the organisation.

During 2023, the Climate Change Executive Steering Group (CCESG) continued to focus 
on overseeing strategic progress against NatWest Group’s climate ambitions as well as 
supporting executive recommendations to the Board on climate.

A key focus has been supporting the implementation of our systems thinking approach 
and identifying opportunities to support customer transition to net zero through existing 
and potential products and services such as our Home Energy Hub. CCESG also continued 
to encourage collaboration with the UK Government and non-governmental organisations 
as well as ongoing industry participation. In addition to reviewing actual 2023 expenditure 
on building climate change capability against budget, CCESG also supported the finalisation 
of the investment allocated to support customers’ transition in 2024.

Looking ahead
We will continue to focus on embedding climate in decision-making within business segments 
and functions.

For further information on our governance of climate-related matters, refer to section 4 of the 2023 
Climate-related Disclosures Report.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts52

TCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

Strategy

NatWest Group’s strategy on  
climate-related risks and opportunities

The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on NatWest Group’s  
businesses, strategy and financial planning.

Climate-related risks and 
opportunities identified over the 
short, medium and long term

Our climate ambition is to be a leading bank in 
the UK, helping to address the climate challenge. 
Our climate strategy, outlined on page 48, 
recognises various short, medium and long-term 
climate-related risks and opportunities to embed 
climate into our business and culture, as well as 
support customers in their transition to net zero.

In identifying climate-related risks and 
opportunities to NatWest Group, the period in 
which each is likely to occur has been assessed. 
Risks and opportunities deemed material to our 
five-year financial planning cycle are viewed 
as short-term. Aligned with the guidance of 
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for 
financial institutions, long-term has been defined 
as beyond 15 years, while medium-term has 
been defined as within the next 5 to 15 years.(1) 
We have considered physical, transition and 
liability risks, but have characterised climate-
related risks in the context of traditional 
banking industry risk categories. 

(1)  Our climate transition planning uses different time frames than 

those used in financial reporting. Accordingly, the references to ‘short’, 
‘medium’ and ‘long-term’ in climate reporting are not indicative of the 
meaning of similar terms used in certain of our other disclosures, 
including our annual, periodic and interim reports.

The principal risks considered most exposed 
to climate-related risk are as follows. All have 
been identified as potentially impacted over short, 
medium and long-term time horizons:
 – Credit risk: from the adverse impact on future credit 
worthiness of customers due to climate change risk 
factors impacting asset valuation, income and costs. 
Mitigants include the use of operational limits in the 
residential mortgage portfolio and the inclusion 
of climate considerations in sector strategy  
within the commercial portfolio.

 – Operational risk: due to the increased likelihood and 

potential impact of business disruption or arising from 
new and changing policy standards, mitigants include 
resilience and disclosure controls.

 – Conduct risk: due to poor customer outcomes 

arising from the impacts of climate change including 
changes to financial stability or general wellbeing, 
which will either be supported or exacerbated by 
NatWest Group’s conduct.

 – Reputational risk: due to the risk of damage to 

NatWest Group’s reputation arising from perceived 
impact on climate change or adequacy of actions 
taken in response when compared against ambitions 
and progress made by peers, mitigants include our 
Environmental, Social and Ethical (ESE) policies.
 – Regulatory compliance risk: due to the need for 
NatWest Group to ‘observe the letter and spirit’ 
of all applicable laws and regulations relating to 
climate, mitigants include the introduction of an 
Environmental, Social and Governance policy 
to give comprehensive guidance on relevant 
regulatory expectations.

Our strategic approach to climate change
Climate change is a global challenge which has implications for 
our customers, investors, partners, suppliers and colleagues. 
Our ambition to be a leading bank in the UK, helping to 
address the climate challenge recognises that we may 
contribute both directly and indirectly to the climate 
challenge, as outlined below. 

Climate- 
related risk 
factors

Climate 
opportunities

Climate  
ambition
A leading bank  
in the UK helping  
to address the  
climate challenge

Climate  
change 
impacts

Risks to 
NatWest 
Group

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsTCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

Some of the key opportunities identified include:
As we implement our Climate transition plan, we’ll continue to refine and prioritise 
our climate-related opportunities based on their relative commercial and decarbonisation 
potential to support our customers and the wider economy transition to net zero. Climate-
related opportunities are identified and prioritised on an ongoing basis at a local level and 
through our systems thinking lens at our Climate Opportunities Group, which met monthly 
since April 2023. Our systems thinking approach aims to provide additional perspectives 
on net zero that might otherwise be obscured at the sector level. For further details refer 
to page 15 and 16 of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

Key opportunities have been identified as having the potential to enable NatWest Group to 
transform its balance sheet and operations in-line with its 2030 and 2050 climate ambitions. 
The potential timing and impact of these opportunities will differ by sector, reflecting the 
dependence on policies, technology and customer behaviour change. Examples include:

 – Supporting our customers’ sustainability transition: including the provision of financing, 

development of new and enhanced green and transition products and services, in addition 
to building capability.

 – Supporting our operations to decarbonise: including increased expenditure to support 

reduction in carbon footprint in our own operations.

The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on our businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.
Through our integrated financial planning work and our Climate transition plan, we have 
identified financial opportunities and investment required to support our net-zero ambitions 
that will be refreshed annually as part of the annual financial planning cycle. Financial 
opportunities from climate-related activities have been identified on a sector-by-sector 
basis through the Climate transition plan, principal among these being our target to provide 
£100 billion of climate and sustainable funding and financing between 1 July 2021 and the 
end of 2025. We also continued to align our financial planning process with the climate 
transition planning process, adding climate policy and technology-related transition 
assumptions into the base case macroeconomic scenario used for financial planning and 
assessment of Expected Credit Loss (ECL) in the IFRS 9 reporting period. This resulted in 
an increase in ECL of £6 million as at December 2023.

In addition to reviewing actual 2023 expenditure against budget, CCESG also supported the 
finalisation of investment allocated to support our customers’ transition. This includes 
c.£20 million to support the ongoing development of climate-related opportunities and 
mitigation of climate-related risks during 2024. This central amount is in addition to climate 
related activities that have been operationalised within existing teams. We expect that the 
centralised spending will reduce over time, as we further embed climate in our processes and 
decision-making.

Looking ahead
We will continue to build scenario analysis capabilities to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities over the short, medium and long-term.

For further details of our climate strategy and transition plan, refer to section 2 of our 2023 
Climate-related Disclosures Report.

53

The resilience of our strategy, taking into consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
To assess the ongoing resilience of our strategy, an extensive programme of climate scenario 
analysis, covering our full credit book, has been in place since 2021. In 2023, we conducted a 
range of climate scenario analysis exercises to test the resilience of our strategy to the impacts 
of climate change, including risk management and capital adequacy use-cases. To ensure an 
holistic assessment of financial and non-financial risks, we have also considered scenarios in 
relation to conduct risk, operational risk, pension risk, liquidity risk and market risk. One of the 
key lessons from NatWest Group’s extensive assessment of climate risk using scenario 
analysis from 2021 to date is that, while climate-related risks could potentially amplify other 
risk drivers, for example resulting in effects such as the erosion of competitiveness, 
profitability, or reputational damage, overall NatWest Group continues to be resilient to these 
risks, within the context of the scenarios tested.

Our 2023 climate scenario analysis programme assessed climate-related risks and 
opportunities across short (< 5 years) and medium term (5 to 10 years) horizons to support the 
embedding of climate-related analytics in decision-making and the management of climate-
related risks. To support this, we enhanced our suite of climate risk models, developing 
additional in-house modelling capabilities and enhanced sector and counterparty level 
modelling, which further integrates climate insights into existing risk management processes.

This included continued integration of climate into our internal capital adequacy assessment 
process (ICAAP) using an internally developed Network for Greening the Financial System 
(NGFS)(1) based Disruptive Policy scenario and into ECL measurement frameworks using an 
internally developed scenario based on UK Climate Change Committee scenario to ensure 
we are adequately capitalised by measuring potential losses and testing our resilience against 
expected and unexpected losses.

Another priority area of focus was an end-to-end test of our in-house Corporate Transition 
Risk Model which has undergone development since the CBES exercise, using an internally 
developed NGFS based Disruptive Policy scenario and Inevitable Policy Response scenario. 
This internal scenario analysis exercise informed our heightened climate-related risk sector 
assessment methodology and supported the independent validation of our suite of climate 
risk models.

Looking ahead
We will continue to deepen our climate risk modelling, build additional internal capabilities, and 
further embed climate scenario analysis into portfolio and customer decisioning. To do this, we 
are progressing in several areas, including exploring enhanced UK-specific climate risk 
scenarios grounded in potential real-world changes in UK climate policy. We also intend to 
develop and test our in-house climate risk model for residential and commercial properties 
including an event-based physical risk scenario exercise. We will continue to respond to 
regulatory expectations and prepare for future climate scenario analysis exercises.

For further information on the resilience of our strategy refer to section 3.2 of the 2023 Climate-
related Disclosures Report.

(1)  There is increasing concern acknowledged by the NGFS consisting of 114 central banks, that model scenarios, including those provided by central banks and supervisory bodies and, therefore, used by NatWest Group are too benign and may not adequately capture: 
(i) the financial implications of increasing frequency and severity of acute physical risks as global temperatures increase; (ii) second and third order impacts such as disruptions to supply chains and increased geo-political risks; nor (iii) possible ‘tipping points’ that could 
lead to large, irreversible changes in the climate system (for example the melting of permafrost or the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsTCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

How NatWest Group identifies, assesses and  
manages climate-related risks

Risk  
Management

How we identify, assess and manage climate-related risk continues to evolve. In this section we provide  
an overview of our progress in 2023 and priorities for the future. 

54

Our processes for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risks

We introduced an annual assessment of the relative significance of climate-related risk factors 
to other principal risks in 2020 and we reviewed this during 2023. The assessment continues 
to use the judgement of risk subject matter experts combined with scenario analysis, increased 
granularity of climate data, as well as improved understanding of evolving regulatory guidance, 
to understand the current and potential impact of physical and transition climate-related risk as 
a causal factor to other principal risks. During 2023, NatWest Group has also begun exploring 
approaches which can be used to assess the potential materiality of nature-related risks.

We continue to identify and assess climate-related risks at NatWest Group and subsidiary 
level in three ways:

 – Scenario analysis: We undertake scenario analysis to understand the potential impacts of 

climate-related risks.

 – Portfolio level assessment: Our heightened climate-related risk sector assessment seeks to 
identify sectors that are likely to see increased credit risks for NatWest Group because of 
climate-related factors, over a 10- to 15-year horizon.

 – Transaction level assessment: We completed a review and recalibration exercise to 

enhance the quality of the insights generated by NatWest Group’s climate risk scorecards. 
Through this process we continue to build capability among first- and second-line risk 
colleagues, and a culture where consideration of climate risk is part of the credit journey. 
In parallel with the full roll-out of our initial suite of climate risk scorecards for the Commercial 
& Institutional business segment, in 2023 NatWest Group began development of enhanced 
climate risk scorecards. This involved the expansion of the scorecard methodology to 
capture quantitative considerations. We plan to roll out our latest scorecards in 2024  
on a test-and-learn basis.

We also regularly consider the potential impact of existing and emerging regulatory 
requirements related to climate change at NatWest Group and subsidiary level through 
external horizon scanning and monitoring of emerging regulatory requirements.

Looking ahead
We will continue the scaled implementation of scorecards within credit assessment processes 
and progress our embedding of nature-related risk into risk management frameworks.

Our processes for managing climate-related risks

The effective management of climate risk requires the full integration of climate-related 
risk factors into strategic planning, transactions and decision-making. Our approach has 
evolved since 2021 alongside our ongoing, iterative multi-year apporach to mature 
climate risk management capabilities.

We manage climate-related risk in the wholesale portfolio, through:

1. Top-down portfolio check and shaping, including incorporating climate factors in 

our overall sector strategy, updating our ESE risk acceptance criteria in response 
to potential climate-related risks and applying climate-enhanced Transaction 
Acceptance Standards (TAS), and;

2. Bottom-up transaction assessments, including ensuring enhanced oversight for our 
largest lending climate transactions and use of qualitiative climate risk scorecards to 
provide a consistent and structured approach for understanding customer-specific 
exposure to climate-related risks.

During 2023 Commercial & Institutional continued to enhance pricing frameworks to 
embed climate considerations. These enable us to support businesses to help address 
the climate challenge and to reshape the Commercial & Institutional business segment 
towards more sustainable, transition- aligned transactions.

In the residential mortgage portfolio, we applied lending limits based on climate 
characteristics, including: (i) exposure to EPC A and B rated properties, (ii) Buy-to-let 
properties with potential EPC between D and G and (iii) flats, new builds and buy to let 
properties at high or very high risk of flood. Additionally, our credit policies do not allow 
buy-to-let mortgages to properties with an EPC rating between F and G. Limits are 
continually reviewed to reflect new flood risk data, risk profile and market conditions.

Looking ahead
During 2023 we started to develop customer engagement tools within Commercial 
& Institutional, to further embed climate within customer journeys to continually 
enhance decision-making. These tools have been designed to complement and build 
on established climate engagement touchpoints with customers through TAS and our 
qualitative climate scorecards. Given the scale of implementation, we intend to launch 
on a phased basis from early 2024. Ongoing enhancements to NatWest Group’s 
processes for managing climate-related risk will continue to evolve and improve  
as the organisation matures its climate risk management capabilities.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts55

TCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

How our processes for identifying, assessing,  
and managing climate-related risks are integrated into  
overall risk management

Climate risk has been included in the NatWest Group risk directory since 2021 alongside an 
ongoing, iterative multi-year approach to mature capabilities.

In 2021 NatWest Group achieved first-generation implementation of climate risk maturity 
through application of predominantly qualitative approaches, concentrated within priority 
sectors or customers. In 2022, these capabilities were enhanced with increased data 
availability and increased utilisation of quantitative analysis to inform customer 
segmentation and areas of focus.

In 2023, key outcomes included:

 – conclusion of 2023 internal climate scenario analysis exercise, demonstrating enhanced 

scenario analysis capabilities;

 – regular quantitative reporting on climate risk appetite within senior risk committees;
 – development and implemention of pricing adjustments within wholesale lending;
 – development of additional measures to enhance climate risk monitoring, including 

introducing new operational limits within Commercial & Institutional; and

 – updates to retail credit limits, including review following newly sourced physical risk data.

In 2023, NatWest Group’s climate risk appetite was reported and reviewed in line with 
its Risk Appetite Framework. Quantitative risk appetite measures are focused on excess 
exposures to heightened climate-related risk sectors, along with exposures which significantly 
deviate from transition trajectory. The qualitative appetite statement has also been enhanced 
to recognise nature-related risk.

NatWest Group uses its EWRMF to identify the principal risks which could impact the 
organisation. As our climate capabilities mature, climate-related risks are planned to be 
effectively managed through existing policies and these policies are captured within the 
EWRMF. The EWRMF sets out the requirements on how risk appetite is implemented 
through risk policies and standards and translated into operational procedures. The impact 
of climate-related risk as a causal factor to other principal risks will be reassessed and 
managed through the annual refresh of the EWRMF and its individual components.

In addition, during 2023, strategic customer engagement tools have been developed which, 
when fully operational, are expected to provide enhanced capabilities and will support 
effective management of potential risks. These include a dedicated Climate Decisioning 
Framework for wholesale lending, which will be rolled out on a test-and-learn basis in early 
2024. Separately, and in recognition of the link between climate risk and nature degradation, 
NatWest Group added nature risk to its climate risk considerations within the risk directory 
for implementation from 1 January 2024.

For further details on climate risk refer to page 277 and 278, and section 3 of the 2023 Climate-related 
Disclosures Report.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsTCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

The metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities

Metrics and 
Targets

56

The metrics used to assess climate-related risks 
and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk 
management process

We use a range of metrics to measure opportunities and risks and progress against our 
climate ambitions, including:

 – Provision of climate and sustainable funding and financing(1): since the £100 billion target 
came into effect in July 2021 NatWest Group has provided £61.9 billion(*) of climate and 
sustainable funding and financing (£29.3 billion(*) during 2023)(2). An annual breakdown of 
our progress since 2021 can be found on page 21.

 – NatWest Group’s own operational footprint, as outlined on pages 58 and 59 of 
this report and section 2.7 of the 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
 – Estimates of financed emissions, as outlined in sections 2.3, 2.4, 5.2 and 5.3 
of the 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report. We used a combination of 
methodologies, some of which are still under development, to estimate absolute 
emissions and emissions intensities. In addition, these estimates are premised on use 
of the assumptions, extrapolations or aggregation at subsector levels due to data 
limitations, including lack of published emissions data and granularity of customer 
information. As a result, we expect our estimates of emissions and emissions 
intensities to change as we improve the granularity and coverage of customer 
climate data and develop our methodologies further.

 – Exposure to heightened climate-related risk sectors is based on loans, loan commitments 

 – Estimates of facilitated emissions from corporate underwriting relate to capital 

and contingent obligations. Total wholesale heightened climate-related risk exposure 
increased by £14.5 billion since 31 December 2022, due to the inclusion of three additional 
sectors resulting from an updated methodology. There has also been portfolio growth 
in terms of renewables projects within electricity generation.

 – Energy efficiency of the UK residential mortgage portfolio: as at 31 December 2023, 

£140.8 billion, 67.6%, of the total residential mortgages portfolio had Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC) data available (31 December 2022 – £138.8 billion, 68.3%), of which, 
44.1%(*) were rated as EPC A to C (31 December 2022 – 41.6%).

 – Flood risk of the UK residential mortgage portfolio(3): On a total volume basis, present day 

UK mortgages at high risk of flooding are 3.5%(*) of the assessed portfolio and those at very 
high risk are 1.3%(*) of the portfolio. This is slightly lower than the overall UK volume-based 
analysis with high of 4.0% and very high of 2.2%. This analysis covers 98.3% of NatWest 
Group’s UK residential mortgage portfolio.

markets corporate bond underwriting activities, which equates to 21% of NatWest 
Market’s total underwriting(4).

These metrics are reported to the Board periodically within the NatWest Group Board 
business insights pack.

Looking ahead
We will continue to develop metrics and measurement capabilities to monitor 
and manage climate-related risks and opportunities. We will also continue to monitor 
evolving carbon measurement standards and enhance capabilities including ongoing 
engagement with the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to develop 
measurement, monitoring and reporting capabilities for asset management.

(1)  For the year ended 31 December 2023, the NatWest Group CSFFI criteria published in December 2022 has been used to determine the assets, activities and companies that are eligible to be counted. For the year ended 31 December 2022, our CSFFI criteria 

published in October 2021 was applied. For the year ended 31 December 2021, the CSFFI criteria published in February 2021 was applied. Lending to personal customers for properties with EPC A and B ratings was included within climate and sustainable funding 
and financing reporting from 1 July 2021.

(2)  The £61.9 billion cumulative climate and sustainable funding and financing total consists of £34.7 billion in lending and £27.2 billion in underwriting transactions.
(3)  Flood risk data is obtained through our third-party vendor, RHDHV, and their flood risk analysis provides a measure of the likelihood and severity of a flood hazard affecting each individual property. This property-specific rating process analyses all layers within the 
United Kingdom FloodMap product via a weighted algorithm which looks at the predicted severity and the frequency of flooding from multiple sources. RHDHV flood score model as at 31 October 2023 and NatWest Group residential mortgage portfolio data as at 
31 December 2023.

(4)  Where NatWest Group is a facilitator (active or passive) as defined by the PCAF published standard.
(*)  Within scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsTCFD: Climate-related disclosures overview continued

The metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities, where such information 
is material

57

We also intend to progress with continued enhancements to 
the availability of data and data quality to support future 
calculations of financed emissions, including absolute 
emissions and emissions intensities.

The targets used to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets

Our ambition to be net zero by 2050 across our financed 
emissions, assets under management and operational value 
chain is supported by our 2030 ambitions, refer to page 48.

In 2022 we published 2030 sector-level targets validated by 
the SBTi as science-based. These targets included our own 
operational emissions as well as 79% of our 2019 lending 
book and 57% of debt securities and equity shares, 
excluding sovereign debt securities. SBTi targets have been 
set based on a number of methodologies, external 
scenarios, pathways and assumptions that vary by sector.

Since 2020, we have included a climate goal and related 
measures in our Executive Director performance goals. 
Climate progress is an integral part of the annual bonus 
scorecard introduced under our Executive Director 
Remuneration Policy.

For 2023, 10% of potential annual bonus was based 
on performance against the following climate ambitions:

 – Implementation of the initial Climate transition plan, 

with four sectors on target and one of the two AUM 
and retrofit milestones achieved. Achieved in 2023.
 – Climate and sustainable funding and financing with 
a target of £25.3 billion in 2023. Achieved in 2023.

NatWest Group will continue to monitor its performance 
against its climate-related targets and ambitions and 
revise as appropriate.

For further details on our metrics, targets and progress, refer to 
our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

For further details of integration of climate considerations into 
remuneration, refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 

Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
and the related risks

During 2023, we focused on activities with the potential 
to contribute towards our ambition to reduce emissions 
from our direct own operations by 50% by 2025, against a 
2019 baseline, as well as making progress against our SBTi 
validated 2030 targets. As a result, we achieved a 54% 
reduction against a 2019 baseline in our Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 location-based emissions. We will continue to 
pursue further decarbonisation towards our 2050  
net-zero ambition to reference the continued direction 
of travel and build on our Climate transition plan.

We have continued to enhance our measurement 
capabilities and scope of Scope 3 financed emissions 
models. Our work was guided by the availability of 
methodologies for estimating financed emissions, most 
notably from the SBTi and PCAF – refer to the 2023 
Sustainability Basis of Reporting for methodologies used. In 
addition to sector-level lending models, where measurement 
standards are more developed, we estimated emissions 
for the remaining lending and investment exposures at 
a total level.

As a result, we have now analysed 90%(1) of our loans 
and investment exposure at 31 December 2022  
(74% at 31 December 2019).

For related risks and limitations refer to page 56 of this 
report and section 2.7, 5.3, 5.4 and section 7 of our 
2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

Looking ahead
Our measurement work to date has reinforced our 
understanding of the challenges involved in financed 
emissions estimation as well as the urgency and the scale 
of transition required to align our financing activities to the 
2015 Paris Agreement and achieve net zero by 2050.

We intend to continue our work to enhance our 
measurement capabilities and, over time, we expect climate 
data granularity to improve as we move towards utilising 
actual customer climate data.

(1)  The PCAF standard does not currently outline an estimation approach for short term assets (such as nostro and repurchase agreements), quasi sovereign assets (e.g. local authorities) and consumer lending other than mortgages and motor vehicle loans. As such 

these products are currently excluded from our financed emissions estimation. Loans and investments relate to on-balance sheet gross exposure, accounted for at amortised cost (including finance leases) and FVOCI.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts58

Our own operational footprint 

During 2023, we focused on activities with the potential to contribute towards our ambition to reduce our direct(1) own operations by 50% by 2025, against a 2019 baseline, as well 
as making progress against our SBTi validated 2030 targets and our ambition to be net zero for our operational value chain(2,3). As a result, we achieved a 54% reduction against a 
2019 baseline in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 location-based emissions and a 26% reduction in Scope 3 operational value chain emissions(2). As we implement and refine our Climate 
transition plan we will continue to pursue further decarbonisation opportunities, invest beyond the value chain(4) and work towards our 2050 net-zero ambition. All activity 
continues to be supported by a focus on continuous data improvement.

2023 progress
 – Our direct(1) own operations emissions have now reduced 
by 47% against a 2019 baseline, supporting delivery of 
our 2025 and 2030 ambitions. We also continued to 
disclose our full operational value chain emissions.

 – We opened our new office in Spinningfields, Manchester, 

which has been awarded the RICS SKA gold accreditation, 
achieving the highest level of sustainable fit-out using the 
rating method, with an EPC rating improvement from D 
to B. Incorporating technology and innovation into the 
design including removing all gas operations has enabled 
Spinningfields to be our new flagship building 
for sustainability.

 – We have also begun action to decrease our reliance on 
the carbon credit market by funding our own projects. 
In 2023, we retired 120,000 nature-based carbon 
removal credits, refer to page 41 of our 2023  
Climate-related Disclosures Report.

Energy reduction initiatives relating to 
movements in Scopes 1 and 2
Between 2022 and 2023 we reduced our energy 
consumption by 38 GWh, driven by portfolio transformation 

(1)  Our direct own operations are greenhouse gas emissions from Scopes 1, 2 and 
3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, commuting and working from home).

(2)  Operational value chain captures greenhouse gas emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 
(Categories 1-14, excluding Categories 8, 10, 14). Scope 3, category 15 is 
covered within our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report. Our operational 
value chain emissions in 2023 of 668,578 tCO2e represent a 30% reduction from 
our 2019 baseline of 958,091 tCO2e. As part of this Scope 1 and location-based 
Scope 2 emissions of 64,751 tCO2e collectively reduced by 54% (2019: 139,749 
tCO2e) and Scope 3 emissions of 603,827 tCO2e reduced by 26%  
(2019: 818,342 tCO2e).

(3)  For our own operations, net zero means aiming to reduce our operational value 
chain by a minimum 90% reduction by 2050 against a 2019 baseline. We plan to 
neutralise the residual 10% using carbon credits in line with ‘SBTi Corporate 
Net Zero Standard’ released in October 2021.

(4)  The SBTi recommends that companies invest to mitigate emissions beyond 
their value chain while they transition towards a state of net zero emissions. 
In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, our absolute emission 
reductions of 50% Scope 1+2, 50% Scope 3 and 90% by 2050 are not 
achieved through the use of carbon credits.

(5)  Location-based Scope 2 of 51,829 tCO2e shown gross of purchased renewable 
electricity of 51,683 tCO2e. Scope 2 market based emissions, which factor in 
purchased renewable electricity are 146 tCO2e.
(*)  Within scope of EY assurance, refer to page 68.

and projects completed during the reporting year, 
as follows:

 – Building Management System (BMS) software: Installed 
in all our large and medium office buildings to optimise the 
control of our energy-using systems such as heating, 
cooling and air handling.

 – Data centres: Building management initiatives have been 

delivered across the four strategic UK data centres’ 
including the installation of energy efficient chillers 
to cool the data centres’ halls and optimisation of 
the temperatures. In addition, a multi-year upgrade 
programme to our Edinburgh data centre network 
has completed end-of-life hardware decommissioning.
 – LED lighting: As part of a multi-year LED investment 

programme, we upgraded 65 of our branches in 2023. 
The aim is to roll out across a further 200 of our 
branches, delivering c.8 GWh reduction in electricity use. 
Installation of low-energy LED lighting in our data centres 
has provided savings and we also made progress in 
overseas offices with an LED lighting exchange saving 
10% energy at our Poland office compared with the 
same period last year.

2%

8%

Emissions movements relating to Scope 3 from 
our operational value chain(2)
 – Supply chain: In 2023, we began our supplier data 
improvement journey for our emissions estimates, 
transitioning from a fully spend-based approach to 
a hybrid approach. This uses supplier specific data, 
where available, for our top 80% of spend, topping-up 
with spend-based data where more accurate, disclosed 
data is not available. Our 2023 supplier footprint is now 
18% supplier-specific data. As a result, our category 1, 2 
and 4 emissions for 2019 have been re-baselined in line 
with recommended best practice as the changes exceeded 
our 5% materiality threshold, driving a 50% reduction 
in 2019 emissions from those reported historically.
 – Technology: A cloud-hosted desktop service was 

enabled for 34,000 colleagues that allows supporting 
infrastructure to scale-up and down throughout the 
day based on real-time demand. Further, rightsizing 
our property portfolio has enabled the decommissioning 
of a segment of our branch and head office network 
infrastructure achieving savings of 680 tCO2e in 2023.

2023 Breakdown of operational value chain emissions (tCO2e)(*)(2)

2%

8%

668,578

90%

Scope 3 – Direct emissions – 66,349
668,578
Category 1: Paper and water: 2,909
Category 5: Waste: 157
Category 6: Business travel: 23,380
Category 7: Commuting and working 
from home: 39,903

90%

Scope 3 – Upstream emissions – 506,212
Category 1: Purchased goods and services: 417,665
Category 2: Capital goods: 53,203
Category 3: Fuel and energy related activities: 19,966
Category 4: Transportation and distribution: 12,567
Category 6: Well to tank business travel: 2,811

Scope 1

12,922

Scope 2 (location-based)(5)

51,829

Scope 3(2)

603,827

Scope 3 – Downstream emissions – 31,266
Category 9: Transportation and distribution: 13,236
Category 11: Use of sold products: 8,873
Category 12: End of life treatment sold products: 1,976
Category 13: Leased assets: 7,181

Scope 1

12,922

Scope 2 (location-based)(5)

51,829

Scope 3(2)

603,827

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts59

Own operational footprint continued

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR)

The table below has been prepared against the framework for sustainability reporting that covers greenhouse gas emissions and energy 
usage to encourage improved energy efficiency and outlines our performance for 2022 and 2023.

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Emissions from the combustion of fuel and operation of any facility (Scope 1 direct(2)) (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling by the company for its own use  
(Scope 2(3) indirect) (location-based) (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Total gross Scope 1 & 2 (location-based) (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Intensity ratio: Location-based CO2e emissions per FTE (Scopes 1 & 2) (tonnes/FTE)
Scope 2(4) (market-based) (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Energy Consumption used to calculate above emissions (kWh)
Scope 3(5) emissions from our direct own operations, limited to paper, water, waste, business travel and 
employee commuting and working from home (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Total gross Scope 1, 2 & 3 direct own operations (location-based) (tonnes of CO2e)(*)
Intensity ratio: Location-based direct own operations CO2e emissions per FTE (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) (tonnes/FTE)

2023

Global total 
(excluding UK 
and offshore)(1)

UK and offshore 
area(1)

11,958

964

2022

Global total 
(excluding UK 
and offshore)(1)

UK and offshore 
area(1)

14,827

1,329

Total

12,922

Total

16,156

39,209
51,167
1.3
11
246,230,119

12,620
13,584
0.7
135

51,829
64,751
1.1
146
29,374,856 275,604,975

44,983
59,810
1.6
13
280,120,202

15,255
16,584
0.9
2,371

60,238
76,394
1.4
2,384
34,058,491 314,178,693

46,800
97,967
2.5

19,549
33,133
1.7

66,349
131,100
2.2

39,645
99,455
2.6

18,713
35,297
2.0

58,358
134,752
2.4

Emissions methodology and basis of preparation
Boundary: this statement has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions pursuant to the Companies (Directors’ Report) 
and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 which implement the UK Government’s policy on SECR. Our reporting year runs from 1 October 2022 to 
30 September 2023. The emissions reporting boundary is defined as all entities and facilities either owned or under our operational control.

Reporting(6,7): emissions have been reported using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and associated guidance and include all greenhouse gases, reported in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and global warming potential values. When converting data to carbon emissions, we use Emission Factors from UK Government Emissions Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting (Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, 2023, CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (International Energy Agency, 2022) or relevant local authorities as 
required. NatWest Group uses a third-party software system, to capture and record our environmental impact and ensure that control framework and assurance requirements are met. 
All data is aggregated at a regional level to reflect the total regional consumption. The regional consumption results are then collated to reflect the total NatWest Group footprint. CO2e 
values are attributed to these sources via an automatic conversion module in the third-party system.

For more information, refer to the own operational footprint page at natwestgroup.com.

(1)  Offshore area as defined in The Companies (Directors Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon) Regulations 2018. This includes Jersey and Guernsey but not our overseas sites in America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. These are included in the global 

total (excluding UK and offshore).

(2)  Scope 1 emissions from natural gas, liquid fossil fuels, fluorinated gas losses and owned/leased vehicles.
(3)  Scope 2 emissions from electricity, district heating and cooling used in NatWest Group premises.
(4)  We have procured 100% electricity from renewable sources globally using green tariffs and renewable electricity certificates. The remaining Scope 2 market-based emissions arises from district cooling, district heating and the residual amount of non-renewable electricity.
(5)  Scope 3 emissions sources for our own operations emissions cover categories 1 – 14, with our direct own operations covering only paper, water, and categories 5 – 7. Refer to page 58 for further details. Scope 3 category 15 (financed emission) is covered in our 2023 

Climate-related Disclosures Report.

(6)  Low data accuracy is a key risk of our reporting, as this could lead to misreporting of own operations emissions figures. To combat this, we have robust internal controls processes, with data and claims subject to third-party assurance.
(7)  The historic values reported in the table above may be updated from values we reported in 2022. This is due to updated bills, data provision and extrapolations. Further, future data is subject to change following any significant change to our business size and scope, as 

baseline recalculation may result in differing emissions reductions.

(*)  Within scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 68.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts60

Risk overview 

Effective risk management helps to ensure that NatWest 
Group delivers its long-term strategy.

Our approach to risk management
The enterprise-wide risk management framework (EWRMF) 
sets out the approach to managing risk across NatWest 
Group and provides a common risk language to facilitate 
effective risk management. The framework applies to all 
subsidiary legal entities, business segments and functions 
to help deliver NatWest Group’s strategy in a safe and 
sustainable way.

Risk culture
NatWest Group’s multi-year programme to enhance risk 
management capability at different levels of the organisation 
continued in 2023, with an ongoing emphasis on risk culture. 
The approach to risk culture, under the banner of intelligent 
risk-taking, ensures a focus on robust risk management 
behaviours and practices.

The approach to our risk culture, in line with our strategy 
and our values across all three lines of defence, enables us 
to support better customer outcomes, develop a stronger 
and more sustainable business and deliver an improved 
cost base. During 2023, we continued to evolve the five key 
outcomes to deliver on the intelligent risk-taking approach. 
These outcomes focused on behaviours, leadership, risk 
practices, decision-making and roles and responsibilities.

Risk governance
NatWest Group’s governance structure facilitates sound 
risk management decision-making, in line with standards of 
good corporate governance. The Board ensures there is a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enables 
risks to be assessed and managed, including the completion 
of a robust assessment of NatWest Group’s emerging 
and principal risks. It reviews and approves the EWRMF 
(including NatWest Group’s risk appetite framework) and 
approves the risk appetite for principal risks. It monitors 
performance against risk appetite, considers material risks 
and reviews the effectiveness of risk management and 
internal control systems. In addition, the principal risk 
committees have the following roles and responsibilities:

 – The Group Board Risk Committee (BRC) is responsible 
for: providing oversight and advice to the Board on 
current and potential future risk exposures, future 
risk profile including risk appetite, the approval and 
effectiveness of the EWRMF; reviewing the effectiveness 
of internal controls required to manage risk; reviewing the 

performance of NatWest Group relative to risk appetite; 
reviewing all material risk exposures and management’s 
recommendations to monitor, control and mitigate such 
exposures, including all principal risks; approving the Key 
Risk Policies; providing input to remuneration decisions 
from a risk management perspective; approving the Risk 
Management Strategy and overseeing its effective delivery; 
and reviewing and recommending to the Board the 
assumptions, scenarios and metrics used for stress tests.
 – The Group Executive Risk Committee (ERC), chaired by 
the Chief Risk Officer is responsible for: supporting the 
CRO and other accountable individuals in discharging 
their risk management accountabilities; reviewing 
performance relative to risk appetite, and reviewing 
and debating all material risk exposures across NatWest 
Group and management’s recommendations to monitor 
and control such exposures; reviewing the EWRMF, 
supporting its recommendation to BRC and overseeing its 
implementation across NatWest Group; and reviewing the 
Key Risk Policies and the Risk Management Strategy and 
supporting their recommendation to BRC.

Three lines of defence
In line with industry best practice and sound risk 
governance principles, NatWest Group adopts a three 
lines of defence model of risk governance. Everyone has 
a responsibility for the intelligent management of risk in 
day-to-day activities. This includes actively demonstrating 
risk practices and behaviours that are consistent with 
NatWest Group’s desired risk culture.

As the second line of defence, the Risk function has 
a clear mandate to undertake proactive risk oversight 
and monitoring of all risk management activities including 
maintaining a robust control environment. The Risk function 
designs and maintains the EWRMF. The Chief Risk Officer 
leads the Risk function and plays an integral role in advising 
the Board on NatWest Group’s risk profile. This includes 
continuous monitoring activities to confirm that NatWest 
Group engages in sustainable risk-taking activities in 
pursuit of strategic objectives.

Risk appetite
The risk appetite framework is a component of the EWRMF 
and establishes the extent of permissible risk-taking to 
support business outcomes and delivery of the strategy. 
The EWRMF sets out the requirements regarding how risk 
appetite is implemented through risk policies and standards 
and translated into operational procedures. This consistent 
approach is followed for all principal risks, frameworks, tools 

and techniques. Risk appetite statements and associated 
measures are approved at least annually by the Board on 
the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure 
they remain appropriate and aligned to strategy.

Risk profile – key developments
NatWest Group maintained a stable risk profile in 2023 
despite persistent inflation, higher interest rates, geopolitical 
tensions and elevated reputational risks creating a challenging 
risk environment. Our approach to intelligent risk-taking 
helped us support UK households and businesses facing 
these and other challenges.

The overall financial risk profile remained within risk appetite 
despite challenging economic conditions. Key developments 
in 2023 included:

 – NatWest Group retained robust capital, liquidity and 

funding positions despite volatility in interest rates and 
increased competition for deposits and customers.
 – A strong capital position was maintained in 2023, with 
a CET1 ratio of 13.4%. This was significantly ahead 
of regulatory requirements and aligned with NatWest 
Group’s target of 13-14%. Movements in the CET1 
ratio reflected the attributable profit offset by the 
ordinary dividend accrual and the increase in RWAs.
 – Overall credit risk performance remained stable with 

limited signs of deterioration despite economic headwinds.

The overall trend for non-financial risk improved in 2023. 
Areas of management focus included:

 – Significant investment continued to be made to support 
the delivery of the multi-year transformation plan across 
financial crime risk management. Enhancements were 
made to technology, data quality, and data analytics to 
improve the effectiveness of systems used to monitor 
customers and transactions.

 – Some non-financial risks were elevated in relation to 

the departure of Alison Rose as NatWest Group Chief 
Executive Officer and issues that had arisen in connection 
with account closure decisions that attracted significant 
public and media attention. Following an independent 
legal review of customer account closures, as well as the 
outcome of ongoing FCA and internal reviews, NatWest 
Group are making changes to its policies and procedures 
to deliver better, more consistent outcomes for customers.

 – NatWest Group’s model risk management practices 

continued to evolve, supported by a dedicated model 
risk management enhancement programme, set up in 
response to the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsRisk overview continued

Enterprise-wide risk  management framework

1

The enterprise-wide risk management framework (EWRMF) 
sets out our approach to managing risk across NatWest 
Group and provides a common risk language and 
framework to facilitate effective risk management.

2

The building blocks of the EWRMF are: risk appetite, risk 
governance, three lines of defence and risk culture.

Enterprise-wide risk management framework

Risk appetite

Risk governance

Three lines of defence

Risk culture

Risk appetite is defined 
as the type and 
aggregate level of risk 
NatWest Group is willing 
to accept in pursuit of its 
strategic objectives and 
business plans.

NatWest Group’s 
governance structure 
facilitates sound risk 
management decision- 
making, in line with 
standards of good 
corporate governance.

NatWest Group adopts 
a three lines of defence 
model of risk 
governance. Everyone 
has a responsibility for 
intelligent risk-taking.

The EWRMF is centred 
on the embedding of a 
strong risk culture that 
encompasses both 
prudential and conduct 
risk outcomes and 
prescribed behaviours.

61

3

The EWRMF sets out a common risk language and standard 
definitions to ensure consistency in the application of risk 
management terminology.

Common risk language, architecture and approach

4 The risk toolkit cycle outlines the NatWest Group-wide 
approach to identify, assess, mitigate, monitor and 
report risks.

5

Principal risks are used as the basis for setting risk appetite  
and risk identification .

Principal risks

Financial risks

Non-financial risks

Capital risk

Financial crime risk

Liquidity and funding risk

Model risk

Credit risk

Earnings stability risk

Operational risk

Reputational risk

Traded market risk

Regulatory compliance risk

Non-traded market risk

Pension risk

Climate risk

Risk directory   
and principal risks

The risk directory 
provides a common 
language to ensure that 
consistent terminology is 
used across NatWest 
Group to describe the 
principal risks.

Principal risk  
policies

Risk policies are in place 
for each principal risk 
and define, at a high 
level, the cascade of 
qualitative expectations, 
guidance and standards 
for risk.

Risk standards

Risk standards provide 
a more granular 
expression of the risk 
policies and provide the 
detail for the first line of 
defence to develop 
operational policies/
procedures.

Risk  
toolkits

Risk toolkits define the 
approaches, tools and 
techniques for managing 
risk (split by all principal 
risks, financial and 
non-financial risks).

Report 
Reporting of the risk profile, 
emerging themes, current issues 
and other key information.

Monitor 
Monitoring of the risk profile 
through principal risk indicators 
or other key metrics.

R ep ort

M

o

Risk  
toolkit 
cycle

n

it

o

r

I
d

e

n

a

tif

s

s

y a

e

s

s

n

d

Identify and assess  
Effective risk identification and 
assessment to understand  
the risk profile. 

M itig ate

Mitigate 
Determination of the 
appropriate action for how risks 
are managed or mitigated.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts62

Risk overview continued

Risk directory and principal risks

To ensure common language and a consistent approach across NatWest Group, the risk directory defines and documents all principal risks that NatWest Group may face, categorised into 
financial and non-financial risks. The risk directory is an important component of the EWRMF, underpinning the linkage between strategy, risk appetite, risk reporting and governance. Principal 
risks are the Board approved EWRMF categories that describe the highest-level ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks in the risk directory.

Principal risks – financial

Key developments 

Mitigants

Capital risk – The risk that there is or will be 
insufficient capital and other loss-absorbing debt 
instruments to operate effectively, including meeting 
minimum regulatory requirements, operating within 
Board-approved risk appetite and supporting its 
strategic goals.

Liquidity and funding risk – The risk that NatWest 
Group, or any of its subsidiaries or branches, cannot 
meet its actual or potential financial obligations, in a 
timely manner, as they fall due. Funding risk is the 
risk that NatWest Group cannot maintain a 
diversified and stable funding base.

Credit risk – The risk that customers, counterparties 
or issuers fail to meet their contractual obligation to 
settle outstanding amounts.

A strong capital position was maintained in 2023, with a CET1 ratio of 
13.4%. This was significantly ahead of regulatory requirements and aligned 
with NatWest Group’s target of 13-14%. Movements in the CET1 ratio 
reflected the attributable profit offset by the ordinary dividend accrual and 
increase in RWAs. For the Bank of England 2022/23 annual cyclical scenario 
stress test, NatWest Group remained above its CET1 capital and Tier 1 
leverage ratio hurdle rates.

A robust liquidity and funding risk profile was maintained throughout 2023, 
with a liquidity coverage ratio of 144% and a loan:deposit ratio (excluding 
repos and reverse repos) of 84%.

 – Capital planning is integrated into NatWest Group’s wider annual budgeting 
process with capital plans produced over a five-year planning horizon under 
expected and stress conditions.

 – Stress testing is a principal risk management tool and is used to quantify 
and evaluate the potential impact of risks on the financial strength and 
capital position.

 – A suite of tools is used to monitor, limit and stress test the liquidity and funding 
risks on the balance sheet. Limit frameworks are in place to control the level of 
liquidity risk, asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations. Liquidity 
condition indicators are monitored daily.

 – Performance is reported to the Asset & Liability Management Committee on a 

regular basis.

Despite a challenging outlook driven by persistent inflation and higher 
interest rates, the credit risk profile remained stable throughout 2023. 
Overall ECL increased during 2023 reflecting portfolio growth alongside 
broadly stable portfolio performance. There were Stage 3 default flow 
increases, particularly in the Personal portfolio, but these were broadly in 
line with expectations due to growth and normalisation of risk parameters. 
This was mitigated by a net ECL reduction from 2023 updates to economic 
scenarios and weightings.

 – Extensive and thorough credit processes, strategies and controls to ensure 

effective risk identification, management and oversight.

 – Wholesale credit risk – sector appetite continues to be reviewed regularly, 

with particular focus on sector clusters and sub-sectors that are deemed to 
represent a heightened risk.

 – Retail credit risk – adjustments were made to affordability assumptions and 
stress rates to ensure that lending continued to be assessed appropriately, 
given the high interest rate and inflationary environment.

Earnings stability risk – The risk that profits are not 
sustainable under stress.

NatWest Group remained within earnings stability risk appetite 
throughout 2023.

Traded market risk – The risk to the value of 
assets and liabilities inside the trading book, or 
the risk to income which arises from changes 
in market prices.

Non-traded market risk – The risk to the value 
of assets and liabilities outside the trading book or 
the risk to income which arises from changes in 
market prices.

All material traded market risk resides in NatWest Markets. 2023 was 
marked by periods of increased market volatility. The significant volatility in 
gilts, sterling swaps and inflation entered the rolling window for value-at-risk 
(VaR) calculation during 2023. However, traded VaR and stressed 
value-at-risk (SVaR) remained within appetite and, on an average basis, 
at similar levels compared with 2022.

Overall, non-traded market risk VaR rose in 2023, on both an average and 
period end basis. This was driven by an increasing trend in credit spread 
VaR, notably in the second half of the year, reflecting increased holdings 
of bonds in the liquidity portfolio. Interest rate VaR fell slightly in the second 
half of the year, driven by a reduction in the interest rate sensitive position, 
particularly in sterling. By the end of 2023, credit spread risk had displaced 
interest rate risk as the main driver of non-traded VaR.

 – A range of scenario sensitivities were run, to explore downside risks to earnings 

stability, including a sharp fall in interest rates and stressed macro factors 
aligned to a 1-in-10 year event. 

 – VaR, SVaR and the incremental risk charge are used to measure traded 

market risk.

 – Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily.
 – Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress testing.

 – Non-traded market risk appetite is measured via VaR, SVaR, sensitivity and 

stress limits, and earnings-at-risk limits.

 – Limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio 

composition and the market and economic environments.

 – Non-traded market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks 

into capital planning.

Pension risk – The inability to meet contractual 
obligations and other liabilities to the established 
employee or related company pension scheme.

The main section of The NatWest Group Pension Fund is the largest source 
of pension risk with £33.6 billion of assets and £26.5 billion of liabilities. There 
were no material changes to NatWest Group’s overall exposure to pension 
risk during 2023. 

 – Pension risk is monitored by the Executive Risk Committee and the Board 

Risk Committee, while the Asset & Liability Management Committee receives 
updates on the performance of NatWest Group’s material pension funds.
 – Annual stress tests are undertaken on the material defined benefit pension 

schemes. These tests are also used to satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies, 
such as the Bank of England. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsRisk overview continued

Principal risks – financial

Key developments 

Mitigants

Climate risk – Financial loss or adverse  
non-financial impacts associated with climate 
change and political, economic and environmental 
responses to it.

In 2023, a range of scenario analysis exercises were conducted to test the 
resilience of NatWest Group’s strategy against the impacts of climate 
change under different climate scenarios. NatWest Group continued to 
enhance its in-house climate risk modelling capabilities. An end-to-end test of 
NatWest Group’s in-house corporate transition risk model was completed.

 – There was a focus on developing the capabilities to use scenario analysis to 
identify the most material climate risks and opportunities for its customers. 
While this is a maturing discipline (with recognised limitations around data, 
scenario and methodologies), progress continues to be made to leverage the 
insights to inform risk management practices, maximise the opportunities arising 
from a transition to a low-carbon economy and support decision-making.

Principal risks – non-financial

Key developments

Mitigants

63

Financial crime risk – The risk that NatWest 
Group’s products, services, employees and/or third 
parties are intentionally or unintentionally used to 
facilitate criminal activities in the form of money 
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and 
corruption, sanctions and tax evasion, as 
well as external or internal fraud.

Model risk – The potential for adverse 
consequences from model errors or the 
inappropriate use of modelled outputs to 
inform business decisions. 

Operational risk – The risk of loss resulting from 
inadequate or failed internal processes, people 
and systems, or external events. It arises from 
day-to-day operations and is relevant to every 
aspect of the business.

Reputational risk – The risk of damage to 
stakeholder trust due to negative consequences 
arising from internal actions or external events.

Significant investment continued to be made to support the delivery of the 
multi-year transformation plan across financial crime risk management. 
Enhancements were made to technology, data quality and data analytics 
to improve the effectiveness of systems used to monitor customers 
and transactions.

 – The financial crime framework, relevant policies, systems, processes and 

controls are used to mitigate and manage financial crime risk. This includes 
the use of dedicated screening and monitoring systems and controls to identify 
people, organisations, transactions and behaviours that may require further 
investigation or other actions. 

Following extensive model remediation work, NatWest Group returned to 
model risk appetite in April 2023. NatWest Group’s model risk management 
practices continued to evolve, supported by a dedicated model risk 
management enhancement programme, set up in response to the 
PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23.

 – Model risk appetite is set to limit the level of model risk that NatWest Group 
is willing to accept in the course of its business activities. Policies, toolkits 
and model standards related to the development, validation, approval, 
implementation, use and ongoing monitoring of models are in place to ensure 
adequate control across the lifecycle of an individual model. This includes 
refining, redeveloping or restricting use of models where appropriate.

The enhanced risk and control self-assessment approach continued to be 
developed and embedded with a focus on material operational risks across 
key end-to-end processes.

 – Operational risk appetite supports effective management of all operational risks. 
It expresses the level and types of operational risk that NatWest Group is willing 
to accept to achieve its strategic objectives and business plans.

NatWest Group recognised the risk associated with the processing 
of payments, and as such, a NatWest Group-wide programme on the 
movement of funds was mobilised, which focused on enhancing payment 
related controls.

Reputational risks were elevated in relation to the departure of Alison Rose 
as NatWest Group Chief Executive Officer and issues that had arisen in 
connection with account closure decisions that attracted significant public 
and media attention. Following an independent legal review of customer 
account closures and internal reviews, NatWest Group are making changes 
to its policies and procedures to deliver better, more consistent outcomes 
for customers.

 – Operational risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and detective 
controls. The half-yearly control environment certification process is an 
effective means to provide a consistent and comparable view of the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment.

 – Relevant internal and external factors are monitored through regular 

reporting via reputational risk registers at business or legal entity level.  
They are escalated, where appropriate, to the relevant business risk committee 
and where material, to the NatWest Group Reputational Risk Committee.
 – The environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risk framework guides decision-

making in areas of elevated reputational risk. ESE risk acceptance criteria are 
regularly reviewed and updated. For example, all climate-focused ESE risk 
acceptance criteria (mining and metals, power generation and oil and gas) 
underwent a review, to ensure they reflect the current risk landscape.

 – Risk appetite for compliance and conduct risks is set at Board level. Risk 

appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that legal entities, businesses 
and functions work within when pursuing their strategic objectives and 
business plans.

 – A range of controls are operated to ensure the business delivers good 
customer outcomes and are conducted in accordance with legal and 
regulatory requirements.

Regulatory compliance risk – The risk that 
NatWest Group fails to observe the letter and spirit 
of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and 
standards of good market practice.

Further progress was made on the compliance agenda during 2023. 
Significant enhancements were made to the compliance and conduct 
framework with the introduction of numerous new tools to manage the 
risk profile. These include a compliance and conduct risk directory and 
new risk standards and toolkits which support NatWest Group to 
measure and manage compliance accurately and efficiently.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts64

Risk overview continued

Top and emerging risks

Top and emerging risks are scenarios that could have a significant negative impact on our ability to operate or deliver our strategy and are managed through the EWRMF toolkit. They usually 
combine elements of several principal risks and require a coordinated management response. Top risks could occur or require management action within 1-2 years while emerging risks are 
evolving and/or could occur over a longer time horizon but have the potential to become a top risk. Both are subject to review by senior governance forums including ERC and BRC. Horizon 
scanning is an important element of the toolkit, enabling NatWest Group to identify, assess and mitigate both top and emerging risks. A range of methods are used including scenario exercises, 
analysis, planning, monitoring, review of industry/institutional insights and discussion with external experts. In 2023, there was continued focus on assessing and managing interconnected risks 
assessing preparedness for correlated risk scenarios. This approach helps to integrate strategic risk considerations into business processes, as well as planning and strategy.

Top risk scenarios in 
focus in 2023

Increased competition

Cyberattack

Economic and rate 
volatility

Climate change

Operational risk 
scenarios

Description

Mitigants

Competitive pressures could intensify, impeding NatWest Group’s ability to grow or 
retain market share, impacting revenues and profitability, particularly in key UK retail, 
Commercial & Institutional banking segments. Drivers of competition mainly relate 
to developments in technology, evolving incumbents, challengers, new entrants to 
the market, shifts in customer behaviour and changes in regulation. For example, 
increased competition from technology conglomerates, who may have competitive 
advantages in scale, technology and customer engagement (including brand recognition).

 – NatWest Group closely monitors the competitive environment and adapts strategy as 

appropriate. This includes utilising scenario analysis and assessing how mega-trends will 
impact industry competitive dynamics. Strategic responses are focused on investing to 
deliver innovative and compelling propositions for customers and effectively leveraging 
acquisitions and partnerships. For example, NatWest Group has invested in a number of 
fintech ventures, including Mettle, FreeAgent, Tyl, Rooster Money, Vodeno and Cushon.

There is a constantly evolving threat from cyberattacks that are increasing in terms 
of frequency, sophistication, impact and severity. This includes hostile attempts to 
gain access to and exploit potential vulnerabilities of IT systems including via malware. 
Any failure in NatWest Group’s cybersecurity policies, procedures or controls, may 
result in significant financial losses, major business disruption, inability to deliver 
customer services, loss of data, and may cause associated reputational damage. 

 – NatWest Group continues to invest in additional capability to defend against threats 

including developing and evolving cybersecurity policies, procedures and controls that 
are designed to minimise the potential effect of such attacks. The focus is to manage 
the impact of the attacks and maintain services for NatWest Group’s customers. This 
includes testing and proving cyber resilience capabilities via stress testing of NatWest 
Group’s important business services.

High interest rates and the rising cost of living created uncertain economic conditions 
in 2023 including driving a shifts in customer behaviours and increased deposit 
competition. Economic conditions could deteriorate, depending on factors including 
weak economic activity, volatility in interest rates, liquidity pressures, sharp falls in 
asset prices, escalating geopolitical tensions and concerns regarding sovereign debt 
or sovereign credit ratings. Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on 
NatWest Group’s future financial prospects.

 – A range of complementary approaches is used to mitigate the risks, such as targeted 
scenario analysis, stress tests, targeted customer reviews and reviews of risk appetite. 
Stress tests included completion of regulatory stress tests including the Bank of England 
2022/23 Annual Cyclical Scenario and the 2023/24 System Wide Exploratory Scenario 
as well as a range of internal scenarios.

Climate-related risks represent a source of systemic risk in the global financial system. 
The financial impacts of climate-related risks, both physical and transition risk, are 
expected to be widespread and may disrupt the proper functioning of financial 
markets and institutions, including NatWest Group.

 – NatWest Group’s climate-related strategy, targets and transition plan support the 
identification and management of climate-related risks. However, they also entail 
significant execution and reputational risk and are unlikely to be achieved without 
significant and timely government policy, technology and customer behavioural changes.

Operational risks are inherent in NatWest Group’s businesses and a broad range of 
scenarios are considered. NatWest Group could be adversely impacted by a broad 
range of operational risk scenarios including a failure to have or be able to access 
current, complete, and accurate data or disruption to services should a third-party 
service provider experience any interruptions. These scenarios could result in business 
and customer interruption and related reputational damage, significant compensation 
costs, regulatory sanctions and/or a breach of applicable regulations. 

 – NatWest Group devotes significant resources to third party risk management. Focus 
areas include identification of critical service suppliers, developing robust exit and 
contingency plans in the event of supply chain disruption, and ensuring appropriate 
monitoring and oversight of third party performance.

 – Effective and ethical use of data is critical to NatWest Group’s goals, with continued 
focus on delivering a long-term data strategy alongside enhancing control and policy 
frameworks governing data usage.

Evolving regulation 

NatWest Group’s businesses are subject to substantial regulation and oversight, which 
are constantly evolving and may have an adverse impact on NatWest Group. Areas 
of focus include Basel 3.1 standards implementation, including the resulting effect on 
RWAs and models and the FCA’s Consumer Duty standards on consumer protection. 

 – NatWest Group constantly monitor regulatory change and work with the regulators 

to help shape those developments that materially impact NatWest Group, responding 
when necessary either bilaterally or in partnership with one of the affiliated industry 
bodies. We implement new regulatory requirements where applicable and use our 
frequent engagement meetings with regulators to discuss key regulatory priorities.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDescription

Mitigants

65

Risk overview continued

Emerging risk scenarios 
in focus in 2023

Artificial intelligence

Biodiversity and nature 
loss

Central bank digital 
currency

Innovations in artificial intelligence (AI), including generative AI, may rapidly transform 
and disrupt customers, industry and the economy. NatWest Group’s ability to continue 
to deploy AI solutions and integrate AI in systems and controls will become increasingly 
important to retain and grow business. There can be no certainty that NatWest 
Group’s innovation strategy will be successful, and competitors may be more 
successful in implementing AI technologies, in turn, affecting industry competitive 
dynamics. Developments in AI may also result in increased model risk and rising levels 
of fraud.

NatWest Group and its customers, suppliers and counterparties face uncertainty in 
terms of risks relating to the degradation of the environment, such as air, water and 
land pollution, biodiversity loss and deforestation. There is also increasing investor, 
regulatory and stakeholder scrutiny regarding how businesses address these changes 
and related climate change, biodiversity and other sustainability issues.

NatWest Group operates in markets which would be exposed to any developments in 
digital money, including a UK central bank digital currency (CBDC). The Bank of 
England and HMT are exploring the case and design for a retail CBDC that could be 
used by the public and businesses, the digital pound. The future introduction of retail 
CBDCs, including a digital pound, could result in deposit outflows, higher funding costs, 
and/or other implications for UK banks including NatWest Group.

Geopolitical risk

UK Government 
shareholding in 
NatWest Group

NatWest Group is exposed to risks arising from geopolitical events or political 
developments. Geopolitical tensions remain elevated and a range of potential scenarios 
and impacts were considered. This includes the potential impact of armed conflict, 
global trade and supply-chain disruption, volatility in commodity prices, protectionist 
policies or trade barriers and state sponsored cyberattacks.

In November 2023, the UK Government announced that as part of its commitment to 
continue the sale of its holding in NatWest Group, it is exploring options to launch a 
share sale to retail investors before autumn 2024. While precise timing and plans are 
uncertain, a retail share offering may result in or amplify reputational risks for NatWest 
Group. 

 – NatWest Group closely monitors developments in disruptive technologies including AI 
and adapts strategy as appropriate. The focus is on how we use AI and machine-
learning technologies safely and ethically to improve the support we can offer to our 
customers and ensure that our use of data continues to be secure, accountable, fair 
and ethical. In 2023, we developed a robust set of controls for the use of generative AI 
models across NatWest Group.

 – NatWest Group is developing its approach to assess, manage and mitigate nature-
related risks. Using emerging industry guidance such as the Task Force on Nature 
Related Financial Disclosure framework, NatWest Group is seeking to further its 
understanding of nature-related risks. This includes how its business activities impact 
nature, the dependencies NatWest Group and its counterparties (including its suppliers) 
and customers have on nature, and the risks and opportunities nature can generate.

 – NatWest Group engages with the UK government and regulators on digital currency 

developments. This includes engagement with policymakers on a bilateral and industry 
level. For example, NatWest Group is represented on the Bank of England’s CBDC 
Engagement Forum, and responds to relevant consultations, discussion papers and 
other publications. In addition, NatWest Group has established an Executive Steering 
Group on digital assets including overseeing developments and engagement on digital 
currencies, such as CBDCs.

 – NatWest Group has also reviewed the potential impact of a UK central bank digital 

currency including on deposits, funding costs and broader implications for the business 
model.

 – NatWest Group closely monitors the geopolitical risk outlook and undertakes regular 
scenario analysis to understand the potential impacts and takes mitigating actions as 
required. This includes second and third order analysis of impacts, for example, through 
customers’ supply-chain disruption or disruption to third-party providers.

 – NatWest Group engages closely with HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) on its 

shareholding in NatWest Group plc. Such engagement would be expected to extend to 
HM Treasury contemplating launching a sale of any of its holding to retail investors.
 – NatWest Group identifies and manages reputational risks through the Reputational Risk 
Framework. As with other actual or potential risks of a material nature, appropriate 
bank wide or business actions plans or programmes are established to manage relevant 
risk scenarios. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts66

Viability statement

In accordance with Provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
is required to make a statement in the 
Annual Report and Accounts regarding 
NatWest Group’s viability over a specified 
time horizon.

Considerations
In assessing NatWest Group’s future viability, the Board 
considers a period of three years to be appropriate. The 
budget and business planning processes are based on 
a five-year horizon. However, a three-year period is 
considered more suitable given levels of uncertainty 
increase as the time horizon extends.

In assessing NatWest Group’s viability over this time 
frame, the Board has considered a wide range of 
information including:

Strategic and financial outlook
 – NatWest Group’s business and strategic plans.
 – Current capital position and projections over the 

relevant period.

 – Liquidity and funding profile and projections over the 

relevant period.

 – Internal scenarios and stress tests, which consider the 
material risks and uncertainties facing NatWest Group.
 – The strategic, risk and financial outlook for the financial 

services sector including assessing learnings from 
high-profile bank failures in 2023 and changes in 
customer behaviour.

Risk management and risk profile
 – NatWest Group’s enterprise-wide risk management 
framework (EWRMF) including the processes by 
which risks are identified and mitigated.

 – NatWest Group’s risk profile including any breaches of 

risk appetite and top and emerging risks that could have 
a significant negative impact on NatWest Group’s ability 
to operate.

Regulatory
 – Mandatory regulatory requirements including activity 

related to the Bank of England stress tests including the 
2022/23 annual cyclical scenario (ACS) and the 2023/24 
system-wide exploratory scenario (SWES). In addition, 
completion of the Bank of England Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP).
 – Expected future changes to regulatory requirements 

including in relation to the implementation of  
Basel 3.1 standards.

Operating environment
 – Consideration of the operating environment for 

NatWest Group including shifts in customer behaviour, 
developments in technology, economic trends and 
competitive factors.

Assessment
NatWest Group’s business and strategic plans, which are 
reviewed and evaluated at least annually, provide long-term 
direction and assess resilience to a range of risks across the 
planning horizon. These plans include multi-year forecasts 
assessing NatWest Group’s expected financial position 
throughout the planning period.

A suite of economic scenarios, supports NatWest Group’s 
financial planning processes. Stress testing is a key risk and 
financial management tool and is integrated with financial 
planning processes. It is used to quantify and evaluate the 
potential impact of material risks on the financial strength 
of NatWest Group, including its liquidity and capital position.

Given elevated levels of uncertainty in 2023, economic 
scenarios were designed to capture a broad range of 
uncertainties and risks faced by NatWest Group. The suite 
of scenarios was continuously refined and reviewed. In the 
second half of 2023, this included benchmarking against 
external forecasts and regulatory stress tests. These scenarios 
explored a range of risks and uncertainties including:

 – Deep simultaneous recessions in the UK and global 
economy with large falls in asset prices including UK 
house prices.

 – Sustained levels of high inflation, higher than anticipated 

UK interest rates, and bank liquidity under severe pressure.

 – A sharp fall in inflation and UK interest rates combined 

with a material increase in UK unemployment.

 – Elevated geopolitical risks including Russia-Ukraine and 

China-Taiwan.

 – Climate related risks including elevated physical risks that 

force a rapid climate transition.

A combination of internal scenarios was used to examine 
going concern capital requirements on a forward-looking 
basis by assessing the resilience of capital adequacy and 
leverage ratios. The assessment includes assumptions about 
regulatory and accounting factors (such as IFRS 9). They 
also incorporate key assumptions on balance sheet and 
profit and loss drivers, such as deposits and RWAs, to 
demonstrate that NatWest Group maintains sufficient 
capital. Applying the scenarios to NatWest Group’s capital, 
liquidity and funding positions did not result in a breach of 
any regulatory thresholds.

Consideration was given to the operational resilience 
of NatWest Group across a range of operational risk 
scenarios including conduct, financial crime, climate and a 
cyberattack. While NatWest Group has not been subject to 
a material cyberattack and operates a multi-layered system 
of defences, there is a possibility that a cyberattack could 
have a severe effect on operations. The evolving threat is 
continually monitored with a focus on managing the impact 
of any attack and sustaining availability of services for 
NatWest Group’s customers. As cyberattacks evolve and 
become more sophisticated, NatWest Group continues to 
invest in additional capability designed to defend against 
emerging risks.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts67

The Bank of England launched its SWES in June 2023. 
The SWES explores stressed financial market conditions 
and how market behaviour might interact to amplify shocks 
in UK financial markets. NatWest Group submitted its round 
one scenario response to the Bank of England in January 
2024. Round two of the SWES scenario is expected to be 
launched in Q2 2024 with the full SWES results published by 
the Bank of England in late 2024. As the SWES progresses, 
the results will continue to inform the Board’s assessment 
of viability.

Reverse stress testing is also carried out to identify 
circumstances that may lead to specific, defined outcomes 
such as business failure. Reverse stress testing allows 
potential vulnerabilities in the business model to be 
examined more fully. During 2023, reverse stress testing 
considered the impact of sustained income challenges 
and increased impairments in a severe recession scenario.

Based on the factors outlined above, the current financial 
forecasts, including the strength of its capital and liquidity 
positions, the management of NatWest Group’s principal 
risks, including mitigating actions, the Board has a 
reasonable expectation that NatWest Group will be  
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities  
over the three-year period of the assessment.

Viability statement continued

Risks facing NatWest Group are identified and assessed 
according to the EWRMF which is outlined in the Risk 
overview section. The Board reviews and approves the 
EWRMF and monitors performance against risk appetite.

Despite elevated economic and political uncertainty, 
NatWest Group’s risk profile remained stable in 2023. 
Risk appetite is a key consideration in assessing the risk 
profile and the Board monitors the performance of NatWest 
Group against risk appetite including in relation to credit risk, 
liquidity and funding, financial crime, conduct and regulatory 
compliance risk and operational risk. In 2023, there were no 
material breaches in risk appetite that were viewed as a 
threat to the viability of NatWest Group.

NatWest Group’s top and emerging risk process also 
highlights risk scenarios that could have a significant 
negative impact on NatWest Group’s ability to operate or 
deliver its strategy. In 2023, the Executive Risk Committee 
and the Board Risk Committee received regular reporting 
on top and emerging risks. The committees also reviewed 
and discussed an annual spotlight on top and emerging 
risks which included an update on horizon scanning activity, 
to enable early identification and mitigation of top and 
emerging risks. Top and emerging risks are also a significant 
consideration in internal scenario planning as well as the 
ICAAP and ILAAP.

NatWest Group is impacted by a wide range of 
macroeconomic, political, regulatory, technological, 
social and environmental developments. The evolving 
operating environment presents opportunities and risks 
which NatWest Group continues to evaluate and adapt to. 
For example:

 – Learnings from the failure of several US and European 
banks in 2023 were evaluated and used to test and 
strengthen NatWest Group’s governance and risk 
management processes.

 – Assessing and adapting to shifting consumer behaviour 

in response to higher interest rates and increased 
competition for savings balances. This included measures 
to mitigate funding risk including offering new fixed term 
savings accounts.

The 2023 Annual Report and Accounts were considered as 
part of the assessment. This includes review of the principal 
risks and uncertainties set out on pages 60 to 65 which 
highlights the possible impact of legal, regulatory and 
competitive factors on NatWest Group. The detailed 
disclosure of financial performance of NatWest Group 
was considered as part of the assessment. This included:

 – NatWest Group’s robust capital position; CET1 ratio of 
13.4%. The current capital position provides significant 
headroom above both NatWest Group’s minimum 
requirements and its maximum distributable amount 
threshold requirements.

 – The sustainable profitability and capital generation of 

the business.

 – NatWest Group’s strong liquidity and funding position; 
the liquidity portfolio of £222.8 billion, a robust liquidity 
coverage ratio of 144% and a net stable funding ratio 
of 133%.

NatWest Group participates in stress tests run by regulatory 
authorities to test industry-wide vulnerabilities under 
crystallising global and domestic systemic risks. The Bank 
of England published the results of the 2022/23 ACS stress 
test in July 2023.

The 2022/23 ACS was aimed at testing the resilience of 
the UK banking system to deep simultaneous recessions 
in the UK and global economies, large falls in asset prices 
and higher global interest rates, and a separate stress 
of misconduct costs. The ACS results indicated NatWest 
Group would be able to withstand a severe macroeconomic 
scenario and had the capacity to support households and 
businesses throughout the stress. The results of the ACS 
stress test informed the Board’s assessment of viability.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNon-financial and sustainability 
information statement

This non-financial and sustainability 
information statement provides 
an overview of topics and related 
reporting references in our external 
reporting as required by sections 414CA 
and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.

We integrate non-financial and Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) information across the Strategic report, 
thereby promoting cohesive reporting of non-financial and 
ESG matters.

ESG reporting frameworks and guidance
We are actively monitoring developments including 
in relation to metrics. In 2023, our focus included the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
standards, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) and the World Economic Forum (WEF) International 
Business Council (IBC) metrics. As signatories of the UN 
Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), our ambition is to 
further align our strategy with the 2015 Paris Agreement 
and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Further information on non-financial and ESG matters can 
be found within our reporting suite.

 – Climate-related Disclosures Report
 – ESG Disclosures Report
 – ESG Frameworks Appendix
 – natwestgroup.com

Assurance Approach
NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to 
provide independent assurance over certain sustainability 
metrics and elements of the UN Principles for Responsible 
Banking (UN PRB) Template. These sustainability metrics 
are marked with an asterisk (*) within this report and the 
UN PRB Template is presented within the ESG Frameworks 
Appendix. The assurance engagement was planned and 
performed in accordance with the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020) Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information (“ISAE (UK)3000 (July 2020)”).

An assurance report was issued and is available at 
natwestgroup.com. This report includes further details 
on the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, 
limitations and conclusion.

Reporting requirement

Business model

Our stakeholders

Environment

 – Investment case and shareholder value
 – Our strategic framework
 – Our business model
 – Delivering our strategy
 – Key performance indicators
 – Business performance

 – Section 172(1) statement
 – Stakeholder engagement
 – Stakeholder focus areas

 – Market environment
 – Risk management
 – Risk factors

68

How we contribute to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)
As signatories of the UN Principles for Responsible Banking, 
our ambition is to align our strategy with the 2015 Paris 
Agreement and the SDGs. In 2023 we set a new financial 
wellbeing goal which strives to make a positive impact to 
SDGs 1, 8 and 10.

Our ambitions across Climate, Enterprise and Learning now 
strive to make a positive impact towards the following SDGs:

Our PRB report can be found in the ESG Frameworks 
Appendix available at natwestgroup.com.

Page references 
in this report 

Relevant policy or document 
available at natwest.com

 – 10 to 11
 – 9
 – 12 to 13
 – 18 to 19
 – 20 to 22
 – 44 to 47

 – 24 to 25
 – 26 to 29
 – 30 to 43

 – 14 to 16
 – 60 to 65
 – 417 to 441

Environmental, social and 
ethical policies

(1)  The SDGs are a collection of 17 non-legally binding interlinked global goals set forth by the UN for countries and governments. These are included only as indicative guidance for the proposed aim of our Climate, Enterprise and Learning ambitions and NatWest Group 

makes no representation, warranty or assurance of any kind, express or implied, or takes no responsibility or liability as to whether the areas of focus further the objective or achieves the purpose of the indicated SDG.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNon-financial information and sustainability statement continued

Reporting requirement

Our colleagues

Governance

Social matters

 – Colleagues
 – Diversity, equity and inclusion

 – Section 172(1) statement
 – Governance and remuneration
 – Governance at a glance
 – Boardroom Inclusion Policy
 – Directors’ remuneration report
 – Report of the directors

 – Our strategic framework
 – Our business model
 – Delivering our strategy
 – Key performance indicators
 – Stakeholder engagement
 – Stakeholder focus areas
 – Business performance

Respect for human rights

 – Respecting human rights

 – Risk management
 – Risk and capital management
 – Financial crime risk

 – Risk management
 – Risk and capital management
 – Risk factors

Anti-bribery and corruption 
(ABC)

Risk management

Climate-related financial 
disclosures as required by 
sections 414CA and 414CB 
of the Companies Act 2006

69

Page references 
in this report 

Relevant policy or document 
available at natwest.com

 – 36 to 37
 – 38 to 39

 – 24 to 25
 – 83 to 162
 – 89
 – 90
 – 127 to 133
 – 165 to 168

 – 9
 – 12 to 13
 – 18 to 19
 – 20 to 22
 – 26 to 29
 – 30 to 43
 – 44 to 47

 – 43

 – 60 to 65
 – 170 to 282
 – 276

 – 60 to 65
 – 170 to 282
 – 417 to 441

Our code of conduct

Boardroom Inclusion Policy

Supplier Charter

Human Rights Position 
Statement

Statement on Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption

Environmental, social and 
ethical policies

2023 Climate-related 
Disclosures Report

 – A description of the company’s governance arrangements in relation to assessing and managing 

 – 51 

climate-related risks and opportunities.

 – A description of how the company identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks 

 – 52 to 55 

and opportunities.

 – A description of how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are 

 – 55 

integrated into the company’s overall risk management process.

 – A description of (i) the principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the 
company’s operations, and (ii) the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities 
are assessed.

 – A description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate-related risks and 

opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy.

 – 52, 53 

 – 48, 49, 52, 53, 

56, 57, 58

 – An analysis of the resilience of the company’s business model and strategy, taking into account 

 – 53 

consideration of different climate-related scenarios.

 – A description of the targets used by the company to manage climate-related risks and to realise 

 – 48, 57 

climate-related opportunities and of performance against those targets.

 – The key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets used to manage climate-

 – 48, 49, 56, 59

related risks and realise climate-related opportunities and a description of the calculations on which 
those key performance indicators are based.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
70

Serving our

customers

every day

Financial review

71

72

76

82

Chief Financial Officer’s review

Financial summary

Segment performance

Summary financial statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsGroup Chief Financial 
Officer’s review

‘We have delivered a strong operating 
performance in 2023 with a RoTE of 
17.8%. Total income excluding notable 
items of £14.3 billion was up by 9.8% and 
levels of default remain stable across 
our portfolio. We remain focused on cost 
discipline and have achieved our cost 
target of around £7.6 billion, with a 
cost:income ratio of 51.8%.’

Financial performance
Total income increased by 12.1% to £14.8 billion compared 
with 2022. Total income excluding notable items, was 9.8% 
higher than the prior year principally driven by lending 
growth, higher income in our markets business and 
favourable yield curve movements partially offset by the 
change in deposit mix from non-interest bearing to interest 
bearing and lower deposit balances. Bank NIM of 3.04% 

71

was 19 basis points higher than 2022 primarily due to 
benefits from yield curve movements, net of changes in 
deposit mix, partially offset by lending margin pressure.

Total operating expenses were £309 million higher than 
2022. Other operating expenses were £339 million, or 4.6%, 
higher for the year at £7.6 billion, in line with our full year 
guidance. The increase was principally due to higher staff 
costs, including a payment to support our colleagues with 
cost of living challenges and inflationary pressures on utility 
and contract costs. FTE(1) reduced by c.300 to c.61,200 
principally reflecting reductions as we continue our exit from 
the Republic of Ireland and automation and simplification in 
Retail Banking, partially offset by investment in technology 
and data roles.

A net impairment charge of £578 million, or 15 basis points 
of gross customer loans, primarily reflects continued low 
and stable levels of stage 3 defaults across the portfolio and 
good book charges related to unsecured lending. Compared 
with 2022, our ECL provision increased by £0.2 billion to 
£3.6 billion and our ECL coverage ratio has increased from 
0.91% to 0.93%. We retain post model adjustments of 
£0.4 billion related to economic uncertainty, or 11.8% 
of total impairment provisions.

As a result, we are pleased to report an attributable profit 
for 2023 of £4.4 billion, with earnings per share of 47.9 
pence and a RoTE of 17.8%, above our guided range. 
The profit for the year includes a deferred tax asset 
write back of £385 million in respect of tax losses.

Net loans to customers excluding central items increased 
by £8.9 billion in the year largely reflecting a £7.6 billion 
increase in Retail Banking and £2.0 billion of growth in 
Commercial & Institutional due to an increase in term 
loan facilities and private financing within Corporate & 
Institutions, net of £2.7 billion of UK Government scheme 
repayments. Retail Banking mortgage lending increased by 
£5.9 billion, with gross new mortgage lending of £29.8 billion 
in 2023 compared with £41.4 billion in 2022 reflecting the 
smaller mortgage market, and unsecured lending increased 
by £2.0 billion with continued strong customer demand. 
Private Banking net loans to customers decreased by 
£0.7 billion driven by higher repayments on mortgages. 
Up to 31 December 2023 we have provided £61.9 billion 
against our target to provide £100 billion climate and 
sustainable funding and financing between 1 July 2021 
and the end of 2025.

(1)  Full Time Equivalents of our permanent and internal fixed term resource. 
Each full-time employee is one FTE, with part-time employees recorded 
based on hours worked.

As part of this we aim to provide at least £10 billion in 
lending for residential properties with Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC) ratings A and B between 1 January 2023 
and the end of 2025. During 2023 we provided £29.3 billion 
climate and sustainable funding and financing, which included 
£3.9 billion in lending for residential properties with EPC 
ratings A and B.

Customer deposits excluding central items decreased 
by £13.8 billion during 2023 to £419.1 billion principally 
reflecting the competitive environment for deposits and an 
overall market liquidity contraction. Despite the reduction, 
LDR (excl. repos and reverse repos) remains healthy at 84%. 
In the fourth quarter customer deposit balances reduced by 
£4.5 billion largely within Corporate & Institutions as a result 
of active management, with growth in Retail Banking and 
Private Banking partially offsetting. We have continued to 
see the mix of our book shift towards interest bearing and 
term balances, with non-interest bearing balances now 
accounting for 34% of balances and term at 16%.

TNAV per share increased by 28 pence in the year to 
292 pence primarily reflecting the attributable profit for the 
period and an £872 million movement in cash flow hedging 
reserves as rate expectations lowered, partially offset by 
the impact of distributions. Intangible assets increased by 
£498 million in the year, primarily reflecting software 
capitalisation and the acquisition of Cushon.

Capital and leverage
The CET1 ratio remains strong at 13.4%, or 13.2% 
excluding IFRS 9 transitional relief. The 80 basis point 
reduction compared with 31 December 2022 principally 
reflected distributions deducted from capital of c.200 basis 
points, partially offset by the attributable profit. The NatWest 
Group’s minimum requirement for own funds and eligible 
liabilities (MREL) ratio was 30.5%. RWAs increased by 
£6.9 billion during 2023 to £183.0 billion principally reflecting 
lending growth in Commercial & Institutional and a £3.0 billion 
uplift associated with CRD IV model updates, partially offset 
by a £4.0 billion reduction as we continue our exit from the 
Republic of Ireland.

Funding and liquidity
The LCR of 144%, representing £45.4 billion headroom 
above 100% minimum requirement, decreased by 
1 percentage point during the year, driven by growth in 
customer lending and reduced customer deposits offset by 
an increase in wholesale funding and UBIDAC asset sale.

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial Officer

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFinancial Summary 

Year ended or as at

2023

2022

Variance

Performance key metrics and ratios
Total income
Notable items within total income (1)
Total income excluding notable items (1)
Bank net interest margin (1)
Bank average interest earning assets (1)
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) (1)
Loan impairment rate (1)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary

shareholders – basic

Return on tangible equity (RoTE) (1)
Climate and sustainable funding and financing (2)

Balance sheet
Total assets
Loans to customers – amortised cost
Loans to customers excluding central items (1,3)
Loans to customers and banks – amortised cost

FVOCI

Total impairment provisions (4)
Expected credit loss (ECL) coverage ratio
Assets under management and administration

(AUMA) (1)

Customer deposits
Customer deposits excluding central items (1,3)

Liquidity and funding
Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR)
Liquidity portfolio (5)
Net stable funding ratio (NSFR)
Loan:deposit ratio (excl repos and reverse repos) (1)
Total wholesale funding
Short-term wholesale funding

£14,752m
£413m
£14,339m
3.04%
£363bn
51.8%
15bps
£4,394m

47.9p
17.8%
£29.3bn

£692.7bn
£381.4bn
£355.6bn

£392.0bn
£3.6bn
0.93%

£40.8bn
£431.4bn
£419.1bn

144%
£223bn
133%
84%
£80bn
£28bn

£13,156m
£95m
£13,061m
2.85%
£345bn
55.5%
9bps
£3,340m

33.8p
12.3%
£24.5bn

£720.1bn
£366.3bn
£346.7bn

£377.1bn
£3.4bn
0.91%

£33.4bn
£450.3bn
£432.9bn

145%
£233bn
145%
79%
£74bn
£21bn

12.1%
nm
9.8%
19bps
5.2%
(3.7%)
6bps
31.6%

14.1p
5.5%
19.6%

(3.8%)
4.1%
2.6%

4.0%
5.9%
2bps

22.2%
(4.2%)
(3.2%)

(1.0%)
(4.3%)
(12.0%)
5.0%
8.1%
33.3%

Capital and leverage
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio (6)
Total capital ratio (6)
Pro forma CET1 ratio (excl. forseeable items) (7)
Risk-weighted assets (RWAs)
UK leverage ratio
Tangible net asset value (TNAV) per

ordinary share (1,8)

Number of ordinary shares (millions) (8)

Year ended or as at

2023

2022

Variance

13.4%
18.4%
14.2%
£183.0bn
5.0%

14.2%
19.3%
15.4%
£176.1bn
5.4%

292p
8,792

264p
 9,659 

(80bps)
(90bps)
(120bps)
3.9%
(0.4%)

28p
(9.0%)

(1)  Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of the basis of preparation and reconciliation of non-IFRS financial 

measures and performance metrics.

(2)  NatWest Group uses its climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion (CSFFI) criteria to determine the assets, 

activities and companies that are eligible to be included within its climate and sustainable funding and financing target. 
This includes both provision of committed (on and off-balance sheet) funding and financing, including provision of services 
for underwriting issuances and private placements.

(3)  Central items includes Treasury repo activity and Ulster Bank RoI.
(4)  Includes £0.1 billion relating to off-balance sheet exposures (31 December 2022 – £0.1 billion).
(5)  Comparative periods have been re-presented on an LCR basis in line with the Liquidity portfolio definition as of  

31 December 2023.

(6)  Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for details of the basis of preparation.
(7)  The pro forma CET1 ratio at 31 December 2023 excludes foreseeable items of £1,538 million: £1,013 million for ordinary 

dividends and £525 million foreseeable items. (31 December 2022 excludes foreseeable items of £2,132 million: £967 million 
for ordinary dividends and £1,165 million foreseeable charges).
(8)  The number of ordinary shares in issue excludes own shares held.

72

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

7733

VVaarriiaannccee

£m

%

8,389

66.4%

(7,182)

257.0%

1,207

12.3%

 Total income increased by 12.1% to £14,752 million compared with 2022. Total 

Income excluding notable items was £14,339 million, or 9.8%, higher than 2022 

driven by lending growth, higher income in our markets business and favourable yield 

curve movements partially offset by the change in deposit mix from non-interest 

bearing to interest bearing and lower deposit balances.

 Bank NIM of 3.04% was 19 basis points higher than 2022 primarily due to benefits 

from yield curve movements, net of changes in deposit mix as customers shifted to 

38

1.7%

(339)

(29.9%)

lower margin fixed term accounts, partially offset with lending margin pressure.



Interest receivable was materially above the prior year reflecting the higher rate 

2023

£m 

21,026

(9,977)

11,049

2,330

794

579

3,703

2022

£m 

12,637

(2,795)

9,842

2,292

1,133

(111)

3,314

14,752

13,156

1,596

690

389

nm

11.7%

12.1%

environment. The increase in interest payable reflects the impact of the pass-through 

of rate increases on interest-bearing deposit balances and the migration of balances 

from non-interest bearing to interest-bearing and term deposits. Net interest income 

was £1,207 million higher than 2022 benefitting from favourable yield curve 

movements partially offset by the change in deposit mix from non-interest bearing to 

interest bearing and lower deposit balances.

 Net fees and commissions increased £38 million to £2,330 million compared with 

2022, largely within Commercial & Institutional, driven by increased lending fees and 

card volumes coupled with higher payment services income.



Income from trading activities of £794 million decreased £339 million, or 29.9% 

primarily due to Treasury volatility, with a partial offset in other operating income, 

and hedge accounting adjustments on foreign exchange swaps which are largely 

offset in net interest income.

 Other operating income was £690 million higher for the year principally reflecting 

movements in notable items, in particular: foreign exchange recycling gains of £484 

million; £161 million loss on redemption of own debt in 2022; and lower losses on 

liquidity asset bond sales.

Total income excluding notable items

14,339

13,061

1,278

9.8%

Financial summary

IInnccoommee  ––  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Interest receivable (1)

Interest payable (1)

Net interest income 

Net fees and commissions

Income from trading activities 

Other operating income

Non-interest income

Total income 

NNoottaabbllee  iitteemmss  wwiitthhiinn  ttoottaall  iinnccoommee

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall

Fair value, disposal losses and asset disposals/

   strategic risk reduction

Own credit adjustments (OCA)

Tax interest on prior periods

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

Loss on redemption of own debt

Effective interest rate adjustment as a 

   result of redemption of own debt

Profit from insurance liabilities

Liquidity Asset Bond sale losses

Share of associate losses for Business Growth 

   Fund

Property strategy update

Interest and foreign exchange management 

   derivatves not in hedge accounting relationships

Foreign exchange recycling gains

Ulster Bank RoI fair value mortgage adjustments

Tax interest on prior periods

-

(2)

3

-

-

-

(43)

(4)

(69)

79

484

-

(35)

413

(45)

42

-

(161)

(41)

92

(88)

(22)

-

-

-

369

(51)

95

nm = not meaningful

(1)

Interest receivable and interest payable on trading assets and liabilities are included in income from trading activities. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7733

73

Financial summary

IInnccoommee  ––  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Interest receivable (1)
Interest payable (1)
Net interest income 

Net fees and commissions
Income from trading activities 
Other operating income
Non-interest income
Total income 

2023

2022

VVaarriiaannccee

£m 
21,026
(9,977)
11,049

2,330
794
579
3,703
14,752

£m 
12,637
(2,795)
9,842

2,292
1,133
(111)
3,314
13,156

£m
8,389
(7,182)
1,207

38
(339)
690
389
1,596

%
66.4%
257.0%
12.3%

1.7%
(29.9%)
nm
11.7%
12.1%

Total income excluding notable items

14,339

13,061

1,278

9.8%

NNoottaabbllee  iitteemmss  wwiitthhiinn  ttoottaall  iinnccoommee
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Fair value, disposal losses and asset disposals/
   strategic risk reduction
Own credit adjustments (OCA)
Tax interest on prior periods
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Loss on redemption of own debt
Effective interest rate adjustment as a 
   result of redemption of own debt
Profit from insurance liabilities
Liquidity Asset Bond sale losses
Share of associate losses for Business Growth 
   Fund
Property strategy update
Interest and foreign exchange management 
   derivatves not in hedge accounting relationships
Foreign exchange recycling gains
Ulster Bank RoI fair value mortgage adjustments
Tax interest on prior periods

-
(2)
3

(45)
42
-

-

(161)

-
-
(43)

(4)
(69)

79
484
-
(35)
413

(41)
92
(88)

(22)
-

369
-
(51)
-
95

nm = not meaningful

(1)

Interest receivable and interest payable on trading assets and liabilities are included in income from trading activities. 

 Total income increased by 12.1% to £14,752 million compared with 2022. Total 
Income excluding notable items was £14,339 million, or 9.8%, higher than 2022 
driven by lending growth, higher income in our markets business and favourable yield 
curve movements partially offset by the change in deposit mix from non-interest 
bearing to interest bearing and lower deposit balances.



 Bank NIM of 3.04% was 19 basis points higher than 2022 primarily due to benefits 
from yield curve movements, net of changes in deposit mix as customers shifted to 
lower margin fixed term accounts, partially offset with lending margin pressure.
Interest receivable was materially above the prior year reflecting the higher rate 
environment. The increase in interest payable reflects the impact of the pass-through 
of rate increases on interest-bearing deposit balances and the migration of balances 
from non-interest bearing to interest-bearing and term deposits. Net interest income 
was £1,207 million higher than 2022 benefitting from favourable yield curve 
movements partially offset by the change in deposit mix from non-interest bearing to 
interest bearing and lower deposit balances.

 Net fees and commissions increased £38 million to £2,330 million compared with 



2022, largely within Commercial & Institutional, driven by increased lending fees and 
card volumes coupled with higher payment services income.
Income from trading activities of £794 million decreased £339 million, or 29.9% 
primarily due to Treasury volatility, with a partial offset in other operating income, 
and hedge accounting adjustments on foreign exchange swaps which are largely 
offset in net interest income.

 Other operating income was £690 million higher for the year principally reflecting 

movements in notable items, in particular: foreign exchange recycling gains of £484 
million; £161 million loss on redemption of own debt in 2022; and lower losses on 
liquidity asset bond sales.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7744

74

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

7755

Financial summary continued

OOppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess  ––  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

IImmppaaiirrmmeennttss  ––  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

2023

2022

VVaarriiaannccee

2023

2022

VVaarriiaannccee

Staff expenses
Premises and equipment 
Other administrative expenses
Depreciation and amortisation  
OOtthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess 
Litigation and conduct costs
OOppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess

£m 
3,839
1,153
1,715
934
7,641
355
7,996

£m 
3,671
1,112
1,686
833
7,302
385
7,687

£m
168
41
29
101
339
(30)
309

%
4.6
3.7
1.7
12.1
4.6
(7.8)
4.0

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI
ECL provisions
ECL provisions coverage ratio
Impairment (releases)/losses
ECL charge (1)
Amounts written off

£m 

£m 
392,040 377,153
3,434
0.91%

3,645
0.93%

£m
14,887
211
0.02%

%
3.9
6.1
2.2

578
319

337
482

241
(163)

71.5
(33.8)

 Staff expenses were £168 million, or 4.6%, higher than 2022 primarily due to a 6.4% 
average wage increase effective in April 2023 and around a £60 million colleague 
cost of living payment, offset by lower costs, including redundancy expenses, within 
our operations in the Republic of Ireland.

 Premises and equipment costs of £1,153 million were £41 million higher than 2022 
primarily due to increased utilities and repairs costs driven by inflationary pressures.

 Other administrative expenses increased £29 million over the year driven by 
inflationary pressures, increasing third party costs, offset by the reduction of 
operating and strategic costs as a result of the withdrawal of operations in the 
Republic of Ireland.

 Depreciation and amortisation of £934 million was £101 million higher than 2022 due 



to capitalised technology spend and a property impairment in 2023.
Litigation and conduct costs of £355 million represent the net impact of a number of 
remediation and litigation matters concluding, including customer due diligence costs 
paid during the year. Refer to Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements for 
additional information on other litigation and conduct matters.

TTaaxx  ––  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Tax charge
UK corporation tax rate
Effective tax rate

2023

£m 
(1,434)
23.5%
23.2%

2022

£m 
(1,275)
19.0%
24.8%

A tax charge of £1,434 million for the year ended 31 December 2023 arises rather than 
the expected charge of £1,452 million based on the corporation tax rate of 23.5%. The 
lower tax charge reflects tax credits in respect of the carrying value of loss DTAs and 
the foreign exchange recycling on the UBIDAC capital reduction. These factors have 
been partially offset by the UK banking surcharge, no tax relief for RoI tax losses, 
adjustments relating to prior years, and other non-deductible items. Further details can 
be found in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.  

(1)

The table above summarises loans and related credit impairment measured on an IFRS 9 basis. Refer to Credit Risk – 
Banking activities in the Risk and capital management section for further details. 

Compared with 2022, our ECL provision increased by £0.2 billion to £3.6 billion and our 
ECL coverage ratio has increased from 0.91% to 0.93%. We retain post model 
adjustments of £0.4 billion related to economic uncertainty, or 11.8% of total impairment 
provisions.

A net impairment charge of £578 million, or 15 basis points of gross customer loans, 
primarily reflects continued low and stable levels of stage 3 defaults across the portfolio 
and good book charges related to unsecured lending.

PPrrooffiitt  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

Operating profit before tax
Tax charge
Profit from continuing operations
Loss from discontinued 
   operations, net of tax
Profit for the year

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

2023

2022

VVaarriiaannccee

£m 
6,178
(1,434)
4,744

(112)
4,632

£m 
5,132
(1,275)
3,857

(262)
3,595

4,394
242
(4)

3,340
249
6

£m
1,046
(159)
887

150
1,037

1,054
(7)
(10)

20.4
12.5
23.0

(57.3)
28.8

31.6
(2.8)
nm

Operating profit before tax of £6,178 million is £1,046 million, or 20.4%, higher than 2022 
primarily due to increased income as a result of the favourable yield curve movements 
partially offset with higher costs largely attributable to inflationary pressures.

Financial summary continued

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  aass  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

Variance

£m

%

Cash and balances at central banks

104,262

144,832 (40,570)

AAsssseettss

Trading assets

Derivatives

Settlement balances

Loans to banks - amortised cost

Loans to customers - amortised cost

Other financial assets

Other assets (including intangible assets)

Assets of disposal groups

TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess

Bank deposits

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Trading liabilities

Derivatives

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

Notes in circulation

Other liabilities

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

TToottaall  eeqquuiittyy

45,551

78,904

7,231

6,914

51,102

16,374

902

45,577

(26)

99,545 (20,641)

2,572

7,139

30,895

16,292

6,861

4,659

(225)

15,093

20,207

82

(5,959)

381,433

366,340

692,673

720,053 (27,380)

22,190

20,441

1,749

431,377

450,318 (18,941)

94,047 (21,652)

6,645

53,636

72,395

55,089

5,714

3,237

5,202

2,012

52,808

49,107

6,260

3,218

5,346

4,633

828

5,982

(546)

19

(144)

655,485

683,557 (28,072)

37,188

36,496

692

Tangible net asset value per ordinary share (1)

292p

264p

28p

11%

(1)

Tangible net asset value per ordinary share is tangible equity divided by the number of ordinary shares.

(28)

(0)

(21)

181

(3)

4

65

1

(87)

(4)

9

(4)

230

2

(23)

12

(9)

1

(3)

(4)

2

(4)

 Total assets of £692.7 billion as at 31 December 2023 decreased by £27.4 billion, 4%, 

compared with 31 December 2022. This was primarily driven by decreases in cash 

and balances at central banks and derivative assets partially offset by an increase in 

other financial assets and loans to customers.

 Cash and balances at central banks decreased by £40.6 billion mainly due to net 

business segment funding outflows of £17.3 billion and a decrease of £19.5 billion 

mainly driven by the acquisition of non-cash liquid assets as part of on going liquidity 

management.

 Other financial assets increased by £20.2 billion mainly as a result of net bonds 

activity of £16.5 billion and an increase in Commercial & Institutional, £3.8 billion, 

mainly driven by an increase in held-to-collect securities purchased to support 

customer primary issuance.

 Derivative assets decreased by £20.6 billion, 21%, to £78.9 billion and liabilities 

decreased by £21.7 billion, 23%, to £72.4 billion. These movements were driven by a 

decrease in exchange rate and interest rate trading books mainly due to matured 

and buyouts trades exceeding new trades.

 Total loans to customers increased by £15.1 billion to £381.4 billion, primarily 

reflecting £7.6 billion growth mainly in the Retail Banking mortgage and credit cards 

business and a £6.5 billion increase in Treasury mainly due to higher reverse repos.

 Total loans to banks decreased by £0.2 billion, 3%, to £6.9 billion due to lower 

Commercial & Institutional nostro balances.

 Customer deposits decreased by £18.9 billion reflecting a reduction of £9.9 billion in 

Commercial & Institutional and £3.5 billion reduction in Private Banking, lower 

business current accounts, savings and non-interest bearing deposits, and a £6.0 

billion reduction as a result of the withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland. 

 Bank deposits increased by £1.7 billion mainly due to higher repo activity.

 Other financial liabilities, which includes customer deposits at fair value through profit 

and loss and debt securities in issue, increased by £6.0 billion, to £55.1 billion.

 Subordinated liabilities have decreased by £0.5 billion, 9%, to £5.7 billion due to 

redemptions partially offset by new issuances. 

liabilities partially offset by higher financial guarantees.

 Owners’ equity increased by £0.7 billion, 2%, to £37.2 billion, driven by higher profit 

for the year of £4.8 billion offset by dividends paid of £1.5 billion and shares 

repurchased in the year of £2.0 billion.

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy

692,673

720,053 (27,380)

 Other liabilities decreased by £0.1 billion, 3%, to £5.2 billion mainly due to lower lease 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7755

75

Financial summary continued

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  aass  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

Variance

£m

%

AAsssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Other assets (including intangible assets)
Assets of disposal groups
TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Other liabilities
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
6,914
381,433
51,102
16,374
902
692,673

22,190
431,377
6,645
53,636
72,395
55,089
5,714
3,237
5,202
655,485

144,832 (40,570)
45,577
(26)
99,545 (20,641)
4,659
(225)
15,093
20,207
82
(5,959)
720,053 (27,380)

2,572
7,139
366,340
30,895
16,292
6,861

20,441

1,749
450,318 (18,941)
4,633
2,012
52,808
828
94,047 (21,652)
5,982
49,107
(546)
6,260
19
3,218
(144)
5,346
683,557 (28,072)

TToottaall  eeqquuiittyy

37,188

36,496

692

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy

692,673

720,053 (27,380)

(28)
(0)
(21)
181
(3)
4
65
1
(87)
(4)

9
(4)
230
2
(23)
12
(9)
1
(3)
(4)

2

(4)

Tangible net asset value per ordinary share (1)

292p

264p

28p

11%

(1)

Tangible net asset value per ordinary share is tangible equity divided by the number of ordinary shares.

 Total assets of £692.7 billion as at 31 December 2023 decreased by £27.4 billion, 4%, 
compared with 31 December 2022. This was primarily driven by decreases in cash 
and balances at central banks and derivative assets partially offset by an increase in 
other financial assets and loans to customers.

 Cash and balances at central banks decreased by £40.6 billion mainly due to net 
business segment funding outflows of £17.3 billion and a decrease of £19.5 billion 
mainly driven by the acquisition of non-cash liquid assets as part of on going liquidity 
management.

 Other financial assets increased by £20.2 billion mainly as a result of net bonds 

activity of £16.5 billion and an increase in Commercial & Institutional, £3.8 billion, 
mainly driven by an increase in held-to-collect securities purchased to support 
customer primary issuance.

 Derivative assets decreased by £20.6 billion, 21%, to £78.9 billion and liabilities 

decreased by £21.7 billion, 23%, to £72.4 billion. These movements were driven by a 
decrease in exchange rate and interest rate trading books mainly due to matured 
and buyouts trades exceeding new trades.

 Total loans to customers increased by £15.1 billion to £381.4 billion, primarily 

reflecting £7.6 billion growth mainly in the Retail Banking mortgage and credit cards 
business and a £6.5 billion increase in Treasury mainly due to higher reverse repos.

 Total loans to banks decreased by £0.2 billion, 3%, to £6.9 billion due to lower 

Commercial & Institutional nostro balances.

 Customer deposits decreased by £18.9 billion reflecting a reduction of £9.9 billion in 
Commercial & Institutional and £3.5 billion reduction in Private Banking, lower 
business current accounts, savings and non-interest bearing deposits, and a £6.0 
billion reduction as a result of the withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland. 

 Bank deposits increased by £1.7 billion mainly due to higher repo activity.
 Other financial liabilities, which includes customer deposits at fair value through profit 

and loss and debt securities in issue, increased by £6.0 billion, to £55.1 billion.
 Subordinated liabilities have decreased by £0.5 billion, 9%, to £5.7 billion due to 

redemptions partially offset by new issuances. 

 Other liabilities decreased by £0.1 billion, 3%, to £5.2 billion mainly due to lower lease 

liabilities partially offset by higher financial guarantees.

 Owners’ equity increased by £0.7 billion, 2%, to £37.2 billion, driven by higher profit 

for the year of £4.8 billion offset by dividends paid of £1.5 billion and shares 
repurchased in the year of £2.0 billion.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7766

76

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

7777

Segment performance

SSeeggmmeennttaall  ssuummmmaarryy  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeennttss

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net interest income
Non-interest income
Total income
Direct expenses
Indirect expenses
Other operating expenses
Litigation and conduct costs
Operating expenses
Operating profit before impairment losses
Impairment losses
Operating profit
Total income excluding notable items 

Return on tangible equity (1)
Return on equity (1,2)
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) (1)
Customer deposits (£bn)
Average interest earning assets (£bn)
Net interest margin (1)
Third party asset rate (1)
Third party customer funding rate (1)

For the notes to this table, refer to the following page.
nm = not meaningful, na = not applicable.

Retail Banking
£m 

Private Banking
£m 

Commercial &

Institutional
£m 

5,496
435
5,931
(815)
(1,896)
(2,711)
(117)
(2,828)
3,103
(465)
2,638
5,931

na
23.8%
45.7%
188.0
205.4
2.68%
3.23%
(1.42%)

710
280
990
(255)
(421)
(676)
(9)
(685)
305
(14)
291
990

na
14.8%
68.3%
37.7
19.0
3.74%
4.54%
(2.17%)

5,044
2,377
7,421
(1,510)
(2,357)
(3,867)
(224)
(4,091)
3,330
(94)
3,236
7,420

na
15.4%
52.1%
193.4
131.5
3.84%
6.15%
(1.40%)

Central items

Total NatWest

& other

£m 

(201)
611
410
(5,061)
4,674
(387)
(5)
(392)
18
(5)
13
(2)

na
nm
nm
12.3
nm
nm
nm
nm

Group

£m 

11,049
3,703
14,752
(7,641)
-
(7,641)
(355)
(7,996)
6,756
(578)
6,178
14,339

17.8%
na
51.8%
431.4
362.9
3.04%
nm
nm

Segment performance continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  ssuummmmaarryy  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd

2022

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Net interest income

Non-interest income

Total income

Direct expenses

Indirect expenses

Other operating expenses

Litigation and conduct costs

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses/releases

Impairment (losses)/releases

Operating profit/(loss)

Total income excluding notable items 

Return on tangible equity (1)

Return on equity (1,2)

Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) (1)

Customer deposits (£bn)

Average interest earning assets (£bn)

Net interest margin (1)

Third party asset rate (1)

Third party customer funding rate (1)

nm = not meaningful, na = not applicable.

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Institutional

£m 

£m 

£m 

Commercial &

Central items

Total NatWest

5,224

422

5,646

(709)

(1,775)

(2,484)

(109)

(2,593)

3,053

(229)

2,824

5,646

na

28.6%

44.0%

188.4

190.8

2.74%

2.64%

(0.20%)

777

279

1,056

(235)

(375)

(610)

(12)

(622)

434

2

436

1,056

na

24.5%

57.8%

41.2

19.1

4.07%

3.01%

(0.27%)

4,171

2,242

6,413

(1,506)

(2,057)

(3,563)

(181)

(3,744)

2,669

(122)

2,547

6,416

na

12.2%

55.6%

203.3

126.1

3.31%

3.53%

(0.21%)

& other

£m 

(330)

371

41

(4,852)

4,207

(645)

(83)

(728)

(687)

12

(675)

(57)

17.4

na

nm

nm

nm

nm

nm

nm

Group

£m 

9,842

3,314

13,156

(7,302)

-

(7,302)

(385)

(7,687)

5,469

(337)

5,132

13,061

12.3%

na

55.5%

450.3

345.2

2.85%

nm

nm

(1) Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of the basis of preparation.

(2) NatWest Group’s CET1 target is approximately 13-14% but for the purposes of computing segmental return on equity (ROE), to better reflect the differential drivers of capital usage, segmental operating profit or loss adjusted for preference share dividends 

and tax, is divided by average notional equity allocated at different rates of 13.5% for Retail Banking (2022 - 13%), 11.5% for Private Banking (2022 – 11%), and 14% for Commercial & Institutional (2022 – 14%) of the period average of segmental risk-

weighted assets equivalents (RWAe) incorporating the effect of capital deductions. NatWest Group return on equity is calculated using profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of the basis of 

preparation.

.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7777

77

Segment performance continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  ssuummmmaarryy  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd

2022

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net interest income
Non-interest income
Total income
Direct expenses
Indirect expenses
Other operating expenses
Litigation and conduct costs
Operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses/releases
Impairment (losses)/releases
Operating profit/(loss)
Total income excluding notable items 

Return on tangible equity (1)
Return on equity (1,2)
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) (1)
Customer deposits (£bn)
Average interest earning assets (£bn)
Net interest margin (1)
Third party asset rate (1)
Third party customer funding rate (1)

nm = not meaningful, na = not applicable.

Retail Banking
£m 

Private Banking
£m 

Commercial &

Institutional
£m 

5,224
422
5,646
(709)
(1,775)
(2,484)
(109)
(2,593)
3,053
(229)
2,824
5,646

na
28.6%
44.0%
188.4
190.8
2.74%
2.64%
(0.20%)

777
279
1,056
(235)
(375)
(610)
(12)
(622)
434
2
436
1,056

na
24.5%
57.8%
41.2
19.1
4.07%
3.01%
(0.27%)

4,171
2,242
6,413
(1,506)
(2,057)
(3,563)
(181)
(3,744)
2,669
(122)
2,547
6,416

na
12.2%
55.6%
203.3
126.1
3.31%
3.53%
(0.21%)

Central items

Total NatWest

& other

£m 

(330)
371
41
(4,852)
4,207
(645)
(83)
(728)
(687)
12
(675)
(57)

na
nm
nm
17.4
nm
nm
nm
nm

Group

£m 

9,842
3,314
13,156
(7,302)
-
(7,302)
(385)
(7,687)
5,469
(337)
5,132
13,061

12.3%
na
55.5%
450.3
345.2
2.85%
nm
nm

(1) Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of the basis of preparation.
(2) NatWest Group’s CET1 target is approximately 13-14% but for the purposes of computing segmental return on equity (ROE), to better reflect the differential drivers of capital usage, segmental operating profit or loss adjusted for preference share dividends 
and tax, is divided by average notional equity allocated at different rates of 13.5% for Retail Banking (2022 - 13%), 11.5% for Private Banking (2022 – 11%), and 14% for Commercial & Institutional (2022 – 14%) of the period average of segmental risk-
weighted assets equivalents (RWAe) incorporating the effect of capital deductions. NatWest Group return on equity is calculated using profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of the basis of 
preparation.

.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7788

78

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

7799

Segment performance continued

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt
Net interest income
Non-interest income
TToottaall  iinnccoommee
Other operating expenses
Litigation and conduct costs
Operating expenses
Impairment losses
OOppeerraattiinngg  pprrooffiitt

PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  rraattiiooss ((11))
Return on equity
Net interest margin
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)
Loan impairment rate

2023

2022

Variance

£m 
5,496
435
5,931
(2,711)
(117)
(2,828)
(465)
2,638

23.8%
2.68%
45.7%
22bps 

£m 
5,224
422
5,646
(2,484)
(109)
(2,593)
(229)
2,824

£m
272
13
285
(227)
(8)
(235)
(236)
(186)

%
5.2%
3.1%
5.0%
9.1%
7.3%
9.1%
103.1%
(6.6)%

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Loans to customers (amortised cost)
  - personal advances
  - mortgages
  - cards
Total loans to customers (amortised cost)
Loan impairment provisions
Net loans to customers (amortised cost) 

Total assets
Customer deposits
Risk-weighted assets

28.6%
2.74%
44.0%
11bps 

(4.8%)
(0.06%)
1.7%
11bps 

2023

£bn 

8.1
193.1
5.9
207.1
(1.9)
205.2

228.7
188.0
61.6

2022

£bn 

7.6
187.2
4.4
199.2
(1.6)
197.6

226.4
188.4
54.7

Variance

£bn

%

0.5
5.9
1.5
7.9
(0.3)
7.6

2.3
(0.4)
6.9

6.6%
3.2%
34.1%
4.0%
18.8%
3.8%

1.0%
(0.2%)
12.6%

Segment performance continued

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt

Net interest income

Non-interest income

TToottaall  iinnccoommee

Other operating expenses

Litigation and conduct costs

Operating expenses

Impairment (losses)/releases

OOppeerraattiinngg  pprrooffiitt

PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  rraattiiooss ((11))

Return on equity

Net interest margin

Loan impairment rate

AUM net flows (£bn)

Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)

 During 2023, Retail Banking continued to pursue sustainable lending growth, 

increasing £7.6 billion, whilst taking a measured approach to risk. Retail Banking 
delivered operating profit of £2.6 billion and a return on equity of 23.8%, against a 
more challenging operating environment and inflationary cost impacts.

 Retail Banking provided £3.7 billion of climate and sustainable funding and financing 

in 2023 from lending on properties with an EPC rating of A or B.

 Total income was £285 million, or 5.0%, higher than 2022 reflecting higher lending 
growth and the impact of rate rises on deposit income, partly offset by mortgage 
margin dilution, higher treasury funding costs and the impact of the deposit balance 
mix shift from non-interest bearing current accounts to interest bearing term 
balances. 

 Net interest margin was 6 basis points lower than 2022 largely reflecting the 

movements impacting total income, partly offset by the impact of pass-through 
management and hedges on deposit income as interest rates increased.

 Non-interest income of £435 million was £13 million, or 3.1%, higher than 2022 

primarily due to increased spend-related fee income. 

 Other operating expenses were £227 million, or 9.1%, higher than 2022 reflecting 

higher pay awards to support our colleagues with cost of living challenges, property 
lease termination losses, increased restructuring costs and continued investment in 
the business. This was partly offset by savings from a 6.3% reduction in headcount. 

 An impairment charge of £465 million in 2023, £236 million higher than 2022, 

reflecting higher stage 3 inflows and increased good book charges driven by both 
lending growth and normalisation of risk parameters.

(1) Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of basis of preparation and reconciliation of non-IFRS 

financial measures and performance metrics.

 Net loans to customers increased by £7.6 billion, or 3.8%, in 2023 reflecting mortgage 
growth of £5.9 billion, with gross new mortgage lending of £29.8 billion, representing 
flow share of around 13%. Cards balances increased by £1.5 billion and personal 
advances increased by £0.5 billion in 2023 with continued strong customer demand.

 Customer deposits decreased by £0.4 billion in 2023 reflecting lower current 

accounts of £10.2 billion, partly offset by higher fixed term deposits driving savings 
growth of £9.8 billion. Term deposits now represents 11% of deposit balances.
 RWAs increased by £6.9 billion, or 12.6%, in 2023 driven by both lending growth in 

the period and IRB temporary model adjustments.

2023

£m 

710

280

990

(676)

(9)

(685)

(14)

291

14.8%

3.74%

68.3%

8bps 

1.3

2022

£m 

777

279

1,056

(610)

(12)

(622)

2

436

24.5%

4.07%

57.8%

(1bp)

2.0

Variance

£m

(67)

1

(66)

(66)

(63)

(16)

(8.6%)

0.4%

(6.3%)

10.8%

10.1%

nm

(145)

(33.3%)

%

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

Loans to customers (amortised cost)

  - personal

  - mortgages

  - other

3

(25.0%)

Total loans to customers (amortised cost)

Loan impairment provisions

Net loans to customers (amortised cost)

(9.7%)

(0.33%)

10.5%

9bps 

(0.7)

Total assets

Assets under management (AUMs) (1)

Assets under administration (AUAs) (1)

Assets under management and 

   administration (AUMA) (1)

Customer deposits

Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and

    reverse repos) (1)

Risk-weighted assets

2023

£bn

1.8

12.3

4.5

18.6

(0.1)

18.5

26.9

31.7

9.1

40.8

37.7

49%

11.2

2022

£bn

2.2

12.7

4.4

19.3

(0.1)

19.2

29.9

28.3

5.1

33.4

41.2

47%

11.2

Variance

£bn

%

(0.4)

(0.4)

0.1

(0.7)

-

(18.2%)

(3.1%)

2.3%

(3.6%)

-

(0.7)

(3.6%)

(3.0)

(10.0%)

3.4

4.0

12.0%

78.4%

7.4

(3.5)

22.2%

(8.5%)

2%

-

4.3%

-

(1)

Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of basis of preparation and reconciliation of non-IFRS 

financial measures and performance metrics.

 A net impairment charge of £5 million in Q4 2023 largely reflects good book charges 

whilst stage 3 defaults remain at low levels.

 Net loans to customers decreased by £0.7 billion, or 3.6%, in 2023 as higher levels of 

customer repayments more than offset gross new lending.    

 Customer deposits decreased by £3.5 billion, or 8.5%, in 2023 reflecting an increase 

in competition and higher tax outflows in Q1 2023. Changes in customer behaviour 

drove a shift in mix of deposits with a decrease in instant access savings and current 

accounts, and a switch to term and notice accounts which now represent 30% of 

deposit balances.  

AUM and £0.4 billion AUA: strong market performance of £3.4 billion and £2.3 billion 

Cushon balances following the acquisition in June 2023. 

 During 2023, Private Banking continued to support customers to meet their financial 

goals and manage their wealth responsibly, delivering a return on equity of 14.8% 

which reflected the impact of a more challenging operating environment. AUMA was 

22.2% higher at £40.8 billion and is now greater than customer deposits of £37.7 

billion which fell as a result of competitive pressure and a change in customer 

 Private Banking provided £0.2 billion of climate and sustainable funding and financing 

in 2023, principally in relation to mortgages on residential properties with EPC A or B 

behaviour.

certificates.

 Total income was £66 million, or 6.3%, lower than 2022 reflecting lower deposit 

balances with mix shifting from non-interest bearing to interest bearing balances, as 

customers migrated to savings products offering higher returns, combined with 

reduced lending volumes and mortgage margin dilution.

balances with mix shift from non-interest bearing to interest bearing balances and an 

increase in pass-through of interest rate increases to customers, partly offset by the 

impact of rate rises on deposit income.

 Non-interest income of £280 million was broadly flat compared to 2022 primarily 

driven by higher payment services fees offset by reduced investment management 

income due to product re-pricing.

 Other operating expenses were £66 million, or 10.8%, higher than 2022 reflecting an 

increase in pay awards to support our colleagues with cost of living challenges, an 

additional VAT charge, property revaluation costs and strategic spend to increase 

operational efficiency.

 The impairment charge of £14 million in 2023, compared with a £2 million release in 

2022, largely reflects non-recurrence of good book releases in 2022 whilst overall 

impairments remain at low levels.

 Net interest margin was 33 basis points lower than 2022 reflecting lower deposit 

 AUMA increased by £7.4 billion to £40.8 billion, reflecting net inflows of £1.3 billion for 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

7799

79

Segment performance continued

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt
Net interest income
Non-interest income
TToottaall  iinnccoommee
Other operating expenses
Litigation and conduct costs
Operating expenses
Impairment (losses)/releases
OOppeerraattiinngg  pprrooffiitt

PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  rraattiiooss ((11))
Return on equity
Net interest margin
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)
Loan impairment rate
AUM net flows (£bn)

2023

£m 
710
280
990
(676)
(9)
(685)
(14)
291

14.8%
3.74%
68.3%
8bps 
1.3

2022

£m 
777
279
1,056
(610)
(12)
(622)
2
436

24.5%
4.07%
57.8%
(1bp)
2.0

Variance

£m
(67)
1
(66)
(66)
3
(63)
(16)
(145)

%
(8.6%)
0.4%
(6.3%)
10.8%
(25.0%)
10.1%
nm
(33.3%)

(9.7%)
(0.33%)
10.5%
9bps 
(0.7)

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Loans to customers (amortised cost)
  - personal
  - mortgages
  - other
Total loans to customers (amortised cost)
Loan impairment provisions
Net loans to customers (amortised cost)

Total assets
Assets under management (AUMs) (1)
Assets under administration (AUAs) (1)
Assets under management and 
   administration (AUMA) (1)
Customer deposits
Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and
    reverse repos) (1)
Risk-weighted assets

2023

£bn

1.8
12.3
4.5
18.6
(0.1)
18.5

26.9
31.7
9.1

40.8
37.7

49%
11.2

2022

£bn

2.2
12.7
4.4
19.3
(0.1)
19.2

29.9
28.3
5.1

33.4
41.2

47%
11.2

Variance

£bn

%

(0.4)
(0.4)
0.1
(0.7)
-
(0.7)

(3.0)
3.4
4.0

7.4
(3.5)

2%
-

(18.2%)
(3.1%)
2.3%
(3.6%)
-
(3.6%)

(10.0%)
12.0%
78.4%

22.2%
(8.5%)

4.3%
-

 During 2023, Private Banking continued to support customers to meet their financial 
goals and manage their wealth responsibly, delivering a return on equity of 14.8% 
which reflected the impact of a more challenging operating environment. AUMA was 
22.2% higher at £40.8 billion and is now greater than customer deposits of £37.7 
billion which fell as a result of competitive pressure and a change in customer 
behaviour.

 Private Banking provided £0.2 billion of climate and sustainable funding and financing 
in 2023, principally in relation to mortgages on residential properties with EPC A or B 
certificates.

 Total income was £66 million, or 6.3%, lower than 2022 reflecting lower deposit 

balances with mix shifting from non-interest bearing to interest bearing balances, as 
customers migrated to savings products offering higher returns, combined with 
reduced lending volumes and mortgage margin dilution.

 Net interest margin was 33 basis points lower than 2022 reflecting lower deposit 

balances with mix shift from non-interest bearing to interest bearing balances and an 
increase in pass-through of interest rate increases to customers, partly offset by the 
impact of rate rises on deposit income.

 Non-interest income of £280 million was broadly flat compared to 2022 primarily 

(1)

Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of basis of preparation and reconciliation of non-IFRS 
financial measures and performance metrics.

 A net impairment charge of £5 million in Q4 2023 largely reflects good book charges 

whilst stage 3 defaults remain at low levels.

 Net loans to customers decreased by £0.7 billion, or 3.6%, in 2023 as higher levels of 

customer repayments more than offset gross new lending.    

 Customer deposits decreased by £3.5 billion, or 8.5%, in 2023 reflecting an increase 
in competition and higher tax outflows in Q1 2023. Changes in customer behaviour 
drove a shift in mix of deposits with a decrease in instant access savings and current 
accounts, and a switch to term and notice accounts which now represent 30% of 
deposit balances.  

 AUMA increased by £7.4 billion to £40.8 billion, reflecting net inflows of £1.3 billion for 
AUM and £0.4 billion AUA: strong market performance of £3.4 billion and £2.3 billion 
Cushon balances following the acquisition in June 2023. 

driven by higher payment services fees offset by reduced investment management 
income due to product re-pricing.

 Other operating expenses were £66 million, or 10.8%, higher than 2022 reflecting an 
increase in pay awards to support our colleagues with cost of living challenges, an 
additional VAT charge, property revaluation costs and strategic spend to increase 
operational efficiency.

 The impairment charge of £14 million in 2023, compared with a £2 million release in 
2022, largely reflects non-recurrence of good book releases in 2022 whilst overall 
impairments remain at low levels.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8800

80

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

8811

Segment performance continued

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt
Net interest income
Non-interest income
TToottaall  iinnccoommee
Other operating expenses
Litigation and conduct costs
Operating expenses
Impairment losses
OOppeerraattiinngg  pprrooffiitt

PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  rraattiiooss ((11))
Return on equity
Net interest margin
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)
Loan impairment rate

2023

£m 

5,044
2,377
7,421
(3,867)
(224)
(4,091)
(94)
3,236

15.4%
3.84%
52.1%
7bps 

2022

£m 

4,171
2,242
6,413
(3,563)
(181)
(3,744)
(122)
2,547

12.2%
3.31%
55.6%
9bps 

Variance

£m

873
135
1,008
(304)
(43)
(347)
28
689

3.2%
0.53%
(3.5%)
(2bps)

%

20.9%
6.0%
15.7%
8.5%
23.8%
9.3%
(23.0%)
27.1%

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Loans to customers (amortised cost)
  - Business Banking
  - Commercial Mid-market
  - Corporate & Institutions
Total loans to customers (amortised cost)
Loan impairment provisions
Net loans to customers (amortised cost)

Total assets
Funded assets
Customer deposits
Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and 
   reverse repos) (1)
Risk-weighted assets 

2023

£bn 

4.5
71.5
57.4
133.4
(1.5)
131.9

385.0
306.9
193.4

68%
107.4

2022

£bn

6.1
71.7
53.7
131.5
(1.6)
129.9

404.8
306.3
203.3

64%
103.2

Variance

£bn

%

(1.6)
(0.2)
3.7
1.9
0.1
2.0

(19.8)
0.6
(9.9)

4%
4.2

(26.2%)
(0.3%)
6.9%
1.4%
(6.3%)
1.5%

(4.9%)
0.2%
(4.9%)

6.3%
4.1%

 During 2023, Commercial & Institutional continued to support customers with an 
increase in lending of 1.5% and delivered a strong performance with growth in 
revenues and operating profit supporting a return on equity of 15.4%, an increase 
from 12.2% in 2022.

 Commercial & Institutional provided £25.4 billion of climate and sustainable funding 
and financing in 2023 to support customers investing in the transition to net zero.
 Total income was £1,008 million, or 15.7%, higher than 2022 primarily reflecting 

higher deposit returns supported by interest rate rises, growth in lending and higher 
markets income partly offset by higher funding costs. 

 Net interest margin was 53 basis points higher than 2022 reflecting higher deposit 

returns partly offset by higher funding costs.

 Non-interest income was £135 million, or 6.0%, higher than 2022 principally driven by 
higher lending and financing fees in relation to volume growth, increased credit and 
debit card fees reflecting higher volumes and margins, higher payment services fees 
and fixed income performance.

 Other operating expenses were £304 million, or 8.5%, higher than 2022 reflecting 
higher pay awards to support our colleagues with cost of living challenges and 
continued investment in the business. 

 An impairment charge of £94 million in 2023, £28 million lower than 2022, reflecting 

good book releases and lower stage 3 charges.

(1)

Refer to the Non-IFRS financial measures section for details of basis of preparation and reconciliation of non-IFRS 
financial measures and performance metrics.

of Ireland.

 Net loans to customers increased by £2.0 billion, or 1.5%, in 2023 reflecting an 

increase of £4.7 billion from growth in private financing activity, an increase in term 
loan facilities including an increase in revolving credit utilisations within Corporate & 
Institutions, and asset finance growth within Commercial Mid-market, partly offset by 
£2.7 billion of UK Government scheme repayments.

 Customer deposits decreased by £9.9 billion, or 4.9%, in 2023 primarily due to overall 
market liquidity contraction, particularly in Commercial Mid-market. We have seen 
strong growth in term deposits balances in 2023 which now represent 19% of deposit 
balances. Across the year we continued to see a reduction in non-interest bearing 
balances which now represent 36% of deposit balances.

 RWAs increased by £4.2 billion, or 4.1%, in 2023 primarily reflecting lending facility 
growth, partly offset by capital optimisation activity and foreign exchange benefits.

Segment performance continued

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  --  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Total income

Operating expenses (1)

   of which: Other operating expenses

   of which: Ulster Bank RoI direct expenses

Impairment (losses)/releases

Operating profit/(loss)

   of which: Ulster Bank RoI

2023

£m

410

(392)

(387)

(275)

(5)

13

(473)

2022

£m

41

(728)

(645)

(433)

12

(675)

(723)

Variance

£m

369

336

258

158

(17)

688

250

900.0%

(46.2%)

(40.0%)

(36.5%)

(141.7%)

nm

(34.6%)

 Total income was £369 million higher than 2022 primarily reflecting notable items 

including foreign exchange recycling gains of £484 million, lower losses on 

redemption of own debt, business growth fund gains and lower losses on liquidity 

asset bond sales, partially offset by lower gains on interest and foreign exchange risk 

management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships and losses associated 

with property lease terminations.

 Other operating expenses were £258 million, or 40.0%, lower than 2022 principally 

reflecting the reduction in cost due to our withdrawal of operations from the Republic 

 Net loans to customers increased by £6.2 billion, to £25.8 billion, over the year 

mainly due to reverse repo activity in Treasury.

 Customer deposits decreased by £5.1 billion 2023 primarily reflecting our withdrawal 

of our operations from the Republic of Ireland. Ulster Bank RoI customer deposit 

balances were £0.2 billion as at Q4 2023.

%

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

Net loans to customers (amortised cost) (2)

Customer deposits

RWAs

2023

£bn

25.8 

12.3 

2.8 

2022

£bn

19.6 

17.4 

7.0 

Variance

£bn

6.2

(5.1)

(4.2)

%

31.6%

(29.3%)

(60.0%)

(1)

Includes withdrawal-related direct program costs of £91 million for the year ended 31 December 2023 (31 December 

2022 – £195 million). 

(2)

Excludes £0.3 billion of loans to customers held at fair value through profit or loss (31 December 2022 – £0.5 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8811

81

Segment performance continued

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  --  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total income
Operating expenses (1)
   of which: Other operating expenses
   of which: Ulster Bank RoI direct expenses
Impairment (losses)/releases
Operating profit/(loss)
   of which: Ulster Bank RoI

2023

£m

410
(392)
(387)
(275)
(5)
13
(473)

2022

£m

41
(728)
(645)
(433)
12
(675)
(723)

Variance

£m

369
336
258
158
(17)
688
250

%

900.0%
(46.2%)
(40.0%)
(36.5%)
(141.7%)
nm
(34.6%)

 Total income was £369 million higher than 2022 primarily reflecting notable items 

including foreign exchange recycling gains of £484 million, lower losses on 
redemption of own debt, business growth fund gains and lower losses on liquidity 
asset bond sales, partially offset by lower gains on interest and foreign exchange risk 
management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships and losses associated 
with property lease terminations.

 Other operating expenses were £258 million, or 40.0%, lower than 2022 principally 

reflecting the reduction in cost due to our withdrawal of operations from the Republic 
of Ireland.

 Net loans to customers increased by £6.2 billion, to £25.8 billion, over the year 

mainly due to reverse repo activity in Treasury.

 Customer deposits decreased by £5.1 billion 2023 primarily reflecting our withdrawal 
of our operations from the Republic of Ireland. Ulster Bank RoI customer deposit 
balances were £0.2 billion as at Q4 2023.

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Net loans to customers (amortised cost) (2)
Customer deposits
RWAs

2023

£bn

25.8 
12.3 
2.8 

2022

£bn

19.6 
17.4 
7.0 

Variance

£bn

6.2
(5.1)
(4.2)

%

31.6%
(29.3%)
(60.0%)

(1)

(2)

Includes withdrawal-related direct program costs of £91 million for the year ended 31 December 2023 (31 December 
2022 – £195 million). 
Excludes £0.3 billion of loans to customers held at fair value through profit or loss (31 December 2022 – £0.5 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8822

82

Summary financial statements

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  

For the year ended 31 December 2023

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

As at 31 December 2023

Net interest income
Non-interest income 
Total income
Operating expenses
Profit before impairment losses
Impairment losses
Operating profit before tax
Tax charge
Profit from continuing operations
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit for the year

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Preference shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

2023

£m 
11,049
3,703
14,752
(7,996)
6,756
(578)
6,178
(1,434)
4,744
(112)
4,632

4,394
-
242
(4)
4,632

2022

£m 
9,842
3,314
13,156
(7,687)
5,469
(337)
5,132
(1,275)
3,857
(262)
3,595

3,340
-
249
6
3,595

2021

£m 
7,535
2,894
10,429
(7,758)
2,671
1,173
3,844
(996)
2,848
464
3,312

2,950
19
299
44
3,312

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Other and intangible assets
Assets of disposal groups 
Total assets

Deposits
Trading liabilities
Settlement balances, derivatives, other financial
   liabilities and subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities
Owners' equity
Notes in circulation
Non-controlling interests
Total liabilities and equity

2023

£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
388,347
51,102
16,374
902
692,673

2022

£m

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
373,479
30,895
16,292
6,861
720,053

2021

£m

177,757
59,158
106,139
2,141
366,672
46,145
14,965
9,015
781,992

453,567
53,636

470,759
52,808

506,089
64,598

139,843
5,202
37,157
3,237
31
692,673

151,426
5,346
36,488
3,218
8
720,053

160,658
5,797
41,796
3,047
7
781,992

NatWest Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
83

Serving our

customers

every day

Governance

84

88

89

105

110

115

122

127

138

141

162

165

169

Our Board

Chairman’s introduction

Governance at a glance

Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee

Report of the Group Audit Committee

Report of the Group Board Risk Committee

Report of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

Directors’ remuneration report

Summary of Policy for executive directors

Annual remuneration report

Compliance report

Report of the directors

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance

Our Board

84

Howard Davies
Chairman

Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive 
Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial 
Officer

Date of appointment:
14 July 2015 (Board), 1 September 2015 (Chairman)

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
25 July 2023

Committee memberships:
N/A

Date of appointment:
1 January 2019

Committee memberships:
N/A

Contribution to the Board:
Howard brings substantial financial services knowledge and 
experience to the Board, together with a deep understanding of 
global economic, environmental and social issues. With extensive 
board level experience, Howard draws on his prior regulatory and 
supervisory expertise to contribute both strategic and practical 
insights to Board discussions and debate. Howard is also a highly 
adept Chairman with valuable leadership and stakeholder 
management skills.

Relevant experience:
Howard has held several regulatory roles during his career 
including Chairman of the UK Financial Services Authority and 
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England. Howard was Director of 
the London School of Economics and Political Science and is also 
Professor of Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Studies 
(Sciences Po).

Howard has also previously served as a non-executive director of 
Morgan Stanley and Prudential plc, as Chairman of Phoenix plc 
and as Chair of the UK Airports Commission.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Inigo Limited
 – Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of 

Millennium Management LLC

 – Chair of the International Advisory Council of the China Securities 

Regulatory Commission

 – Member of the International Advisory Council of the National 
Administration of Financial Regulation (formerly the China 
Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission)

Contribution to the Board:
An experienced leader of NatWest Group’s Commercial & 
Institutional segment and Payments business, Paul was appointed 
NatWest Group CEO for an initial 12-month period in July 2023 and 
then permanently with effect from 16 February 2024. He brings a 
customer focus to the Board, as well as expertise in balance sheet 
management, transformation and risk and controls.

Contribution to the Board:
Katie is a Chartered Accountant with over 30 years’ experience 
in finance and accounting gained through several roles across the 
financial services industry. Katie’s deep knowledge and experience 
in specialist areas including capital management, investor relations 
and financial planning mean she is well placed to provide valuable 
input and expertise during Board discussions.

Paul was central to the formulation and execution of NatWest 
Group’s strategy reviews in both 2014 and 2019, giving him a 
strong, enterprise-wide view. He has led the development and 
delivery of industry-leading initiatives on climate and support for 
SMEs, including the coordination of NatWest Group’s business 
support during the COVID pandemic.

In addition, Paul has played an active role in NatWest Group’s 
diversity, equality and inclusion agenda, sponsoring and progressing 
a number of targeted programmes including NatWest Group’s 
Junior Management Team and Multicultural Network.

Relevant experience:
Paul has a track record of success in senior global roles within 
Wholesale, Corporate, International, Risk and Retail Banking, 
based across the UK, Europe and US. Most recently he was Chief 
Executive Officer of NatWest Group’s Commercial & Institutional 
segment between July 2022 and July 2023, having previously led 
NatWest Group’s Commercial Banking division as CEO since 
November 2019. As part of his most recent role, Paul also 
led NatWest Group’s Payments business.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Pollinate Networks Limited 

Relevant experience:
Katie joined NatWest Group as Director of Finance in 2015 and was 
appointed as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in March 2017. She 
was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer in January 2019.

Katie was previously the Group Finance Director for Old Mutual 
Emerging Markets, based in Johannesburg (2011-2015), having 
held various roles across Old Mutual from 2002. Prior to this Katie 
worked at KPMG for 13 years. She is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Phoenix Group Holdings plc

Board Committees

A Group Audit Committee (GAC)

N

Group Nominations & Governance Committee (N&G)

Re Group Performance & Remuneration Committee (RemCo)

Ri Group Board Risk Committee (BRC)

S Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC)

Underline denotes Committee Chair

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

85

Mark Seligman
Senior Independent 
Director

Frank Dangeard
Independent  
non-executive director

Roisin Donnelly
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 April 2017 (Board), 1 January 2018  
(Senior Independent Director)

Committee memberships:

A

N

Re

Contribution to the Board:
Mark, a former senior investment banker, brings comprehensive 
financial services knowledge and substantial FTSE 100 board 
experience to the Board. A former boardroom adviser, Mark 
contributes significant banking and corporate transformation 
expertise in particular, alongside a range of customer and 
wider stakeholder engagement skills.

Relevant experience:
Mark has held various senior roles at Credit Suisse/BZW during his 
executive career, including Deputy Chairman, CSFB Europe and 
Chairman, UK Investment Banking, CSFB.

Mark has served as a non-executive director on company boards 
across a range of industry sectors, including BG Group plc, as 
Senior Independent Director of Kingfisher plc, and as Deputy 
Chairman of G4S plc. He has significant experience of chairing 
committees and as a Senior Independent Director.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc
 – Non-executive director and trustee of The Brooklands Museum

Date of appointment:
16 May 2016

Committee memberships:

Re

Date of appointment:
1 October 2022

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Frank is a former investment banker and technology company 
CEO with substantial global board expertise. This broad background 
enables Frank to make a valuable contribution to Board discussions, 
particularly in relation to technology, digital and innovation matters. 
Frank’s experience also encompasses key areas including customer 
experience, stakeholder engagement, ESG and risk. In April 2018, 
Frank assumed the role of Chairman of NatWest Markets Plc, 
which enables him to bring a unique perspective to Board debate.

Relevant experience:
During his executive career, Frank held various roles at Thomson 
S.A., including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and was 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of France Telecom. Prior to that 
he was Chairman of SG Warburg France and Managing Director 
of SG Warburg.

Frank has also held a number of non-executive roles at Crédit 
Agricole CIB, EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom SGPS and 
Arqiva Group Limited. He was also Deputy Chairman and 
acting Chairman of Telenor ASA, an international media 
communications group.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Gen Digital Inc.
 – Non-executive director of IHS Holding Limited
 – Chairman of the Advisory Board of STJ Advisors

Contribution to the Board:
Roisin brings extensive customer, marketing and branding 
experience to the Board, gained during her long executive  
career at Procter & Gamble. She has a strong background in 
digital transformation and data and significant knowledge and 
experience of developing ESG strategies at board level. Roisin 
also brings practical board and committee experience to the role, 
having served on a number of listed company boards.

In April 2023, Roisin was appointed as NatWest Group’s Consumer 
Duty Board Champion. She is also the Chair of the NatWest Group 
Colleague Advisory Panel, which provides a valuable link to 
colleague and customer issues.

Relevant experience:
Roisin spent over 30 years leading marketing and brand building 
at Procter & Gamble in different UK and international roles. Most 
recently Roisin served as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & 
Gamble Northern Europe (2014-2016) and prior to that served 
as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & Gamble UK and Ireland 
(2002-2014).

Roisin’s previous non-executive directorships include HomeServe 
plc, Just Eat plc, Holland and Barrett Limited, and Bourne 
Leisure Limited.

Roisin is an Honorary Fellow of the Marketing Society.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Premier Foods plc
 – Non-executive director of The Sage Group plc
 – Member of the Digital Advisory Board, Coca-Cola Europacific 

Partners plc

 – Non-executive Advisor, Internet Advertising Bureau

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

86

Patrick Flynn
Independent  
non-executive director

Rick Haythornthwaite
Independent non-executive 
director and Chair Designate

Yasmin Jetha
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 June 2018

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
8 January 2024

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
1 April 2020

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Patrick contributes significant retail and commercial banking 
experience to the Board, together with a background in complex 
organisational restructuring and technology transformation. 
This experience enables Patrick to provide insightful contributions 
to Board discussions on complex matters, alongside his significant 
financial knowledge and expertise.

Relevant experience:
Patrick was the Chief Financial Officer and a member of the 
Executive Board of ING Group for over eight years to May 2017. 
Prior to that, he worked for HSBC for 20 years. Patrick is a 
Fellow of Chartered Accountants Ireland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of 

Aviva plc

Contribution to the Board:
Rick is a highly experienced Chair who combines a successful 
commercial career with a deep knowledge of financial services 
markets and technology, as well as a strong track record of delivery 
at significant customer-facing organisations. Rick’s Chair experience 
extends across industry sectors, including Embedded Finance, 
a fintech company; QiO Technologies Limited, the industrial AI 
company that Rick co-founded; and Xynteo, a Norway-based 
sustainability consultancy.

Relevant experience:
Rick served as Chair of Mastercard Inc. during its transformation 
from a credit card company to a global technology company and 
an increase in its market value from $5 billion to over $350 billion. 
He also chaired Arc International Holdings, Centrica plc and 
Network Rail Limited, and was a partner at Star Capital. Rick’s 
past non-executive directorships include Globant S.A., Cookson plc, 
Lafarge S.A., Land Securities plc and ICI plc. Rick also led the 
Haythornthwaite Review of UK Armed Forces Incentivisation.

Rick has been responsible for several high-profile business 
transformations and rescues, including Invensys, then one 
of the world’s leading industrial controls companies, as CEO.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Ocado Group plc
 – Chairman of AA Limited
 – Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited(1)
 – Senior advisory partner at Moelis & Co

(1)  advisory role

Prior to becoming NatWest Group Chair, Rick will step down as 
Chairman of AA Limited (remaining as a non-executive director) 
and as advisory Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited.

Contribution to the Board:
Yasmin brings a wealth of retail banking and customer experience 
to the Board, as well as valuable technology and innovation insights, 
and a strong background in general management. Yasmin adds 
strength and depth to the Board in these important areas, 
supporting challenge and debate and effective decision-making.

On 1 April 2020 Yasmin re-joined the Board of NatWest Group plc, 
having first been appointed in June 2017. Yasmin stepped down 
in April 2018 in order to serve solely as a director of our key 
ring-fenced entities, and, like the majority of our directors, she 
continues to serve on these boards in addition to the Board of 
NatWest Group plc.

Relevant experience:
During her executive career, Yasmin held Chief Information Officer 
roles at Bupa and the Financial Times, where she later became 
the Chief Operating Officer. Prior to that Yasmin held a number 
of senior roles at Abbey National PLC, in a career spanning nearly 
20 years, where latterly she served as an executive director on 
the board.

Yasmin has also held a number of non-commercial roles 
including Vice Chair of the Board of Governors at the University 
of Bedfordshire (2008 to 2011) and Vice Chair of the National 
Committee of the Aga Khan Foundation (UK) Ltd, a non-
denominational charity that works with communities in Africa, 
Asia and the Middle East.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc
 – Non-executive director of Nation Media Group Limited

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

87

Stuart Lewis
Independent  
non-executive director

Lena Wilson CBE
Independent  
non-executive director

Jan Cargill
Chief Governance Officer 
and Company Secretary

Date of appointment:
1 April 2023

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
1 January 2018

Committee memberships:

N Re

Ri

S

Contribution to the Board:
Stuart brings extensive risk management, financial services and 
regulatory experience to the Board gained during his executive 
career, predominantly at Deutsche Bank. He also brings practical 
board-level experience, having served on a number of boards and 
committees in both executive and non-executive capacities. Stuart’s 
strengths in risk and financial services complement and enhance the 
overall knowledge and experience of the Board, particularly in support 
of growth opportunities and continued organisational transformation.

Relevant experience:
Stuart served 10 years on the Management Board of Deutsche 
Bank as Chief Risk Officer, retiring in May 2022. He joined Deutsche 
Bank in 1996, where he held a variety of senior roles, including 
Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Global Chief Credit Officer and Chief 
Credit Officer for Asia Pacific. He was previously Head of European 
Credit Risk Management at Credit Suisse Financial Products.

Stuart served as a non-executive director of the London Stock 
Exchange Group plc (2013-2016) and in 2013 was elected to the 
Global Association of Risk Professionals Board of Trustees. He was 
also a Member of the Foundation Board of the International Financial 
Risk Institute (2010-2022) and served as Chair (2016-2018).

Current external appointments:
 – Member of the Board of Trustees of the Global Association of 

Risk Professionals

 – Member of the Advisory Committee of the International 

Association of Credit Portfolio Managers

 – Visiting Professor in Practice in the Finance Department, 

London School of Economics

Contribution to the Board:
Lena contributes significant knowledge and experience to the Board 
drawn from a broad executive and non-executive career. She has 
extensive transformation and development skills, with experience in 
enterprise, internationalisation, stakeholder management, ESG and 
general management.

As a former Chair of the NatWest Group Colleague Advisory Panel, 
Lena provides valuable insights into customer and people issues 
in particular.

Relevant experience:
Lena has a portfolio of Chair roles in the listed, private equity 
and professional services sectors. She has been a FTSE 100 
non-executive director for over 10 years and previously served 
on the boards of Scottish Power Renewables Limited and Intertek 
Group plc. Lena was Chief Executive of Scottish Enterprise 
(2009-2017) and prior to that was Senior Investment Advisor  
to The World Bank in Washington DC.

Lena was a member of Scotland’s Financial Services Advisory 
Board and Chair of Scotland’s Energy Jobs Taskforce. In June 2015 
she received a CBE for services to economic development in Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Picton Property Income Limited
 – Visiting Professor, University of Strathclyde Business School
 – Member of the European Advisory Board of Workday Inc.

Date of appointment:
5 August 2019

Contribution to the Board:
Jan works closely with the Chairman to ensure effective and 
efficient functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment and 
information flows between the Board and its Committees. She is 
responsible for advising the Board and individual directors on all 
governance matters, and also facilitates Board induction and 
directors’ professional development.

Relevant experience:
Jan is a chartered company secretary with over 20 years’ 
corporate governance experience. She was appointed Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary in 2019, and prior 
to that held various roles in the legal and secretariat functions, 
including Head of Board and Shareholder Services.

Jan has a law degree and is a Fellow of the Chartered Banker 
Institute. She is also an Associate of The Chartered Governance 
Institute and has an INSEAD Certificate in Corporate Governance.

Former directors:
Mike Rogers stood down as a director 
on 25 April 2023.

Alison Rose stood down as a director  
on 25 July 2023.

Morten Friis stood down as a director  
on 31 July 2023. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Chairman’s 
introduction

Letter from Howard Davies,

Chairman of the Board

89

91

92

95

Governance at a Glance

UK Corporate Governance Code

Our governance framework

Principal areas of Board focus

88

I am also delighted that Geeta Gopalan will join the Board 
as an independent non-executive director on 1 July 2024.

Given the significant changes in the leadership of NatWest 
Group, across 2023 and into the first part of 2024, the 
Board agreed that the 2023 annual evaluation of Board 
and committee effectiveness will be deferred until 2024 and 
undertaken by an external facilitator.

The Board maintained its close oversight of the business of 
NatWest Group through the year. Regular reports included 
spotlights on cost of living challenges and how the bank has 
been supporting colleagues and customers. Data on the 
impact of changes in the macro-economic environment on 
customer behaviour was considered regularly. The Board 
also oversaw the preparation for and implementation of the 
Consumer Duty requirements, which became effective on 
31 July 2023.

The Board held a two-day strategy session in June 2023 
which was focused on the impact of technological advances 
on the financial services sector.

Following the announcement that the UK Government will 
explore a potential retail share sale in 2024 as part of its 
plans to reduce its shareholding in NatWest Group plc, 
a Board Oversight Committee was established. This 
Committee is responsible for considering all matters and 
taking any necessary decisions in connection with a retail 
share offering.

Details of the Board’s principal areas of focus and operations 
during 2023 are set out on pages 95 and 97 respectively.

I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their 
contribution, commitment and dedication during 2023 
and also throughout my time as Chairman. I will hand 
over my chairing responsibilities to Rick Haythornthwaite 
on 15 April 2024.

Howard Davies
Chairman of the Board

15 February 2024

Dear Shareholder,

Welcome to the 2023 Corporate governance report.

It has been a challenging year for the Board with a 
number of changes to directors and committee structure 
and composition.

The most significant change was the departure of Alison 
Rose as Group CEO in July 2023. The Board, supported by 
the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, had 
considered Group CEO succession plans in February 2023. 
We were therefore ready to move quickly when she left. 
Paul Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO in July 2023 
for an initial period of 12 months. We are grateful to Paul 
for stepping up at short notice, and to Katie Murray for 
her continued support as Group CFO. Following a robust 
recruitment process the Board appointed Paul as Group 
CEO on a permanent basis with effect from 16 February 
2024. Further information on this process is available on 
page 109.

Other changes to Board membership during the year were 
Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepping down as directors on 
25 April and 31 July 2023 respectively. I would like to record 
our thanks to Mike and Morten for their significant 
contributions to the Board during their tenures.

Stuart Lewis was appointed as a director on 1 April 2023, 
succeeding Morten Friis as the Chair of the Group Board 
Risk Committee on 1 August 2023.

In September we announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as the next Chair of NatWest Group. You 
can read more about the process undertaken by the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee to recruit Rick on 
page 108. The Board’s role in the process is also described 
in our section 172 statement on page 24.

I also want to take the opportunity to thank Graham Beale 
who stepped down from the NWH Sub Group Boards, and 
his role as NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director, on 
31 August 2023. We welcomed Mark Rennison to the NWH 
Sub Group Boards on 1 September 2023 and Ian Cormack 
is now the NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director.

During the year the Technology and Innovation Committee 
was retired, and the remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee (SBC) was expanded to include technology, data 
and innovation matters. Yasmin Jetha became Chair of 
SBC, succeeding Mike Rogers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Governance at a glance

Key activities in 2023

Chair appointment
We announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite to succeed Howard Davies 
as Chair, following a rigorous search process.

Consumer Duty
Roisin Donnelly became our Consumer Duty Board 
Champion, and the Board reviewed Consumer Duty 
implementation across the bank.

Read more on page 108.

Read more on page 24.

Change in Group CEO
When Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the 
Board to step down as Group CEO, we implemented 
agreed contingency plans to appoint Paul Thwaite as 
Group CEO for an initial period of 12 months.

Risk management
The Group Board Risk Committee reviewed, and 
the Board approved, NatWest Group’s Enterprise-
Wide Risk Management Framework (EWRMF) and 
the annual refresh of risk appetite.

Read more on page 104.

Read more on page 117.

Streamlining Board committees
The remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee was expanded to include technology, 
data and innovation matters, and the Technology 
and Innovation Committee was retired as a 
standalone Board committee.

Read more on page 122.

Board diversity
We maintained our focus on Board diversity, with 
reference to our Boardroom inclusion policy, as 
a number of changes were made to Board and 
committee composition.

Read more on page 107.

Board Oversight Committees
We set up two Board Oversight Committees (BOCs) 
to support Board review and oversight of key areas 
of focus for the bank – the Customer Exit BOC and 
the Retail Share Offering BOC.

Supporting directors’ professional development
We provided dedicated induction programmes for 
new directors and supported existing directors’ 
transitions into new committee roles, alongside 
a bespoke training programme for all directors.

Read more on page 92.

Read more on page 98.

89

Board changes during 2023
1 April

Stuart Lewis joined the Board as an independent 
non-executive director and joined GAC and BRC. 
Roisin Donnelly joined SBC.

25 April

Mike Rogers stepped down as a non-executive 
director and SBC Chair.

26 April

Yasmin Jetha succeeded Mike Rogers as SBC Chair.

25 July

Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the Board 
to step down as Group CEO and Paul Thwaite was 
appointed as Group CEO for an initial period of 
12 months.

31 July

Morten Friis stepped down as a non-executive 
director and BRC Chair.

1 August

Stuart Lewis succeeded Morten Friis as BRC Chair 
and joined N&G.

Board changes during 2024
8 January

Rick Haythornthwaite joined as an independent 
non-executive director and Chair Designate.

16 February

Paul Thwaite becomes permanent Group CEO

15 April

Rick Haythornthwaite will succeed Howard Davies as 
Chair of NatWest Group plc, and Howard will step 
down from the Board.

1 July 

Geeta Gopalan will join the Board as an independent 
non-executive director.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board composition dashboard as at 31 December 2023(1)

Sex

Ethnicity

Age range

Tenure

Independence

90

60%

40%

Male

Female

1

9

White

Minority ethnic

Board skills and experience
The Board is structured to ensure that the directors 
provide an appropriate combination of skills, experience 
and knowledge as well as independence.

The bar chart opposite is an extract from our Board 
skills matrix, which is reviewed by the Group Nominations 
and Governance Committee and approved by the 
Board annually.

The matrix reflects directors’ self-assessment of the skills 
and experience they bring to Board discussions, in line 
with pre-determined criteria aligned to current and 
future strategic priorities.

2

5

3

45-55

56-65

66-75

Broad Financial Services 

Risk Management

Transformation

i

e
c
n
e
r
e
p
x
e

d
n
a

s

l
l
i

k
S

Government / Regulatory / Public Sector

ESG (incl. climate and nature-related issues)

Customer Experience

Financial Markets / Investment Banking

Digital and Innovation

Retail / Commercial / Private Banking

Technology (infrastructure, cyber)

Prior CEO experience

CFO / Accountant

Chairman and  
non-executive directors

2

2

4

0-3 years

3-6 years

6-9 years

Full Board average tenure: 4.2 years

1

2

7

Chairman

Executive directors

Independent non-executive directors

Boardroom inclusion policy
Our boardroom inclusion policy aims to promote 
diversity and inclusion in our Board and Board 
Committee composition, and in the nominations 
and appointments process.

Our disclosures under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) and 
(10) (Board and executive management diversity) 
can be found on page 107.

(1)  As at 31 December 2023 there were 10 directors on the Board.

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
Corporate governance continued

UK Corporate Governance Code 2018

All directors are committed to observing high standards 
of corporate governance, integrity and professionalism. 
Throughout 2023, NatWest Group plc applied the Principles 
and complied with the Provisions of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) with the following exceptions, 
as described in full in our Statement of compliance 
on page 162:

Provision 17 – that the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee should ensure plans are in  
place for orderly succession to both the Board and senior 
management positions, and oversee the development 
of a diverse pipeline for succession. The Board considers 
these are matters that should be reserved for the Board.

Provision 21 – that an annual evaluation of the 
performance of the Board and its committees should be 
undertaken. The Board agreed to defer the 2023 evaluation 
until 2024 for the reasons set out on page 104. The Board 
confirms there will be an evaluation in 2024, which will be 
externally facilitated.

Provision 33 – that the Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee should have delegated 
responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman 
and executive directors. The Board considers these are 
matters that should be reserved for the Board.

In addition, the Board has delegated two particular aspects 
of the Code’s provisions to Board committees, with regular 
updates provided to the Board as appropriate:

 – The Group Audit Committee has delegated 
responsibility for reviewing and monitoring 
NatWest Group’s whistleblowing process.

 – The Group Sustainable Banking Committee has 

delegated responsibility for reviewing key workforce 
policies and practices (not related to pay) to ensure 
they are consistent with NatWest Group’s values 
and support long-term sustainable success.

Board leadership and company purpose
 – Our strategic framework (page 9)
 – How We Create Value (pages 10 to 12)
 – Principal areas of Board focus (page 95)
 – Board oversight of our strategic framework (page 99)
 – How the Board oversees and monitors culture (page 100)
 – How the Board engaged with stakeholders, including our 

multi-channel colleague listening approach (pages 101 to 102)

Composition, succession and evaluation
 – Directors’ biographies and committee memberships  

(pages 84 to 87)

 – Board and Board committee composition (page 104) and 

changes in 2023 and 2024 (page 89)

 – Board skills matrix (page 90)
 – Board composition dashboard as at 31 December 2023  
(sex, ethnicity, age, tenure, independence) (page 90)

Division of responsibilities
 – Our governance framework (role and responsibilities of the 

Board and Board committees) (page 92)

 – Division of responsibilities (page 93)
 – Subsidiary governance and ring-fencing (page 94)
 – Board and committee membership and attendance (page 97)
 – External appointments and time commitment (page 103)

 – Our Boardroom inclusion policy (page 106)
 – Board and executive succession planning (page 104)
 – Deferral of the 2023 Board and committee evaluation (page 104)
 – Group Nominations and Governance Committee report  

(page 105)

 – UK Listing Rules Board and executive management diversity 

disclosures (page 107)

 – Chair search process (page 108)

91

The Listing Rules require companies to make a statement 
of how they have applied the Principles, in a manner that 
would enable shareholders to evaluate how the Principles 
have been applied. The table below includes signposts to 
key content in this report which describes how we have 
applied the Principles and complied with the Provisions 
of the Code during 2023, organised under the Code’s 
five main section headings.

Audit, risk and internal controls
Information on how the company has applied the Principles and 
complied with the Provisions set out in this section of the Code 
can be found throughout the Annual Report and Accounts. 
The following sections are of particular relevance:

 – Group Audit Committee report (page 110)
 – Viability statement (page 66)
 – Compliance report (page 162)
 – Group Board Risk Committee report (page 115)

The Board regularly assesses the company’s emerging and 
principal risks in a variety of ways including through review 
of the risk management report and dedicated training.

Details of the company’s principal risks, procedures in place to 
identify Top and Emerging Threats, and how these are managed 
or mitigated, can be found on pages 60 to 65 (Risk overview) 
and pages 170 to 282 (Risk and Capital Management).

Remuneration
 – Directors’ remuneration report (page 127) (Group Performance and Remuneration Committee activity and decisions during 2023; 

remuneration policy for executive directors; wider workforce remuneration)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts92

Corporate governance continued

Our governance framework

NatWest Group plc Board

 – Is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term success of the company, 
driving shareholder value and Natwest Group’s contribution to wider society.
 – Establishes NatWest Group’s strategy and leads the development of its culture.
 – Provides leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective 

 – Sets the strategic aims of the company and its subsidiaries, ensures that the 
necessary resources are in place for NatWest Group to meet its objectives.
 – Is responsible for the allocation and raising of capital, and reviews business and 

financial performance.

controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.

 – Ensures that the company’s obligations to its shareholders and other key stakeholders 

are understood and met.

To assist in providing effective oversight and leadership, the Board has established the following principal committees:

Group Audit Committee 
(GAC)

Group Board Risk Committee 
(BRC)

Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee 
(N&G)

Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee 
(RemCo)

Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee (SBC)

 – Assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities in relation 
to the disclosure of NatWest 
Group’s financial affairs.
 – Reviews accounting and 
financial reporting and 
regulatory compliance and 
NatWest Group’s system 
of internal controls.

 – Monitors the processes for 

internal audit, risk 
management, external audit 
and whistleblowing.

 – Provides oversight and advice 
to the Board in relation to 
current and potential future 
risk exposures of NatWest 
Group, future risk strategy, 
risk appetite and tolerance.
 – Promotes a risk awareness 

culture within NatWest Group.

 – Assists the Board in the formal 
selection and appointment 
of directors.

 – Reviews the structure, size 

and composition of the Board, 
and approves appointments 
to the boards of NatWest 
Group’s principal and material 
regulated subsidiaries.

 – Monitors NatWest Group’s 
governance arrangements. 

 – Responsible for the overview 

 – Supports the Board in 

of NatWest Group 
remuneration policy and the 
directors’ remuneration policy, 
ensuring that arrangements 
are designed to promote 
the long-term success of 
NatWest Group.

overseeing, supporting and 
challenging actions taken by 
management to run NatWest 
Group as a sustainable 
business, capable of 
generating long-term  
value for its stakeholders.
 – Oversees how technology, 

data and innovation are used 
to support the customer and 
be a relationship bank for a 
digital world.

Committee report on page 110.

Committee report on page 115.

Committee report on page 105.

Committee report on page 127.

Committee report on page 122.

The Group Executive Committee 
(ExCo) supports the Group CEO 
in discharging his responsibilities 
in managing NatWest Group’s 
business day to day.

For further information on individual 
roles and responsibilities, see page 93.

Governance framework changes during 2023
From 1 May, SBC’s remit expanded to include technology, data and 
innovation matters and the Technology and Innovation Committee was retired. 
On 27 July a Customer Exit Board Oversight Committee (BOC) was set up to 
oversee and advise the Board in relation to the work and findings of reviews 
related to customer exits. On 11 December a Retail Share Offering BOC was 
set up regarding the proposed share offering to retail investors by UKGI.

Further information
 – The terms of reference of the Board and its principal committees are 
available at natwestgroup.com and are reviewed at least annually.
 – The Board terms of reference include a formal schedule of matters 

specifically reserved for the Board’s decision.

 – Internal reviews confirmed the Board and its principal committees had 
fulfilled their remits as set out in their terms of reference during 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Division of responsibilities

As at the date of publication of this report, the Board has 11 directors comprising the Chairman, two executive directors and nine independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the 
Senior Independent Director. Director biographies and details of the Board committees of which they are members can be found on pages 84 to 87.

Non-executive director independence 
The Board considers that the current Chairman, Howard Davies, and Chair Designate, Rick Haythornthwiate were both independent on appointment and that all other current non-executive 
directors are independent for the purposes of the Code. 

93

Chairman and Group CEO 
The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from 
that of the Group CEO and there is a clear division of 
responsibilities, with the Chairman leading the Board and 
the Group CEO managing the business day to day.

Senior Independent Director
Throughout 2023, Mark Seligman, as Senior Independent 
Director, acted as a sounding board for the Chairman, and 
as an intermediary for other directors when necessary. He 
was also available to shareholders to discuss any concerns 
they may have had, as appropriate. 

Mr Seligman, on behalf of the Board, also led the process to 
identify and appoint a successor to Howard Davies as Chair 
of NatWest Group.

Read more about the Chair search process on page 108.

Non-executive directors
Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the 
non-executive directors are responsible for ensuring the 
Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.

The non-executive directors combine broad business and 
commercial experience with independent and objective 
judgment. They provide constructive challenge, strategic 
guidance, and specialist advice to the executive directors 
and the executive management team and hold 
management to account.

The balance between non-executive and executive 
directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective 
leadership across NatWest Group’s business activities and 
ensures no one individual or small group of individuals 
dominates the Board’s decision-making.

The Chairman and non-executive directors meet at least 
once every year without the executive directors present.

Details of the key responsibilities of the Chairman, Group CEO, Senior Independent Director and non-executive directors are available at 
natwestgroup.com.

Executive management 
The executive management team supports the Group CEO 
in managing NatWest Group’s businesses.

Members of the executive management team, including 
the Group CEO, discharge their individual accountabilities 
to review, challenge and debate relevant items and support 
the Group CEO in forming recommendations to the Board.

Matters include strategy, financials, capital, risk, customers, 
colleagues(1) and operational issues affecting NatWest Group 
as well as monitoring the implementation of cultural change 
and executive succession planning.

Biographies of the executive management team can be 
found at natwestgroup.com.

(1)  References to ‘colleagues’ in this report mean all permanent employees and, in 

some instances, members of the wider workforce e.g. temporary employees and 
agency workers.

Chief Governance Officer and 
Company Secretary 
The Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary 
works closely with the Chairman to ensure effective and 
efficient functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment 
and information flows between the Board and its Committees. 

The Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary is 
responsible for advising the Board and individual directors 
on all governance matters, and also facilitates Board 
induction and directors’ professional development. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Subsidiary governance and ring-fencing

94

NatWest Group plc is a listed company with equity listed 
on the London and New York stock exchanges. NatWest 
Holdings Limited (NWH Ltd) is the holding company for our 
ring-fenced operations, which include our Retail and Private 
Banking businesses and certain aspects of our Commercial 
& Institutional business. A common board structure is 
operated such that the directors of NWH Ltd are also 
directors of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS plc) 
and National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB Plc). Known 
collectively as the NWH Sub Group, the boards of 
these three entities meet concurrently.

An integral part of NatWest Group’s governance 
arrangements is the appointment of three double 
independent non-executive directors (DINEDs) to the 
Boards, and Board committees, of the NWH Sub Group. 
They are Francesca Barnes, Ian Cormack and Mark 
Rennison. On 31 August 2023, Graham Beale stood down 
as NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director (SID) and 
a DINED. On 1 September 2023 Ian Cormack assumed the 
SID role and Mark Rennison joined the NWH Sub Group 
Boards as a DINED.

Abridged biographies for the DINEDs are presented 
opposite with more detailed biographies available at 
natwestgroup.com (NWH Ltd section). The DINEDs 
are independent in two respects: (i) independent of 
management as non-executives; and (ii) independent of 
the rest of NatWest Group by virtue of their NWH Sub 
Group-only directorships. They attend NatWest Group 
plc Board and relevant Board committee meetings as 
observers. Our DINEDs play a critical role in NatWest 
Group’s ring-fencing governance structure, and are 
responsible for exercising appropriate oversight of the 
independence and effectiveness of the NWH Sub Group’s 
governance arrangements, including the ability of each 
Board to take decisions independently.

The governance arrangements for the Boards and 
Board committees of NatWest Group plc and the NWH Sub 
Group have been designed to enable NatWest Group plc 
to exercise appropriate oversight and to ensure that, as far 
as is reasonably practicable, the NWH Sub Group is able to 
take decisions independently of the wider Group. The Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee (N&G) monitors 
the governance arrangements of NatWest Group plc and 
its subsidiaries and approves appointments to the Boards of 
principal and material regulated subsidiaries, as described in 
the N&G report on page 105.

Ian Cormack
NWH Sub Group

Francesca Barnes
NWH Sub Group

Mark Rennison
NWH Sub Group

Senior Independent Director and double 
independent non-executive director

Double independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment
1 May 2018

Date of appointment
1 May 2018

Double independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment
1 September 2023

Ian’s extensive financial services career 
provides him with significant experience 
in commercial and investment banking, 
with particular focus on customer and 
risk management. This knowledge 
combined with Ian’s understanding of 
financial infrastructures, strategy and 
transformation provides invaluable 
input into Board discussions.

Ian spent 30 years with Citibank/
Citigroup where he held a number of 
senior positions, including UK Country 
Head (CCO), head of European training 
and co-head of the Global Financial 
Institutions Business.

Ian was also chief executive of 
AIG’s insurance, financial services 
and asset management business in 
Europe between 2000 and 2002 and 
served on the board of Luxembourg-
based bond clearing house CEDEL. 
Ian has previously held non-executive 
positions with Just Group plc, Phoenix 
Group Holdings plc, Hastings Group 
Holdings plc, Bloomsbury Publishing 
plc and Broadstone Acquisition 
Corporation Inc.

Francesca brings a wealth of banking 
and private equity experience to the 
Board gained through an extensive 
executive career. Francesca’s 
experience provides considerable 
knowledge in important areas such 
as customer experience, risk and 
stakeholder management.

Francesca started at Chase Manhattan 
Bank and went on to hold a number 
of senior roles within UBS Investment 
Bank including Global Head of Private 
Equity; Head of Strategy and 
Development; Global Loan Portfolio 
Manager and Chair of the UBSIB 
Development Board.

Francesca is currently the Senior 
Independent Director of HarbourVest 
Global Private Equity Limited, a 
non-executive director of Capvis 
Private Equity and previously served on 
the Board of Coutts & Co (2012-2021), 
a NatWest Group subsidiary. 

Mark has extensive retail banking and 
financial services expertise, alongside 
substantial experience at board and 
committee level. With 12 years’ 
experience on the Board of Nationwide 
as CFO, Mark brings a blend of 
technical knowledge and a deep 
understanding of the financial 
services sector.

Mark is a chartered accountant 
with over 30 years’ experience in 
financial services. He began his career 
at Price Waterhouse (now PwC), where 
he spent twelve years as a partner 
specialising in financial services. 
He was CFO of Nationwide Building 
Society from 2007 to 2019. From 2020 
to 2023 Mark was an independent 
non-executive director of TSB and 
Audit Committee Chair.

Mark is currently a non-executive 
director of Royal London and 
Homes England.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Principal areas of Board focus in 2023

95

Regular reports
Group CEO reports

Group CFO reports

Board committee and NatWest 
Markets plc Chair reports

Business reviews

Risk management reports

Board business insights pack

Financial crime reports

Legal and regulatory updates

Colleague advisory panel reports

Consumer Duty updates

Key approvals
February: 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts; ESG disclosure report; 
Climate-related disclosures report 
(including the initial iteration of the 
Climate Transition Plan) and 
associated documents; 2023 
budget; Internal and external 
capital distributions

March: Recalibration of key risk 
appetite limits

April: Q1 financial results and 
ILAAP submission

June: ICAAP results; 
2022 Modern Slavery & 
Human Trafficking Statement

July: H1 financial results and 
internal and external capital 
distributions; CEO appointment

September: Resolvability 
self-assessment; 
Chair appointment

October: Q3 financial results

December: EWRMF annual 
review and risk appetite refresh

February
 – Received the FCA’s firm evaluation letter and discussed the response
 – Considered Board succession plans

April
 – Directors attended a virtual shareholder event and the Annual 

General Meeting

 – Deep dive sessions held with members of management on Digital X 

and Commercial & Institutional businesses

 – Received a detailed update on personalisation of customer life cycles
 – Appointed our Consumer Duty Board Champion

June
 – Considered the progress of standing up the Commercial & Institutional 

business one year on

 – Reviewed the April Our View (colleague opinion survey) results
 – Strategy session focused on the competitive landscape  

and the impact new technologies might have on banking 
and customer behaviour in the future, including digital currencies

 – Discussed top and emerging threats with management

September
 – Discussed sustainable transitions, NatWest Group’s strategy 

and opportunities available to the bank in this area

 – A session was held for potential successors to ExCo to  

meet the Board

 – Assessed the Group’s capabilities and preparations 

to support resolution

December
 – Considered the draft 2024 budget, including progress made against 
climate ambitions and the macro-economic impact on customer 
behaviour and deposits

 – Considered the culture measurement report
 – Approved the Board skills matrix

March
 – Reviewed management’s strategy for NatWest Digital X  

(previously the Services function)

 – Approved the Year 2 Operational Resilience Self Assessment
 – Received an update on the cost of living and how the bank was supporting 

customers and colleagues and considered the impact on customer behaviour, 
particularly in relation to deposit levels

 – Received an update on customer complaints
 – Considered the external market conditions and potential impacts for NatWest 

Group in light of liquidity challenges experienced by peers

May
 – At an ad hoc meeting the Board approved participation in the directed buy-back 

of shares from HM Treasury

July
 – Reviewed the latest culture measurement report and One Bank Transformation 

H1 review

 – Considered the impact of potential future M&A activity on the capital 

distribution strategy

 – Received the PRA’s Periodic Summary Meeting letter and discussed the response
 – Discussed with management the nature and biodiversity strategy ambitions

October
 – Received a progress update on the implementation of the new Digital X strategy
 – Post-implementation review of recent acquisitions and consideration of 

future opportunities

 – Considered an update on the Retail Bank’s short-term borrowing strategy 

including the approach to embedded finance
 – Considered the September Our View results
 – Reviewed the 2024 Annual Scenario for use in the Budget, Economic and 

Stress Tests

Independent reviews
Following the events of the summer of 2023 in relation to customer exit decision-making and the change in Group CEO, the Board dedicated much time in the second 
half of the year to considering the immediate and longer-term impacts. This included reviewing the three reports prepared by the independent party, Travers Smith LLP, 
as well as considering the impact the events had on the wider workforce. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board spotlights 

Rick Haythornthwaite’s induction

Full details of the process to appoint Rick as NatWest Group Chair successor can be 
found in the Group Nominations and Governance report on page 108.

After we announced Rick’s appointment in September 2023, the Group Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary worked closely with him to devise 
a comprehensive induction programme.

The programme was tailored to Rick’s requirements. It included specific areas 
of focus Rick had identified during the recruitment process, and it was flexible in 
order to respond to areas of focus which emerged as the programme progressed. 
This included supporting preparations ahead of Rick’s regulatory interview for the 
Chair role with the PRA and FCA.

Rick’s induction programme prioritised early engagement with key internal and 
external stakeholders, including current Chairman, Howard Davies, the Group 
CEO, Group CFO, non-executive directors, members of the executive 
management team, our auditors and legal advisers.

As well as providing opportunities for Rick to meet and get to know his NatWest 
colleagues and key external contacts, the induction programme was designed to 
ensure a comprehensive overview of NatWest Group’s structure and business 
operations, its strategic priorities and current challenges.

During the Chair search process Rick had acknowledged that, whilst he 
possessed strong financial services experience (for example, through his time as 
Mastercard Chair), he would benefit from some additional upskilling on banking. 
Arrangements were made for this to be addressed at an early stage during Rick’s 
induction, with a focus on the broader picture relevant to a universal bank and 
recognising Rick’s existing background in key areas including payments, 
technology and innovation.

After Rick joined the Board in January 2024, attention turned towards planning for 
an orderly handover of the Chair role. In preparation for taking on the role and 
responsibilities of Chair, Rick joined the Group Nominations and Governance 
Committee as a member, and will join other Board committee meetings as 
an attendee. 

96

Enhancing directors’ skills and knowledge
Directors’ training and development is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance 
Officer and Company Secretary. Directors have access to a wide range of 
briefing and training sessions and other professional development opportunities.

Internal training relevant to the business of NatWest Group is also provided 
and during 2023 the Board undertook a comprehensive programme of training 
sessions on a variety of topics. Some of these were determined at the start 
of the year and others arranged in response to events or Board discussions. 
Training was delivered by both members of management and external parties.

Topics covered included financial crime; recovery and resolution planning; digital 
assets; nature and biodiversity (delivered by the World Wide Fund for Nature); 
legal privilege; Consumer Duty (delivered by Oxera); capital management 
and deposits. The training sessions enabled the directors to deepen their 
understanding of these topics and informed their decision-making.

The Board also held a focus session to assess top and emerging threats. 
Discussions covered the current and potential geo-political landscape, macro-
economic and regulatory trends and the impact of emerging technologies on 
the risk environment.

A number of directors also accepted an invitation to the full Board to join meetings 
of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee which covered areas of broader 
interest, including artifical intelligence.

Directors undertake the training they consider necessary to assist them in 
carrying out their duties and responsibilities.

The non-executive directors discuss their training and professional development 
with the Chairman at least annually.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts97

Corporate governance continued

How the Board operated

Board and committee meetings
There were eight scheduled Board meetings during 2023. 
As well as scheduled meetings, additional ad hoc meetings 
of the Board and some of its committees were held 
throughout the year to receive updates and deal with 
time-critical matters. There were 11 additional Board 
meetings held in 2023 compared to three additional 
meetings held in 2022.

There was also one strategy session with executive 
management in 2023.

When directors are unable to attend meetings convened at 
short notice, owing to existing commitments, they receive 
the papers and have the opportunity to provide their 
feedback in advance.

In accordance with the Code, the Chairman and the 
non-executive directors met at least once without executive 
directors present.

At each scheduled Board meeting the directors received 
reports from the Chairman, Board committee Chairs, Group 
CEO, Group CFO, Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) 
and other members of the executive management team, as 
appropriate. Business reviews from the CEOs of our Retail 
Banking, Wealth and Commercial & Institutional businesses 
included updates on progress against strategy and 
spotlights on current topics including the cost of living, 
personalisation of services, business strategies and 
deposit plans.

In addition to our business CEOs, a number of other senior 
executives attended Board meetings throughout the year to 
present reports to the Board. This provided the Board with 
an opportunity to engage directly with management on 
key issues and supported succession planning.

The Board also welcomed external presenters and advisers 
to Board meetings, who provided useful insights and 
perspectives. The Board and Group Executive Committee 

(ExCo) operating rhythm continues to support a proactive 
and transparent agenda planning and paper preparation 
process. This process includes the following elements:

 – A pre-Board meeting with the Chairman, Group CEO, 

Group CFO and Chief Governance Officer and Company 
Secretary to ensure the Board and executive 
management are aligned on Board agendas.

 – A post-Board meeting with the Chairman, Group CEO 
and Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary 
to discuss what went well or could be improved after 
each meeting.

 – A look ahead paper at each ExCo and Board meeting 

setting out key items that will be discussed at the 
next meeting.

An overview of the Board’s principal areas of focus during 
2023, is set out on page 95.

Board and committee membership and meeting attendance in 2023

Director

Howard Davies (1)

Alison Rose (2) (8)

Paul Thwaite (2) (9)
Katie Murray (2)
Frank Dangeard (3)
Stuart Lewis (4) (12)
Roisin Donnelly (3) (5) 
Patrick Flynn (3)
Mike Rogers (6)
Yasmin Jetha (3) (7)
Morten Friis (10)
Mark Seligman 
Lena Wilson (11)

Board

Group Audit Committee 
(GAC)

Group Board Risk 
Committee (BRC)

Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee 
(N&G)

Group Performance and 
Remuneration 
Committee (RemCo)

Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee 
(SBC)

Technology and 
Innovation Committee 
(TIC)

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Scheduled

Ad hoc

8/8

4/4

4/4
8/8
8/8
6/6
7/8
8/8
2/2
8/8
5/5
8/8
8/8

8/8

–

6/6
6/6
10/11
10/10
10/11
9/11
1/1
10/11
5/5
11/11
11/11

–

–

–
–
–
4/4
–
5/5
–
–
3/3
5/5
–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
–
6/6
–
8/8
–
–
5/5
–
7/8

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4/4

–

–
–
–
2/2
–
4/4
–
–
2/2
4/4
4/4

3/3

–

–
–
–
4/4
–
6/7
–
–
3/3
7/7
7/7

–

–

–
–
5/5
–
–
–
2/2
–
–
5/5
5/5

–

–

–
–
7/8
–
–
–
1/1
–
–
8/8
8/8

–

–

–
–
–
–
5/5
–
1/1
5/5
–
–
3/5

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
1/1
–
–
1/1
–
1/1
–
–
–

–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

(1)  Howard Davies was not invited to attend meetings related to recruitment 

(5)  Ms Donnelly was unable to attend a scheduled meeting of the Board owing 

(10) Mr Friis stepped down from the Board and the role of BRC Chair with effect 

of the next NatWest Group Chair.

to a prior commitment.

from 31 July.

(2)  Executive directors were not eligible to attend meetings to discuss their 

(6)  Mr Rogers stepped down from the Board and the role of SBC Chair 

(11) Ms WIilson was unable to attend one scheduled meeting of the SBC owing to a 

own remuneration or the change in Group CEO.

with effect from 25 April.

(3)  On occasion directors were unable to attend ad hoc meetings which were 

convened at short notice owing to existing commitments.

(4)  Mr Lewis joined the Board with effect from 1 April, becoming a member 

of both GAC and BRC on that date also.

(7)  Ms Jetha assumed the role of SBC Chair with effect from 26 April.
(8)  Ms Rose stepped down from the role of Group CEO with effect from 25 July.
(9)  Mr Thwaite joined the Board and assumed the role of Group CEO with effect 

from 25 July.

prior commitment and one meeting of each of the SBC and BRC owing to illness.

(12) Mr Lewis assumed the role of BRC Chair from 1 August, at which point he 

became a member of N&G.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts98

Corporate governance continued

Information
All directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information on all relevant 
matters and have access to the 
advice and services of the Chief 
Governance Officer and Company 
Secretary. In addition, all directors 
are able, if necessary, to obtain 
independent professional advice 
at the company’s expense.

Our Board and committee paper 
template includes a separate section 
for an assessment of the relevant 
stakeholder impacts for the directors 
to consider. This aligns with the 
directors’ duties under section 172(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006 and 
further details of how the directors 
have complied with their section 
172(1) duties can be found on pages 
24 to 25 of the Strategic report.

Conflicts of interest
The directors’ conflicts of interest policy sets out procedures to 
ensure that the Board’s management of conflicts of interest and 
its powers for authorising certain conflicts are operating effectively.

Each director is required to notify the Board of any actual or 
potential situational or transactional conflict of interest and 
to update the Board with any changes to the facts and 
circumstances surrounding such conflicts.

Situational conflicts can be authorised by the Board in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the company’s 
Articles of Association.

The Board considers each request for authorisation on a 
case-by-case basis and has the power to impose conditions or 
limitations on any authorisation granted as part of the process. 
Appointments authorised in 2023 are detailed on page 103.

Details of all directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in a 
register which is maintained by the Chief Governance Officer 
and Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board. 

Induction
Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, which is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance 
Officer and Company Secretary and tailored to suit the requirements of the individual concerned.

This includes visits to NatWest Group’s major businesses and functions, and meetings with directors and senior 
management. Meetings with external auditors, counsel and stakeholders are also arranged as appropriate. All new 
non-executive directors receive a copy of the NatWest Group non-executive director handbook. The handbook 
operates as a consolidated governance support manual for directors of NatWest Group plc and the NWH Sub 
Group, providing both new and current directors with a single source of information relevant to their role. It covers 
a range of topics including NatWest Group’s corporate structure; the Board and Board committee operating model; 
Board policies and processes; and a range of technical guidance on relevant matters including directors’ duties, 
conflicts of interest, and the UK Senior Managers and Certification Regime. The handbook contains links to a wider 
library of reference materials via our online resources portal.

Further information about Rick Haythornthwaite’s induction can be found on page 96.

Further information about Stuart Lewis’s induction as BRC Chair can be found on page 116.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board oversight of our strategic framework

Throughout 2023 NatWest Group continued to focus on serving 
customers every day.

NatWest Group’s ambition to serve customers well every day continued to be 
underpinned by our values. Our values are central to how we work together to 
deliver our strategy.

99

The effective use of data and technology is recognised as being an important means to 
achieve this and to ensure the bank is simple to deal with. Data and metrics on customer 
behaviour played a key role in informing the Board’s discussions throughout the year 
including in relation to the bank’s deposit strategy. In June the Board held a two day 
strategy session focused on the evolving competitive landscape, with a particular focus 
on digitisation, machine learning and artificial intelligence and the impact the emergence 
of these technologies could have on the financial services sector. The directors discussed 
future challenges and opportunities with members of management and external stakeholders. 
Consideration was given to potential new entrants to the financial services sector and the 
possible regulatory response to significant changes driven by technological enhancements.

Our focus on serving customers has been complemented by the FCA’s Consumer Duty 
requirements, which became effective in 2023. The Board received regular updates 
throughout the year on this important strategic programme.

The ways in which we best serve customers, and so deliver sustainable value for shareholders, 
continued to be a focus for management throughout the year and updates were provided to 
the Group Sustainable Banking Committee and the Board as the approach evolved.

Further information on our strategic framework can be found in the Strategic report on page 9.

The Board received regular updates on how these values are embedding within 
the organisation through Our View colleague opinion survey results and culture 
measurement reports. Colleague sentiment towards the values was also observed 
via Colleague Advisory Panel meetings, which are chaired by Roisin Donnelly who 
reports on each meeting to the Board.

Further information on the Board’s oversight of culture and our values can be found 
on page 100.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Culture

The Board assesses and monitors NatWest Group’s culture 
in several ways, as described below.

NatWest Group Culture Measurement Framework

The NatWest Group framework for measuring culture:

100

NatWest Group plc – Board responsibilities in relation to culture

 – Leads the development of NatWest Group’s culture, values and standards
 – Assesses and monitors culture
 – Reviews and approves NatWest Group’s values

Board reporting on culture

Key areas of focus and outcomes

 – Provides insight into the bank’s culture, helping senior leaders and the Board assess 

NatWest Group’s progress in reshaping its culture and delivering on its purpose.
 – Brings together guidance and best practice from regulators, public bodies and 

thought leaders.

 – Uses internal and external sources – sentiment, KPIs, quantitative and qualitative insight 

from Risk, Audit, Conduct, People, Customer, suppliers, climate and external public scrutiny.

An assessment of over 100 quantitative and qualitative measures from across NatWest 
Group and external sources:

What did the 
Board receive?

Colleague 
Advisory 
Panel reports

Our View 
colleague 
survey results

Feedback on discussions from Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) meetings 
held in May and November. Topics included executive remuneration and 
the wider workforce, environmental, social and governance topics, 
Consumer Duty and human rights.

Insights from the colleague opinion surveys conducted in April and 
September. Colleagues responded to questions across the whole colleague 
experience including wellbeing, building capability and leadership. The key 
areas identified for focus related to leadership and ensuring consistency 
across NatWest Group.

 – Public scrutiny measures.
 – Customer data.
 – Colleague listening.
 – Colleague engagement.
 – Risk culture.
 – Audit & Behavioural Risk.
 – Ethics, behaviour and Speak Up.
 – Supplier Charter and environmental footprint.

Culture 
measurement 
reports

Board culture measurement reports were considered in July and December. 
See opposite for further information on the framework, including the 
measures used and considered by the Board and how it monitored and 
assessed culture, including embedding, during 2023.

One Bank 
Culture updates

In October, SBC considered an update on progress of the One Bank 
Culture Plan, noting our One Bank Culture Journey to date and plans to 
grow leadership capability, scale and build confidence in experimentation and 
sharpen our focus through the transformation of performance management. 

Evaluating 
ethics in 
NatWest Group 

SBC considered how business ethics is monitored and reported through the 
NatWest Group Culture Measurement Framework.

Board business 
insights packs

Metrics to demonstrate how NatWest Group is delivering for colleagues 
(including building capability, diversity and inclusion, and learning).

Succession 
planning

During discussions of management’s succession planning and talent strategy, 
directors considered how colleagues’ development is supported and a culture 
of learning promoted across the organisation. Later in the year, the Board 
had an opportunity to discuss these development opportunities with potential 
executive successors who shared their thoughts on how the learnings gained 
were being embedded within their teams.

 – The Culture Measurement Framework helps the Board execute their duty as outlined 
in Principle B, Principle E and Provision 2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code: “The 
Board should assess and monitor culture. Where it is not satisfied that policy, practices 
or behaviour throughout the business are aligned with the company’s purpose, values 
and strategy, it should seek assurance that management has taken corrective action”.
 – Progress on NatWest Group’s culture journey is reported six-monthly to ExCo, SBC and 

the Board as well as separate reports for each legal entity (which are reviewed with each 
legal entity board).

Outcomes and insights from the assessment, monitoring and embedding of culture

In July:
 – Directors noted positive trends since 

January, with material improvements in 
the lead indicators of up to c.3% recorded.

In December:
 – Positive trends continued in the second 
half of the year, with resilient Our View 
scores in respect of culture.

 – Consideration was given to how the 
change in Group CEO would impact 
future results.

 – The impact of the events surrounding the 
change in Group CEO on colleague and 
customer sentiment were noted.

 – Improvements in diversity, equity and 

 – Progress was noted in respect of the 

inclusion metrics were welcomed, along 
with the improved NPS in Retail Banking. 

implementation of Consumer Duty, and 
the ongoing work to embed the principles 
across the bank.

Further information on the SBC’s focus on people, culture and learning during 2023 
can be found on page 124.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

How the Board engaged with stakeholders

The Board reviews and confirms its key stakeholder groups for the purposes of section 172 annually.

In February 2023, the Board agreed its annual objectives and confirmed its key stakeholder 
groups would remain investors, customers, colleagues, regulators, communities and suppliers. 
The Board’s agenda and engagement plans were structured to enhance the Board’s 
understanding of stakeholders’ views and interests. This in turn has informed Board 
discussions and decision-making. The Chairman also provided regular updates to the 

Board on meetings with regulators, investors, financial institutions, advisers, and government 
representatives. Our section 172 statement on pages 24 to 25 describes how stakeholder 
interests were considered in Board discussions and decision-making, including principal 
decisions. In addition to those examples, the Board engaged with stakeholder views and 
interests in a variety of other ways, both directly and indirectly as described below.

101

Communities
As part of its annual training 
programme, the Board engaged 
World Wide Fund for Nature to 
provide a dedicated session on 
nature and biodiversity.

Consideration was given to 
the regulatory landscape and the 
financial risks associated with the 
loss of nature and biodiversity.

Directors also discussed 
the initiatives and frameworks 
which financial institutions use 
to incorporate nature and 
biodiversity, the use of 
science based targets and 
the competitive landscape.

Suppliers
As well as receiving regular 
updates from management 
on key supplier and partnership 
relationships, the Board also met 
with representatives of suppliers 
during the year.

During these discussions 
directors were able to build 
their knowledge of suppliers’ 
experiences with NatWest Group 
and how both sides could work 
together to support each other’s 
sustainability efforts.

Investors
There was a high level of 
engagement with institutional 
investors throughout the year. 
This included in relation to 
key decisions such as the 
appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as our next 
Chair, and following the change 
in Group CEO. Directors had 
the opportunity to engage with 
private shareholders at two 
virtual shareholder events and 
the Annual General Meeting. 
Regular updates were provided 
to the Board on investor activity 
and share price performance.

The Chair of the Group 
Performance and Remuneration 
Committee and senior members 
of management met with 
institutional shareholders, UK 
Government Investments, proxy 
advisers and the UK regulators 
in late 2023 and early 2024 
to discuss our approach to 
remuneration for the year and 
updated the Board on those 
discussions. Further details of 
remuneration engagement 
can be found in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 127.

Customers
The Board received regular 
updates from the Group CEO 
and business CEOs on customer 
engagement activity and 
sentiment, including Competition 
and Markets Authority (CMA) 
survey results and Net Promoter 
Scores (NPS). There was a 
particular focus on the impacts of 
the cost of living challenges and 
how the bank could best support 
retail and commercial customers 
in this respect. The Board 
considered metrics and trend 
data on customer behaviour, 
particularly in relation to deposits, 
throughout the year via 
management reports.

In April 2023, Board members 
had the opportunity to meet with 
a selection of Scotland-based 
Commercial & Institutional 
customers. Discussions focused 
on how the bank can support 
customers in achieving their 
sustainability targets, the current 
macro-economic environment 
and the opportunities and 
challenges this was presenting.

Regulators
Representatives of both the 
FCA and PRA attended Board 
meetings to present their firm 
evaluation letter and outcome 
of the Periodic Summary 
Meeting respectively.

The Board reviewed and 
approved key regulatory 
submissions, such as the Internal 
Liquidity Assessment Process 
(ILAAP) and Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).

Non-executive directors engaged 
regularly with regulators through 
continuous assessment and 
proactive engagement meetings. 
Regulatory interviews were 
attended by directors undertaking 
new Senior Management 
Functions, including Stuart Lewis 
and Rick Haythornthwaite.

There was also significant 
bilateral engagement with the 
PRA and FCA in relation to the 
change in Group CEO and new 
Chair appointment.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

How the Board engaged with colleagues

The Board continued to engage with colleagues through our multi-channel colleague 
listening approach, as described below.

Our multi-channel colleague listening approach

A number of listening and reporting tools help in promoting the colleague voice in the boardroom. This multi-channel 
approach aims to provide representation from across the bank and guards against the risks of relying on a single 
source to gather views.

Colleague surveys  
and behavioural audits
The Board and Group 
Sustainable Banking 
Committee receive the results 
of the Our View colleague 
surveys which provide insight 
at all levels and aspects of 
colleague experience.

Another valuable Board-level 
source is Behavioural Audit 
reports from Internal Audit 
covering sub-culture findings. 

Colleague 
Advisory Panel
Provides a means by which 
the ‘colleague voice’ can be 
strengthened and promoted 
within the Boardroom.

Board members engage 
directly with colleagues on 
strategic topics. A key outputs 
report supports discussion 
at the next scheduled 
Board meeting.

Board & 
Colleague 
Engagement 
activities

Management reporting and activities
Board-level reporting from the Group CEO and the executive 
management team includes insights on colleague engagement, 
wellbeing and development.

Board talent sessions 
and other direct 
engagement
At Board talent sessions, 
directors meet with potential 
executive-level successors 
and explore strategic issues 
with them.

Other examples of direct 
engagement include Board 
committee visits to Risk and 
Audit teams and internal 
guest presenters at Board 
and committee meetings.

Board and committee 
paper templates
Colleagues is one of a number 
of stakeholder groups included 
within our governance 
paper templates.

Our reporting guidance 
encourages paper authors 
and sponsors to consider 
colleague views or impact 
when presenting reports to 
our Board and its committees.

102

Our Colleague Advisory Panel 
With regards to Provision 5 of the Code, we have adopted 
a formal workforce advisory panel as our chosen method 
of engagement with the workforce.

NatWest Group’s Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) was 
set up in 2018 to help promote the colleague voice in 
the boardroom.

Through the CAP, colleagues can engage directly with 
the Board on topics which are important to them, thereby 
strengthening the voice of colleagues in the Boardroom. 
In the context of the CAP, ‘colleagues’ means all permanent 
employees and members of the wider workforce e.g. 
temporary employees and agency workers. The CAP is 
made up of 28 colleagues who are self-nominated and are 
representative of the bank’s population e.g., business area, 
level, location, working pattern and employee-led networks.

In April 2023 Roisin Donnelly succeeded Mike Rogers as 
CAP Chair when Mike Rogers stepped down as a director.

The CAP met with representatives from the Board twice in 
2023, in May and November. Panel members and directors 
shared views on executive remuneration and the wider 
workforce, environmental, social and governance topics, 
Consumer Duty and human rights. The CAP Chair reported 
to the Board on those discussions in June and December 
and followed up with Panel members post-Board, ensuring 
a continuous feedback loop.

The CAP continues to be highly regarded by those who 
attend and has proven to be an effective way of establishing 
two-way dialogue between colleagues and Board members.

The effectiveness of Board stakeholder engagement 
mechanisms is considered periodically as part of the Board 
evaluation process.

Further information on NatWest Group’s approach to investing 
in and rewarding its workforce can be found on pages 36 to 37 
of the Strategic report.

Further information on how CAP members and directors 
engaged on remuneration matters can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 127.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts103

Corporate governance continued

External appointments and 
time commitment

Non-executive directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the company to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively, and will devote such time as is necessary to 
fulfil their role.

The Code emphasises the importance of ensuring directors have sufficient time to meet 
their board responsibilities.

Prior to appointment, significant commitments require to be disclosed with an 
indication of the time involved. After appointment, external appointments require 
prior Board approval, with the reasons for permitting significant appointments 
explained in the Annual Report and Accounts. Board papers relating to proposed 
additional external appointments of directors include details of the individual’s full 
portfolio for review and consideration. They also include a reminder of applicable 
Code and Capital Requirements Directive provisions, and relevant proxy adviser 
and investor guidance.

During 2023 the Board approved the appointment of Alison Rose as Co-Chair of the 
UK Government’s Energy Efficiency Taskforce (February), as a director of Sustainable 
Markets Limited (March) and as a member of the Prime Minister’s Business Council 
for 2023 (July). Ms Rose stepped down from all external appointments linked to her 
NatWest role after she stepped down as Group CEO.

There were no other approvals regarding external appointments for existing directors 
during 2023.

Rick Haythornthwaite’s external roles and overall time commitment were carefully 
considered by the Board before his appointment was approved. Further information 
on the Chair search process can be found on page 108. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts104

Corporate governance continued

Composition, succession and evaluation

Composition

The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide 
NatWest Group plc with the appropriate combination of skills, 
experience, knowledge and diversity, as well as independence.

In December 2023 the Group Nominations and Governance 
Committee (N&G) reviewed, and the Board approved, an 
updated version of our Board skills matrix, a summary 
view of which is set out on page 90. The Board skills 
matrix reflects directors’ self-assessment of the skills 
and experience they bring to Board discussions, in line 
with pre-determined criteria aligned to current and future 
strategic priorities. The Board skills matrix is used to support 
Board succession planning, as described in more detail in 
the N&G report on page 105.

Board committees also comprise directors with a variety 
of skills and experience so that no undue reliance is placed 
on any one individual and several changes were made 
to Board Committee composition in 2023. Full details of 
changes effected during 2023 and scheduled for 2024 
are set out on page 89.

The Board operates a Boardroom inclusion policy which 
reflects NatWest Group’s values, its inclusion guidelines 
and relevant legal or voluntary code requirements. Our 
Boardroom inclusion policy aims to promote diversity 
and inclusion in the composition of the Boards and Board 
committees of NatWest Group plc, NWH Ltd, NWB Plc and 
RBS plc and in the nominations and appointments process. 
A copy of the policy is available at natwestgroup.com and 
details of our progress against its objectives are set out in 
our UK Listing Rules disclosures on page 107 and in more 
detail in the N&G report on page 105.

Succession

As set out in its terms of reference the Board is responsible 
for ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board 
and senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within NatWest Group 
and on the Board.

Board succession planning
Board succession planning has been an important area of 
focus in 2023. N&G supports the Board on Board succession 
planning, including making recommendations to the Board 
on Board appointments and Board committee membership.

Further information on the search process leading to the 
appointment of Geeta Gopalan as a non-executive director and 
Mark Rennison as a NWH Ltd director and DINED can be found 
on page 105. 

Further information on the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as Chair of NatWest Group plc is set out on 
page 108. 

In March 2023 (following review and recommendation by 
N&G), the Board approved succession plans for the roles of 
Senior Independent Director and Board committee Chairs, 
covering orderly transition plans for the short and medium 
term, and contingency arrangements which could be 
implemented in case of an emergency. These succession 
plans are reviewed by N&G and approved by the Board 
at least once a year.

Further information on the role of N&G and its activities during 
2023 in relation to succession planning can be found in the N&G 
report on page 105. 

Executive succession planning
In February 2023 the Board, supported by N&G, had 
conducted a scheduled review of contingency CEO 
succession arrangements. These were subsequently 
invoked in July 2023 following the departure of Alison Rose.

In June 2023 the Board received an update on executive 
talent and succession planning which enabled directors to 
monitor the internal talent pipeline and provide feedback. 
This update included analysis of the diversity of the talent 
pool, with a view towards continuing to improve diversity 
over the longer term. Directors noted the focus on building 
bench strength and succession planning in the top levels 
of management, and that good progress had been achieved 
in building specialist skills within the CEO-1 and CEO-2 
population via external hires and developing internal talent.

In September 2023 the Board held a talent engagement 
session with potential ExCo successors. This session helped 
our non-executive directors gain insights into the breadth 
of the talent pool, getting to know the individuals through 
a focused discussion of key strategic topics.

Election and re-election of directors
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors 
will stand for election or re-election by shareholders at the 
company’s AGM, with the exception of Howard Davies who 
will step down on 15 April 2024. In accordance with the UK 
Listing Rules, the election or re-election of independent 
directors also requires approval by a majority of 
independent shareholders.

Evaluation

In accordance with the Code, an evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its committees, the Chairman 
and individual directors usually takes place annually. 
The evaluation is externally facilitated every three 
years, with internal evaluations in the intervening years.

2022 evaluation update
An internal evaluation was conducted in 2022 by the Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary, following the 
externally facilitated evaluation led by Independent Board 
Evaluation in 2021.

In December 2023 the Board reviewed the progress 
achieved against the actions agreed following the 2022 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its 
committees. It was agreed that all actions had been 
successfully completed, with improvements including 
a refreshed format for the strategy session, enhanced 
focus of Board meetings and increased opportunities 
for engagement with the executive talent pipeline.

Deferral of 2023 evaluation
In September 2023, N&G agreed that it would be 
appropriate to defer the internal evaluation of Board 
and committee effectiveness due in Q4 2023 until 2024, 
given the July 2023 change in Group CEO and upcoming 
Chair succession. The Board confirmed its support for this 
approach. The next Board and committee evaluation will be 
conducted in 2024 by an external facilitator, in accordance 
with the Code requirement for an externally facilitated 
process every three years. 

Year-end reviews of the Chairman and non-executive 
directors’ performance were undertaken in Q4 2023,  
in line with our normal evaluation timetable.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group 
Nominations and 
Governance Committee

Letter from Howard Davies,

Chairman of the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee

Governance 
framework

Review of 
Board & 
committee 
compositions

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Recruitment  
of Chair &  
NEDs

Subsidiary 
governance

Succession 
planning

Diversity & 
inclusion

105

Dear Shareholder,

As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee, I am pleased to 
present the report on the committee’s activity during 2023.

Roles and responsibilities
The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, 
size and composition of the Board, and membership and 
chairmanship of Board committees and recommends 
appointments to the Board. In addition, the committee 
monitors NatWest Group’s governance arrangements to 
ensure that best corporate governance standards and 
practices are upheld and considers developments relating 
to banking reform and analogous issues affecting NatWest 
Group. The committee makes recommendations to the 
Board in respect of any consequential amendments to 
NatWest Group’s operating model.

More detail on the remit of the committee can be found 
in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually 
and approved by the Board and are available at 
natwestgroup.com.

Membership and meetings
 – Throughout the majority of 2023, the 

committee comprised the Chairman of the 
Board and four independent non-executive 
directors. Members’ details and their skills 
and experience are set out on pages 84 to 87.
 – Stuart Lewis joined the committee on 1 August 
2023 after Morten Friis stood down from the 
Board on 31 July 2023.

 – Graham Beale observed meetings of the 

committee in his capacity as Senior Independent 
Director of NWH Ltd and member of the NWH 
Ltd Nominations Committee until he stood 
down from the board of NWH Ltd on 
31 August 2023. Ian Cormack has observed 
meetings as Senior Independent Director of 
NWH Ltd since then.

 – The committee holds a minimum of four 

meetings per year and meets on an ad hoc 
basis as required. In 2023, there were four 
scheduled meetings and seven ad hoc meetings. 
Individual attendance by directors at these 
meetings is shown in the table on page 97.

Composition
The committee supports the Chairman in keeping the 
composition of the Board and its committees under regular 
review. The committee reviews and recommends to the 
Board a skills matrix which is used to map the skills and 
experience of individual directors and ensure that the 
Board’s collective skill-set remains appropriately balanced 
and aligned to current and future strategic priorities. 
The matrix is also used to identify any gaps and 
opportunities to enhance the collective balance of 
skills through additional recruitment to the Board.

Recruitment
The committee was responsible for overseeing a 
significant amount of board recruitment activity 
throughout 2023 including a Chair succession 
process, full details of which are set out on page 
108. In accordance with Code Provision 17, the 
Chairman recused himself from this process 
and the Senior Independent Director chaired 
meetings of the committee dealing with 
this appointment.

Throughout 2023 and into 2024 the committee 
also led a CEO search process on behalf of the 
Board, full details of which are set out on page 
109. From 8 January 2024, the Chair Designate 
chaired meetings of the committee dealing with 
this appointment.

Following the committee’s review of the skills 
matrix and noting the tenure of a number 
of non-executive directors, the committee 
supported implementation of the Board’s 
succession plans by overseeing the search for 
a new independent non-executive director to the 
Board and a new DINED to the board of NWH 
Ltd during 2023, as further described below.

Non-executive director search processes
A subset of the committee’s membership selected Korn 
Ferry to support comprehensive searches with diversity 
and inclusion considerations at the forefront of the search 
criteria. The committee held several discussions on potential 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

candidates, assessing the credentials of each candidate 
against the qualities and capabilities set out in the role 
specifications agreed by the committee. Following a rigorous 
process, the committee recommended Geeta Gopalan to 
the Board for appointment as a non-executive director and 
Mark Rennison to the board of NWH Ltd for appointment 
as a DINED.

Succession planning
At the start of 2023, the committee led a routine review 
of contingency as well as longer term succession plans for 
board positions including SID, CEO & committee chairs and 
updated succession plans were approved by the committee 
in February 2023.

The committee also conducted a number of term reviews 
in 2023. In accordance with the board appointment policy, 
non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-
year term, subject to annual re-election at the AGM. 
Following assessment by the committee, they may then 
be appointed for a further three-year term. Non-executive 
directors may continue to serve beyond six years, subject 
to a maximum tenure of nine years. The tenures of current 
Board directors is set out on page 90. The committee 
reviewed the contribution of three serving Board members 
under the board appointment policy during 2023 and 
approved their continued tenure, subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM.

Subsidiary governance
The committee has also continued to oversee work 
aimed at further enhancing NatWest Group’s subsidiary 
governance framework. A number of NatWest Group’s 
material regulated subsidiaries made appointments to their 
boards during 2023, which the committee has approved in 
accordance with its Terms of Reference. Korn Ferry, MWM 
Consulting and Green Park have all been engaged during 
the year to support NatWest Group’s subsidiary board 
search activity. The firms are members of the retained 
executive search panel of suppliers (managed by NatWest 
Executive Search). Korn Ferry also provides leadership 
advisory and senior executive search and assessment 
services to the People & Transformation function within 
NatWest Group.

In June 2023, the committee approved the appointment 
of Grant Thornton UK LLP to undertake an independent 
review of the effectiveness of the boards of NWM, RBSI 
and Coutts & Co with a view to deepening insights into 
the operation of the legal entity boards and to identify 
any actions which could be taken to strengthen subsidiary 

106

governance and the legal entity framework. The committee 
has considered the key themes and findings in the report 
prepared by Grant Thornton UK LLP and during 2024 
will track actions arising from the independent reviews.

Governance Framework
The committee also continued to monitor NatWest Group’s 
governance arrangements with reference to best practices 
in corporate governance (having regard to relevant legislation, 
guidelines, industry practice and developments affecting 
NatWest Group in the markets where it operates).

During 2023 the committee considered a number of external 
policy developments and the impacts on NatWest Group’s 
corporate governance framework, including Consumer Duty 
and the appointment of a Consumer Duty champion from 
the Board and the new Listing Rules disclosure requirements 
on Board and executive management diversity.

Boardroom inclusion policy
As noted on page 104, the Board operates a Boardroom 
inclusion policy which reflects NatWest Group’s values, its 
inclusion principles and relevant legal or voluntary code 
requirements. The policy currently applies to the most 
senior NatWest Group Boards: NatWest Group plc, NWH 
Ltd, NWB Plc and RBS plc. A copy of the Boardroom 
inclusion policy is available at natwestgroup.com.

Objectives and targets
The Boardroom inclusion policy’s objectives ensure that the 
Board, and any committee to which it delegates nomination 
responsibilities, follows an inclusive process when making 
nomination decisions. That includes ensuring that the 
nomination process is based on the principles of fairness, 
respect and inclusion, that all nominations and appointments 
are made on the basis of individual competence, skills and 
expertise measured against identified objective criteria and 
that searches for Board candidates are conducted with due 
regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusion.

The policy reflects NatWest Group’s aspiration to meet the 
targets set out in the UK Listing Rules along with the 
recommendations of the FTSE Women Leaders Review and 
the Parker Review.

Further information on our ethnicity targets is available on 
page 39.

Compliance and reporting
As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group’s chosen 
reference date, the targets set out in UK Listing Rule 
9.8.6(9)(a) (Board and executive management diversity) 
were met. Disclosures under UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9) and 
(10) can be found on page 107.

The policy also acknowledges NatWest Group’s ambition to 
have gender balance in its global top three levels (CEO-3 
and above) by 2030, and progress against this ambition is 
set out on pages 38 to 39 of the Strategic report (Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion).

Page 162 confirms NatWest Group’s approach to Provision 
17 of the Code which sees oversight of succession plans 
for senior management positions and the development of 
a diverse pipeline for succession reserved as a matter for 
the full Board.

Pages 38 to 39 contain more information on how NatWest 
Group is creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, 
including (in relation to Provision 23 of the Code) the gender 
balance of senior management and their direct reports.

As at 31 December 2023, the company met the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review voluntary target of 40% women’s 
representation on boards by the end of 2025, with 40% of 
the Board being women.

With a woman as CFO, the company met the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review recommendation that companies 
should have at least one woman in the Chair or Senior 
Independent Director roles on the board and/or one woman 
in the Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director role by 
the end of 2025.

The company met the recommendation of the Parker 
Review with at least one member of the Board being from 
an ethnic minority background and it intends to continue to 
meet that recommendation.

I would like to thank the committee members for their 
continued commitment during 2023.

Howard Davies
Chairman of the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Board and executive management diversity disclosures 

107

Numeric data – UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(10)

Sex

Men
Women
Other categories
Not specified/prefer not to say

Ethnicity

White British or other White  
(including minority-white groups)
Mixed/Multiple ethnic groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
Other ethnic group including Arab
Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of Board 
directors

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

6
4
0
0

60
40
0
0

3
1
0
0

11
4
0
0

73
27
0
0

Number of Board 
directors

Percentage of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management

9
0
1
0
0
0

90
0
10
0
0
0

4
0
0
0
0
0

9
0
1
0
0
5

60
0
7
0
0
33

(1)  All data as at 31 December 2023 (the reference date).
(2)  Data was collected via self-reporting methods. For Board directors this was via an email data collection exercise (with options aligned to the categories specified in the Listing 
Rules) and for members of the executive management team it was collected via the HR system WorkDay, which colleagues can choose to update at any point with details 
such as their sex and ethnicity.

(3)  The Group CEO and Group CFO are members of both the Board and executive management and so are counted in both groups in the above table.
(4)  Changes since the reference date: Rick Haythornthwaite joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024. This appointment means women’s 

representation on the Board became 36% and representation of ethnic minorities became 9%. On 15 April 2024, when Howard Davies will step down as a director and will be 
succeeded as Chair by Rick Haythornthwaite, women’s representation will be 40% and representation of ethnic minorities will be 10%.

Compliance – UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(9)

Listing Rules 
requirement

At least 40% of Board 
directors are women

At least one senior 
Board position held by 
a woman(1)

At least one Board 
director from a minority 
ethnic background

Outcome NatWest Group plc 

position as at 
31 December 2023

Target met 40% of Board 

directors are women 

Target met The position of CFO 

is held by a woman

Target met One Board director 

is from a minority 
ethnic background

(1)  Senior Board position is CEO, CFO, Chairman or Senior Independent Director.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Appointing a new Chair of NatWest Group

A rigorous search process led to the appointment of Rick Haythornthwaite as Chair Designate to succeed Howard Davies  
on 15 April 2024. Rick joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024. 

108

April 2023

July 2023

 – At the 25 April AGM, it was 
announced a search would 
commence for the successor to 
Howard Davies as Chair.
 – A draft role specification was 
agreed by the committee and 
shared during the search firm 
tender process.

May 2023

 – Following a competitive 

tender process, 
Spencer Stuart(1) were 
appointed to support 
the search process, 
which was led by the 
NWG and NWH Ltd 
Senior Independent 
Directors (the SIDs). 

 – The committee considered a 

diverse initial longlist of 
candidates and, after detailed 
discussion, agreed a longlist of 
prioritised candidates.

 – This was refined to a shortlist 
agreed by the committee 
following initial contact with 
the prioritised candidates to 
assess interest in the role. 

June 2023

 – The committee agreed a 
final role specification to 
support NatWest Group’s 
strategic priorities, 
incorporating feedback from 
the Board, which set out the 
skills, experience and 
personal qualities sought by 
the Board. 

Rick is a strong match to the role specification:
 – He is an experienced Chair with a long track record  

of leading boards, developing strategy and forging good  
relationships with CEOs.

 – He demonstrates high levels of experience in governance  

and running boards as well as building businesses.

 – He is well-known in the market and is well-equipped to  

handle the political environment with experience of dealing  
with government stakeholders.

 – He has strong financial services experience, and relevant 
background in key areas including payments, technology  
and innovation.

Ensuring a rigorous 
process
 – Between formal meetings, the SIDs 
kept directors informed of progress 
with regular updates and 
discussion at each stage of the 
search process.

 – The NWG SID engaged with 

regulators and key investors during 
the latter stages of the process, 
offering an opportunity to discuss 
any questions they had.

 – Rick’s other external roles and 
overall time commitment were 
carefully considered by the Board 
before his appointment was 
approved. In December the Board 
reaffirmed its assessment that Rick 
be considered independent on 
appointment as a non-executive 
director.

 – Rick has confirmed he will have 
sufficient time to devote to the 
NatWest Group Chair role, 
ensuring applicable limits on the 
number of directorships held are 
observed. 

 – Read about Rick’s induction 
programme on page 97.

August 2023

 – The role was advertised 
externally in accordance 
with PRA ring-fencing rules.

 – Candidates were 

interviewed by a subset of 
the Board alongside the 
NWH Ltd Senior 
Independent Director.

 – Candidates were measured 
on alignment with the role 
specification.

 – After reviewing feedback, 

the committee 
recommended to the Board 
that Rick be progressed as 
the preferred candidate.
 – All Board directors met with 
Rick before the full Board 
considered his appointment, 
with universally positive 
feedback provided.

September 2023

 – Following Board approval, 

it was announced on 
6 September 2023 that 
Rick had been selected as 
successor to Howard 
Davies as Chair of NatWest 
Group plc, subject to 
regulatory approval 
(received in December 
2023).

(1)  Spencer Stuart also provide leadership advisory and senior executive search and assessment services to the People & Transformation function within NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Appointing a new Chief Executive Officer of NatWest Group

A rigorous search process led to the appointment of Paul Thwaite as permanent CEO with effect from 16 February 2024. Paul was identified 
as the outstanding candidate who possessed a compelling balance of experience, leadership and vision to take NatWest Group forward. 

109

February 2023

 – Following a routine review of 
succession plans, the Board 
approved the committee’s 
recommendation for Paul 
Thwaite to be contingency 
CEO successor in the event of 
the absence of the then CEO.

25 July 2023

 – Paul Thwaite was 

appointed CEO of NatWest 
Group for an initial period 
of 12 months.

September 2023

 – The committee 

discussed the timing 
and process of the 
CEO search.

 – Discussions with the 

Chair Designate were 
held ahead of his 
appointment to the 
Board.

 – The process for 
selection and 
appointment of an 
external executive 
search firm was 
considered.

Paul’s skills and experience represent an outstanding 
match to the agreed CEO success profile
 – He has an unrivalled understanding of the business, its customers, and 

the opportunities for growth. This knowledge is combined with a genuine 
ambition for the future and the skills to navigate the changing landscape 
of the banking industry.

 – The Board has had the opportunity to work closely with Paul over the last 

seven months during which time he has demonstrated impressive 
leadership and a strong commitment to operational excellence.
 – Paul’s strong customer focus and ability to drive performance and 

transformation made him the outstanding candidate and the right person 
to lead NatWest.

(1)  Heidrick & Struggles did not provide any other services to the NatWest Group during 2023.

December 2023

 – A detailed CEO role 
specification was 
prepared.

 – The Committee 
agreed on four 
executive search firms 
who were then invited 
to tender.

January 2024

 – Following a competitive tender process, Heidrick & 
Struggles(1) was selected to support the search. 
 – A detailed CEO success profile and competency 

framework was agreed by the committee and used by 
Heidrick & Struggles to complete extensive mapping of 
potential external candidates.

 – The committee reviewed a longlist of candidates and 
identified a number of external candidates who would 
be approached.

 – Internal and external candidates were then rigorously 
assessed by Heidrick & Struggles to analyse suitability 
and alignment to the agreed success profile. 

February 2024

 – CEO development 

plans were produced 
for prioritised internal 
and external 
candidates to support 
the committee and 
Board’s decision-
making.

 – The committee and the 
Board reviewed and 
discussed the 
candidate assessment 
and benchmarking 
data produced by 
Heidrick & Struggles.

 – After careful 

consideration of the 
data and measurement 
against the agreed 
success criteria, the 
committee 
recommended that 
Paul be appointed as 
permanent NatWest 
Group CEO.

Ensuring a rigorous 
process
 – Since the announcement of his 

appointment in September 2023, 
the Chair Designate spent 
considerable time getting to know 
Board, ExCo and the wider 
business as well as meeting with 
key shareholders.  These 
interactions helped the Chair 
Designate form a view as to the 
key priority areas for a successful 
CEO candidate.

 – The committee’s subsequent  

discussion and agreement on a 
CEO success profile ensured a 
stretching set of success factors 
against which internal and 
external candidates’ credentials 
could be assessed.

 – As part of the search process the 
committee considered over 40 
external candidate profiles with 
the search narrowing to a diverse 
shortlist of 10 candidates who 
represented a credible match to 
the success profile.

 – Heidrick & Struggles used a 

comprehensive methodology in 
their assessment of the prioritised 
candidates which included an 
in-depth leadership capability 
interview alongside a series of 
psychometric assessments. This 
approach ensured a deep and 
consistent data set to support the 
committee and Board’s decision-
making.

 – Between formal meetings, the 

Chair Designate kept committee 
members and other Board 
directors informed on the search 
progress through regular updates.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Audit Committee

Letter from Patrick Flynn,

Chair of the Group Audit Committee

External 
audit

Internal  
audit

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Systems of 
internal 
control

Financial and 
non-financial 
reporting

Accounting 
judgements and 
estimates

Further information on each key area of focus can be 
found on pages 111 to 114.

110

Dear Shareholder,

I am pleased to share with you details of how the Group 
Audit Committee (the committee or GAC) discharged 
its responsibilities and its key areas of activity in 2023.

I would like to thank my fellow committee members for 
their contributions, in particular Morten Friis, who stood 
down from the committee following the July 2023 meeting. 
The committee also appreciated the views of Graham Beale 
(until July 2023), Ian Cormack and Mark Rennison, who 
are non-executive directors, members of NatWest Holdings 
(NWH) Audit Committee, and attend GAC meetings in an 
observational capacity.

The committee’s primary purpose is to oversee and 
challenge management’s approach to the preparation of 
financial results and relevant financial and non-financial 
disclosures. This includes considering existing and new 
accounting policies, scrutinising standards of internal 
control and their efficacy and reviewing the disclosures 
each quarter prior to release.

More detail of the remit of the committee can be found in 
its terms of reference which are reviewed annually and are 
available at natwestgroup.com.

Meeting and visits
Five scheduled meetings of the committee were held in 
2023, four of which took place immediately prior to the 
release of the financial results each quarter. During the 
year, all members attended the meetings, the majority of 
which were held in person. The committee reported to the 
Board after each scheduled meeting, escalating matters for 
the Board’s attention as required.

In conjunction with the Group and NWH Board Risk 
Committee (BRC) and the NWH Audit Committee, the 
GAC undertook its annual programme of visits to control 
functions. Constructive and insightful discussions were held 
with members of management from the Risk, Internal Audit 
and Finance teams.

Whistleblowing
In my role as whistleblowers’ champion for NatWest Group, 
I receive regular updates on the efficacy of the whistleblowing 
framework, themes in reports made by colleagues via the 
systems, and monitoring the outcomes of the most pertinent 
cases. The committee is responsible for oversight of the 
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of NatWest 
Group’s whistleblowing policies and procedures as detailed 
in the tables which follow. The operation of the framework 
was assessed as strong by the Protect charity.

Membership
 – GAC comprises three independent non-

executive directors. Members’ details and their 
skills and experience are set out on pages 84 
to 87.

 – Members are selected with a view to the 

expertise and experience of the committee as 
a whole and with regard to the key issues and 
challenges facing NatWest Group.

 – The Board is satisfied that all GAC members 
have recent and relevant financial experience 
and are independent as defined in the SEC 
rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the ‘Exchange Act’) and related 
guidance.

 – The Board has further determined that Patrick 

Flynn and Mark Seligman are ‘financial 
experts’ for the purposes of compliance with 
the Exchange Act Rules and the requirements 
of the New York Stock Exchange, and that 
they have competence in accounting and/or 
auditing as required under the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules.

 – Stuart Lewis is chair of the Group Board Risk 
Committee of which I am also a member.
 – This common membership helps to ensure 

effective governance across the committees.

Internal and external audit oversight
The committee continued to monitor the performance 
of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function in 
2023. Formal assessments were undertaken at the end 
of the year via an internal process and the committee 
reviewed summaries of the feedback provided by relevant 
stakeholders. An External Quality Assurance review of the 
Internal Audit function was also completed in early 2023. 
Further information can be found in the Internal Audit table 
on page 113.

Patrick Flynn
Chair of the Group Audit Committee

15 February 2024.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

111

Principal areas of Group Audit Committee focus in 2023
Systems of internal control
Systems of internal control relating to financial management, reporting and accounting issues are a key area of focus for the committee. In 2023 it received reports throughout the year on the 
topic and evaluated the effectiveness of NatWest Group’s internal control systems, including any significant failings or weaknesses.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002

To consider NatWest Group’s compliance with the 
requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002.

The committee received interim updates on the status of the bank’s internal controls over financial reporting throughout 
2023 enabling it to monitor progress and support management’s conclusion at the year end. The committee continued to 
receive updates from management on control deficiencies that arose during the year, including those around IT General 
Control and IFRS 9 that remain open at the year end. The committee continued to monitor the plans and transition to more 
automated preventative key controls. The committee additionally received regular updates from EY on their assessment of 
SOX compliance, and the status and rating of control matters. The committee also reviewed the process undertaken to 
support the Group CEO and Group CFO in providing the certifications required under sections 302, 404 and 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Regulatory and 
financial returns

To review the controls and procedures established 
by management of NatWest Group for compliance 
with regulatory and financial reporting requirements.

As part of management’s ongoing work to strengthen the financial reporting control environment in 2023, the committee 
received updates on the progress achieved to implement the findings of the industry-wide skilled person’s review of 
regulatory returns. This work completed during 2023.

Control 
Environment 
Certification

Early event 
escalation

Whistleblowing

To consider the control environment ratings of the 
businesses, functions and material subsidiaries and 
management’s actions to ensure that the control 
environment is maintained or strengthened.

The committee received bi-annual reports on the Control Environment Certification, which were supplemented by the 
views of the second and third lines of defence. The committee was pleased to note that the overall Control Environment 
strengthened during 2023 with agreement across all lines of defence that NatWest Group had achieved an improved rating 
by the end of 2023. The committee emphasised the importance of timely issue remediation and monitored this during 2023.

To monitor control incidents captured by the internal 
event escalation process.

The committee received bi-annual updates on the volumes and nature of the most significant control incidents escalated via 
the internal early event escalation process and any common themes. All Board directors were alerted to the most significant 
events throughout the year. A reduced volume of Major events was noted in 2023.

To monitor the effectiveness of the bank’s 
whistleblowing policies and procedures. The 
committee Chair is also the whistleblowers’ 
champion for NatWest Group.

The GAC monitored the effectiveness of the bank’s whistleblowing process and received updates on the volume of 
whistleblowing reports and any common themes. The GAC Chair acts as NatWest Group’s whistleblowers’ champion, in line 
with PRA and FCA regulations, and meets regularly with the whistleblowing team. There is appropriate escalation of matters 
to the Board and dissemination of information to the principal subsidiaries to ensure a coordinated approach across the 
NatWest Group.

Legal and 
regulatory reports

To note material legal investigations (current and 
emerging) and any impacts on financial reporting; 
and to monitor the bank’s relationship with relevant 
regulatory bodies including the FCA and PRA.

The committee received quarterly reports detailing new and existing major investigations and litigation cases. The committee 
considered the adequacy of provision levels and of the disclosures on potential legal issues. It satisfied in both respects. The 
committee also received updates on ongoing regulatory investigations, current and future areas of regulatory focus and the 
nature of the relationships with the primary regulators.

Other standards 
of control

In addition, the committee receives regular 
updates on matters pertinent to NatWest 
Group’s standards of internal control.

The committee received an update on the bank’s tax position and discussed matters including tax provisioning levels, 
significant provided and unprovided tax risks and deferred tax assets. For deferred tax, this considered sustainable 
profitability, the period of assessment, and changes against previous estimates.

The GAC reviewed the disclosure on internal control matters in conjunction with the related guidance from the 
Financial Reporting Council.

The committee received updates in respect of key changes proposed, but subsequently largely withdrawn, as part of 
proposed amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code. During 2024 the GAC will continue to oversee and 
challenge management on plans to implement changes announced by the Financial Reporting Council which will 
impact future disclosures on internal controls from 2026.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts112

Corporate governance continued

Financial and non-financial reporting
The GAC considered a number of accounting judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of NatWest Group’s financial results throughout 2023. The committee reviewed the quarterly, 
interim and full year results announcements, the annual reporting suite of documents and other principal financial and non-financial releases for recommendation to the Board for approval. 
This included the Climate-related Disclosures Report and the ESG Disclosures Report.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Expected credit 
losses

To review and challenge management’s judgements 
in relation to credit impairments and the underlying 
assumptions, methodologies and models applied, 
and any post-model adjustments (PMAs) required. 
To also consider the impact of macro-economic 
risks on the credit environment.

The GAC focused on the key assumptions, methodologies and post-model adjustments applied to provisions under IFRS 9. 
Economic uncertainty persisted in 2023 as a result of high inflation and cost of living, and the impact of higher interest rates. 
In the absence of a significant increase in the level of defaults, the committee discussed role of models and PMAs in the 
determination of quantum of loan loss provisions. Inclusion of adjustments to reflect economic uncertainty, including 
elevated interest rates and inflation levels, were discussed with management.
Industry benchmarking data remained helpful to the committee and informed its considerations. The committee challenged 
whether it would be possible to include the impairment impact of inflation as part of the IFRS 9 models. The committee noted 
that further data and a causal link were required and that post model adjustments would be retained. The committee will 
continue to scrutinise the application of post-model adjustments in 2024. The committee concluded that models are a core 
element of IFRS 9 but cannot capture all eventualities, in particular issues which have not occurred in the recent past. GAC 
believed judgement continues to play an important role in setting these provisions and PMAs are the key tool to enable this. 

Valuation 
methodologies

Provisions and 
disclosures

Viability statement 
and the going 
concern basis of 
accounting

Fair, balanced & 
understandable

To consider valuation methodologies, assumptions 
and judgements made by management.

The GAC considered valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value and scrutinised 
judgements made by management on a quarterly basis throughout 2023.

To consider the level of provisions for regulatory, 
litigation and conduct issues throughout the year.

To review NatWest Group’s going concern and 
viability statements.

To oversee the review process which supports 
the committee and Board in concluding that the 
disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts 
and other elements of the year-end reporting suite 
of documents, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
position and performance, business model 
and strategy.

The committee reviewed the levels of provisions during the year for regulatory, litigation and conduct matters, and 
was satisfied these were appropriate. The committee challenged management on the robustness of two specific redress 
programmes, which required increased provisions, and received assurance from management that no further increases 
were anticipated.

The GAC considered evidence of NatWest Group’s capital, liquidity and funding position and considered the process 
to support the assessment of principal risks. The GAC reviewed the company’s prospects in light of its current position, 
the identified principal, and emerging risks (including climate risk) and the ongoing macro-economic developments such 
as supply chain challenges and rising inflation. FRC guidance was considered as part of the preparation of the viability 
statement for NatWest Group. The committee recommended both the going concern assessment and viability statement 
to the Board. (Refer to the Strategic report and Report of the directors for further information.)

The committee oversaw the review process for the year-end disclosures which included: central coordination and oversight 
of the Annual Report and Accounts and other disclosures led by the Finance function; review of the documents by the 
Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the GAC; and a management certification process of the year-end 
reporting suite. The committee considered whether the annual, interim and quarterly disclosures met the UK Corporate 
Governance Code requirements to be ‘fair, balanced and understandable’. It concluded each time that the releases satisfied 
the necessary criteria. The external auditor also considered the fair, balanced and understandable statement as part of the 
year-end processes and supported NatWest Group’s position.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts113

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Climate-related 
Disclosures 
Report and ESG 
Disclosures 
Report

To review the principal non-financial disclosures 
made by NatWest Group and to ensure appropriate 
controls are in place to support the preparation of 
the information. These disclosures include the annual 
Climate-related Disclosures Report and the ESG 
Disclosures Report.

The committee focused on the continued development of the climate and ESG reporting control environment which supports 
non-financial disclosures. The GAC discussed and provided feedback on both the Climate-related disclosures report, which 
incorporated climate transition plan information, and the ESG Disclosures Report for 2023. A significant area of discussion on 
the Climate transition plan related to NatWest Group’s dependency on external factors and whether they continued to support 
achievement of NatWest Group’s climate ambitions. GAC noted the developing nature of Climate measurement standards, 
particularly in relation to the estimation of Scope 3 financed emissions, which has an inherent potential for double counting across 
entities in the same value chain. GAC noted that emissions estimates and other climate metrics should be read acknowledging these 
are in initial stages of development and subject to change as standards emerge and underlying data sources become more complete 
and developed.  GAC recognised that climate measurement standards are not at the same level of maturity as accounting standards. 
Also, enhancements to availability of data and control frameworks will be required to align with IFRS financial statements. Currently, 
industry wide, the attestation provided by an auditor is to a weaker level than applies to IFRS financial statements.

Internal Audit
The GAC is responsible for overseeing the Internal Audit function, monitoring its effectiveness and independence.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

Quarterly opinions To consider periodic opinion reports prepared by 
Internal Audit on the overall effectiveness of the 
governance, risk management and internal control 
framework, current issues and the adequacy of 
remediation activity.

The committee received quarterly opinion reports from Internal Audit, setting out the Function’s view of the overall 
effectiveness of NatWest Group’s governance, risk management and internal control framework, current issues and the 
adequacy of remediation activity. Internal Audit also outlined material and emerging concerns identified through their audit 
work. Internal Audit reported a continued steady strengthening of the bank’s control environment over the course of the 
year. The committee considered the Function’s opinion of the strength of the control environment.

Annual plan and 
budget

To approve Internal Audit’s annual plan and budget 
prior to the start of each year as well as any 
significant changes required during the year.

The committee considered and approved Internal Audit’s 2023 plan and budget at the end of 2022. The committee 
supported the planned focus of work on the most high-risk areas for the bank. The 2023 budget was consistent with the 
prior year, reflecting the delivery of efficiencies in the function. In December 2023, the committee approved Internal Audit’s 
2024 plan and budget. 

Internal Audit 
Charter and 
independence

Performance 
evaluation

To approve the Internal Audit Charter each year and 
review the independence of the Chief Audit Executive 
(CAE) and function as a whole.

To monitor and review, at least annually, the 
effectiveness of Internal Audit.

Visit

To undertake an annual deep dive session with 
members of the Internal Audit leadership team.

The GAC reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter which was consistent with prior years. The committee noted 
the Independence Statement and confirmed the independence of Internal Audit in December 2023.

In 2023 the CAE continued to report to the GAC Chair with a secondary reporting line for administrative purposes to the 
Group CEO. This is consistent with prior practice and industry guidance.
The GAC assessed the annual performance (including risk performance) of the function and CAE. The 2023 evaluation 
of the Internal Audit function was carried out internally. Stakeholders across the bank, including the GAC members, 
attendees and the external auditors, were invited to provide feedback, identifying areas of particular strength and those 
for enhancement. The overall findings were positive, and the Internal Audit function was found to be operating effectively 
with some opportunities to improve reporting, bench strength at more junior levels, and in respect of digital capabilities.
An external audit quality assessment was performed in early 2023 by Deloitte which looked at 2022 performance. This 
found that the Function was a high-performing, progressive function that compared favourably to leading peers with 
improvements identified including the replacement of the existing audit management system and enhancement of 
digital capabilities.
Progress on recommendations made from each evaluation will be overseen by the GAC in 2024.

Together with the BRC, the GAC participated in a successful deep dive session with Internal Audit’s management team. 
A variety of issues impacting the function were discussed, including succession planning and bench-strength; talent 
and mobility; functional priorities; and the impacts of increased automation and use of technology in audits.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts114

Corporate governance continued

External Audit
The GAC has responsibility for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, and for reviewing NatWest Group’s financial 
relationship with the external auditor and fixing its remuneration. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has been NatWest Group’s external auditor since 2016. In October 2022, the committee 
recommended that PwC be appointed as NatWest Group’s auditor from 2026. The GAC complied with the requirements of the FRC’s Audit Committees and the External Audit: 
Minimum Standard and the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Order 2014 for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Theme

Principal areas of focus

Outcomes

External audit 
reports

Audit plan and 
fees

To review reports prepared by the external 
auditor in relation to NatWest Group’s 
financial results and control environment.

The committee received quarterly reports on the review-related work and conclusions of the external auditor. The reports included 
EY’s view of the judgements made by management, compliance with international financial reporting standards, and the external 
auditor’s observations and assessment of effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.

To consider the scope and planning of the 
external auditor in relation to the audit of 
NatWest Group. It is also authorised by the 
shareholders to fix the remuneration of the 
external auditor.

The GAC reviewed EY’s 2023 plan. It welcomed the external auditor’s focus on the innovation in the techniques applied as part of 
the audit and the commitment to provide an earlier interim view of control deficiencies by December 2023.
In line with the authority granted to the committee by shareholders at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) to fix the 
remuneration of the external auditor, the GAC approved the audit fees for the year including the fee for the 2023 interim results. 
The committee received confirmation from the external auditor that the fees were appropriate to enable delivery of the required 
procedures to a high quality. 

Annual evaluation To review and monitor the external 

auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration all relevant 
professional and regulatory requirements.

Audit partner

To oversee the lead audit partner and 
resolution of any points of disagreement 
with management.

The evaluation of the external auditor’s performance in 2023 was undertaken to assess the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process. The GAC members, attendees, finance directors of businesses and 
functions, and key members of the Finance team were consulted as part of the evaluation.
Stakeholders were invited to assess the external auditor’s independence, engagement, provision of robust challenge, bench strength 
and reporting. The evaluation concluded that the external auditor was operating effectively and with objectivity. Key strengths 
included bench strength and knowledge of the senior team, and the provision of robust challenge to management. Improvement 
areas included junior staff capabilities, the timeliness of reporting of issues, and greater consideration of the commercial implications 
of recommendations made.

Micha Missakian has been EY’s lead audit partner since February 2021. He attended all meetings of the committee in 2023 and met 
in private session with the committee members during the year. This provided the external auditor an opportunity to raise any points 
of disagreement with management. No such points were raised by the external auditor in 2023. It is expected that the lead partner 
rotation will occur during 2024. GAC has overseen the appointment of his successor, Javier Faiz, who was selected based on industry 
experience (including audit transition), audit quality and enhancement, partner stability and availability.

Additional reports 
prepared by the 
external auditor

To review reports prepared by 
the external auditor in relation to  
NatWest Group.

During 2023 the committee considered the results of the external auditor’s assurance procedures on compliance with 
the FCA’s Client Asset Rules for NatWest Group’s regulated legal entities for the year ended 31 December 2022. EY also 
presented the findings of their audit of the Climate-related Disclosures Report and ESG Disclosures Report to the GAC.

Non-audit 
services

To review and approve, at least annually, 
NatWest Group’s policy in relation to the 
engagement of the external auditors to 
perform audit and non-audit services 
(the policy).

All audit and non-audit services are approved by, or on behalf of, the committee to safeguard the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity. The GAC reviewed and approved NatWest Group’s non-audit services policy in 2023. Under 
the policy, all audit-related services and permitted non-audit service engagements are approved by the GAC with updates 
presented to each scheduled meeting.

Where the fee for a non-audit service engagement is expected to exceed £100,000, a competitive tender process must be 
held; where the fee is anticipated to be £250,000 or more, approval of all GAC members is required. For fees under £250,000, 
work can be approved on an interim basis by the GAC Chair, subject to subsequent ratification by the next scheduled GAC 
meeting. The policy permits the external auditor to undertake engagements which are required by law or regulation, or which 
relate to the provision of comfort letters in respect of debt issuance by the NatWest Group, provided prior approvals are in 
place in accordance with the policy. The policy also allows NatWest Group to receive services from EY which result from a 
customer’s banking relationship, provided prior approvals are in place in accordance with the policy. All such approvals are 
subsequently reported to the GAC. Further details of the non-audit services policy can be found at natwestgroup.com.

During 2023, the committee did not approve any significant non-audit engagements (where the fees exceeded £100,000) 
to be undertaken by the external auditor. The audit to non-audit fee ratio for 2023 was 16%. Information on fees paid in 
respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditor can be found in Note 6 to the consolidated financial 
statements. In January 2024, the GAC approved a significant non-audit engagement where the fees exceeded £250,000 in 
connection with a potential retail share offering. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Board Risk Committee

Letter from Stuart Lewis,

Chair of the Group Board Risk Committee

Operational 
risk

Financial  
crime

Risk  
management 
strategy

Embedding of 
EWRMF and  
RCSAs

Model  
risk

Principal 
areas of 
focus

Data 
management 

Conduct and 
regulatory  
compliance
(including  
Consumer Duty)

Credit  
risk

Capital, 
liquidity and 
funding

Reputational 
risk

115

Dear Shareholder,

I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the 
Board Risk Committee (the committee or BRC), having 
succeeded Morten Friis who stepped down as BRC Chair 
after the July 2023 meeting. I would particularly like to thank 
Morten for his skill and dedication in steering the committee 
through the recent periods of volatility in the geopolitical 
and external environment and for his counsel during the 
handover process. I became a member of the committee in 
April 2023, ensuring a smooth handover in our responsibilities.

This report describes how the BRC has fulfilled its role in 
overseeing and advising the Board in relation to current 
and potential future risk exposures and risk profile; and in 
overseeing the effectiveness of risk management frameworks 
and internal controls required to manage risk. In carrying 
out this important role, the committee helps to ensure that 
NatWest Group supports its customers through the prudent 
management of risk. More detail on the remit of the 
committee can also be found in its terms of reference which 
are reviewed annually and are available at natwestgroup.com.

Principal areas of focus in 2023
During 2023, BRC ensured its time was prioritised to focus 
on NatWest Group’s principal and emerging risks. Financial 
crime has remained a key area of focus and the committee 
was pleased to see it return to appetite. The external 
environment has influenced the focus of the committee this 
year, particularly its impact on NatWest Group’s risk profile 
in relation to capital, stress testing, liquidity and funding, and 
credit risk.

Other areas of focus have included oversight of the 
execution of the Risk Management Strategy; model risk 
remediation; oversight of implementation of the enterprise-
wide risk management framework (EWRMF) improvements, 
particularly the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA); 
conduct and regulatory compliance (including the 
implementation of Consumer Duty requirements); and 
oversight of a wide range of operational risk matters. 
In addition, the committee received regular updates on 
data management and BCBS239. Reputational risk was 
an emerging area of attention given the internal and 
external focus on customer exits, branch closures, 
and deposit rate pass-through.

It is expected that these will continue to be areas of focus in 
2024 as NatWest Group drives towards return to appetite 
in relevant areas; implements changes to meet regulatory 

Membership
BRC comprises three independent non-executive 
directors. The details of the members and their skills 
and experience are set out on pages 84 to 87.

Patrick Flynn is Chair of the Group Audit 
Committee of which I am also a member. 
Lena Wilson is Chair of the Group Performance 
and Remuneration Committee (RemCo). This 
common membership helps to ensure effective 
governance across the committees.

Regular attendees at BRC meetings include: 
the Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO, 
Group CRO, Group Chief Legal Officer and 
General Counsel, Group Chief Audit Executive, 
and the External Auditor. External advice is 
sought by the committee where appropriate.

Francesca Barnes and Ian Cormack attended 
committee meetings as observers in their 
capacity as members of NWH Ltd’s BRC. 
Meetings of the Group and NWH Ltd’s BRCs 
share much of a common agenda and are 
generally held in parallel.

expectations; and continues to respond to the external 
environment and cost of living pressures.

Further information on key topics considered during the 
year and areas of focus and challenge by the committee 
is provided on the following pages.

Meetings and visits
There were eight scheduled meetings of the committee held 
in 2023. Six of the eight meetings were held in person, with 
the remaining two meetings held virtually during the year. 
Details of meeting attendance can be found on page 97. 
The committee reported to the Board on the committee’s 
activities after each meeting, escalating matters for the 
Board’s attention as appropriate.

Outside formal meetings, BRC met with the Risk 
Leadership Team and considered improvements to the 
risk management report. Dinners were arranged to discuss 
the future direction of the Risk function, the committee’s 
priorities, and the operation of the committee.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Members of the Group and the NWH Ltd BRCs also 
undertook a programme of visits to the Risk, Internal Audit 
and Finance functions, in conjunction with members of the 
Group and NWH Ltd Audit Committees.

I would like to thank my fellow committee members for 
their contributions and commitment during the last year.

Stuart Lewis
Chair of the Group Board Risk Committee

15 February 2024

BRC Chair’s induction
A full, formal and tailored induction was devised, which took into consideration my background and existing 
knowledge. As part of my induction, I had a series of meetings with the outgoing BRC Chair, fellow non-executive 
directors, the Group Chairman, the subsidiary Board Risk Committee Chairs, and external auditors. I had detailed 
sessions with executives and subject matter experts and attended NatWest Group Board training, the subsidiary 
non-executive director conference, and the Colleague Advisory Panel. The meetings were designed to give me 
a comprehensive overview of the principal risks facing NatWest Group and to address areas of particular 
regulatory interest.

116

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus in 2023
The table below describes the Board Risk Committee’s principal areas of focus in 2023, alongside key outcomes and stakeholders considered.

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Financial crime

Model risk

Oversight of the management and return to appetite 
of financial crime risk, which continued to be a key 
focus area for NatWest Group throughout the year.

Quarterly updates were presented from all three 
lines of defence and supplemented by updates from 
the Group CRO at each meeting. These included 
progress updates on return to appetite plans, 
transformation and emerging risks/issues.

Additionally, BRC considered the Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer’s (MLRO’s) report(1) and the annual 
Group financial crime risk assessment.

BRC maintained close oversight of management 
activity to return to appetite for model risk through 
regular detailed updates. There was particular focus 
on the Internal Ratings Based models and updates 
were provided on the programme of work to support 
changes to the Model Risk Management framework 
and the evolving regulatory landscape, particularly 
compliance with the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 
(SS1/23).

Throughout the year, the committee challenged management on return to appetite timetable, adequacy of 
resource and external support, and the pace of transformation and remediation to protect customers by driving 
improvements in financial crime. This included interrogating any differing views among the three lines of defence 
on confidence in the return to appetite time frame. The committee also requested progress updates from specific 
subsidiary entities as required.

Additionally, ahead of the return to appetite in 2023, the committee ascertained from management the level 
of funding required to maintain the risk appetite position and the evolution of financial crime risk to ensure that 
threats were monitored and mitigated effectively. The committee acknowledged the significant achievement 
of financial crime’s return to appetite, reflecting an improved control environment, and that this had been 
accomplished by close, collaborative work by all three lines of defence.

The committee also reviewed proposed new risk appetite measures concerning the timeliness and quality of 
a number of financial crime processes and recommended them to the Board. 

BRC held management to account on return to appetite plans and was pleased that model risk returned to 
appetite in April 2023.

A key focus area during 2023 was the amendment of Internal Ratings Based models to comply with regulatory 
changes and their submission to the PRA. The committee challenged management on progress, timings and 
regulatory expectations while noting the evolving regulatory landscape. The committee received reports from 
management on its proposed approach and assurances that it was working closely with the PRA. Management 
also confirmed that performance issues with incumbent models were well understood and mitigated.

Additionally, the committee was keen to understand the robustness of the validation process for artificial 
intelligence-related models which will be a continuing area of interest during 2024. 

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts117

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Risk function 
oversight and risk 
management 
strategy

Enterprise-wide 
risk management 
framework 
(EWRMF) 
embedding 
(including risk 
appetite and 
Risk and control  
self assessment  
(RCSA) activity)

BRC monitored the effectiveness of the Risk function 
and received quarterly progress updates (including 
reviews by the Internal Audit function) on the action 
plan established in 2022 to oversee work to enhance 
Risk’s effectiveness. The committee approved the 
Risk Management Strategy which defines the 
strategy for risk management for NatWest  
Group and received regular progress updates. 

The EWRMF is NatWest Group’s primary risk 
management and risk governance document. BRC 
received regular updates on the effectiveness of the 
EWRMF, particularly implementation of the updated 
RCSA process. This included detailed oversight of 
achievement of milestones, ensuring that anticipated 
benefits were delivered in the control environment 
and that lessons learned from the initial pilots were 
incorporated into subsequent assessments.

Further details can be found in the Risk and capital 
management section of the report on page 170.

Risk profile and 
reporting

Time was spent at every BRC meeting reviewing 
NatWest Group’s current and future risk profile 
relative to risk appetite via risk management reports, 
with a particular focus on the external environment 
including the UK and global economic outlook, liquidity 
and funding, credit risk, operational risk, and 
emerging risks and threats.

BRC held management to account as necessary on progress and timelines of the Risk Effectiveness Action Plan 
and was pleased that both Risk and the Internal Audit function agreed in November 2023 that the programme 
could be closed with remaining multi-year milestones transitioned to a strategic BAU programme.

BRC received regular updates on the Risk Management Strategy and challenged management to prioritise focus 
on the programmes with the most significant impact.

The annual review of the EWRMF was presented to the committee in December 2023. It was recommended to 
the Board for approval and was supported by Internal Audit’s review of EWRMF.

The committee was pleased with the significant progress made on RCSAs with all 2023 milestones completed.

The committee oversaw the refresh of both qualitative risk appetite statements and the quantitative risk appetite 
measures in line with the EWRMF. The committee supported the changes to risk appetite measures to provide 
broader coverage of focus areas at a Board level. Key changes were to capital risk, liquidity and funding risk, 
credit risk, traded market risk, operational risk, climate risk, financial crime, and reputational risk. The committee 
queried whether there needed to be increased focus on people risk, broader ESG risk, and ‘near miss’ events and 
challenged management to ensure risk appetite limits and triggers were set appropriately, with changes made to 
the proposed limits and triggers as a result. The committee provided feedback to ensure that the measures met 
regulatory expectations and were robust.

The committee considered spotlights on all principal risks during the year. Further information on these can be 
found in the respective sections of this report. The committee also reviewed proposed updates to the Key Risk 
Policies(1) and approved them under its Board-delegated authority.

The committee continued to challenge management to improve the format and content of the risk management 
report, resulting in the introduction of a new risk management report during 2023 with a focus on highlighting 
key messages clearly and succinctly, strengthening data, providing more trend analysis, and reducing the 
overall length of the report.

The committee encouraged management to include headlines and outlook, focus on reporting on risk and 
returns, include commentary on return to appetite plans where applicable, and continue to progress plans to 
automate the reporting. Additionally, the committee emphasised the importance of robust data and metrics. 
The risk report will continue to be refined during 2024.

(1)  Risk policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. 

They are consistently applied across NatWest Group and subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

118

Risk profile and 
reporting 
(continued)

The committee received an annual spotlight on top 
and emerging threats which focused on proposed 
changes to the framework and the increasingly 
intertwined nature of top and emerging threats.

Transformation/
Major Change 
programmes

BRC maintained oversight of the delivery of 
NatWest Group’s transformation and material 
change programmes and their position relative  
to risk appetite.

Conduct and 
regulatory 
compliance risk 
(including 
Consumer Duty 
and ring-fencing 
compliance)

The committee also received an update on the 
management of UBIDAC withdrawal risks as part of 
the phased withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland.

Conduct and regulatory compliance remained a key 
area of interest for the committee given the breadth 
of issues it impacts.

A spotlight on conduct and regulatory compliance 
highlighted the developments and improvements 
that had taken place during 2023, progress made 
in ring-fencing compliance, Consumer Duty and 
surveillance remediation as well as the work 
carried out to enhance reporting in order  
to support oversight. 

BRC continued to focus on principal and emerging risks and their strategic impact. Liquidity & funding, including 
the impact of the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Credit Suisse, the resulting global financial turbulence and 
the mitigating actions taken by management, were considered during the year, as were the continuing impact 
of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the cost-of-living pressures affecting our customers and our colleagues, and 
management of first and second order risks as a result of the Israel/Gaza conflict. The committee requested 
that management provide an overview of how the top and emerging threats work informed NatWest Group’s 
strategy and business model and how NatWest Group responded to crystallising threats.

The committee supported the Board in its oversight of customer exits and reputational risk and received updates 
on the outputs and recommendations from the reviews carried out. The committee considered the annual 
reputational risk spotlight which included changes to the reputational risk policy and risk appetite metrics to 
align with the recommendations.

Detailed reports on legal and regulatory developments and litigation risks were considered on a quarterly basis 
and verbal updates were provided at intervening meetings.

Quarterly reports were received from the Chairs of the franchise risk committees and board risk committees of 
material regulated subsidiaries, providing oversight of key risk and control issues and a channel for escalation of 
issues. The BRC Chair joined the meetings of the board risk committees of material regulated subsidiaries and 
the Chairs of these committees were also invited to join BRC meetings throughout the year. 

Regulatory programmes were a particular area of interest during 2023 and BRC sought assurance from 
management that there was sufficient budget and resource for all regulatory programmes, including Consumer 
Duty, and that there was appropriate connectivity between the businesses’ risk profile and investment. 

The committee sought to understand how management evidenced conduct and control improvements that had 
been put in place.

The committee supported the Board in overseeing management’s progress in addressing Consumer Duty 
requirements through regular updates on a detailed milestone plan to implementation. The volume of work to be 
carried out and the challenging timelines were acknowledged by the committee, and it questioned all three lines 
of defence to gain assurance that the milestone plan continued to meet regulatory expectations, that there was 
sufficient budget and resource, and that focus remained on the correct areas.

The committee received regular updates from management on ring-fencing conflicts and its approach to support 
the Board ring-fencing compliance attestation and was pleased that it was successfully submitted in March 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

119

Operational risk, 
operational 
resilience, and 
cyber security

Data management 
and BCBS239

Operational risk has been a key area of focus for 
BRC throughout the year. It received regular updates 
on NatWest Group’s operational risk profile and 
risk appetite. This included updates on operational 
resilience, manual controls, fraud, near misses, end 
of life systems, and information and cyber security.

The committee considered the operational resilience 
self-assessment(1) in detail prior to approval by 
the Board, with important business services and 
associated impact tolerances operating as the 
foundation for the assessment.

The committee also received biannual spotlights on 
payments technology, controls and architecture which 
included the outputs from an end-to-end review.

In addition, updates on information security 
contained in the risk management report were 
reviewed at every meeting and BRC dedicated 
time to the consideration of cyber risk, the external 
threat landscape and the actions being taken by 
management in response during the presentation of 
the annual information and cyber security spotlight. 
This included detail on the work being undertaken 
to ensure that new technological advances such 
as machine learning are introduced in a safe and 
secure way and the measures in place to support 
an increasingly consistent approach to security.

Data is a continuing area of focus for the BRC and 
it received reports on the data management risk 
profile, including the activity underway to transform 
data consumed by Risk and Finance functions for risk 
and regulatory reporting purposes and progress in 
responding to issues identified as part of a 2022 
industry-wide data thematic review. 

The committee was pleased to see a lower number of operational control events during 2023. It remained an 
area of focus for the committee and regulators and the committee requested that additional detailed updates on 
operational risk performance and trends be provided. The committee challenged management on the number 
and mitigation timescales of Very High unaccepted risks and received updates on the methodology and 
framework that had been put in place.

The committee received regular updates in respect of end of life systems, investment levels and how NatWest 
Group compared to its peers. Following challenges and queries from the committee, the addition of two end of 
life Board-level risk appetite measures were approved by the Board in December 2023.

Manual controls are a key area of concern for BRC and the committee requested quarterly updates on the 
management of and the progress made in reducing their number. Particular focus was given to a review 
of manual controls within payments processing and how the review was expected to drive improvements. 
The committee will continue to challenge management on the reduction of manual controls and drive to 
automation during 2024.

Throughout the year the committee challenged the scope and coverage of operational risk appetite and, 
in response, new Board-level risk appetite measures designed to cover the material operational risk focus 
areas and overall management of operational risk were approved by the Board in December 2023.

The committee continued to emphasise the importance of a cohesive approach to data management in order 
to resolve concerns around the timeliness and accuracy of some data and encouraged management to work 
collaboratively across these programmes. The committee sought clarity on completion dates for all activities 
within the data strategy in order to track progress.

The committee received regular updates on compliance with BCBS239. This included findings from an 
Internal Audit assessment and management’s response to it. The committee challenged management on 
the methodology used to assess NatWest Group’s compliance status and discussed the role that the BCBS239 
Framework played in improving overall data quality. Changes to the BCBS239 Framework were reviewed and 
approved by the committee under Board delegated authority.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus Outcomes

120

Outsourcing and 
third party risk 
management

Financial and 
Strategic risks

BRC maintained oversight of NatWest Group’s 
outsourcing and third party risk management 
to facilitate oversight of the identification 
and management of third-party related risks. 
In particular, the committee focused on the 
management of Cloud providers and related risks.

BRC received progress updates from 
management on Outsourcing Risk Standards, 
policy and framework as well as the design 
and deliverables of the Third Party Risk 
Management Programme. The committee 
continued its oversight over NatWest Group’s 
critical service providers.

Regular monitoring of principal financial and 
strategic risks is a pivotal part of BRC’s role both 
via routine risk reporting and via regular focused 
reports. Particular attention was paid to deposit 
and liquidity risk, and discussions took place 
concerning NatWest Group’s deposits strategy, 
the interest rate environment and position 
relative to its peers.

BRC reviewed capital, liquidity and funding 
requirements during 2023 and also reviewed 
capital distribution proposals prior to 
Board consideration.

BRC received separate updates on the retail 
and wholesale credit risk portfolios in addition to 
reporting on credit and market risk within the risk 
management report. The committee also received 
updates on the decisions made by the Executive 
Credit Group. Further spotlights were considered 
in respect of traded and non-traded market risk.

In response to questions and challenges from the committee, management provided detailed information to confirm 
appropriate exit plans were in place for critical service providers, including cloud suppliers. BRC also discussed 
management’s response to a regulatory review in relation to exit plans and stressed exit plans and challenged 
management as necessary on timings and progress.

The committee challenged management to adjust processes as required to ensure an enriched view of supplier risk 
by sector, optimising internal credit risk resources.

In response to a request from the committee, management provided an overview of the outputs and findings 
from cloud scenario testing which had been carried out. The committee discussed the improvement opportunities 
that management had identified, the regulatory landscape and NatWest Group’s position relative to its peers. 
The committee sought enhancement to risk appetite metrics in relation to cloud hosting and a Board-level 
cloud risk appetite measure was approved by the Board in December 2023.

The committee recommended the outsourcing policies for Board approval.

Credit risk and market risk – Management updated BRC on the sources of credit risk, including asset quality, risk 
management approach, risk appetite and controls. Following a challenge from the committee and extensive reviews, 
management assured BRC that no leading indicators of a deterioration in quality were being seen in either the retail or 
wholesale credit loan portfolios. In order to support the management of key and material segments of the wholesale and 
retail credit portfolios further, additional Board-level risk appetite measures were approved by the Board in December 
2023, covering mortgages, unsecured lending, securitisations, leveraged funds and the commercial real estate portfolio.

The committee also questioned management on the measures put in place to support customers in difficulties due 
to the cost of living crisis, including problem debt preparedness and monitoring for signs of stress. The committee 
requested updates from management on specific focus areas as they arose during the year, including in relation 
to mortgage payment shock and the management of personal accounts used to run businesses, and received 
assurances from management that a pro-active approach was being taken across NatWest Group with sufficient 
resource levels in the customer services teams.

In relation to market risk, management provided the committee with an overview of the measures that had been put 
in place to manage the volatile external environment; how risks were being mitigated; and the Group’s position in 
relation to its peers.

ICAAPs, ILAAPs and Budget and Risk Appetite Stress Tests(1) – The committee reviewed and recommended to the 
Board the scenarios to be used during 2024 for the budget process, IFRS 9 management, and the monitoring of the risk 
profile relative to the approved risk appetite. BRC considered the budget and budget stress test as well as the ICAAP 
and ILAAP for NatWest Group and recommended them to the Board for approval. The committee approved the ILAAP 
scenarios under delegated authority. The committee challenged management on the basis for the downturn scenarios 
and received confirmation that the scenarios had been adjusted to reflect the faster movement of deposits.

Liquidity and funding – In light of the volatile external environment, the committee requested additional information 
from management regarding NatWest Group’s deposit strategy. Additionally, in response to a challenge from the 
committee, management provided a training session to the Board that focused on liquidity and funding.

Capital distributions – The committee provided a detailed review of proposals for capital distributions to shareholders 
prior to approval by the Board, including a directed buyback and on-market buybacks.

Climate risk – The committee received regular reporting on NatWest Group’s performance against the climate risk 
appetite measures and was provided with an overview of progress during 2023, the performance of franchises and 
functions in embedding the climate risk framework, and nature risk considerations. From January 2024, climate risk 
appetite measures were updated to reflect the existing Climate transition plan and expanded to include nature risk. 
The committee challenged management on whether updates were required to the 2030 ambitions and targets in light 
of the external policy environment and received assurance from management that these will be reviewed and revised, 
aligned with target setting frameworks and external developments.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of Board Risk Committee focus

Outcomes

Financial and 
Strategic risks 
(continued)

Stress testing, 
recovery plans and 
the resolvability 
self-assessment

Pension risk – The committee received updates on pension risk’s performance against risk appetite in each risk 
management report. Additionally, the committee received a dedicated spotlight on pension risk which included 
confirmation that no significant Pillar 2A or 2B capital impacts arose as part of the 2023 ICAAP.

BRC reviewed in detail the stress testing activity 
undertaken by management to identify and monitor 
risks and threats.

BRC also monitors and challenges the development 
of plans which would allow NatWest Group to be 
dealt with effectively in the event of financial failure.

Stress testing scenarios – Stress testing scenarios used to monitor and measure risk profile have been kept 
under close review by the committee given the turbulent external environment and the importance of capturing 
the range of outcomes NatWest Group needs to be prepared for. In relation to risk appetite and risk monitoring, 
the committee supported management’s use of stress testing, sensitivity testing, and scenario analysis tools and 
challenged management regarding the reporting of additional stress testing data points in the risk management 
report. BRC considered the stress scenarios to be used for monitoring a moderate, severe and extreme stress.

121

Control 
environment

Accountability and 
remuneration

BRC continued to monitor the effectiveness 
of internal controls required to manage risk 
and was provided with updates regarding 
the control environment ratings of NatWest Group, 
franchises, functions, Digital X, and legal entities. 

BRC continued to provide oversight over the risk 
dimension of performance and remuneration 
arrangements, as well as providing accountability 
review recommendations from a risk management 
perspective, working closely with RemCo.

Recovery Plan – Whilst no regulatory submission was required in 2023, BRC received detailed status updates 
and feedback from the PRA was reported.

Resolvability self-assessment – The committee reviewed the 2023 Resolvability Self-Assessment(1) and 
recommended the final submission to the Board for approval. Additionally, the BRC Chair attended a series of 
meetings with management focusing on the resolution barriers. Management confirmed that feedback from 
the Bank of England’s 2021 assessment had been addressed. The committee discussed how resolvability 
was evidenced and the controls in place across the Group to ensure that processes were being followed.

The committee continuously challenged management on progress towards an improved control environment, 
with particular focus on Financial Crime, Wealth, and RBSI.

The committee reviewed and supported management’s report on the effectiveness of internal controls required 
to manage risk.

Remuneration – The risk and control goals of the NatWest Group Executive Committee members and relevant 
attendees (ExCo) were considered by the committee and continued to focus on ensuring alignment with 
regulatory expectations as well as key risk management deliverables. These were recommended to RemCo, 
together with the individual performance goals for the Group Chief Risk Officer.

BRC also considered the risk and conduct performance of ExCo, to ensure a fair reflection of risk and conduct 
performance in variable pay award and vesting outcomes. In response to questions and challenges from the 
committee, management explained the rationale for any proposed risk-related adjustments to variable pay, 
including annual bonus awards, the grant of relevant Restricted Share Plan awards and vesting of the 2021 
Long-Term Incentive awards, and BRC recommended them to RemCo.

The committee discussed and recommended to RemCo proposed risk adjustments to NatWest Group’s 
bonus pool calculation to reflect NatWest Group’s risk and conduct management performance. The committee 
particularly focused on the weighting given to specific events and challenged management on its rationale.

Remuneration policy – The committee carried out its annual review of the Material Risk Taker identification 
process and had no concerns to escalate to RemCo.

Accountability – The committee continued its oversight of regulatory reportable events, other material 
investigations and resultant accountability review recommendations, advising RemCo on the appropriateness 
of these recommendations from a risk perspective.

Further detail on how risk is considered in remuneration decisions can be found in the Report of RemCo on pages 138 to 139.

(1)  Reviewed by BRC in line with the committee’s role to review reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommend them for approval.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts122

Combining the SBC and TIC agendas has ensured that 
our Board committee structure continues to support the 
Board in overseeing the execution of our strategy and 
promoting NatWest Group’s long-term sustainable success. 
Technology, innovation and data are integral to our 
strategic priorities as we strive to be a relationship 
bank in a digital world.

In July 2023, the committee’s Terms of Reference (ToR) were 
updated to formalise the committee’s role in overseeing 
Consumer Duty on behalf of the Board, including oversight 
of the implementation plan and ensuring Consumer Duty 
is properly embedded within NatWest Group. The updated 
ToR also referred to the Group Consumer Board Champion 
being a member of the committee.

Membership
In April 2023 the committee was delighted to 
welcome Roisin Donnelly as a member who brings 
a wealth of experience in customer, data and 
digital transformation matters. Roisin was also 
confirmed as Consumer Duty Board Champion 
in April 2023. Following the departure of Mike 
Rogers and Graham Beale from the Boards, 
membership of the committee comprised three 
non-executive directors, with one non-executive 
director from the NatWest Holdings Limited 
Board observing, along with management 
attendees. More details of membership and 
attendance of the committee can be found 
in the Corporate Governance report.

Corporate governance continued

Report of the Group  
Sustainable Banking 
Committee

Letter from Yasmin Jetha,

Chair of the Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee

Supporting 
long term 
value 
creation

Climate and 
environmental 
progress 

Principal 
areas of 
focus

People,  
culture and 
learning 

Enterprise

Customer

Technology, 
data and 
innovation

Dear Shareholder,

I am delighted to present my first report as Chair of the 
Group Sustainable Banking Committee (the committee 
or SBC).

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the previous 
committee Chair, Mike Rogers, who served as SBC 
Chair since 2018 and provided outstanding leadership 
to the committee.

During 2023, the committee continued to support 
the Board in overseeing, supporting and challenging 
actions being taken by management to run the bank as 
a sustainable business, capable of generating long-term 
value for stakeholders. This year our agendas and rich 
discussions have maintained a strong focus on our 
support for customers, colleagues and communities.

We held several spotlight sessions throughout the year, 
covering the principle areas of focus for the committee, 
namely climate, learning, enterprise, customer, people and 
culture, conduct and ethics, and technology, innovation and 
data. The views of internal and external stakeholders were 
sought wherever possible and meeting time was prioritised 
towards meaningful debate and discussion.

The 2022 committee performance evaluation sought more 
frequent updates on key topics, which was reflected in the 
agendas. During the year we strengthened our operating 
rhythm by establishing a new framework for the SBC, 
ensuring focus on outcomes and long-term value creation, 
benefits to the customer and learning from best in class, 
including other industries.

Expanded remit of the committee
The Board agreed to retire the Technology and Innovation 
Committee (TIC) on 30 April 2023 and, with effect from 
1 May 2023, the committee’s remit was expanded to 
include technology, innovation and data.

At its final meeting in March 2023, TIC considered: an 
update on technology capabilities and ambitions, which 
form part of the NatWest Digital X strategy; a spotlight 
on payments, which considered the current and future 
landscape and required areas of action; and progress 
on data architecture. The committee encouraged 
further strategic focus on payments and consideration 
of forthcoming regulatory changes. Updates on data 
strategy have continued to be provided to the Board 
and Group Board Risk Committee during the year.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts123

Corporate governance continued

Meetings
The committee continues to hold five meetings per annum 
and reports to the Board on the committee’s activities after 
each meeting, escalating matters for the Board’s attention 
as appropriate. All meetings were held in person. The 
committee operates under delegated authority from 
the Board and its terms of reference are available on 
natwestgroup.com. These are reviewed annually and 
approved by the Board.

Conclusion
The committee has continued to effectively support the 
Board and has played an important role in providing 
detailed consideration of matters which will drive NatWest 
Group as a sustainable business generating long-term value 
for stakeholders. We have continued to benefit from a broad 
range of internal and external stakeholder perspectives, to 
better understand how NatWest Group’s actions are 
supporting our customers, colleagues and society.

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

I want to take the opportunity to thank everyone who 
has contributed to the committee’s activities during 2023, 
especially committee members and attendees for their 
support and continued commitment.

Yasmin Jetha
Chair of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

15 February 2024

Outcomes

Climate and 
environmental 
progress

Presentations considered progress on climate matters and principal focus areas for 2023 to support our 
climate ambitions. This included consideration of climate-related risks, growth opportunities and trade-offs.

Pilots on the Property (home retrofit) and Food systems were presented which demonstrated the use of the systems 
thinking approach and potential associated growth opportunities. The committee received updates on strategic 
partnerships established to develop our thinking and help identify and solve climate-related problems. Updates on 
sustainable bonds and green finance products demonstrated the initiatives underway to support customers in 
various sectors.

The committee reflected on the positive external market reaction to NatWest Group’s 2022 Climate-related 
Disclosures Report and announcements published in February 2023 and considered the steps being taken for 
this to continue to develop, acknowledging the challenges faced by macro factors and external headwinds.

The committee has continued to support the Board in its oversight of the implementation and delivery of the Climate 
transition plan. Updates were provided on the tools and processes that we have started to develop to support 
customer engagement within our newly developed Climate Decisioning Framework, as well as work to incorporate 
the Climate transition plan in forecasting and budget processes. The committee also received progress updates 
in relation to our climate and sustainable funding and financing target and learned about efforts to co-develop 
solutions with corporates to deploy climate and sustainable funding and financing funding in supply chains.

The committee welcomed Stuart Graham (Senior Partner) from Bernstein Autonomous Research LLP, who provided 
expert observations and feedback on NatWest Group’s progress and future improvement areas. It was noted that 
NatWest Group ranked second globally in The Autonomous Paris Readiness Index (APRI), published in 2022, which 
ranks banks on climate risk, with a heavy weighting on managing transition risk.

The committee considered steps being taken to embed Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) across our 
supply chain and how this compared to peers. The update detailed key activities to align our supply chain to the 
bank’s climate ambitions, including the refreshed Supplier Charter, which helps set expectations of suppliers and 
the deepening of understanding of human rights risks in the supply chain. Supply chain decarbonisation pilots have 
provided insights that inform 2024 approach and plans.

The committee noted NatWest Group’s ESG rating performance and other key themes arising in relation to this.

The committee had detailed discussion on the external 
headwinds impacting NatWest Group’s ability to 
achieve its 2030 climate ambitions and targets. Whilst 
it was acknowledged that there are a number of 
factors outside NatWest Group’s control, including 
reliance on UK Government policy, the committee 
challenged the sufficiency of actions taken by 
NatWest Group to close gaps against its climate 
ambitions and targets.

The committee encouraged focus on supporting 
customers through their transition and wanted to 
understand customer feedback on the tools being 
provided to ensure they were useful.

The committee was keen to understand the 
ability to scale initiatives to provide support to more 
customers and the limitations faced as a result of the 
UK’s infrastructure.

The committee encouraged consideration of 
opportunities across the whole of the UK and the 
use of Regional Boards.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts124

Corporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

People, culture 
and learning 

Given significant focus on culture and alignment to the strategy, an update on progress on the One Bank Culture 
journey and the key drivers of culture was provided. A healthy culture, strong purpose, high levels of engagement 
and clear values were confirmed. Spotlights on leadership capability, scaling experimentation, and changes to 
performance management processes demonstrated the work being undertaken to drive a One Bank culture.

Acknowledging the integral role of ethics in the assessment of NatWest Group’s culture, the committee wanted to 
understand how business ethics was monitored and reported at NatWest Group.

The committee considered action being taken by management to implement our Future Workforce Design, to 
ensure the bank has the right skills, capabilities and roles for the future and can respond to the internal and external 
environment at pace. The committee learned how our Future Workforce Design approach will deliver the workforce 
needed in the face of changing customer expectations, technology advances, and future workforce trends. The 
committee reviewed impacts on two specific areas, Human support in Retail and Software engineering in Digital X, 
and noted the changes in the nature of work and skills required in the future.

The committee considered how the HR Transformation programme will improve colleague experience by providing 
more efficient, effective and economical HR services resulting in the acquisition of new capabilities, adopting new ways 
of working and empowering colleagues to deliver great outcomes for customers and communities. The evolution of 
the operating model will also support the delivery of Colleague Journeys, aligned to the One Bank vision and pivot 
to growth.

On behalf of the Board, the committee noted the approach taken to the development of workforce policies 
and practices.

Customer

The committee considered actions being taken by management to improve customer service and experience across 
key customer segments. Committee discussion focused on Consumer Duty, customer vulnerability and our response 
to the economic environment.

Consumer Duty has been a priority focus of the committee during 2023. There have been a number of spotlights to 
ensure timely updates on the work underway to embed the Duty and review progress towards key milestones and 
compliance as at July 2023 and phase two in July 2024. The Consumer Duty Board Champion is a member of the 
committee and provided input on their industry discussions and engagement with management on steps to embed 
the Duty. The committee also received the annual Internal Audit Behavioural Risk review which focused on the 
work being undertaken on Consumer Duty.

The committee had a spotlight session on Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) Service Quality Survey 
performance and plans to improve customer advocacy. The committee wanted to understand how the CMA 
survey and Net Promoter Scores were used and the usefulness of the survey to our customers and colleagues.

The discussion on customer vulnerability considered how the bank’s approach has been materially improved 
in the past 18 months and is already improving outcomes for customers. Through data and monitoring we 
now identify more vulnerability via inferred vulnerability and customers who have disclosed to us. Discussions 
on branch closure and fraud helped to demonstrate how vulnerability is considered in the bank’s decision-making.

The committee received a Cost of Living brief at every meeting providing insight into how our customers are 
responding to the external environment and how we are supporting the people, businesses and communities 
we serve.

The committee acknowledged the strong bank-wide 
culture scores but wanted to understand variance 
in businesses and functions. It was noted that 
the creation of a people index allowed areas of 
challenge across NatWest Group to be identified.

The committee encouraged management to monitor 
the impact of experimentation, including how it 
would enhance culture and psychological safety.

The committee was pleased with the scale of 
management’s ambition on the Future Workforce 
Design but it was acknowledged that there were 
many aspects which needed to be aligned to deliver 
success. The committee encouraged management 
to ensure that any potential disproportionate impact 
on gender and other forms of diversity was managed 
carefully to ensure equitable treatment of all employee 
groups. The positive potential to offer employees more 
rewarding work was also noted.

The committee supported the ambitious work being 
undertaken on the HR Transformation update and 
noted the importance of technology enablement to 
deliver efficiency savings. The committee noted the 
importance of closely tracking benefits to deliver the 
projected value creation.

The committee discussions focused on meeting 
the required outcomes under the Consumer 
Duty legislation. Discussions focused on how 
communications would be reviewed to ensure 
customer understanding of financial products and 
how data would be used to evidence good customer 
outcomes. The directors supported the risk-based 
approach to remediation.

In relation to customer vulnerability, the committee 
sought to understand the number of customers that 
could be considered vulnerable and how customers 
were identified by the bank as potentially vulnerable.

The committee agreed it was important it continued 
to focus on cost of living actions being taken to 
support customers since it was anticipated the 
external environment would continue to 
be challenging. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

125

Technology, 
data and 
innovation 

Sessions focused on innovation and partnerships, payments, and artificial intelligence (AI) and automation.

The committee received an overview of our new, bank-wide innovation framework which was being used to catalyse 
bank-wide growth through structured Innovation which would scale and deliver initiatives through the core bank.

The committee considered new payment initiatives intended to stem the disintermediation of payments income, 
including Take Payments and Tap to Pay.

AI and automation is a key area of focus developing at pace, and the committee considered AI use cases being 
deployed across NatWest Group for customer benefit, noting how they could enhance the existing automation 
strategy. The committee noted progress made in evaluating the areas of potential value for leveraging AI and 
associated risks. The committee acknowledged the importance of risk management and controls and discussed 
the use of model risk governance. Andrew Rogoyski, a member of the Technology Advisory Board and AI expert, 
joined the session and provided an external perspective. A number of other Board members also joined the session.

The committee was keen to understand how 
partnerships were used in the innovation ecosystem 
and encouraged management to consider the use of 
accelerator hubs and universities to support innovation 
initiatives. The committee considered the programme 
to encourage colleagues to bring forward potential 
future initiatives and discussed how capabilities could 
be enhanced to drive more innovation at all levels 
across the bank.

The committee requested that the SBC MI Report 
be enhanced with new metrics relating to technology, 
innovation and data to allow it to monitor progress.

The committee wanted to understand how payments 
initiatives progress and requested a future update on 
the underpinning payments technology architecture 
to understand risks and opportunities in this area.

The committee was keen to understand how 
improvements and benefits as a result of AI 
were being measured.

The committee considered the approach to AI 
in various jurisdictions and amongst regulators.

The committee emphasised the importance of 
management’s approach to AI being sufficiently 
customer focused to ensure stakeholder trust 
was maintained.

Enterprise

The committee received an update on NatWest Group’s Enterprise activity, including the strategy and partnership 
approach. The committee heard feedback from customers on the importance of the support provided to them by 
the accelerator hubs.

The committee discussed both the growth opportunity 
and challenges in relation to NatWest Group’s 
Enterprise ambitions.

The committee discussed the SME (small and medium-sized enterprises) banking market context and NatWest 
Group’s position. The session reflected on our broad proposition that enables us to serve all customers in this 
segment with distinctive elements, including FreeAgent, Mentor, and Enterprise support.

The committee discussed the changing competitive 
landscapes and the entrance of alternative finance 
providers to the sector and activities.

The update included a spotlight on the work undertaken internally and in partnership with Aston University 
to measure the impact and outcome of NatWest Group’s interventions on its Enterprise activity. The analysis 
demonstrated improved survivability and growth rates of those customers involved in accelerator hubs versus a 
control group. Professor Mark Hart (Enterprise Research Centre, Aston University) presented the findings of work to 
date and noted that the impact measurement results were interim and would continue to develop. He commended 
the results achieved given the external context of the business environment.

The committee was keen to understand how the 
accelerator hubs compared to other programmes 
across the industry and how they could be scaled 
without reducing impact to ensure greater support 
for customers.

The committee noted the innovative approach 
presented in relation to measuring impact, which 
should provide robust analysis and metrics upon 
which stakeholders could measure NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

Supporting 
long term 
value creation

The committee supported the Board in overseeing the initial work to reflect on the purpose and understand how 
this might evolve. This included consideration of the desktop research, and internal and external stakeholder 
perspectives. The majority of Board members joined the committee for these discussions. Sarah Gillard, the CEO 
of the Blueprint for Better Business, provided her perspectives following interviews with stakeholders and colleagues, 
and highlighted the opportunity to bring purpose further into the core of the business.

The committee noted that using ‘purpose in practice’ 
is essential and it was important to link purpose with 
long-term sustainable performance. The committee 
was keen to understand all stakeholders’ views, 
including investors.

126

The committee discussed the meaning of Sustainable Banking to ensure a common understanding of the importance 
of running a business that is capable of generating long term value for its stakeholders. The committee considered 
how medium to longer term priorities could be measured through financial and non-financial metrics.

Following the presentation of the impact measurement work being undertaken by Aston University, the committee 
received an update on the broader impact measurement work underway across the bank, the proposed new bank 
wide impact measurement framework, and planned next steps for 2024.

SBC considered NatWest Group’s 7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement. The committee 
was provided with a comprehensive update on Human Rights including progress made in 2023 and the plan 
for 2024, and the approach to the first disclosure of NatWest Group’s Salient Issues.

As a founding signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), the committee was provided 
an update against the major milestones in the 4 year PRB journey, which were achieved by September 2023.

The committee considered and provided advice to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 
on the setting and assessment of performance against people and culture, customer, purpose targets.

The committee agreed it should focus on medium 
to longer term priorities driving the bank as a 
sustainable business through a multi-stakeholder 
lens and requested the inclusion of relevant financial 
and non-financial metrics in the data provided 
to it in future.

The committee welcomed the experimentation 
underway in relation to impact measurement, 
and encouraged management to ensure the 
measurements were objective given customers’ 
multi-variable behaviour.

The committee recommended NatWest Group’s 
7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking 
Statement to Board for approval. It noted the value 
of the Colleague Advisory Panel engagement which 
had resulted in the clarification of roles described.

The committee supported and recommended 
the publication of disclosure on Salient Human 
Right Issues to Board.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
remuneration report for 2023. This has been a year 
of significant change for the organisation, with a new 
Group Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO), Paul Thwaite, 
now confirmed in role on a permanent basis after an 
initial appointment in July for a period of 12 months, and 
an announcement of a new Chair, Rick Haythornthwaite, 
who will succeed Howard Davies from 15 April 2024.

Performance highlights for 2023
In an uncertain economic environment, NatWest 
Group has performed well in 2023 delivering an 
operating profit of £6.2 billion and a RoTE of 17.8%.

Our capital generation has remained strong and 
we continue to deliver returns and distributions to 
shareholders. In 2023 £3.6 billion of capital was 
returned to shareholders including a proposed 
final dividend of £1.0 billion.

Board changes and impact on remuneration
The committee has been heavily involved in guiding the 
Board and overseeing management activity with regard 
to performance and remuneration matters through this 
period of change. The decisions made during this transitional 
period, in the context of remuneration, are summarised on 
the following page.

Directors’ remuneration  
report

Letter from Lena Wilson, CBE,

Chair of the Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee

127 Chair’s introduction

131 Remuneration at a glance

134 Wider workforce remuneration and 

the directors’ remuneration policy

141 The Annual remuneration report

127

Colleague highlights

January 2023
 – A cash payment of £1,000 (adjusted for local 
salary levels) was made to approximately 
60,000 colleagues.

 – We launched our new Partner Leave policies, 
which introduced significantly enhanced pay 
and leave for eligible colleagues.

February 2023
 – We announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues, designed to reward One Bank 
behaviours and outcomes and align all colleagues 
across NatWest Group to our purpose and strategy.

April 2023
 – Nearly 90% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
received a salary increase of at least 7%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 8% or more, on top 
of the £1,000 payment in January. Salary ranges 
were also increased.

November 2023
 – We were certified as a Regional Living Wage 
Employer for our global operations by the 
Fair Wage Network.

December 2023
 – We announced Beyond, our changes to 

performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings 
from 2024 onwards.

From April 2024 onwards
 – Nearly 95% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
will receive a salary increase of at least 3.5%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 5% or more. In addition, 
our UK starting salary will move to £23,500 per 
annum, an increase of 15% since September 2022.

 – Our first award under our Sharing in Success 

scheme will be awarded in May 2024, with a share 
award of £1,000 for all eligible employees (adjusted 
for local salary levels), subject to shareholder 
approval of the recommended dividend.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Executive director changes
On 25 July 2023, Paul Thwaite was appointed as the Group 
CEO for an initial period of 12 months. The committee 
set Mr Thwaite’s annual base salary on original appointment 
at £1,050,000. Mr Thwaite has now been permanently 
appointed as Group CEO from 16 February 2024; details 
on pay for 2024 are on page 150. Mr Thwaite has been an 
active member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme that was available to all employees recruited at the 
same time as him. Other elements of his fixed and variable 
pay are in line with the standard terms of our approved 
directors’ remuneration policy (the Policy). Mr Thwaite has 
confirmed that, following his permanent appointment to the 
role of Group CEO, he will become a deferred member of the 
defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution 
pension arrangements. The committee agreed that his 2023 
variable pay awards would be pro-rated to reflect the time 
spent in his Group CEO role and in his previous role as CEO 
of the Commercial and Institutional business (Ring Fenced 
Bank). More details of Mr Thwaite’s remuneration 
arrangements are on page 141.

Alison Rose stepped down as Group CEO by mutual 
agreement with effect from 25 July 2023. In line with 
Ms Rose’s service agreement, she will continue to receive 
her fixed pay for her contractual notice period, which will 
end on 26 July 2024. In accordance with the terms of the 
Policy and our share plan rules, any awards due to vest 
after cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will lapse 
on that date. No bonus or variable remuneration will be paid 
to Ms Rose in respect of her service during 2023. Ms Rose’s 
shareholding requirement will continue to apply for a period 
of two years from the date of cessation of her employment. 
More details of payments made to and received by Ms Rose 
are on page 150 under ‘Payments for loss of office and 
payments to past directors’.

Joining arrangements for Rick Haythornthwaite
Mr Haythornthwaite joined the Board of NatWest Group as 
an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024 
and following a handover period will take over as Chair 
on 15 April 2024, when Howard Davies will stand 
down from the Board. On assuming the role of Chair, 
Mr Haythornthwaite’s fee will be £775,000 p.a., which  
is the fee currently paid to Mr Davies.

Wider workforce
Following on from the extensive support provided in 2022 to help our 
colleagues with the cost of living, continued targeted action has been 
taken to help those colleagues most likely to be affected by the sudden 
spike in inflation. Payments of £1,000 (adjusted for local salary levels) 
were made in January 2023 to approximately 60,000 colleagues, with 
broad parts of the UK workforce receiving a further salary increase of 
at least 7% in April 2023. We will build on this in April 2024, continuing 
to target fixed pay spend to our A and B grade colleagues and further 
increasing our minimum rate of pay in the UK to £23,500 pro-rata. In 
December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would 
apply from 1 April 2024 for the Group CEO, who had been appointed 
for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. This compares to 
an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. Mr Thwaite 
has since been appointed permanently as Group CEO with effect from 
16 February 2024. Pay arrangements for the executive directors for 
the 2024 performance year are on page 150, including in respect of 
Mr Thwaite being appointed permanently as Group CEO.

Wider workforce considerations have remained a key focus of 
the committee throughout 2023. We believe it is imperative that 
we continue to monitor and discuss colleague sentiment with regard 
to both performance and pay matters, and I therefore attended the 
Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) in May 2023 to discuss colleague 
remuneration and benefits, as well as our approach to executive pay 
and its link to our strategy and purpose. These ongoing two-way 
discussions with colleagues are a valuable tool to deepen our 
understanding of colleague views and also to explain the alignment 
between our executive director and wider workforce pay policies. 
More details of our work with the CAP are on page 136.

After good committee discussion on what would further drive 
individual and organisational performance, in late 2023 we announced 
Beyond – our changes to performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings for 2024 and onwards 
and a changing approach to managing goals, feedback and pay.

NatWest Group has been an accredited Living Wage Employer in the 
UK since 2014 and sets pay levels above the real living wage (RLW) 
rates. In 2023, we were also pleased to be certified as a Regional Living 
Wage Employer for our global operations, recognising that our rates 
of pay for our colleagues outside the UK are at or above the living 
wage threshold as defined by the Fair Wage Network.

In last year’s report I announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues. The scheme is intended to recognise One Bank 
behaviours, drive a performance culture with purpose-led outcomes 
and further align colleagues with our strategic direction. The scheme 
is a welcome addition to our employee value proposition, alongside 
broader policy enhancements, which will help in light of market 

128

Performance 
highlights

Income growth

12.13%

2022: 26.15%

Attributable profit

£4,394 million

2022: £3,340 million

RoTE

17.8%

2022: 12.3%

Climate and sustainable funding 
and financing(1)

£29.3 billion

2022: £24.5 billion

Shareholder returns through 
dividends and buybacks

£3.6 billion

2022: £5.1 billion

(1)  Cumulative contribution of £61.8 billion towards 
£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end 
of 2025 target.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

competition for talent. For 2023, we measured success based on financial performance, our 
approach to risk, helping our customers thrive, living up to our climate targets and ambitions, 
and delivering value for shareholders. Our first award under our Sharing in Success scheme 
will be awarded in May 2024, with a share award of £1,000 to all eligible employees 
(adjusted for local salary levels), subject to shareholder approval of the recommended 
dividend at the April 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM). More details of our Sharing 
in Success scheme are on page 134.

I am also proud of our new Partner Leave policies launched in 2023 which support all eligible 
employees with significantly more time away from work to help their partner look after their 
new child. The policies introduce significantly enhanced pay and leave for eligible fathers and 
partners to share the caring responsibilities. The policy is open to both same-sex parents and 
heterosexual parents, ultimately championing the potential of both parents and promoting 
gender equality in the workplace. Colleague feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, 
with over 1,200 colleagues benefiting from the policy.

Financial wellbeing is vitally important, and colleagues are supported with access to pension 
and protection products, shopping discounts, as well as a comprehensive range of financial 
health initiatives. Over 20,000 colleagues contribute to our Sharesave scheme each month, 
which is available to approximately 97% of colleagues, with participants across the UK, 
Ireland, India and Poland. It provides an opportunity for colleagues to benefit from increases 
in the NatWest Group share price with limited risk, encouraging financial capability and 
aligning their interests with shareholders, and is particularly popular with colleagues at 
A-C grades. I am pleased that our 2023 Sharesave offer proved to be the most successful 
in recent memory, and this demonstrates colleagues are responding to our support for 
colleague share ownership and financial wellbeing.

Bonus pool for the wider workforce
The bonus pool is based on a balanced range of strategically important measures 
including; financial performance, customer outcomes, colleague experience and diversity, 
risk management, risk events and progress against our climate and purpose ambitions. 
The committee agreed a 2023 bonus pool of £356.0 million for those colleagues eligible 
to receive an award. This is around 3% lower than the 2022 bonus pool of £367.5 million, 
despite a larger bonus eligible headcount. The bonus pool outturn reflects the impact on 
shareholders this year due to missed guidance, despite increased group operating profit 
of 20.4% year-on-year.

Pay gap reporting
We are making good progress in building a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace 
and the committee reviews gender and ethnicity pay gap metrics as part of the process. 
This is the sixth year we have published ethnicity pay gap information on a voluntary basis.

Following our approach last year, we disaggregated our ethnicity pay gaps to compare 
Black, Asian, mixed and multiple and ethnic minority average hourly pay to that of White 
colleagues. We are confident that our colleagues are paid fairly, and our policies and 
processes are kept under review to make sure this continues to be the case. You can  
find full details of our pay gap reporting in the Strategic report and on natwestgroup.com.

Individual pay adjustments
In 2023, we concluded the accountability review into the events that led to the breaches of 
the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. None of the individuals in scope were found to be 
accountable on an individual level, but we recognise that the issues represent a collective 
failure. Colleagues who were bonus eligible in 2021 were impacted by a reduction in the 

129

bonus pool when the fine was handed down, likewise the relevant senior executive 
committee members had their awards reduced to reflect the bonus pool adjustment. No 
further adjustment was deemed necessary for these individuals. However, the committee 
determined that similar adjustments should be made to ten ex-colleagues who were not 
impacted by the adjustments made in 2021 as they had left the bank. Further details are 
provided on page 137.

Remuneration outcomes for 2023
The assessment of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% for Ms Murray, including the impact of 
downwards risk modifiers to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced by strong 
leadership behaviours. Mr Thwaite received a separate discretionary award in respect of the 
portion of 2023 when he was CEO of the Commercial & Institutional franchise. Further details 
of this award are not included within this report as it does not relate to his time as an executive 
director. The committee considered the outcomes for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair 
reflection of performance and felt no further discretionary adjustments were required.

Performance measures

Weighted outcome

Financial (60%)

25.2% out of 60%

Return on Tangible Equity (30%)

Income growth (10%)

Cost reduction (10%)

Medium-term capital target (10%)

Strategic (35%)

25.1% out of 35%

Climate (10%)

Customer (10%)

Purpose, culture and people (10%)

Enterprise and capability (5%)

Personal (5%)

Group CEO personal performance

Group CFO personal performance

Post application of risk modifier (0-100%)

CEO Outcome

CFO Outcome

14.2%

3.2%

2.8%

5.0%

7.8%

4.8%

8.3%

4.2%

4.0%

2.5%

53.6%

52.3%

Grant of 2024 Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The committee also approved that RSP awards for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray would be 
granted at maximum as satisfactory performance had been achieved over the year prior to 
award. The vesting of the RSP awards will be subject to assessment against pre-determined 
criteria that consider whether sustainable performance has been delivered over the three 
years after grant. Full details of the annual bonus and RSP performance assessments can 
be found on pages 143 and 148.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Vesting of long-term incentive (LTI) awards granted in 2021
LTI awards were granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray in March 2021. Prior to the awards being 
granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% respectively were applied to 
the maximum award as a result of the pre-grant performance assessment over 2020. In December 
2023, we considered whether anything had come to light since the grant which would change our 
original view of performance. Based on the pre-vest assessment, the committee concluded that 
there had been no material deterioration in financial, customer, risk, culture or purpose-linked 
performance since grant. Therefore, a sustainable level of performance had been achieved over 
the period and no further adjustments were necessary under the pre-vest test. The committee also 
considered carefully whether any windfall gain had taken place in relation to the grant in 2021 and 
determined that no adjustment should be made, noting in particular that there had been no material 
fall in share price compared to the prior year grant and pre COVID-19 level. The share price used 
to determine the number of shares subject to the award was in fact 9.7% higher on a like-for-like 
basis relative to the prior year grant and 18.8% lower relative to the level pre COVID-19. It was 
noted that both these figures are less than 20%, the level above which further consideration 
would typically be given to an adjustment. Further details of the performance assessment 
and consideration of windfall gains can be found on page 147.

Implementation of the Policy for 2024
Under our Policy, annual bonus awards, with formulaic weighted measures and purpose-led 
targets, are complemented by RSP awards that support longer-term performance and shareholder 
alignment. This construct provides restrained pay outcomes, alignment between the interest of our 
executive directors and shareholders and incentivises sound risk management.

In December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would apply from 1 April 2024 
for the Group CEO, who had been appointed for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. 
This compares to an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. The maximum bonus 
opportunity and RSP awards for executive directors in 2024 remains unchanged at 100% of salary 
and 150% of salary respectively. The committee reviewed the 2024 performance measures for 
annual bonus awards and the underpin criteria for RSP awards, as detailed later in this report, 
which remain unchanged and continue to align with our purpose-led strategy.

Mr Thwaite has subsequently been permanently appointed as Group CEO and the committee 
has reviewed his remuneration arrangements in accordance with the Policy. With effect from 
16 February 2024 his base salary will be £1,155,660 per annum, an increase of 10% from his 
current salary of £1,050,000 per annum which was set at the time of his appointment on 26 July 
2023 for an initial period of 12 months. His fixed share allowance will continue to be set at 100% 
of salary and he will also receive standard benefit funding of £26,250 per annum and standard 
pension funding of 10% of his salary. This sets Mr Thwaite’s fixed pay at the same level as the 
fixed pay previously paid for the Group CEO role prior to his appointment in July 2023.

The committee noted that pay of our executive directors continues to remain below the target 
total compensation opportunity of other major UK banks. The committee remains very aware 
of the importance of recognising good performance and the need to attract and retain highly 
talented colleagues.

New Employee Share Plan
At the 2024 AGM we will seek approval for the NatWest Group plc 2024 Employee Share Plan. 
This will replace, and largely replicates, the 2014 Employee Share Plan, which expires in June 2024. 
It is intended that all non-tax advantaged share awards granted after March 2024 to both senior 
executives and colleagues, including annual bonus and RSP awards, will be granted under the new 
2024 Employee Share Plan. Further details, including a plan summary, will be set out in the Letter 
to Shareholders.

130

Looking ahead
How we reward and support colleagues remains of critical importance. 
Our approach is to reward colleagues in a fair, sustainable and transparent 
way. In 2024 we will roll out Beyond, our redesigned approach for performance 
management including goals, feedback and pay. This will aim to drive a culture 
of high performance and create a better experience for colleagues. In 2024, 
the committee will also continue focus and discussion on wider workforce 
considerations.

Our executive directors’ strategic scorecard for the last ten years has evolved 
to include people, climate, enterprise and financial capability measures alongside 
established focus on delivering against key financial metrics and customer 
and risk considerations. ESG metrics are also a core part of our performance 
assessment for our bonus pool. We will continue to use ESG performance 
metrics for variable pay that are demanding, quantifiable and clearly linked 
to our strategy.

During 2023 we engaged with the current Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ consultation 
and will continue to contribute to the important discussion on how the pace of 
meaningful change in diversity and inclusion can be accelerated in financial 
services. In October 2023 the FCA/PRA published a revised policy statement 
announcing the removal of the variable pay cap for UK banks. NatWest Group 
has operated a variable pay cap of one times fixed pay since the regulations 
came into force in 2014. Whilst we do not anticipate making any immediate 
changes to our existing construct, we have increased our normal maximum 
variable to fixed pay ratio to 2:1, although this is expected to be used on a 
gradual and targeted basis. This should align NatWest more closely to peers, 
ensuring we have the flexibility to remain competitive. No changes are being 
made to the executive directors whose remuneration will be determined based 
on the terms of our Policy, approved at the 2022 AGM.

The three-year term of our current Policy comes to an end at the 2025 AGM. 
The committee will review our current approach and consider how it should 
evolve considering the need to have a market competitive pay to retain and 
attract talent, and maintain strong alignment with shareholders’ interests. 
The committee will also consider whether any changes are required to our 
approach noting the removal of the variable pay cap. We will engage with our 
large shareholders and proxy advisory bodies to understand their perspectives 
prior to bringing our new Policy for shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.

I hope this letter and the information that follows will explain our approach in 
2023 to remuneration. I am grateful for the support of our stakeholders during 
this process and would like to thank my fellow committee members for their 
valuable contribution.

Lena Wilson, CBE
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts131

Remuneration at a glance

Executive director remuneration outcomes (£000’s)

Paul Thwaite

Fixed Pay  Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

Pay outcomes

Awarded for 2023

Single figure 2023

951

951

245

245

1,216

508

2

2

Fixed pay

Annual Bonus

RSP award

2021 LTI

 Sharesave

Total

2,414

1,706

Alison Rose

Fixed Pay

1,452

1,452

Total

1,452

1,452

Katie Murray

Fixed Pay Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

1,673

1,673

409

409

1,173

859

3

3

Total

3,258

2,944

Fixed Pay (£000’s)

2023 Annual Bonus

2023 RSP pre-grant

2021 LTI vesting

Paul 
Thwaite 951

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

4.0% 
80% 
of max

53.6% of max

54.3% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

Katie 
Murray

1,673

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

2.5% 
50% 
of max

52.3% of max

52.8% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Amounts for 
Mr Thwaite based 
on fixed pay since 
appointment as Group 
CEO on 25 July 2023.

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

The maximum bonus award was based on 100% of salary earned over 2023. 
This equated to £458k for Mr Thwaite and £782k for Ms Murray. The assessment 
of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% of maximum for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% of maximum for 
Ms Murray. A downwards risk modifier of 0.71% applied for the Group CEO and 
0.46% for the Group CFO to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced 
by strong leadership behaviours. The committee considered the outcomes for 
Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair reflection of performance and felt no 
further discretionary adjustments were required.

Award levels reflect Group 
and individual performance 
in 2023 and will be subject 
to a further assessment 
pre vesting. Awards are 
delivered in shares to align 
with long-term performance 
and shareholders. See page 
148 for further details 
of the pre-grant and 
pre-vest performance.

£900k

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

£508k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

£1,500k

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

£859k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

Prior to the awards being granted to the Group CEO 
and Group CFO, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% 
respectively were applied as a result of the pre-grant 
performance assessment over 2020. In December 2023, 
after considering whether anything had come to light 
since the grant which would change the original view 
of performance, no adjustment was proposed. Vesting 
value reflects an increase in share price over the period.

Shareholding requirements for executive directors as at 31 December 2023

Paul Thwaite

128%

119%

Katie Murray

307%

0

100

200

300

209%

400

500

600

700

800

900

Shares held outright and performance-assessed unvested share awards that count towards requirement (net of tax)

Unvested share awards still subject to performance assessment (do not count towards requirement)

Shareholding requirement

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration at a glance continued

Summary of Policy and implementation in 2024

132

+1

+2

+3 

+4

+5

Years
+6

+7

+8

+9

+10

Summary of Policy and Implementation in 2024

Key 
elements

Performance 
year

Variable 
pay
grant
year

Salary

Paid over 
performance year

Pension

Benefits

Fixed 
Share 
Allowance

Paid over 
performance year

Paid over 
performance year

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Paid over 
performance year

Released in equal tranches over a five-year period

Bonus

Performance  
year

50% cash

50% shares

50%

Paid 
upfront

Share element subject to  
12 months retention period

Restricted 
Share Plan

Share 
ownership

Malus and 
clawback

Granted provided 
satisfactory 
performance 
over year

After three years, 
performance assessed 
against underpin criteria

20%

20%

20%

Vests pro-rata 
over years 3-7, 
subject to 
12 months’ 
retention period

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Ongoing

Subject to malus prior to vesting 
Subject to clawbacks for seven years from grant

Clawback extended to 10 years 
in certain circumstances

Any increase will not normally be greater than the average salary increase for NatWest Group employees over the period 
of the policy. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the salary of an executive director will not increase by more than 
15% over the course of this policy.
Implementation in 2024: No salary increase is proposed for the Group CFO for 2024. The Group CEO’s salary will 
increase with effect from 16 February 2024 as result of his permanent appointment. 
Group CEO: £1,155,660 Group CFO:  £787,950

Pension contribution, aligned to the wider workforce, at 10% of base salary.
Mr Thwaite has been a member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. He is entitled to a pension 
allowance of 10% of salary. He exchanged this and a portion of his other fixed pay for participating in the defined benefit 
scheme. Mr Thwaite will become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.

£26,250 standard benefit funding.
Other benefits can be paid within the terms of the Policy.

100% of base salary.
Shares released over five years.
Payable broadly in arrears over the performance year, currently in four instalments per year.

Maximum award: 100% of salary.

Operation: Awarded upfront with a 50/50 split of cash and shares.
Annual bonus assessed based on a weighted scorecard of strategic measures, as set out below.
A downwards risk modifier also applies.

Financial metrics
Group RoTE
Group underlying income excl. notable items
Group operating expenses excl.  
litigation and conduct costs
CET1 

Total

Maximum award: 150% of salary

Weighting Non-financial metrics
Climate
30%
Customer
10%
Purpose, culture and people
10%

10%

60%

Enterprise and capability
Personal
Total

Weighting
10%
10%
10%

5%
5%
40%

Operation: Delivered in shares, vesting in equal tranches over years three to seven with a 12-month holding 
period following each vesting.

Metrics: RSP awards subject to satisfactory performance before grant and an underpin after three years to 
check performance has been sustainable.
CEO: 500% of salary CFO: 300% of salary

On leaving, requirement to hold shares of a value equal to the lower of the shareholding requirement immediately 
prior to departure or the actual shareholding on departure, for a period of two years.

Any variable pay awarded is subject to malus prior to vesting and clawback for seven years from grant, 
extended to ten years in certain circumstances. See page 137 for further details.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsRemuneration at a glance continued

Linking executive and wider workforce pay to our strategy and 
ESG priorities

Our purpose

Annual bonus

RSP awards

Sharing in Success

133

NatWest Group champions potential, 
helping people, families and 
businesses to thrive.

Because when they thrive, so do we.

Performance 
measures for 
2023

 – Financial performance
 – Customer scores
 – Climate
 – Purpose, culture and people
 – Enterprise and capability
 – Risk

 – Sustainable performance required
 – Underpin criteria based on capital, 

shareholder distributions, risk 
and control environment

 – Long-term payment in shares to align 
with performance and shareholders

 – Financial performance
 – Helping our customers thrive
 – An intelligent approach to risk
 – Living up to our climate ambitions 

and targets

 – Delivering value for our shareholders

Stakeholders

Investors

Regulators

Customers

Communities

Colleagues

Suppliers

Strategic priorities

Supporting customers at every  
stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital allocation

Powered by people, technology, 
innovation and partnerships

Climate
We have made helping to 
address the climate challenge 
and supporting our customers 
in their transition to net zero  
a key strategic priority.

Enterprise
Our ambition is to remove 
barriers to enterprise and to 
provide businesses in the UK 
the support they need to grow.

Learning
We are helping people to take 
control of their finances, to make  
the most of their money, safely and 
securely – now and in the future.

Alignment 
with our 
strategy and 
stakeholders 

 – Delivering on our strategy helps to support growth, makes a positive contribution to society and drives sustainable returns 

for our shareholders.

 – Linking performance with pay encourages everyone to work and think as One Bank.
 – Goals and measures for executive directors cascade to senior management and the wider workforce, based on our latest 

strategic priorities.

Alignment 
with our ESG 
priorities

 – While ambitions can stretch over several years, we set measures and targets for each year. For example, one of our focus areas 
is supporting our customers in their transition to net zero and you will see climate targets in our annual bonus and Sharing in 
Success outcome for 2023.

 – Having a balanced scorecard of measures and targets helps to incentivise strong financial and risk performance as well 

as purpose-led outcomes.

 – Pay is delivered in a way that aligns with the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
 – For those that receive higher amounts of remuneration, it is increasingly delivered in shares and subject to long holding periods.
 – Through malus and clawback, we can recover pay where new information comes to light.

 – People measures have featured in the performance and pay decisions of our executive directors for over ten years.
 – Our approach has evolved beyond employee engagement to include purpose and culture targets as well as creating a diverse and 

inclusive workplace.

 – For 2023, our climate focus included an increased target for climate and sustainable funding and financing as well as progressing 

our Climate transition plan.

 – There are also targets to build the financial capability of our customers, encourage youth participation in enterprise and provide 

support for harder to reach groups with higher barriers to entering and growing a business.

 – Turning to the wider workforce, the annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard which includes climate, enterprise, 

financial capability, purpose, culture and people measures, broadly aligning with the position for the executive directors.

 – Allocation from the pool depends on the performance of the business area and the individual.
 – Sharing in Success provides a further way for sustainable performance to be reflected in the pay outcomes throughout 

Read more on page 9.

the organisation.

Details of performance against the 2023 targets for executive directors can be found later in this report. You can also find information on how our executive director 
performance measures align with the five principles of a purpose-led business in our ESG Disclosures Report, available on natwestgroup.com.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134

Wider workforce support in 2023

Sharing in Success

Global Living Wage

Our new Sharing in Success 
scheme for all colleagues is intended to 
recognise One Bank behaviours, drive 
a performance culture with purpose-led 
outcomes and further align colleagues 
with our strategic direction.

For the 2023 performance year 

we measured success based on: financial performance, 
our approach to risk, helping our customers thrive, living 
up to our climate targets and ambitions, and delivering value 
for shareholders. The first awards will be delivered in May 
2024, subject to shareholder approval of the recommended 
dividend at the April 2024 AGM. This will be delivered to 
colleagues in NatWest Group shares at a value of £1,000 
per colleague (adjusted to local levels of £575 for Poland 
and £375 for India). For 2024, we will measure success 
based on financial performance, our approach to risk, 
being brilliant for our customers, and delivering value 
for shareholders.

We are proud to be accredited as a Living 
Wage Employer by the Living Wage Foundation, 
demonstrating our commitment to paying wages 
that meet the true cost of living in the UK. Our rates 
of pay continue to exceed the Living Wage Foundation 
benchmarks. This commitment also includes our 
contractors and suppliers across the UK.

For our hubs outside the UK, we continue to pay 
above the minimum and living wage rates. In 2023, 
we furthered our commitment to fair pay by achieving 
accreditation as a Regional Living Wage Employer 
from the Fair Wage Network and 
are now recognised as a Global 
Living Wage Employer.

Ongoing 
enhancements to 
employee benefits

We offer a comprehensive 
range of benefits to 
employees to support our 
aim of being a truly inclusive organisation.

As part of our private medical cover benefits, 
we introduced a new ‘Neuro-developmental 
Pathway’ from October 2023. This is an 
expert-led service, which provides initial 
assessment and diagnosis of Attention Deficit 
Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Autism Spectrum 
Disorder (ASD) and Tourette’s syndrome. The 
cover has been specially designed to provide 
short-term support following diagnosis, either 
through adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy 
(CBT) and/or prescription and stabilisation of 
medication for ADHD. 

How the committee oversees wider workforce remuneration

Each year 
the 
committee:

1

2

3

4

5

Approves the remuneration 
policy principles, which are 
applied consistently across 
NatWest Group, and reviews 
the policy’s implementation.

The committee is supported 
by Subsidiary Performance 
and Remuneration 
Committees which review 
whether the policies and 
practices are appropriate 
at the respective legal 
entity level.

Considers a report on how 
pay has been distributed 
across the workforce 
during the year.

The report includes analysis 
by grade and diversity 
categories, and there are 
checks in place to ensure 
that decisions are 
made fairly.

Approves the bonus pool 
for bonus-eligible colleagues 
and the Sharing in Success 
payments across the 
wider workforce.

The bonus pool is 
determined after considering 
performance against a 
balanced scorecard of 
strategically important 
measures. Sharing in 
Success payments are 
based on the achievement 
of pre-defined measures.

Reviews the annual spend 
on fixed pay.

Fixed pay increases in recent 
years have been focused 
mainly on colleagues in A-B 
grades and those lowest in 
their salary range.

Reviews and approves 
share plan offerings 
for colleagues.

Sharesave is offered in the 
UK, Ireland, Poland and India, 
encouraging colleagues to 
think about their financial 
wellbeing with an option to 
buy NatWest Group shares.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts135

Wider workforce support in 2023 continued

Wider workforce remuneration

How we align wider workforce and executive directors’ remuneration

We have invested significantly in colleague(1) pay over the last few years to help large parts of 
the workforce with the cost-of-living crisis, as well as to deliver on our commitment to deliver 
fair levels of pay throughout the organisation. The remuneration policy supports a culture 
where individuals are rewarded for sustained performance and demonstrating the right 
behaviours. The same principles apply to everyone, adjusted to comply with local 
requirements. The principles are designed to:

1

2

3

support a performance culture – we recognise colleagues’ skills and experience, 
the responsibilities of their job and their geographic location. Ultimately, we pay 
for performance, underpinned by a robust performance management process;
be market facing – we benchmark ourselves against peers and ensure our pay is fair, 
competitive and affordable; and

ensure compliance and governance – our reward design must be within policy, 
meet the expectations and requirements of our regulators and be appropriately 
aligned with the expectations of our shareholders and customers.

All colleagues

Certain colleagues depending on location, grade or job

Senior executives only

Base salary & pension funding

Sharing in Success

Benefits and share plans

Role–based allowances

Annual bonus share plans

RSP awards

A competitive level of salary paid 
in cash and reviewed annually. 
Set to reflect the talents, skills 
and competencies that the 
individual brings to the business.

Additional funding is provided 
which colleagues can use to save 
in a company pension scheme. 
UK colleagues receive pension 
funding at 10% of base salary. 
Rates in other locations reflect 
local market practice.

We launched our new Sharing 
in Success scheme in 2023, to 
recognise the contribution of 
all colleagues to our success 
and the achievement of our 
purpose-led strategic goals.

Subject to performance criteria 
being met, awards will be 
delivered to colleagues in 
NatWest Group shares. Awards 
will have a maximum value of 
£1,500 per colleague (adjusted 
for local salary levels).

Some colleagues receive funding 
which they can use towards the 
cost of benefits or take as cash.

Role–based allowances reflect 
the skills and experience 
required for certain jobs.

We reward individuals for 
delivering superior performance 
in line with risk appetite.

Benefits offered include life 
assurance, critical illness 
protection, private medical 
cover and childcare vouchers.

Individuals in some jurisdictions 
can also join share plans, 
providing an efficient way 
to buy NatWest Group 
shares and align their 
interests with our shareholders. 

These are part of fixed 
remuneration for regulatory 
purposes. They are delivered in 
cash and/or shares depending 
on the level of the allowance and 
the seniority of the recipient.

Shares are released in 
instalments over a minimum 
three-year period with a 
five-year period applying 
to executive directors. 

The bonus pool is based on a 
scorecard of measures across 
our core strategic areas and 
our purpose.

Allocation from the pool depends 
on the performance of the 
business area and the individual.

Awards are made in cash and/or 
shares with larger amounts paid 
out over several years. 

Encourages sustainable 
long-term performance. Awards 
are delivered entirely in shares to 
align with shareholders’ interests.

Checks take place before grant 
and again after three years to 
ensure sustained performance 
has been achieved.

Awards are paid out over 
eight years in total to encourage 
long-term thinking when 
making decisions.

RSP participants are also subject 
to shareholding requirements.

Fixed pay

Variable pay

Salary and 
pension funding 

Benefit funding 

Role-based allowances

Sharing in Success

Annual bonus

RSP

Provided to all colleagues

Applies to certain jobs

Provided to some Material 
Risk Takers (MRTs) only

All colleagues are eligible 
under the scheme

Mainly manager grade 
and above including 
executive directors

Executive directors 
and members of senior 
executive committees 

Pay for executive directors is aligned with the wider workforce, with two main differences: (i) the use of RSP awards; and (ii) a requirement to maintain a holding of shares in NatWest Group, 
both during and after employment. These differences are deliberate and recognise that it is in the best interests of our stakeholders for executive directors to have a significant proportion of 
their remuneration paid in shares and subject to long-term shareholding requirements.

(1)  Colleagues mean all permanent employees and, in some instances, members of the wider workforce e.g. temporary employees and agency workers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts136

Wider workforce support in 2023 continued

Engaging with our colleagues and wider stakeholders

We listen to our colleagues and 
shareholders regularly, and use their 
feedback to inform our approach 
to remuneration.

Regular engagement with colleagues
 – Our colleague opinion survey (Our View) allows 

people to have a say on what it feels like to work 
at NatWest Group. 84% of our colleagues took 
part in the latest survey, our highest ever 
participation rate.

 – Colleague sentiment on reward remained 

strong in 2023, with improvements in all reward 
questions from 2022 scores. The overall category 
‘Total Reward’ in Our View increased by four 
percentage points to 77 percentage points – 9% 
above the Global Financial Services Norm (GFSN) 
and 3% above the Global High Performance Norm 
(GHPN). Specifically, there was an increase of 
seven percentage points from 2022 of colleagues 
who felt they are paid fairly for the work they do, 
taking NatWest Group 7% above the GFSN and 
1% above the GHPN for that question.

 – Regular question and answer sessions take 

place between colleagues and senior executives 
throughout the year.

 – Feedback from colleagues forms part of the 
purpose, culture and people measures that 
impact pay.

 – We also consult with our employee representative 
bodies on remuneration at relevant points during 
the year.

Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP)
Our CAP continues to be an effective way to strengthen 
the colleague voice in the Boardroom, by enabling our 
colleagues to directly engage in two-way discussions 
on topics important to them. By connecting colleagues 
directly with the Board, this deepens our understanding 
of colleague sentiment.

The CAP is chaired by Roisin Donnelly, one of our  
non-executive directors, and she is joined by at least 
two additional board members in every CAP meeting. 
CAP membership is refreshed regularly and it currently 
comprises 28 colleagues who are self-nominated and are 
representative of the bank’s population e.g., business area, 
level, location, working pattern and employee-led networks. 
Following each CAP session, a report summarising the key 
points discussed is presented at the next Board meeting. 
Roisin will then hold a follow-up call with CAP members to 
share highlights and feedback from the Board discussion.

In 2023, CAP meetings were held in May and November. 
Topics are either chosen by CAP or are requested by 
Board, and in 2023 have included ESG, Consumer Duty, 
human rights and our standing annual item: executive and 
wider workforce remuneration. Short presentations are 
held on each topic, followed by smaller group discussions 
between CAP members and Board members to allow for 
questions and debate.

The May 2023 meeting included our annual standing 
agenda item focusing on executive and wider workforce 
remuneration. Lena Wilson, non-executive director and 
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration 
Committee, gave a presentation to the CAP covering the 
directors’ remuneration policy as well as the latest colleague 
sentiment on reward, a summary of the support provided 
by the bank during the cost-of-living crisis, the alignment 
of wider workforce and executive pay and how it supports 
our strategy. Lena also highlighted our Fair Pay Charter 
which sets out our commitment to pay all our colleagues 
competitively and transparently, and noted our reward 
policy is updated according to the current and future 
needs of the business.

Discussion was also held on how remuneration covers more 
than just pay and includes employee benefits and schemes 
such as Sharing in Success. CAP members asked questions 
about the new Sharing in Success scheme, such as how 
colleagues contribute to the bank’s goals. Members also 
suggested some additions for future Sharing in Success 
communications to make the scheme clear for all colleagues 
and were also interested in the progress being made on our 
gender pay gap.

The CAP confirmed the presentation from Lena was well 
received, and the panel felt better informed and had an 
increased understanding of executive pay and its link 
to wider workforce pay.

Stakeholder engagement outcomes
Every year we undertake an engagement programme with 
our major shareholders and other stakeholders before the 
committee makes its final decisions on pay. In late 2023 and 
early 2024, we engaged with a number of our institutional 
shareholders, UK Government Investments, proxy advisers 
and the UK regulators and discussed our approach to 
remuneration for the year.

The meetings were generally positive with the committee 
Chair and senior members of management explaining our 
pay philosophy and no material concerns were raised. 
Stakeholders were interested to hear NatWest Group’s 
reflections on the UK government’s removal of the bonus 
cap for UK banks and noted we do not propose any 
immediate changes to our executive director pay in 
response to it. Wider workforce initiatives were also 
discussed, including the first year of operation of the 
Sharing in Success scheme and the changes to NatWest 
Group’s approach to performance management.

Other recurring topics in meetings included our treatment 
of potential windfall gains, the measurement of bonus pool 
performance, the use of ESG metrics in remuneration and 
the retention and recruitment of talent. Investors also 
continued to stress the importance of clear disclosures 
to assist their view of our approach to pay.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsWider workforce support in 2023 continued

137

Aligning remuneration with our culture
In determining performance outcomes, we consider both the achievements made and how 
they have been delivered. Our Code of Conduct sets out clear expectations of appropriate 
behavioural standards, supported by our values. Each job has defined behaviours set out in 
our Critical People Capabilities which directly link to our purpose and values. If a colleague’s 
behaviour falls below these expectations, this will be reflected in their performance 
conversations, fixed pay progression and variable pay decisions (where their role is eligible). 
The governance of culture is clearly laid out with specific senior manager roles having 
defined accountabilities which are reflected in their performance and pay decisions.

Creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace is integral to fulfilling our purpose. 
Performance measures to support progress in this area affect the pay of executive 
directors, senior management and other bonus-eligible colleagues.

We have a target for full gender balance in CEO-3 positions and above globally by the end of 
2030. As at 31 December 2023, we had 41% of women in our top three layers, an increase 
of 1 percentage point since 2022. This represents an increase of 12 percentage points since 
targets were introduced in 2015.(1)

(1)  See footnote (8) on page 145 for further information.

Introduced in 2018, our ethnicity target is to have 14% of colleagues from ethnic minority 
groups in CEO-4 and above positions in the UK by end of 2025. As at 31 December 2023, 
of 84% of colleagues who disclosed their ethnicity, we have an aggregate 13% of colleagues 
from ethnic minority groups in our CEO-4 and above positions. This represents a 5 percentage 
point increase since targets were introduced(1) and a 2 percentage point increase from 2022.

Pay equality, including neutrality in respect of protected characteristics such as sex and race, 
is a core feature of our approach to support fair pay across NatWest Group.

Further information on our workforce approach
You can find the latest gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting for NatWest Group together 
with the steps being taken to address the position in the ’Diversity, equity and inclusion’ 
section of the Strategic report and at natwestgroup.com.

The ‘Colleagues’ section of the Strategic report and our ESG Disclosures Report set out 
further information on how we are helping colleagues to thrive and realise their potential, 
including supporting their learning and wellbeing, and creating an inclusive workplace.

Adjusting remuneration in light of new information
An accountability review process allows NatWest Group to respond where new information 
would change our variable pay decisions made in previous years and/or the decisions to 
be made in the current year. The process is used to apply commensurate ex-post risk 
adjustments to variable pay, where material failure of risk management, material error 
or employee misbehaviour are identified.

Malus provisions allow us to reduce the amount of any unvested variable pay awards, 
potentially to zero, prior to payment. Clawback can be used to recover variable pay awards 
that have already vested and we can also apply in-year bonus reductions to adjust variable 
pay that would otherwise have been awarded for the current year. The circumstances in 
which we may make adjustments include:

 – conduct which results in significant financial losses for NatWest Group;
 – an individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety;
 – an individual’s misbehaviour or material error;
 – NatWest Group or the individual’s business unit suffering a material failure of risk 

management; and

 – for malus and in-year bonus reduction only, circumstances where there has been 

a material downturn in financial performance.

This list is not exhaustive and further circumstances may be considered where appropriate.

Our existing Malus and Clawback Policy has been amended to comply with the new 
executive incentive compensation clawback rule introduced by the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission. NatWest Group is in scope of the requirement as it has a listing on 

the New York Stock Exchange. The rule requires companies to establish and enforce policies 
to recover excess incentive compensation from individuals defined as “executive officers”, 
which at NatWest Group includes the executive directors, if amounts were based on material 
misstatements in financial reports.

As disclosed in our 2021 Directors’ remuneration report, we have been undertaking an 
accountability review into the events that led to the breaches of the Money Laundering 
Regulations 2007. This work has now concluded and whilst we have concluded that the 
individuals in scope were not accountable on an individual level, we recognise that the 
issues represent a collective failure. As a consequence, we have decided to apply a collective 
adjustment under our Employee Share Plan rules to the relevant senior executive committee 
members who were in role in 2016 when the issues were first identified and who were not 
impacted by the actions we have already taken – most notably in 2021 when the fine was 
handed down. Colleagues who were bonus eligible in 2021 were impacted by a material 
downward adjustment to the 2021 bonus pool to reflect the fine imposed on NatWest Bank 
Plc; and those individuals on senior executive committees had the awards granted to them 
in respect of 2021 reduced to mirror the bonus pool adjustment. The bonus pool adjustment 
was apportioned across all business areas to reflect the impact on the bank’s financial 
performance and to reinforce to colleagues the need to ensure the effective management 
of financial crime. We recognise that the senior executive committees drive the firm’s culture 
and sets its strategy, so it is appropriate that the colleagues in role when the failures 
occurred are impacted in the same way that the 2021 population were. As such, we have 
replicated the adjustment applied to the senior executive committee members in 2021 to ten 
ex-colleagues through the application of malus or clawback and the issuance of reduction 
notices where awards have been bought out by other UK banks. No further adjustments 
were deemed necessary for current colleagues. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsSummary of the Policy for executive directors

The Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2022 and will apply until the 2025 AGM unless changes are required. There are no changes requiring shareholder approval 
at this time. A summary of the Policy is set out below together with how the Policy supports alignment with Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The full Policy can 
be found under the Governance section of natwestgroup.com.

Purpose and link to strategy  Operation

Maximum opportunity

Alignment with Provision 40 of the Code

138

Base salary

Providing fair levels of 
base salary supports the 
recruitment and retention 
of high-calibre executives 
to develop and deliver  
strategic priorities.

Base salary is paid monthly in cash and 
reviewed annually.

Rates are determined based on the individual’s 
role, skills and experience and are benchmarked 
against market and peer practice.

No increase to base salaries is proposed for 2024. 
See the implementation of the Policy for 2024 on 
page 150 for details.

Fixed share allowance

Additional fixed pay 
that reflects the skills and 
experience required as well 
as the complexities and 
responsibilities of the role.

A fixed allowance paid entirely in shares. 
Individuals receive shares that vest immediately 
subject to any deductions for tax purposes.

Shares are released on a pro-rata basis over five 
years from the date of each award. The directors 
are entitled to any dividends paid on the shares.

Any salary increases will not normally be greater 
than the average salary increase for NatWest 
Group employees over the period of the Policy.

Other than in exceptional circumstances, 
an executive director’s salary will not increase 
by more than 15% over the course of the Policy.

An award of shares with an annual value of 
up to 100% of base salary at the time of award.

Benefits

Providing a range of flexible 
and market competitive 
benefits that colleagues 
value and that help them 
carry out their duties 
effectively.

Pension

Encouraging planning 
for retirement and  
long-term savings.

Executive directors can select from a range 
of standard benefits including a company car, 
private medical cover, life assurance and critical 
illness insurance.

A set level of funding for standard benefits 
(currently £26,250 per annum). We disclose 
the total value of benefits provided each year 
in the Annual remuneration report.

The maximum value of benefits will depend 
on the type of benefit and the cost of providing it, 
which will vary according to market rates.

Travel assistance is provided in connection with 
company business, including the use of a car and 
driver. Security arrangements may be put in place 
where that is deemed appropriate. NatWest Group 
will meet the cost of any tax due on these benefits.

A monthly pension allowance of 10% of salary paid 
in cash. This allowance can be used, along with 
other elements of pay, to participate in a 
pension scheme.

Risk

Base salary is set at a competitive level which 
means there is less reliance on variable pay. 
This helps to discourage excessive risk-taking.

Alignment with culture

Base salary increases generally aligned to, or 
lower than, the average increase for the wider 
UK workforce.

Risk

The fixed share allowance further supports 
the delivery of a balanced remuneration policy, 
with a suitable mix of fixed and variable pay. 
The allowance also creates alignment with the 
experience of shareholders given it is paid entirely 
in shares.

Proportionality

A competitive benefits offering, which can be 
tailored to individual circumstances, together with 
broader support for executive directors to assist 
them in carrying out their duties.

The standard pension allowance rate is the 
same as that applicable to the vast majority of 
the UK workforce (currently 10% of base salary). 
Mr Thwaite was a member of NatWest Group’s 
defined benefit pension scheme prior to becoming 
an executive director, and when appointed as 
Group CEO in July 2023 he continued to participate 
on the same terms as applicable to him in his 
previous role based on the legacy provisions of the 
Policy, see page 141 and 142 for more information.

Alignment with culture

Standard pension rates for executive directors are 
aligned with the rate offered to the wider workforce. 
Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his 
permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, 
he will become a deferred member of the defined 
benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined 
contribution pension arrangements.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsSummary of the Policy for executive directors continued

Purpose and link to strategy  Operation

Maximum opportunity

Alignment with Provision 40 of the Code

139

 –  financial measures account for between 50% 
and 60% of the annual bonus opportunity.
 – non-financial measures account for at least  
30% and personal measures may be used 
up to a maximum of 10% of the scorecard.

 – awards will be delivered 50% in shares 

and 50% in cash.

 – awards will be deferred in combination with 

RSP awards to meet regulatory requirements.
 – a post-vesting retention period will apply to the 

amount delivered in shares (currently 12 months).

 – malus provisions apply prior to vesting and 
clawback applies for seven (and potentially 
up to ten) years from the date of award.

Annual bonus

Supporting a culture where 
individuals are rewarded 
for the delivery of superior 
performance, with measures 
and targets reflecting 
NatWest Group’s strategic 
priorities and purpose.

Performance is assessed 
based on a range of financial 
and non-financial measures 
that encourage long-term 
value creation.

Awards are subject to malus 
and clawback adjustments 
to support long-term 
decision making.

RSP awards

 – an award will be granted provided performance 

Supporting sustainable 
performance over a  
multi-year period.

Awards are delivered entirely 
in shares over many years to 
create simple and effective 
alignment with shareholders 
over the long term.

Malus and clawback 
provisions discourage 
excessive risk-taking 
and other inappropriate 
behaviours.

has been satisfactory over the prior year.

 – after three years, performance will be assessed 

against pre-determined underpin criteria.
 – awards will vest in combination with annual 

bonus awards to meet regulatory requirements 
for deferral (currently between three to seven 
years after grant).

 – a post-vesting retention period will apply 

(currently 12 months).

 – malus provisions apply prior to vesting and 
clawback applies for seven (and potentially 
up to ten) years from the date of award.
 – the number of shares for RSP and bonus 

awards may be calculated using a price that 
is discounted to reflect the absence of the right 
to receive dividends or dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

Bonus awards will be granted up to a maximum 
value of 100% of base salary. The value of awards 
can also reflect a discount for long-term deferral, 
in line with regulatory guidelines.

The level of the award can vary between 10% 
for threshold performance and 100% for maximum 
performance. Target performance will pay out 
at 50% of maximum.

You can find the proposed performance 
measures and weightings for the 2024 
financial year on page 151.

Clarity

There is clarity on how performance will 
be assessed and the expected behaviours. 
We provide transparency through detailed 
disclosure and engage with shareholders as well as 
the workforce on our approach to executive pay.

Simplicity

Most of the remuneration for executive directors is 
share-based and subject to deferral and retention 
requirements, which creates simple and significant 
alignment with our shareholders.

RSP awards will be granted up to a maximum 
value of 150% of base salary. The value of awards 
can also reflect a discount for long-term deferral, 
in line with regulatory guidelines.

Subject to the underpin criteria, the vesting level 
of RSP awards can vary between 0% and 100% 
of the original number of shares granted.

The expected vesting level is 100% of maximum 
with safeguards in place to ensure there are no 
payments for failure. See page 152 for further 
information on RSP awards to be granted for 
the 2024 financial year.

Risk

We take risk into account at various stages of the 
performance assessment process, with underpins 
and malus and clawback provisions to adjust 
awards if necessary.

Predictability

RSP award levels are intended to be more 
predictable and linked to long-term performance, 
helping to support prudent risk management.

Proportionality

Variable pay cannot be awarded above the  
level of fixed pay. We believe this is a restrained  
and proportionate approach to executive 
remuneration.

Alignment to culture

Variable pay is subject to sustainable performance 
and progress against our purpose-led strategic 
goals. Payments are made over many years to 
encourage long-term thinking.

Shareholding requirements further align the 
interests of executive directors with the returns 
to shareholders.

Shareholding requirements

 – shares and unvested awards count on a 

CEO – 500% of salary.

Executive directors must 
build and continue to hold a 
significant shareholding both 
during and after employment.

net-of-tax basis towards the requirement once 
any performance assessment has taken place.

 – on leaving, shares must be held for a period 
of two years and procedures are in place 
to enforce the requirement.

CFO – 300% of salary.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFees

Competitive fees that reflect 
the skills, experience and time 
commitment required for 
the role.

Fees are set at an 
appropriate level to attract 
individuals with the attributes 
needed to oversee the 
Board’s strategy.

Benefits

Providing a level of benefits 
in line with market practice.

Summary of the Policy for executive directors continued

Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors

Purpose and link to strategy  Operation

Fees can be paid in cash, shares or a combination of the two. From 2023, a portion of fees are used to 
purchase shares under a new shareholding policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors. 
Further details are set out on page 152.

The level of fees is reviewed regularly. Additional fees may be paid for new Board Committees provided 
these are not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees. No variable pay is provided 
so that the Chairman and non-executive directors can maintain appropriate independence.

140

Maximum opportunity

The rates for the year ahead are set out in the 
Annual remuneration report.

Any increases to fees will not normally be greater 
than the average inflation rate or salary increases 
for the wider workforce. Other than in exceptional 
circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 
15% over the course of the Policy.

The Chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to travel assistance in connection with company 
business including the use of a car and driver. NatWest Group will meet the cost of any tax due on the 
benefit. Other benefits may be offered in line with market practice.

The Chairman is entitled to private medical cover and life insurance cover provided the Board considers 
the costs to be reasonable.

The value of the private medical and life insurance 
cover for the Chairman, as well as other benefits, 
will be in line with market rates and disclosed in 
the Annual remuneration report.

Other policy elements for Directors

Element

Operation

Recruitment policy

When recruiting new directors, the Policy aims to be competitive and to structure pay in line with the framework applicable to current directors, recognising 
that some adjustment to quantum may be necessary to secure the preferred candidate. A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or payments 
forgone, which is in line with regulatory requirements.

Notice and termination 
provisions

Under service contracts, NatWest Group or the executive director is required to give 12 months’ notice to the other party to terminate the employment.  
There is discretion for NatWest Group to make a payment in lieu of notice (based on salary only). The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have 
notice periods and no compensation will be paid in the event of termination, other than standard payments for the period served up to the termination date.

Non-executive directors have letters of appointment instead of service contracts and are appointed for three years initially. At the end of this term, a further 
three-year term may be agreed, and non-executive directors may be invited to serve beyond six years, up to a maximum tenure of nine years. The Chairman  
is subject to the Code’s requirements relating to the maximum tenure period for chairs. All directors stand for annual election or re-election by shareholders at 
the AGM.

Effective dates of 
appointment for directors

Howard Davies – 14 July 2015
Frank Dangeard – 16 May 2016
Yasmin Jetha – 21 June 2017

Paul Thwaite – 25 July 2023
Roisin Donnelly – 1 October 2022
Stuart Lewis – 1 April 2023

Katie Murray – 1 January 2019
Patrick Flynn – 1 June 2018
Mark Seligman – 1 April 2017

Rick Haythornthwaite – 8 January 2024 
Lena Wilson – 1 January 2018

Treatment of outstanding 
share plan awards on 
termination

On termination, we will treat awards in accordance with the relevant plan rules or other terms on which they were granted. Any deferred annual bonus 
awards that are unvested will normally lapse on leaving unless good-leaver circumstances apply, in which case the awards will normally continue to vest on the 
original vesting dates. In good-leaver circumstances, individuals will be eligible to be considered for an annual bonus award for their final year of employment.

RSP awards that are unvested will normally lapse on leaving unless specified good-leaver circumstances apply. For good leavers, awards are pro-rated for time 
served during the three-year performance period and will normally continue to vest on the original vesting dates. Individuals will not be eligible to be considered 
for an RSP award for their final year of employment. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts141

Annual remuneration report

Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors for 2023 (audited)

Base salary
Fixed share allowance
Benefits
Pension
Total fixed remuneration
Annual bonus
Long-term incentive
Sharesave 
Total variable remuneration
Total remuneration

Paul Thwaite (1)

Alison Rose (2)

Katie Murray

2023

£’000
458
458
34
0
951
245
508
2
755
1,706

2022

£’000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2023

£’000
647
647
92
65
1,452
–
–
–
–
1,452

2022

£’000
1,117
1,117
82
112
2,428
643
2,178
n/a
2,821
5,249

2023

£’000
782
782
30
78
1,673
409
859
3
1,271
2,944

2022

£’000
761
761
30
76
1,628
416
1,597
n/a
2,013
3,641

(1)  Mr Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO on 25 July 2023. Remuneration above includes fixed pay since appointment as Group CEO and annual bonus in respect of period as Group CEO, together with the estimated vesting value of the full 2021 LTI award, 

including the value relating to the performance period prior to appointment.

(2)  Reflects fixed remuneration paid to Ms Rose for the period to 25 July 2023, the date she stepped down from her role. In line with Ms Rose’s service agreement, payment of her fixed pay elements are being made for her contractual notice period, which will end 

on 26 July 2024. See page 150 for further details.

Notes to the single figure table
Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he will now become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can 
choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.
Fixed share allowance: The fixed share allowance is based on 100% of salary and, as part of fixed remuneration, is not subject to any performance conditions.
Benefits: Includes standard benefit funding at £26,250 per annum. The 2023 values reflect updated methodology for benefit calculations for travel assistance. For Mr Thwaite this includes travel assistance in 
connection with company business (£21,113) and assistance with home security (£1,700). For Ms Murray it includes travel assistance in connection with company business (£405) and assistance with home 
security (£3,349). For Ms Rose it includes travel assistance in connection with company business (£67,956) and assistance with home security (£9,618).
Pension:
The executive directors receive a monthly pension allowance of 10% of base salary.
Mr Thwaite has been an active member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. For participating in this scheme, he was required to exchange part of his fixed pay. This was equivalent to 23.6% of 
his salary in respect of his services as Group CEO for FY23. This equated to £108,383 (made up of his 10% pension allowance £45,833 plus an additional amount of £62,549 of fixed pay). He also made member 
contributions to the scheme of 1.7% of salary, equivalent to £7,643 in respect of his services as Group CEO for FY23.
The value of the defined benefit pension for the period Mr Thwaite was an executive director is based on the capitalised pension accrual (net of CPI inflation) during the period less the direct employee contribution 
referenced above (£7,643). Due to the limit applied to increases in pensionable salaries and the CPI inflation figure required to be used in the calculation, the outcome of this calculation was negative £111,562.
As the aggregate value of these elements is negative, in line with the DRR regulations, the amount included within the single figure is zero.
Annual bonus: In determining bonus awards for 2023, the committee assessed performance against financial, strategic and personal measures as set out on page 143.
Long-term incentive: The 2023 value relates to LTI awards granted in 2021. Ms Rose voluntarily confirmed she did not wish to receive a LTI award for the 2020 performance year to signify that NatWest Group 
was aware of the need to demonstrate responsibility on pay, due to the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19. For Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, the committee assessed performance prior to vesting and also 
considered whether the outcome could represent a windfall gain, as set out on page 146 and 147.
Sharesave: Figures represent our employee share plan Sharesave. For Mr Thwaite this includes a gain when shares under options were exercised and sold. For Ms Murray, options were exercised but not 
sold and the value therefore represents the notional gain based on the difference between the closing share price on the date of exercise and the exercise price. Sharesave options are not subject to 
performance conditions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

142

 – a dependant’s pension of 50% of the member’s 
pension entitlement at death had they not given 
up any for a lump sum at retirement less a state 
pension offset from the recipient’s State Pension 
Age; and

 – children’s pensions totalling up to 50% (or 100% 

if no other dependant) of the member’s 
pension entitlement.

 – Pensions in payment will increase each year by 

the lower of 3% and the increase in the Retail Price 
Index other than where legislation requires a 
higher amount.

 – Members must contribute 2% of their Contribution 
Salary to the Fund. For Mr Thwaite this equated to 
1.7% of salary.

Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his 
permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he 
will become a deferred member of the defined benefit 
scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can 
choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution 
pension arrangements.

Pension – additional disclosure to the single total 
figure table
Mr Thwaite has been an active member of the Main Section 
of the NatWest Group Pension Fund and his membership 
predated his Board appointment. He joined the Fund from 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Staff Pension Scheme (RBSSPS) 
as part of a 2002 merger with the National Westminster 
Bank Pension Fund. The RBSSPS was a defined benefit 
pension arrangement and was available to all employees 
recruited by the Royal Bank of Scotland at the same time 
as him. The Main Section is a funded defined benefit pension 
scheme that was closed to new joiners in 2006 and the 
future service contribution rate is currently 47.2% of salary. 
Since 2009, increases to pensionable salaries have been 
subject to a maximum annual increase of the lower of the 
increase in CPI, 2% and the member’s basic salary increase.

 – On death in service, the following benefits are payable 

to dependants:

 – a lump sum of four times the lower of basic salary and 
the Earnings Cap (£205,200 for the tax year starting 
6 April 2023 and increases annually broadly in line with 
increases in RPI) plus a refund of any voluntary pension 
contributions paid to the Fund;

 – a dependant’s pension of 50% of the member’s pension 
entitlements based on service to Normal Pension Age 
less a state pension offset from the recipient’s State 
Pension Age; and

 – children’s pensions totalling up to 50% (or 100% if no 

other dependant) of the member’s pension entitlement.

 – On death after retirement, the following benefits are 

payable to dependants:

The terms applicable to Mr Thwaite, in line with the terms 
applicable to all other employees who joined the Royal 
Bank of Scotland at the same time, were as follows:

 – if within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum 
equal to the balance of five years’ instalments of the 
pension in payment;

 – Normal Pension Age is age 60 unless members have 
chosen a Normal Pension Age of 65. For Mr Thwaite, 
the Normal Pension Age is 60 which normal retirement 
date is 20 September 2031.

 – On retirement at Normal Pension Age, members are 
entitled to a pension, based on their service, up to a 
maximum of two thirds of final pensionable salary (subject 
to an Earnings Cap which is £205,200 for the tax year 
starting 6 April 2023 and increases annually broadly in 
line with increases in RPI) less a state pension offset 
from their State Pension Age.

 – Mr Thwaite’s pensionable salary as at 31 December 2023 
was £140,042 and his accrued pension as at this date 
was £62,047.

 – Members retiring on the grounds of ill-health are normally 

entitled to an unreduced pension based on service to 
Normal Pension Age.

 – From age 55, members are entitled to leave the bank 
and with the consent of the bank receive a pension 
reduced to reflect its early payment (unless this was 
at the request of the bank, in which case there will be 
no reduction).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts143

Annual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance assessment 
for 2023
The committee considered performance against financial 
and strategic non-financial measures set to reflect our 
purpose-led strategy as well as personal performance by 
the executive directors. Bonus awards of 50% of maximum 
would be expected to be made for the achievement of 
target performance. The outcome of the assessment 
against the measures and targets under the bonus 
scorecard is set out in full on the next page.

In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, 
no bonus will be paid to Ms Rose in respect of service 
during 2023.

Mr Thwaite received a separate discretionary award in 
respect of the portion of 2023 when he was CEO of the 
Commercial & Institutional franchise. Further details of this 
award are not included within this report as it does not 
relate to his time as an executive director.

In respect of his bonus for the CEO role, the committee 
noted that Mr Thwaite quickly and effectively took 
leadership of NatWest Group and provided stability in 
challenging circumstances. He successfully handled business 
as usual matters as well as complex risk events over the 
second half of the year. Mr Thwaite has also successfully 
established relations with regulators and investors since his 
appointment. The committee also noted his support for and 
from his direct reports.

Ms Murray was also considered to have delivered good 
overall performance with strong engagement with investors 
throughout the year, and building a viable yet ambitious 
financial plan for 2024. The committee noted that good 
progress had been made on key programmes this year, 
which resulted in a clear plan for 2024 earlier than normal, 
and constructive engagement in challenging existing 
commitments. There had also been progress on 
building bench-strength in Finance.

The bonus scorecard takes into account the context 
in which performance was delivered. The committee 
considered a downward risk modifier which enables 
risk performance to be assessed and awards reduced, 
potentially to zero. Downward adjustments of 0.71% were 
applied to Mr Thwaite and 0.46% to Ms Murray to reflect 
risk performance against core goals, balanced by strong 
leadership behaviours. The committee believed the final 
outcome reflected the considerable achievements by 
the executive directors through a challenging year and 
therefore no further discretion was applied to the 
resulting award levels.

As the transition period for the Policy has ended, the 
maximum bonus award was set at 100% of base salary. 
The final bonus amounts are set out below and awards 
will be made in early 2024, spilt equally in cash and shares. 
Malus and clawback provisions apply to the awards and 
the shares will be subject to a 12-month retention period.

Paul Thwaite
Alison Rose
Katie Murray

Maximum award
£458,333
–
£782,213

Final bonus award
£245,438
–
£409,097

Award level %
53.55%
–
52.30%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts144

Weighted  
outcome

14.17%

3.16%

2.84%

5.00%

5.00%

2.75%

30%

10%

10%

10%

5%

5%

Annual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2023

Annual bonus measures
Financial (60%)
Group RoTE (1) (3)

Minimum  
(10% payable)

14.0%

On target  
(50% payable)

15.7%

Achieved 15.6%

Group underlying income excluding notable items (2) (3)

£13.8 billion

£14.8 billion

£15.8 billion

Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct costs

Achieved £14.3bn

£7.7 billion

Achieved £7.64bn

£7.6 billion

£7.5 billion

Progress to medium-term capital target (4)

n/a

CET1 target range of 13-14%

n/a

Achieved 13.4%

Maximum  
(100% payable)

Weighting

17.4%

Strategic (35%)
Climate 
Climate and sustainable funding and financing 
(£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and end of 2025)
Implementation of the initial Climate transition plan (6)

Customer
Aggregated view of Net Promoter Score (NPS) and Customer Touchpoint Rating 
for our brands (7)
Purpose, culture and people
Purpose score (Our View)

Culture score (Our View)

Percentage of females in top three layers of the organisation (globally) (8)

Percentage of colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds in top four layers (UK) (8)

9%

£24.5 billion

£25.3 billion

£26.2 billion
Achieved £29.3bn in 2023

Four sectors on target plus one of two AUM and Retrofit milestones

Implementation on target

Meet target on average

10%

4.80%

Target met on average

74

71

39%

Achieved 41%

87

80

42%

12.5%

Achieved 13.0%

89
Achieved 90
82
Achieved 83
44%

14.5%

3.33%

3.33%

1.67%

1.67%

3.33%

3.33%

0.62%

1.05%

Enterprise and capability
Supporting diverse enterprise, prioritising support for harder to reach groups (9) 

Support 35,000 businesses through enterprise programmes with 275,000 
customer interactions to start, run and grow a business. 

1.66%

1.35%

Number of young adults engaged in enterprise and entrepreneurship activity

47,800

Number of financial capability interactions which require active engagement, 
give knowledge or skills or change behaviour (10)

3.72 million

45,263 businesses supported  

300,771 customer interactions

50,000

4 million

57,500

Achieved 57,155

4.6 million

1.66%

1.66%

1.62%

1.24%

Achieved 4.3m interactions  

from key initiatives

Personal measures (5%)
Discretionary assessment at year end for both Mr Thwaite, Group CEO and  
Ms Murray, Group CFO
Downward risk modifier (0-100%)
Downward risk modifier of 0.71% applied for Mr Thwaite, Group CEO, and 0.46% for Ms Murray, Group CFO, to reflect risk performance against core 
goals, balanced by strong leadership behaviour

Strong performance by both directors was recognised across core areas.  

5%

4.0% (CEO)
2.5% (CFO)

Final outcome 
post risk modifier

53.55% (CEO) 
52.30% (CFO)

Performance achieved in 2023

The reconciliation to the reported figures and footnotes for the table above is set out on the next page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
145

Annual remuneration report continued

Reconciliation to reported figures and footnotes

Reported figure
Gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships and own credit adjustments
Timing of FX and/or conduct losses
Deferred tax asset and tax rate 
Figures used in bonus scorecard 

Amount

£77 million (5) 
 £256 million (5) 
£225 million 

Group RoTE
17.8%
(0.2%)
(1.0%)
(0.9%)
15.6%

Group underlying 
income excluding 
notable items 
£14.3 million

£14.3 million

(1)  For the purpose of assessment under the bonus scorecard, adjustments are made to the published RoTE to exclude material factors outside management’s control. Items will only be adjusted if this results in an impact of at least 0.25% to the RoTE figure. 

For performance year 2023, these include:
a.  Gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships, own credit adjustments, and the timing of FX and litigation and conduct charges; and
b.  Deferred tax asset and effective tax rate changes.

(2)  For income, no adjustments are required to the reported figure for gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships, own credit adjustments, and FX losses as notable items are already excluded from the definition of 

the reported figure.

(3)  For RoTE and income, the impact of changes in base rate from that assumed at the beginning of the year net of associated changes in customer behaviour resulting in a deposit balance mix shift is below the materiality threshold for adjustment.
(4)  Capital has been assessed on a qualitative basis against the range.
(5)  Amounts quoted are pre tax whereas RoTE impacts are post tax.
(6)  Minimum (10% payable) – three sectors on target. On target (50% payable) – four sectors on target with one of the two Assets Under Management (AUM) and Retrofit milestones achieved. Maximum (100% payable) – five sectors on target with both of the two AUM 
and Retrofit milestones. Achieved – Four sectors on target and both milestones (AUM and Retrofit). As a result we have exceeded our target. Recognising the relative importance of the sectors element of the target, 55% (of the 5%) has been awarded. For more 
information on climate metrics please refer to our Climate-related Disclosures Report, sections 5.3 and 7.1.

(7)  As NPS is not available for NatWest Markets, an internal Customer Touchpoint Rating (CTR) is applied to assess NatWest Markets’ customer performance. The aggregated view reflects the contribution of each franchise to NatWest Group’s income. Targets: 

Consumers: Improve NatWest Retail Main Bank NPS to +23 or 3rd (from +22 and 3rd). Businesses: Improve NatWest Business Banking £0-750k NPS to -6 or 3rd (from -8 and 3rd) and maintain NatWest Commercial Mid-Market £750k+ NPS at +17 or 1st. Wealth: Improve 
Premier NPS to +31 or 3rd (from +29 and 3rd). Achieve Coutts NPS (12MR) of +36 (from +38) or Coutts NPS (3MR) of +49 (from +28). RBSI: Maintain NPS of +35. NatWest Markets: maintain average CTR of 72%. We met or exceeded 5 out of the 7 customer goals set 
for 2023. The weighted average rating across these 7 targets mean that the Customer outcome is 4.80%.

(8)  NatWest Group’s management structures were revised during 2023. For the purpose of remuneration reporting, the representation targets were set based on the management structures in place at the start of the FY2023 with performance assessed at  

31 December 2023.

(9)  Enterprise target aimed at supporting the recovery and prioritising support for harder to reach groups with higher barriers to entering and growing a business. The support was to be distributed as follows: 75% support to UK regions outside London & South East, 50% 

support to females, 20% support to individuals from ethnic minority backgrounds, Minimum target: 32,550 businesses and 269,000 interactions, Maximum target: 40,250 businesses and 316,250 interactions (same percentage distribution as target).

(10) Key initiatives are: MoneySense, Financial Health Checks, Spending Feature and Know My Credit Score. Please see page 8 of the ESG Disclosures Report for Spending Feature measurement approach.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

2021 LTI award – Pre-vest performance assessment framework

LTI awards were made in early 2021 following an assessment of performance over the 2020 financial year. Before vesting, the committee carries out a further review to consider whether 
anything has come to light which might call the original award into question. Internal control functions and PwC, as independent advisers, the Group Board Risk Committee (BRC) and the 
Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC) support the committee in this assessment, with the outcome set out below.

Looking back to performance for 2020 and ‘knowing what we know now’, has NatWest Group

146

Core  
questions

1. Remained safe and secure, taking 
into account financial results and the 
capital position?

2. Been a good bank for customers 
taking into account customer and 
advocacy performance?

3. Operated in an environment in 
which risk is seen as part of the way 
we work and think?

4. Operated in a way that reflects its 
stated values and Purpose?

Has NatWest Group 
breached a minimum 
capital ratio over 
the period?

Has there been a 
material fall in the 
NatWest Group share 
price over the period?

Has Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) fallen 
across the business?

Evidenced 
by…

Have there been 
indicators of a material 
deterioration in the risk 
culture or profile, taking 
into account annual 
assessments by the Risk 
function and the BRC?

Has the culture  
index from Our View 
fallen materially?(1)

Has there been a 
material deterioration 
in Purpose-linked 
indicators since the 
performance year 
in question?

NO

NO

Analysis

NatWest Group 
has remained well 
capitalised since 2020.

The share price has 
risen since the end 
of 2020.

Some declines

Declines in certain 
limited areas which are 
driven by external 
factors.

NO

NO

No material 
deterioration in 
risk culture or profile 
since 2020.

No material 
deterioration in culture 
scores, with scores 
maintained since 2020.

NO

No material 
deterioration in 
purpose-linked 
indicators.

YES

NO

Potential 
under- 
performance?

Where the answer is ‘Yes’, three further questions are considered:
1. Is the underperformance due to factors within management’s reasonable 

control in the circumstances?

2. Can the underperformance be linked back to the performance year to which 

the award relates, rather than to performance developments since?

3. Is it appropriate to reflect the underperformance in the current pre-vest test 
(i.e. if the underperformance has not been adequately reflected in other 
ways such as subsequent pre-grant tests and awards in the interim)?
If the answer to each of these questions is “Yes”, the committee may decide 
that a reduction on pre-vest is appropriate, and it has the discretion to decide 
the amount.

Further analysis
Whilst some customer metrics have declined since 2020, these are due to 
market factors and are not related to 2020 performance. Given this, there was 
no deterioration in financial, customer, risk and culture performance that would 
merit a reduction prior to vesting. The committee noted the investigation of 
Financial Crime and CDD remediation had resulted in adjustments to prior LTI 
vestings through the risk underpin. Since the timeline for financial crime return 
to appetite had not worsened over the course of 2023, no further adjustments 
were considered necessary as part of the 2021 LTI pre-vest assessment.
(1)  As disclosed in 2022, the LTI pre-vest culture assessment is now assessed using ‘Our View’, 
NatWest Group’s internal colleague opinion survey, following the closure of the FSCB and its 
survey. Achievement of ‘threshold level of sustainable performance’ has been evidenced.

No adjustment proposed, 
subject to underpins to consider 
any significant risk, stakeholder 
or reputational matters not 
already captured in the 
performance assessment, 
with advice from the BRC 
and the SBC. The underpins 
also allowed the committee to 
consider events arising during 
the period between grant and 
the end of year 3.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts147

Windfall gains
As previously disclosed in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, the committee has 
implemented a framework for the assessment of windfall gains when assessing the vesting 
of the 2021 LTI gains prior to the vesting of our LTI awards. The committee considered the 
following factors:

 – the level of the grant price in comparison to pre COVID-19 levels – A pre-COVID reference 
price of £2.30 was used based on the price on the average share price across November 
and December 2019. Relative to this date the like-for-like(1) grant share price of £1.866 
was 19% lower. It was noted this is less than 20%, the level above which further 
consideration would typically be given to an adjustment. It is also worth noting that the 
like-for-like grant share price was 10% higher than the price used for the 2020 grant.

 – the level of share price appreciation (if any) over the period up to vesting – During 
the pre-vest period following the grant of the 2021 LTI award, NatWest Group’s 
share price rose by 16%, which in our review did not give rise to a windfall gain to 
the executive directors.

 – consideration of whether share price appreciation was unique to NatWest Group and 
indicative of strong management performance – Share price growth of 16% over this 
period in our view largely reflects the improvement in the financial performance of 
NatWest Group as reflected in the profit and RoTE performance during the pre-vest 
performance during the pre-vest period.

 – whether any reduction had been applied to award levels at pre-grant. The NatWest Group 
LTI construct was different to a more traditional LTIP construct as the main performance 
assessment took place prior to grant. Under this assessment, the March 2021 LTI grants 
to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray(2) for performance year 2020 were reduced to 44.8% and 
45.5% of maximum respectively. The reduction reflected both performance during the year 
and significant further pay restraint to reflect the impact of COVID-19. The committee 
considered this was another important consideration in making any windfall gain assessment.

Considering the above, the committee concluded that no windfall gain had arisen and that no 
further adjustment was required to be made to the 2021 LTI awards prior to vesting.

(1)  The 2021 LTI grant price was discounted for the first time to reflect the absence of dividends or dividend equivalents over the 
vesting period, in line with the Policy. For the purpose of the above analysis the ‘like-for-like’ grant share price of £1.866 used 
in the analysis represents the share price undiscounted for the lack of dividends.

(2)  Ms Rose confirmed she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 performance year which the committee determined 

Annual remuneration report continued

Vesting of 2021 LTI awards (audited)
Ms Rose had informed the Board she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 
performance year, recognising the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19. LTI awards 
were granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray in March 2021 in respect of performance year 
2020. Prior to the award being granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, reductions of 55.2% 
and 54.5% respectively were applied to the maximum award as a result of the pre-grant 
performance assessment with a further reduction to reflect the impact of COVID-19 on 
our pay decisions that year. This resulted in LTI awards of £403,000 for Mr Thwaite and 
£682,000 for Ms Murray. The pre-grant performance reductions were made as risk, 
customer and enterprise performance in 2020 were not fully at the desired level.

At the end of 2023, a further assessment took place to review whether anything had come 
to light which might call into question the original award. The pre-vest assessment found that 
there had been no material deterioration in financial, customer, risk and culture performance 
since grant. Overall, the data indicated that the required level of sustainable performance 
had been achieved and no further reductions were made to the 2021 LTI awards under the 
pre-vest test. The committee also considered the potential application of risk and stakeholder 
perception underpins, which included a detailed discussion of whether the vesting outcome 
could result in potential windfall gains. The committee used our pre-disclosed framework and 
a range of other factors to assess windfall gains and believed there was a strong rationale 
for not making any adjustment.

A summary of the position from grant to vest is set out below along with the estimated vesting 
values for the 2021 LTI award, which is used in the single total figure of remuneration table. 
The shares will vest in equal amounts between 2024 and 2028, followed by a 12-month 
retention period. Malus and clawback provisions also apply.

Alison Rose

Paul Thwaite 

Katie Murray

Shares

Value

Shares

Value

Shares

Value

537,442

£900,000

895,737 £1,500,000

296,787
240,655

£497,000
£403,000

488,475
407,262

£818,000
£682,000

2021 LTI Award
Maximum 
opportunity
Reduction for 
pre-grant test
Award granted
Reduction for 
pre-vest test
Amount post 
performance tests
Increase in value 
due to share price
Estimated vesting 
value

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

(1)  Share price used to determine the number of awards was £1.6746. This was determined using the share price at grant of 

£1.866 which was discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting 
period, in line with the shareholder approved Policy. The estimated vesting value was based on share price of £2.1089, the 
average over the three-month period from October to December 2023.

–

–

–

–

to be £899,000 as noted in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report. 

240,655

£403,000

407,262

£682,000

–

–

£104,518

£507,518

–

–

£176,876

£858,876

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts148

Annual remuneration report continued

Scheme interest – RSP awards granted during 2023 (audited)

Grant date

Face value

Award price (1)

Shares awarded (2)

Vesting levels

Performance requirement

Paul Thwaite

07-Mar-23

£937,501

Alison Rose (3)

07-Mar-23

£1,395,627

Katie Murray

07-Mar-23

£951,565

£2.2055

£2.2055

£2.2055

425,074

632,794

431,451

Between 
0% – 100% 
with no set 
minimum vesting

The award was subject to a pre-grant assessment of performance over 2022. The 
committee will make a further assessment at the end of the three-year performance 
period for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray (covering financial years 2023 to 2025) to 
determine whether sustainable performance has been achieved. Before vesting, 
the outcome will be reviewed by the committee using the underpin criteria below, 
as well as their broader discretion.

(1)  The award price shown is calculated as the average share price over the five days prior to the grant date, discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in line with the Policy. For reference, the full 

market price of NatWest Group shares at the time of grant for the 2023 RSP awards was £2.9216.

(2)  The conditional share awards granted to Mr Thwaite relate to his remuneration arrangements as CEO C&I, prior to becoming an executive director. For Ms Murray, the award of conditional shares equated to 125% of base salary. The number of shares was calculated 

taking into account performance and the maximum potential award. The award price was based on the average share price over five business days prior to grant. Subject to the pre-vest assessment, these awards will vest in equal amounts between years 2026 and 
2030. Service conditions and malus provisions apply up until vest, and clawback provisions apply for a period of at least seven years from the date of grant.

(3)  In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, all RSP awards granted during 2023 will lapse on the cessation of Ms Rose’s employment. 

RSP awards to be granted for 2023 (audited)
RSP awards are granted provided the committee considers performance over the prior 
year has been satisfactory, based on an assessment against our internal performance 
management framework. The determination of whether satisfactory performance has been 
achieved is based on our internal ratings scale (1 to 5) with a rating of 3 or above normally 
resulting in the RSP award being granted at maximum. A 3 rating means performance goals 
have been fully achieved throughout the year and behaviours have been demonstrated at 
the required level. Performance against regulatory accountabilities is also considered.

The maximum RSP award under the Policy is limited to 150% of base salary. Mr Thwaite 
and Ms Murray both received ratings of 3 for 2023, meaning performance goals were 
fully achieved or exceeded and behaviours were demonstrated at the required level. 
All regulatory responsibilities were also met. Noting the achievements by both executive 
directors over the year and the subsequent performance ratings, the committee agreed 
that RSP awards would be granted at maximum, in line with the Policy.

As a result, Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray will receive RSP awards of £1,215,774 and 
£1,173,319 respectively. The awards will be delivered entirely in shares and subject to 
conditions before vesting as well as significant holding periods to create long-term alignment 
with the experience of shareholders. Malus and clawback provisions will also apply.

In line with leaving arrangements disclosed on page 150, no RSP award will be granted to 
Ms Rose in respect of service during 2023.

Pre-vest underpin
The committee will make an assessment at the end of the three-year performance period 
(covering financial years 2024 to 2026) to determine whether sustainable performance has 
been achieved. Before vesting, the outcome will be reviewed using the underpin criteria 
below. Following the assessment, RSP awards may vest in full, in part or lapse in their 
entirety, with discretion to consider other factors and apply discretion before deciding the 
final vesting outcome. This will mitigate any potential unintended outcomes that might arise 
and ensure that there is a fair outcome.

A sustainable level of performance over the period will be considered with reference to:

2023

2024

Criteria before vesting

Pre-grant 
performance

Year of 
grant

1
The level of capital held relative to 
the maximum distributable amount.

2
Total distributions paid relative to 
our distribution policy.

3
Any material deterioration in the 
risk or regulatory compliance 
profile or control environment of 
NatWest Group, or a serious 
conduct or reputational event.

2027

Start of vesting 
Vests in equal amounts between 2027 
and 2031, with a 12-month retention 
period after each vesting.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Remuneration for the Chairman and non-
executive directors in 2023
The Chairman’s composite fee was increased from 
£750,000 to £775,000 per annum and the basic Board fee 
was increased from £82,000 to £85,000 per annum from 
1 May 2023. The increases were made after considering 
the fees paid by other major UK banks as well as salary 

increases for the wider workforce. The increases of 3.33% 
and 3.66% respectively were lower than the 6.4% average 
salary increase applied across our global workforce from 
April 2023, and broadly aligned with the executive directors’ 
3% salary increases in April 2023. All other fee increases are 
detailed in the table below. A greater percentage increase 
was introduced for the Group Sustainable Banking 

Committee (SBC), reflecting the SBC’s expanded remit from 
1 May 2023 following the disbandment of the Technology 
and Innovation Committee. The Colleague Advisory Panel 
(CAP) fee was unchanged at £15,000. All changes were 
within the scope of the Policy approved by shareholders 
and no directors were involved in decisions regarding 
their own remuneration.

149

Chairman – composite fee
Basic Board fee
Senior Independent Director (SID) (1)
Chair – GAC, BRC and RemCo
Chair – SBC 
Member – GAC, BRC and RemCo
Member – N&G (2)
Member – SBC 
NatWest Markets plc Chair – composite fee (3)

2022 fees
£
£750,000
£82,000
£34,000
£73,000
£60,000
£34,000
£15,000
£30,000
£270,000

2023 fees
£
£775,000
£85,000
£36,000
£75,000
£65,000
£35,000
£16,000
£32,000
£280,000

Increase  
£
£25,000
£3,000
£2,000
£2,000
£5,000
£1,000
£1,000
£2,000
£10,000

Increase  
%
3.33%
3.66%
5.88%
2.74%
8.33%
2.94%
6.67%
6.67%
3.70%

GAC (Group Audit Committee), BRC (Group Board Risk Committee), RemCo (Group Performance and Remuneration Committee), N&G (Group Nominations and Governance Committee), SBC (Group Sustainable Banking Committee).

(1)  The SID fee was increased to reflect additional responsibilities relating to Chair succession and to align more closely with market comparators.
(2)  The fees for N&G members were increased in light of increased Board recruitment activity.
(3)  For the Chair of NatWest Markets plc, the fees were increased at a broadly equivalent rate to the basic Board fee increase in percentage terms.

For NatWest Group plc Board directors who also serve on the boards and committees of NatWest Holdings Limited, National Westminster Bank Plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the 
fees below reflect membership of all four boards and their respective Board Committees. Directors may also receive fees for membership of other subsidiary company boards and committees, 
the value of which would be included below. No variable pay is provided to the Chairman and non-executive directors. You can find further details of board and committee members and their 
attendance at meetings in the Corporate governance report on page 97.

Total remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors in 2023 (audited)

Chairman (composite fee)
Howard Davies 
Non-executive directors
Frank Dangeard 
Roisin Donnelly
Patrick Flynn 
Morten Friis (2)
Yasmin Jetha 
Stuart Lewis (3)
Mike Rogers (4)
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson (5)

 Fees 

2023

£’000

767

277
118
219
121
158
139
61
204
278

2022

£’000

750

268
21
232
202
171
–
179
198
205

Benefits (1)

2023

£’000

6

2
6
3
9
5
5
3
5
11

2022

£’000

14

3
6
5
44
4
–
15
5
17

Total

2023

£’000

772

279
124
222
130
163
144
64
209
289

2022

£’000

764

271
27
237
246
175
– 
194
203
222

(1)  The benefits column for Howard Davies, Chairman, includes private medical 

cover, life cover and expenses in connection with attendance at Board meetings. 
There was a COVID-19-related private medical cover refund of premiums in 
2023 due to a reduction of services in prior years, which resulted in a drop in 
the cost of the benefit, although this is expected to return to more typical rates 
in 2024. Non-executive directors are reimbursed expenses incurred in 
connection with travel and attendance at Board meetings.

(2)  Morten Friis stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2023.
(3)  Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2023.
(4)  Mike Rogers stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2023.
(5)  Fees for Lena Wilson include a one-off additional fee of £37,500 for undertaking, 
at the request of the Board, an additional oversight and coordination role in 
relation to matters arising from the account closure arrangements at Coutts and 
associated events. This included holding extensive additional meetings between 
July 2023 and November 2023 with management and other stakeholders to 
review and discuss relevant matters and overseeing the preparation of proposals 
for consideration by the board committees. This is a one-off payment for 2023 
reflecting the exceptional events of 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Payments for loss of office and payments to 
past directors (audited)
Alison Rose stepped down as Group CEO by mutual 
agreement with effect from 25 July 2023.

In line with Ms Rose’s service agreement, she will 
continue to receive her fixed pay elements for her 
contractual notice period, which will end on 26 July 
2024 in line with the terms of our approved Policy. For 
this purpose, her fixed pay elements consist of salary 
of £1,155,660 per annum, fixed share allowance 
of £1,155,660 per annum, pension allowance of 
£115,566 per annum, and contractually agreed 
benefits of £26,250 per annum.

In accordance with the terms of the Policy and 
our share plan rules, any awards due to vest after 
cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will 
lapse on that date. There is no change to the vesting 
schedule of her awards. Details of outstanding share 
awards are included in the scheme interests table of 
page 148. The value of unvested share awards, as at 
31 December 2023, was £5,147,914. This value differs 
from that previously disclosed in the Section 430(2b) 
Companies Act 2006 Statement on 10 November 
2023 as it is based on an updated share price. The 
final value of any lapsed share awards will depend 
on the share price on 26 July 2024.

In addition, no bonus or variable remuneration will be 
paid to Ms Rose in respect of service during 2023.

Ms Rose’s shareholding requirement will continue 
to apply for a period of two years from her date of 
cessation of employment.

In accordance with the terms of the Policy, under 
the settlement agreement contributions towards 
Ms Rose’s legal fees and outplacement support 
were agreed. This was £395,000 plus VAT for legal 
fees and £60,000 plus VAT for outplacement support. 

150

Implementation of remuneration policy in 2024
Pay arrangements
Both executive directors will receive annual bonus and RSP awards in March 2024 in respect of the 2023 performance 
year. You can find details of these awards on pages 143 and 148. In December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary 
increases would apply from 1 April 2024 for the Group CEO, who had been appointed for an initial period of 12 months, 
and Group CFO. This compares to an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. Mr Thwaite has since been 
appointed permanently into the Group CEO role with effect from 16 February 2024. His salary element was reviewed 
in accordance with the Policy and set at £1,155,660. This sets Mr Thwaite’s fixed pay at the same level as the fixed pay 
previously paid for the Group CEO role prior to his appointment in July 2023. Pay arrangements for the 2024 performance 
year are set out below.

Paul Thwaite
Katie Murray

Salary  
(1 Jan 2024)
£1,050,000
£787,950

Salary  
(1 Apr 2024)
£1,155,660 
£787,950

Standard 
benefits (1)
£26,250
£26,250

Pension (2)

Fixed share 
allowance (3)
10% of salary 100% of salary
10% of salary 100% of salary

Maximum bonus 
award for 2024 (4) 
£1,142,243 
£787,950

Maximum RSP 
award for 2024 (5)
£1,713,364 
£1,181,925

(1)  Amounts shown relate to standard benefit funding. Executive directors are also entitled to benefits such as travel assistance and security arrangements in line with the Policy. 
We will disclose the value of benefits received each year. Executive directors are eligible to participate in all-employee share plan arrangements on the same basis as colleagues.

(2)  Mr Thwaite was a member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme prior to becoming an executive director and continued to participate on the same terms as 
applicable to him in his previous role based on the legacy provisions of the Policy, see page 141 and 142 for more information. Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his 
permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he will become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can choose to 
join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.

(3)  Fixed share allowance is payable broadly in arrears, currently in four instalments per year. The shares will be released in equal amounts over a five-year period.
(4)  The maximum bonus award under the Policy is set at 100% of base salary and is calculated on salary earned over the year. The award is expected to vest at 50% where 

on-target performance is achieved across the scorecard.

(5)  The maximum RSP award under the Policy is set at 150% of base salary and is calculated on salary earned over the year. The award is normally expected to vest in full, 
subject to underpin criteria that will ensure there is no payment for failure. The maximum value of the RSP award receivable by the Group CEO and Group CFO for 2024 
would increase to £2,570,046 and £1,772,888 respectively in the event there was a 50% increase in the NatWest Group plc share price over the RSP three-year period 
from grant to vest.

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2024
The annual bonus scorecard will be based on weighted performance measures and appropriately stretching targets across 
financial and non-financial areas that align with our purpose-led strategy.

For 2024, financial performance will represent 60% of the scorecard with target ranges set in line with the budget.  
Non-financial measures will be focused across climate, customer, purpose, culture and people, and enterprise and capability. 
These measures represent an aggregate of 35% of the scorecard and reflect our ESG priority areas as well as the importance 
of good customer outcomes. The remaining 5% will be assessed on Personal measures based on a discretionary assessment 
of the performance of each executive director over the year. A downward Risk modifier will also apply, enabling risk 
performance to be assessed and awards reduced, potentially to zero.

Threshold and maximum targets will be disclosed retrospectively at the end of the performance period in the 2024 Directors’ 
remuneration report, alongside the actual level of performance achieved and associated narrative. No award will be made 
if threshold performance, as determined by the committee, is not achieved. The level of the award to be paid will vary 
between 10% for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. Target performance will pay out at 50% 
of maximum opportunity.

All assessments of performance are subject to the committee’s judgement to determine the appropriate outcome. Discretion 
will only be used by the committee when the application of the formulaic performance outcome drives an unrepresentative 
outcome or when it is necessary to take into account strategic, economic or societal impacts that were not or could not 
have been accounted for at the point of agreeing the bonus scorecard.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance measures and targets for 2024

151

Performance measures

Target

Weighting 

Category

Financial

Financial  
60%

Group RoTE.

Group underlying income excluding notable items.

Target will be set with appropriate reference to our external guidance for RoTe. The targets set and 
the extent of their achievement will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual Report as the committee 
considers them to be commercially sensitive at this point in time.

Target will be set with appropriate reference to our external guidance for income excluding notable 
items. The targets set and the extent of their achievement will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual 
Report as the committee considers them to be commercially sensitive at this point in time.

Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct costs.

Target to be in line with our external Group operating expenses guidance.

CET1.

Non-Financial

CET1 target range of 13-14%.

Strategic  
35%

Climate 

Climate and sustainable funding and financing.

Target of £25.8 billion towards the £100 billion target. 

Implementation of the Climate transition plan.

1. Volume of customer engagement through carbon tracking, energy and retrofit journey tools;
2. Number of large customers for which the Customer Transition Plan Assessment (CTPA) is 

Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) and Customer Touchpoint 

Rating (CTR) for our brands.

Purpose, 
culture 
and 
people

Enterprise 
and 
capability

Progress against purposeful leadership targets.
Progress against culture targets.
Number of females in senior roles.
Number of colleagues from ethnic minority 
backgrounds in senior roles.

Support the sustainable growth ambitions of our 
customers through our wrap around support, 
knowledge and expertise.
Prioritise support for harder to reach groups with 
higher barriers to entering and growing a business.

undertaken; and

3. % of in-scope AuM which align to a net zero trajectory.

Consumers: Maintain NatWest Retail Main Bank NPS at +22. Businesses: Maintain NatWest Business 
Banking £0-750k NPS at -6 and maintain NatWest Commercial Mid-Market (£750k-£250m) NPS at 
+11 and maintain NatWest Large Corporate >£250m NPS at +19. Wealth: Maintain Premier NPS at 
+17. Improve Coutts NPS (12MR) to +34. RBSI: Improve NPS by 2 points on the new baseline to +43. 
NatWest Markets: Maintain average CTR of 75%. Also: Maintain RBSI NPS for Institutions to +44 and 
shared targets of Commercial Mid-Market NPS +11 and Large Corporate NPS +19.

Purposeful leadership target from Our View = 84.
Culture target from Our View = 83.
Increase percentage in the top three layers to 43% on aggregate.
Increase percentage in the top four layers in the UK to 13.5% on aggregate.

Support UK businesses through enterprise programmes with 350,000 interventions to start, run 
and grow a business. In-person support (where measurement is possible; excluding digital) being 
distributed as follows: 75% to UK regions outside London & South East; 50% to females; 20% to 
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic individuals.

To help 10 million people, per year, manage their financial 
wellbeing by 2027.
To improve the financial wellbeing of young people and 
help them feel more confident about their future.

To help 7 million people to manage their financial wellbeing by the end of 2024.

To reach 1 million young people in 2024.

Personal  
(5%)

Discretionary assessment at year end for both executive directors.

Group CEO performance is based on recommendation from Chair taking into account additional 
individual performance factors.
Group CFO performance is based on recommendation from CEO taking into account individual 
performance goals.

Risk  
(0 – 100%)

Risk performance assessment based on Group, NatWest Holdings, 
Functional (CFO only) and individual risk performance.

Discretionary downwards modifier.

30%

10%

10%

10%

10%

10%

10%

5%

5% 

0-100%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFees for NatWest Group plc Board (1)
Chair (composite fee)
Non-executive director basic fee
Senior Independent Director

Fees for NatWest Group plc Board Committees (1)
Group Board Risk Committee
Group Audit Committee
Group Performance and Remuneration Committee
Group Sustainable Banking Committee
Group Nominations and Governance Committee

Other fees for NatWest Group plc Board directors
Chair of NatWest Markets plc 
(composite fee to cover all boards and committees)
Chair of the Colleague Advisory Panel

152

Rates from
1 January 2024
£775,000
£85,000
£36,000

Member
£35,000 
£35,000 
£35,000 
£32,000 
£16,000 

Chair
£75,000 
£75,000 
£75,000 
£65,000 
–

Rates from
1 January 2024

£280,000
£15,000

(1)  No additional fees are payable where the director is also a member of the boards and respective board committees of NatWest 
Holdings Limited, National Westminster Bank Plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. Where appropriate, directors receive 
additional fees for membership of other subsidiary company boards and committees including NatWest Markets Plc. 
If applicable, we will disclose the value of fees received in this report each year.

Other external directorships
The Board must approve any additional appointments undertaken by directors outside 
NatWest Group. Steps are in place to make sure that directors comply with regulatory limits 
on the number of directorships held. The Board also considers whether it is appropriate for 
executive directors to retain any remuneration from any new external roles, depending on 
the appointment. You can find details of current external appointments in the biographies 
section of the Corporate governance report.

Annual remuneration report continued

RSP performance assessment for 2024
RSP awards are granted entirely in shares creating simple and effective alignment with 
the returns that shareholders receive over the long term. This is supported by annual bonus 
arrangements, which ensure that executive directors are also incentivised to deliver on the 
key strategic priorities of NatWest Group, with robust weighted performance measures as 
set out on the previous page. After the application of the pre-grant test and the pre-vest 
underpin, the RSP would be expected to pay out at 100% in the vast majority of cases to 
deliver the expected value under the Policy.

Pre-grant test
Executive directors will be granted an RSP award in 2025 provided the committee considers 
performance over 2024 has been satisfactory, based on an assessment against our 
performance management framework.

Pre-vest underpin
RSP awards will not be subject to further performance conditions. However, before vesting, 
the committee will review the outcomes of the business against the underpin criteria. Details 
of the underpin criteria for the RSP award to be granted in respect of 2023 performance 
as well as the broader discretion available to the committee can be found on page 148.

Chairman and non-executive directors’ shareholding policy 
and annual fees for 2024
From 1 January 2023, the Board introduced a formal shareholding policy for the Chairman 
and non-executive directors. The policy did not apply to directors who were due to step 
down from the Board within 12 months of 1 January 2023. Under the shareholding policy, 
NatWest Group retains a portion of the net monthly basic fees (10% for the Chairman and 
25% for non-executive directors) which is used to purchase shares every quarter. The 
Chairman is required to build towards a shareholding equivalent to four times the basic 
annual Board fee (currently £340,000) and for non-executive directors the target is one 
times the basic annual Board fee (currently £85,000). Once the target is achieved, monthly 
deductions and quarterly purchases will continue at a reduced percentage of net monthly 
fees (5% for the Chairman and 10% for non-executive directors). The shares purchased 
under the shareholding policy are held in a nominee account with dividends reinvested 
and shares retained until the director steps down from the Board.

We believe this is a progressive and proportionate approach to shareholder alignment that 
will provide consistency and ultimately higher levels of shareholdings for this cohort. It will 
also ensure there is a continuous element of shareholder alignment as the Chairman 
and non-executive directors will continue to acquire shares over their entire tenure.

The annual fees applicable from 1 January 2024 are set out in the tables, with the fees 
delivered in a combination of cash and shares in line with the shareholding policy above.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Annual change in directors’ pay compared to 
average change in employee pay
Remuneration for employees is based on salary, benefits 
and annual bonus. Executive directors receive fixed share 
allowances and, from the 2022 performance year onwards, 
annual bonus awards. The Chairman and non-executive 

directors receive fees rather than salary and do not receive 
annual bonus awards. We regularly review membership of 
Board Committees and changes in membership will impact 
the level of fees paid to non-executive directors from one 
year to the next. The benefits figures for non-executive 
directors can also change significantly year on year 

depending on the amount of travel undertaken in 
connection with Board meetings. The data for non-
executive directors below reflects the value of benefits 
mainly falling in 2020 and 2021, due to less travel during 
the COVID-19 restrictions, before returning to more typical 
levels in 2022.

153

2021 to 2022

2020 to 2021

2019 to 2020

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

6.34%

42.48%

Salary

2.02%

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

4.68%

35.24%

Salary

2.86%

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

1.70%

-32.40%

Annual percentage change

UK employees (2)

Executive directors

Paul Thwaite (3)
Alison Rose (3)
Katie Murray

Chairman and 
non-executive directors

Howard Davies (4)
Frank Dangeard
Roisin Donnelly (5)
Patrick Flynn
Morten Friis (5)
Yasmin Jetha (5)
Stuart Lewis (5)
Mike Rogers (5)
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson

Salary

8.11%

–
-42%
3%

Fees

2%
3%
462%
-6%
-40%
-8%
–
-66%
3%
36%

2022 to 2023

Benefits

Annual Bonus

9.65%

7.13%

–
-43%
0%

–
-100%
-2%

Salary

5.20%

–
1.50%
1.50%

–
0%
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

Fees

Benefits

Annual Bonus

-57%
-33%
0%
-40%
-80%
25%
–
-80%
0%
-35%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

0%
2%
–
2%
3%
1%
–
4%
4%
5%

8%
200%
–
400%
100%
300%
–
–
400%
240%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

–
0%
0%

Fees

0%
1%
–
0%
17%
33%
–
1%
1%
8%

–
0%
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

8%
0%
–
-67%
214%
100%
–
-100%
0%
25%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

–
–
0%

Fees

0%
0%
–
2%
14%
–
–
0%
-4%
16%

–
–
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

9%
-75%
–
-70%
-80%
–
–
-83%
-88%
-64%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

(1)  Standard benefit funding for executive directors has remained unchanged. The figures above exclude any other benefits to executive directors such as travel assistance in connection with company business, the value of which is disclosed each year in the single total 

figure table.

(2)  NatWest Group plc is a holding company and is not an employing entity. The disclosure above compares the change in directors’ pay with all employees based in the UK. The data is based on the average full time equivalent salary and benefit costs of UK-based 

employees of NatWest Group, excluding the CEO and the CFO. This is considered to be the most representative comparator group, as it covers the majority of employees and the CEO and CFO are based in the UK. The average percentage change relates to 
salaries and benefits awarded in the respective financial years for UK employees and therefore may differ from figures quoted elsewhere in the report, for example, the proposed salary increases announced in December 2023 to be awarded from April 2024.

(3)  Paul Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO on 25 July 2023 and therefore the annual change comparison to 2022 is not applicable. Alison Rose stood down with effect from 25 July 2023.
(4)  The benefits column for Howard Davies, Chairman, includes private medical cover, the cost of which fell in 2023 due to a reduction of services in prior years but is expected to return to more typical rates in 2024.
(5)  Stuart Lewis joined the Board on 1 April 2023, Roisin Donnelly joined the Board on 1 October 2022 and Yasmin Jetha re-joined the Board on 1 April 2020, so there are no prior year comparisons. Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepped down from the Board with effect 

from 25 April 2023 and 31 July 2023 respectively.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

CEO to employee pay ratios
The ratios below compare the total pay of the CEO, as 
set out in the single figure of remuneration table in this 
report, against the pay of three employees whose earnings 
represent the lower, median and upper quartiles of the UK 
employee population. A significant proportion of the CEO’s 
total remuneration is delivered through long-term incentive 
arrangements, linked to performance and share price 
movements, which means this part of the ratio can fluctuate 
significantly from one year to the next. None of the three 
employees identified this year received equivalent long-term 
incentive arrangements. Information based on salary only is 
included as a further comparison.

The pay ratios reflect the diverse range of roles and pay 
levels across NatWest Group as a large financial services 
company. For the total remuneration comparison, the 

CEO to employee pay ratios

154

median employee for 2023 works in Digital and the median 
pay ratio is consistent with the pay and reward policies for 
UK employees as a whole. We are determined to pay each 
individual a fair rate for the role performed, using consistent 
reward policies and offering opportunities for progression. 
We set out further information on our fair pay approach on 
natwestgroup.com. The change in the median pay ratio 
since 2018 is largely driven by the more volatile nature of 
performance-related pay for the CEO. In April 2020, Ms 
Rose decided to forgo 25% of her fixed pay for the rest of 
the year which contributed to the ratio falling in 2020 before 
rising in 2021. The median pay ratio then increased further 
in 2022 primarily due to Ms Rose receiving an annual bonus 
award for the first time under the new Policy and a higher 
vesting value for the LTI award, as a result of strong share 
price performance.

As there was a change in Group CEO during the year, 
the data for 2023 is based on remuneration earned by 
Ms Rose and Mr Thwaite, as set out in the single figure of 
remuneration table. As the single figure table only includes 
the pro-rated amount of Mr Thwaite’s annual bonus award, 
the ratio may vary next year, depending on outcomes. Also, 
as Ms Rose voluntarily declined a LTI award in 2021, in 
relation to the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19, 
there was no vesting amount to include in her single 
figure of remuneration and this contributed to the pay 
ratio falling in 2023. The total remuneration and salary only 
for employees at the lower, median and upper quartiles 
has either remained stable or increased year-on-year.

Pay ratios 

Remuneration values (£000)

Year 

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Methodology 

P25 (LQ)

P50 (Median)

P75 (UQ)

Calculation 

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

143:1
44:1
175:1
44:1
99:1
46:1
130:1
44:1
177:1
42:1
95:1
38:1

97:1
30:1
118:1
30:1
66:1
31:1
87:1
29:1
119:1
28:1
64:1
25:1

56:1  Total remuneration
Salary only
19:1
Total remuneration
69:1
Salary only
19:1
Total remuneration
39:1
Salary only
20:1
Total remuneration
51:1
Salary only
20:1
Total remuneration
71:1
19:1
Salary only
39:1 Total remuneration
17:1 Salary only

CEO

3,578
1,000
4,517
1,017
2,615
1,100
3,588
1,100
5,249
1,117
3,158
1,106

Y25 (LQ)

Y50 (Median)

Y75 (UQ)

25
23
26
23
26
24
28
25
30
27
33
29

37
33
38
34
40
36
41
37
44
40
50
44

64
51
66
52
66
54
70
55
74
58
81
63

Supplementary information on the pay ratio table:

(1)  The data for 2023 is based on remuneration earned by Mr Thwaite and Ms Rose, as set out in the single figure of remuneration table in this report which details the pro-rated amount of Mr Thwaite’s annual bonus, together with the estimated vesting value of the full 

2021 LTI award, including the performance period prior to appointment.

(2)  The employees at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles (lower, median and upper quartiles) were determined as at 31 December of the relevant year, based on full-time equivalent remuneration for all UK employees. This includes fixed pay (salary, pension funding and 

where relevant benefit funding and other allowances) and also any variable pay (based on the amount to be paid). For employees who work part time, fixed pay is grossed up to the full-time equivalent.

(3)  ‘Option A’ methodology was selected as this is considered the most statistically accurate method. UK employees receive a pension funding allowance set as a percentage of salary. Some employees continue to participate in the defined benefit pension scheme. 

For simplicity and consistency with prior years, we have included the pension funding allowance value in the calculation for all employees.

(4)  The data for the three employees identified has been considered and fairly reflects pay at the relevant quartiles among the UK employee population. Each of the three individuals was a full-time employee during the year and none received an exceptional award that 

would otherwise inflate their pay figure.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Summary of remuneration levels for employees in 2023

1.34%.

9.31%

20.92%

68.42%

48,178 employees earned total remuneration up to £50,000
xx,xxx employees earned total remuneration up to £50,000

14,731 employees earned total remuneration between £50,000 and £100,000
xx,xxx employees earned total remuneration between £50,000 and £100,000 

6,555 employees earned total remuneration between £100,000 and £250,000
x,xxx employees earned total remuneration between £100,000 and £250,000

946 employees earned total remuneration over £250,000
xxx employees earned total remuneration over £250,000

The disclosure of remuneration levels for employees includes anyone employed by NatWest Group during the year. 

155

Remuneration of Material Risk Takers (MRTs) in 2023
Each year, we disclose the remuneration paid to individuals whose activities have a material 
influence over NatWest Group’s performance or risk profile, known as MRTs. The disclosures 
are made in line with regulatory requirements and full details can be found in our Pillar 3 
reports on natwestgroup.com. The tables below summarise the total pay for colleagues 
identified as MRTs for one or more entities across NatWest Group along with the number 
of individuals earning more than €1 million for the year. Note that the number of MRTs 
excludes colleagues who left NatWest Group prior to 31 December 2023 in line with 
regulatory requirements.

Number of MRTs
Remuneration (£millions)
Total fixed pay
Total variable pay
Total remuneration

686

£201.06
£103.98
£305.05

Number of >€1m earners (1)
€1.0 million to below €1.5 million
€1.5 million to below €2.0 million
€2.0 million to below €2.5 million
€2.5 million to below €3.0 million
€3.0 million to below €3.5 million
€3.5 million to below €4.0 million
€4.0 million to below €4.5 million
Total

49
15
5
5
–
1
–
75

(1)  This information is disclosed in Euros in line with the 

requirements of the regulations.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts156

Annual remuneration report continued

Directors’ interests in NatWest Group plc shares (audited)
Under the shareholding requirements, the Group CEO and Group CFO need to build up and maintain shares to the value of 500% of salary and 300% of salary respectively. The requirements 
apply both during employment and for two years after leaving, in line with best practice. Procedures are in place to enforce the shareholding requirements, and you can find further details on 
page 139.

Shares held – beneficially owned (1)
Shares held – performance assessed unvested shares (2)
Total shares held counting towards requirements (3)
Shareholding requirement
Position against requirement (4)

Paul Thwaite (5)
571,862
42,232
614,094
500% of salary
128% of salary

Alison Rose (6)
2,516,174
228,807
2,744,981
500% of salary
596% of salary

Katie Murray 
763,090
340,582
1,103,672
300% of salary
307% of salary

(1)  Shares owned beneficially as at 31 December 2023 or at the date of stepping down from the Board if earlier. Includes shares held by persons closely associated with the directors.
(2)  Share awards are also included for the purposes of the shareholding requirement once any performance assessment has been completed. All share awards are included net of taxes due to be paid on vesting.
(3)  As at 16 February 2024, there were no changes to the shares held as shown above for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray. Ms Rose has received additional shares in respect of her fixed share allowance awards since stepping down as Group CEO.
(4)  For Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, the position against the requirement was calculated as at 31 December 2023 based on the closing price of £2.1940 on 29 December 2023. For Ms Rose the position is calculated based on the closing price on the date of stepping down, 

25 July 2023, of £2.5120.

(5)  On 25 July 2023, Mr Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO for an initial period of 12 months and was appointed permanently as of 16 February 2024.
(6)  For Ms Rose shares held are as at 25 July 2023 from when she stepped down from her role. The position against requirement for Ms Rose includes unvested share awards with a vest date up to 7 March 2024 only. Under the post-employment shareholding 

requirement, Ms Rose will be required to hold shares for a period of two years from her date of leaving, 26 July 2024, which will be calculated on this date.

Share interests held by Chairman and non-executive directors
As set out on page 152, the Chairman and non-executive directors are also subject to a 
separate shareholding policy from 2023.(5) Under the shareholding policy, NatWest Group 
retains a portion of the net monthly basic fees (10% for the Chairman and 25% for non-
executive directors) which is used to purchase shares every quarter. The shareholding 
requirement for the Chairman is four times the basic annual Board fee and for non-executive 
directors the target is one times the basic annual Board fee. Once the target is achieved, 
monthly deductions and quarterly purchases will continue at a reduced percentage of net 
monthly fees (5% for the Chairman and 10% for non-executive directors).

The shares purchased under the shareholding policy are held in a nominee account with 
dividends reinvested and shares retained until the director steps down from the Board.

The shareholding requirement is expressed as a number of shares, which is calculated at 
the beginning of each year. This is the first year of the policy and the progress being made 
towards the shareholding requirement is in line with expectations. A number of the directors 
held shares prior to the policy’s introduction which has accelerated their progress. 

Howard Davies

Frank Dangeard

Roisin Donnelly

Patrick Flynn

Morten Friis (4)

Yasmin Jetha

Stuart Lewis (3)

Mike Rogers (4)

Mark Seligman (4)

Lena Wilson

Shares held (1) 119,382

9,182

Shareholding 
requirement (2)

4x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

11,858

1x basic
annual 
Board fee 

23,111

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

18,570

N/A

32,063

3,879

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

18,571

N/A

59,363

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

31,910

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

97% of target

29% of target

38% of target 

75% of target

N/A

104% of target

12% of target

N/A

193% of target

104% of target

Position 
against 
requirement

(1)  Shares owned beneficially as at 31 December 2023 or at the date of stepping down from the Board if earlier. Includes shares 

(4)  Mike Rogers stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2023, and Morten Friis stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2023. 

held by persons closely associated with the directors. As at 16 February 2024, there were no changes to the shares held as 
shown above.

The shareholding policy does not apply to directors who stepped down from the Board within 12 months of 1 January 2023. 
The share interest for Mr Friis held is over 9,285 American Depositary Receipts representing 18,570 ordinary shares.

(2)  Shareholding requirement for 2023 equates to 122,617 shares for Howard Davies and 30,654 for other non-executive 

directors. These amounts were calculated based on the Board fee at the start of the year (£82,000) and a share price of 
£2.1675 on 28 December 2022.

(5)  36,585 shares are held in the name of M Seligman & Co Limited, of which Mr Seligman and Louise Seligman are shareholders.
(6)  For the Chairman and non-executive directors, a final share purchase under the shareholding policy for 2023 was made on 

2 January 2024 and this has been included in the table above as it related to deductions from 2023 fees.

(3)  Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts157

Annual remuneration report continued

Share awards under share plans

Paul Thwaite
Sharesave (3)
Sharesave (3)
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI and RSP awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

Alison Rose (6)
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI and RSP awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

The footnotes for the tables above are set out on the next page.

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
31-Dec-23

Expected vesting dates

2017
2018
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2023

2,643
3,169
17,487
38,871
90,377
240,655
410,492

803,694

425,074
63,764
488,838

2.27
1.89
2.66
2.64
1.70
1.67
1.82
2.21
2.82

2,643
3,169
17,487
19,437
30,127

63,764
136,627

1.87
2.23
2.92
2.92

–
–
–
19,434 (1)
60,250 (1)
240,655 (2)
410,492 (2)
425,074 (2)
–
1,155,905
79,684 (1)
1,076,221 (2)

07.03.24 
07.03.24 – 07.03.25
07.03.24 – 07.03.28
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
25-Jul-23

Expected vesting dates

2017
2018
2019
2020
2022
2023
2023

111,838
276,420
429,276
881,679
877,781

2,576,994

632,794
113,820
746,614

2.41
2.66
2.64
1.70
1.82
2.21
2.82

55,920
92,140
107,319
176,336

113,820
545,535

2.23
2.92
2.92

07.03.24
07.03.24 – 07.03.25 
07.03.24 – 07.03.26
07.03.24 – 07.03.27
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

55,918 (1)
184,280 (1)
321,957 (1)
705,343 (1)
877,781 (2)
632,794 (2)
–
2,778,073
1,267,498 (1)
1,510,575 (2)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts158

Annual remuneration report continued

Katie Murray
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
LTI award
Sharesave (3)
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI, RSP and deferred awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
31-Dec-23

Expected vesting dates

2018
2019
2020
2020
2021
2022
2023
2023

26,795
167,155
646,565
3,200
407,262
580,885

1,831,862

431,451
73,596
505,047

2.66
2.64
1.70
1.12
1.67
1.82
2.21
2.82

26,795
41,790
129,313
3,200

73,596
274,694

1.87
2.23
2.92
2.92

07.03.24 – 07.03.26
07.03.24 – 07.03.27

07.03.24 – 07.03.28
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

–
125,365 (1)
517,252 (1)
–
407,262 (2)
580,885 (2)
431,451 (2)
–
2,062,215
642,617 (1)
1,419,598 (2)

(1)  Performance assessment has taken place and awards remain subject to deferral and employment conditions before vesting. These awards count on a net-of-tax basis towards meeting the shareholding requirement.
(2)  Awards are subject to the pre-vest performance assessment along with deferral and employment conditions before vesting. See earlier in this report for the pre-vest assessment of the 2021 LTI award. The first vesting of this award is due to take place in March 2024, 

which will be reflected in next year’s table together with any shares lapsed for performance.

(3)  Sharesave options enable colleagues to save from their salary with an option to buy shares at the end of the savings period. The award price is the price at which shares can be bought. Sharesave options are normally exercisable for a period of six months from the 

maturity date at an option price that is discounted by up to 20% of the market value around the time of the award.

(4)  For annual bonus, shares were granted as an element of the up-front bonus awarded in March 2023 and vested in June 2023, in line with the Policy. For Mr Thwaite deferred awards from 2018 to 2023 relate to annual bonus awards granted for performance prior to 

becoming an executive director, with payments deferred in line with regulatory requirements. Similarly, for Ms Murray deferred awards from 2018 and 2019 relate to annual bonus awards granted for performance prior to becoming an executive director.

(5)  The award price shown from 2021 onwards is discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in line with the Policy. For reference, the full market price of NatWest Group shares at the time of grant is 

also shown.

(6)  For Ms Rose figures are based on 25 July 2023. In line with leaving arrangements for Ms Rose as disclosed on page 150, any awards due to vest after the cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will lapse on that date. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts159

249

Relative importance of spend on 
pay £m (% change on 2022)

242
(-2.81%)

1,456
(+20.83%)

2023

249

1,205

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,348
(+5.32%)

Distributions to holders of preference

3,179

shares and paid-in equity

1,205

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,179

Distributions to holders of preference
shares and paid-in equity

3,348
(+5.32%)

249

2022

5,249

2023

1,706
1,205
1,452

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,179

Distributions to holders of preference
shares and paid-in equity

(1)  Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff 

expenses as per Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, 
exclusive of social security and other staff costs.

(2)  Reflects distributions to shareholders through dividend payments 
during the financial year. The Board has confirmed its intention to 
pay a dividend of 11.5p per ordinary share in respect of financial 
year 2023, which will be paid in 2024 subject to approval by 
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 

Annual remuneration report continued

Shareholder dilution and share sourcing
NatWest Group can use new issue, market-purchase or treasury shares to deliver shares that are required for employee 
share plans. Best practice dilution limits are monitored and govern the number of shares that may be issued to satisfy share 
plan awards.

Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
The graph compares the TSR performance of NatWest Group with companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index over the last 
10 years. We have selected this index because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies. We have added the 
TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period as a further comparison.

NatWest Group

FTSE 100

FTSE UK Banks

250

200

150

100

50

0

242
(-2.81%)

1,456
(+20.83%)

2023

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

CEO pay over the same period

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

242
(-2.81%)
2021

Total 
remuneration 
(£000s) (1)

Annual bonus 
against maximum 
opportunity

LTI vesting rates 
against maximum 
opportunity

PT
AR
RM 

PT

AR
PT
AR
RM

1,878

3,492

3,702

3,487

3,578

1,401
4,066

1,456
2,615
(+20.83%)

3,588
2023

73%

62%

56%

89%

41%

60%
78%

82%

83%

78%

3,348
(+5.32%)

68%

54%

– (2)
45%
– (3)

(1)  CEOs are Paul Thwaite (PT), Alison Rose (AR) and Ross McEwan (RM) with figures based on the single figure of remuneration for the relevant year.
(2)  In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, Ms Rose did not receive a bonus in respect of service during 2023.
(3)  Ms Rose informed the Board she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 performance year, recognising events relating to COVID-19.

Statement of shareholder voting
The resolutions to approve the Policy at the 2022 AGM and the Annual remuneration report from the 2023 AGM received 
strong levels of support, as set out below.

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Annual Remuneration Report

Vote

For
Against
Withheld

Number of shares

33,883,943,928
2,649,384,392
126,953,196

Percentage

Vote

92.75%
7.25%
–

For
Against
Withheld

Number of shares

32,683,776,892
891,030,920
142,525,464

Percentage

97.35%
2.65%
–

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts160

Jan

Feb

April

Sept

Dec

Annual remuneration report continued

The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee

Principal areas of focus of 2023

Wider workforce

Approving and overseeing the NatWest Group-wide Remuneration Policy.

Considering how pay has been allocated across the workforce, 
including analysis by colleague level, geography and diversity.

Reviewing fixed pay proposals.

Approving Sharesave offers to colleagues.

Reviewing performance over the year and approving bonus pools 
for the business areas.

Reviewing gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting.

Executive remuneration

Reviewing performance assessments and remuneration arrangements 
for the committee’s ‘in-scope’ population.

Setting performance objectives for senior executives for the year ahead.

Approving the outcomes of variable pay awards.

Approving remuneration for senior hires and arrangements for any leavers.

Engaging with stakeholders on our remuneration proposals.

Reviewing and approving the Directors’ remuneration report.

Receiving benchmarking data on executive pay and peer practice.

Governance and regulatory

Approving agenda planners and ensuring the committee is meeting 
all its obligations under its terms of reference (ToR).

Considering matters escalated by other Board Committees 
and subsidiary Performance and Remuneration Committees.

Overseeing the MRT identification process.

Receiving accountability review updates and approving accountability 
decisions for the population within its governance.

Carrying out the annual evaluation of their performance as a committee.

The Committee also approves submissions made throughout the year to the UK regulators outside the formal meetings, as required.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts161

Annual remuneration report continued

The Group performance and remuneration committee continued

Membership

Role of the 
Committee

Operation of  
the policy

Managing 
conflicts

Committee 
advisers

All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors. In order to be considered for the role of committee Chair, an individual must first have 
served on a remuneration committee for at least 12 months. During 2023, the committee continued to be chaired by Lena Wilson, who has been a member since 
April 2020. Mike Rogers stepped down from the Board and the committee on 25 April 2023. Frank Dangeard and Mark Seligman were members throughout 2023. 
The committee held five scheduled meetings in 2023 and a further eight ad hoc meetings. You can find further details of members and attendance in the Corporate 
governance report on page 97.

The terms of reference (ToR) of the committee is reviewed annually and available on natwestgroup.com. The committee is responsible for:

 – approving the remuneration policy for all colleagues and reviewing the effectiveness of its implementation;
 – reviewing performance and making recommendations to the Board on arrangements for executive directors;
 – approving remuneration for a defined ‘in-scope’ population comprising members and attendees of the senior Executive Committees and direct reports of 

the CEO, control function heads and the Company Secretary. The committee also approves arrangements where individuals earn total compensation above 
£1 million; and

 – setting the remuneration framework and principles for colleagues identified as Material Risk Takers.

The remuneration policy operated as intended during the year, with decisions taken in line with NatWest Group’s approval matrix. A paper summarising the 
operation of the policy is presented to the committee each April. In addition, pay awarded to executive directors for 2023 fully reflected NatWest Group performance 
for the year.

To mitigate potential conflicts of interest, directors are not involved in decisions regarding their own remuneration. It is the committee, rather than management, 
that appoints remuneration advisers. Attendees also play an important role in advising the committee but are not present when their own remuneration is discussed. 
The Group Chief People & Transformation Officer may be present when discussions take place on senior executive pay, as there is considerable benefit from her 
participation. However, she is never present for discussions of her own remuneration.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) was first appointed as remuneration adviser by the committee in 2010 and reappointed in 2022, following an annual review of 
the quality of advice and the level of fees. Following a full tender process earlier in 2023, Korn Ferry (KF) was appointed by the committee as the new remuneration 
adviser to the committee, effective September 2023. To enable a smooth handover, KF and PwC worked together to provide remuneration advice to the committee 
throughout the remainder of 2023. KF will become the committee’s lead adviser from March 2024.

The professional services PwC provides in the ordinary course of business include assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to NatWest Group subsidiaries. 
KF provide executive/professional search services alongside HR advisory services including assessment services and organisational strategy services to NatWest 
Group subsidiaries. PwC and KF are signatories to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to remuneration consulting in the UK. The committee is satisfied that 
the advice received is independent and objective, and receives annual statements from PwC and KF setting out the steps taken to maintain independence. There 
are no connections between PwC, KF and individual directors to be disclosed. Fees paid to PwC and KF for advising the committee are based primarily on a fixed 
fee structure with any additional items charged on a time/cost basis. Fees for 2023 in relation to directors’ remuneration for PwC and KF amounted to £211,506 
(2022 – £186,945) and £19,000 respectively excluding VAT.

The committee also took account of the views of the Chairman, the Group CEO, the Group CFO, the Group Chief People & Transformation Officer, the Director of 
Reward & Employment, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Chief Audit Executive and other support and control functions. The committee also received input 
from the BRC, the GAC, the SBC and the Performance and Remuneration Committees for the principal legal entities across NatWest Group. In addition, the 
committee received external legal advice from Clifford Chance on a small number of matters throughout the year.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts162

Compliance report

Statement of compliance
NatWest Group plc is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism 
in all its activities.

Throughout the year ended 31 December 2023, NatWest 
Group plc applied the Principles and complied with all of the 
Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018 (the Code) 
except in relation to:

 – Provision 17, in respect of the requirement that the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee should ensure 
plans are in place for orderly succession to both the 
Board and senior management positions and oversee 
the development of a diverse pipeline for succession.

 – Provision 21, that an annual evaluation of the performance 
of the Board and its committees should be undertaken.

 – Provision 33, that the Group Performance and 

Remuneration Committee (Group RemCo) should have 
delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the 
Chairman and executive directors.

In respect of Provision 17, while the Board is supported 
on board succession by the Group Nominations and 
Governance Committee, the Board considers this is a 
matter of significant importance which should rightly 
be reserved for the full Board. Adopting this approach 
ensures that all directors have an opportunity to contribute 
to succession planning discussions for Board and senior 
management, in support of achieving an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity 
at senior levels within NatWest Group and on the Board. 
It also means that all directors have an opportunity to 
review, consider and become familiar with the next 
generation of executive leaders.

In respect of Provision 21, in September 2023 the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee agreed that it 
would be appropriate to defer the internal evaluation of 
Board and committee effectiveness due in Q4 2023 until 
2024, given the July 2023 change in Group CEO and 
upcoming Chair succession. The Board confirmed its 
support for this approach. The next Board and committee 
evaluation will be conducted in 2024 by an external 
facilitator, in accordance with the Code requirement  
for an externally facilitated process every three years.

In respect of Provision 33, the Board also considers that 
this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the 
Board, and this is an approach the Board has adopted for a 
number of years. Remuneration for the executive directors 
is first considered by the Group RemCo which then makes 
recommendations to the Board for consideration. This 
approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just 
those who are members of the Group RemCo, to participate 
in decisions on the executive directors’ and the Chairman’s 
remuneration and also allows the executive directors to 
input to the decision on the Chairman’s remuneration. The 
Board believes this approach is very much in line with the 
spirit of the Code and no directors are involved in decisions 
regarding their own remuneration. A copy of the Code can 
be found at frc.org.uk.

The Board does not anticipate any changes to its approach 
in relation to Provisions 17 and 33 of the Code.

Further information on how NatWest Group plc applied the 
Principles, and complied with the Provisions of the Code can 
be found in the Corporate governance section of this report, 
which includes cross-references to relevant sections of the 
Strategic report and other related disclosures.

NatWest Group plc has complied in all material respects 
with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit 
Committees issued in September 2012 and April 2016.

Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific 
standards of corporate governance and business and 
financial disclosures and controls apply to companies with 
securities registered in the US. NatWest Group plc complies 
with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to foreign 
private issuers.

The Group Audit Committee also complied with the 
requirements of the FRC’s Audit Committees and the 
External Audit: Minimum Standard and the Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the year ended 
31 December 2023.

Internal control
The Board of directors is accountable for the system 
of internal controls that is designed to maintain effective 
and efficient operations, compliant with applicable laws 
and regulations.

The system of internal controls is designed to manage 
risk to an acceptable residual level rather than to eliminate 
it entirely. Systems of internal control can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement, fraud, or any other loss.

Ongoing processes are in place for the identification, 
evaluation and management of the principal risks faced 
by NatWest Group operated throughout the period from 
1 January 2023 to 16 February 2024, the date the directors 
approved the Annual Report and Accounts. These included 
the bi-annual Control Environment Certification process, 
which requires senior members of the executive and 
management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of 
their internal control frameworks which supports certification 
that their business or function is compliant with the Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting (Sarbanes-Oxley Section 
404) regulatory requirements and with the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code section on Risk 
Management and Internal Controls (section C.2). The 
policies that govern these processes – and reports on 
internal controls arising from them – are reviewed by the 
Board and meet the requirements of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control 
and Related Financial and Business Reporting.

NatWest Group operates a three lines of defence model 
for the ownership, oversight and assurance of its risks 
and internal control environment. Management across 
the organisation are the first line of defence and, therefore, 
are the primary owners of the risk and are responsible for 
the design, implementation and maintenance of effective 
processes, procedures, and controls to manage the risks 
within risk appetite. The Risk function is the second line 
of defence which exercises oversight and challenge of the 
risk management activities undertaken by the first line of 
defence. The Internal Audit function, which is the third 
line of defence, undertakes independent and objective 
assurance activities on the governance, risk management 
and internal controls to monitor and manage risks to enable 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts163

Compliance report continued

achievement of NatWest Group’s objectives and reports on 
the adequacy and effectiveness thereof to the Board and 
executive management.

The effectiveness of NatWest Group’s internal controls 
is reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group Audit 
Committee, and the Group Board Risk Committee. In 
addition, the Board receives a risk management report at 
each Board meeting. Executive management committees 
at NatWest Group level and each of its businesses also 
receive regular reports on risks facing their business and 
the management thereof through internal controls. Details 
of NatWest Group’s approach to risk management are 
provided in the Risk and capital management section of 
the Annual Report and Accounts.

NatWest Group’s control environment remains robust, 
with notable enhancements delivered across financial crime, 
payments, risk management framework and processes and 
remediation of known control issues. These enhancements 
have resulted in an improved control environment in 2023.

Throughout 2023, work was undertaken to deliver 
enhancements to the control environment for the mitigation 
of financial crime risk. NatWest Group continues to make 
significant investment to support delivery of the multi-year 
transformation plans across financial crime risk management.

NatWest Group recognises the value in continuing its 
investment in payments systems in line with agreed 
prioritisation criteria. As such, following the payments 
review, a pan bank programme on the movement of funds 
has been mobilised, focusing on enhancing payment related 
controls. A suite of control requirements was launched in 
2023 which has been designed to strengthen the payments 
control environment, reducing the risk for human error in 
payments processing.

In addition, NatWest Group’s key operational risk focus 
areas have been cyber risk, data quality, third party risk 
management, operational resilience and end-of-life systems 
given increasing inherent risk impact of these themes on the 
overall operational risk profile.

NatWest Group, as part of its robust risk culture, continued 
to make enhancements to its risk management processes 
as they relate to the wider control environment in 2023. 
This has included the implementation of risk and control 
self-assessments with focus on material non-financial risks 

across end-to-end processes as part of its enterprise-wide 
risk management framework. This has been supported by 
an industry aligned risk directory and the development of 
a focused suite of risk standards, operational guidance and 
risk toolkits, which provide a consistent approach to risk 
management and control requirements for each non-
financial risk. The outcomes of the risk and control self-
assessments provide insight into the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the control environment and the impact 
thereof on the residual risk exposures. They further support 
the initiation of actions to address control gaps and identify 
control rationalisation and automation opportunities. The 
outcomes of the risk and control self-assessments are 
used as input into risk profile reporting to the Board and 
senior management and assists in prioritisation of risk 
mitigation activities.

The remediation of known control issues through defined 
action plans continued to be an important focus for both 
the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee 
during 2023. For further information on their oversight of 
remediation of the most material issues, refer to the Report 
of the Group Audit Committee and the Report of the 
Group Board Risk Committee. The Group Audit Committee 
received confirmation that management has taken or is 
taking action, to remedy material failings or weaknesses 
identified through NatWest Group’s risk and control 
frameworks. The Group Audit Committee and the Group 
Board Risk Committee will continue to focus on such 
remediation activity, particularly in view of the 
transformation agenda and risk appetite.

The independent auditors present reports to the Group 
Audit Committee that include details of any significant 
internal control deficiencies they have identified as part of 
their review of the financial reporting. In addition, quarterly 
review meetings are held between the senior executive and 
the independent auditors to help support oversight. Further, 
the system of internal controls is also subject to regulatory 
oversight in the UK and overseas. Additional details of 
regulatory oversight are given in the Risk and capital 
management section.

To support management of the operational risk profile, 
the Operational Risk Executive Steering Committee was 
established and meets regularly. This forum ensures all 

material operational risks are monitored and actions are 
in place to manage the risks within risk appetite.

During 2023, there was a continuing management focus 
on the delivery of regulatory programmes. A NatWest 
Group-wide Consumer Duty transformation programme 
was established and delivered the first FCA regulatory 
milestone, in July 2023, of the application of the Consumer 
Duty principles to open book products and services. The 
focus is now on the review of closed book products and 
services and the continued uplifting of customer outcomes 
by the next regulatory deadline of 31 July 2024.

Internal control over financial reporting
NatWest Group plc is required to comply with Section 404 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting  
as of 31 December 2023.

NatWest Group has assessed the effectiveness of its 
internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 
2023 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
in the 2013 publication of ‘Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework’.

Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, 
as of 31 December 2023, NatWest Group’s internal control 
over financial reporting is effective.

Management’s report on NatWest Group’s internal control 
over financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission as part of the 2023 Annual Report 
on Form 20-F.

Disclosure controls and procedures
As required by Exchange Act rules, management 
(including the Group CEO and Group CFO) have conducted 
an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of NatWest 
Group’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 
the Exchange Act rules) as of 31 December 2023. Based on 
this evaluation, management (including the Group CEO and 
Group CFO) concluded that NatWest Group plc’s disclosure 
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the 
period covered by this Annual Report and Accounts.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCompliance report continued

Changes in internal control
There was no change in NatWest Group’s internal control 
over financial reporting that occurred during the period 
covered by this report that has materially affected, or is 
reasonably likely to materially affect, NatWest Group’s 
internal control over financial reporting.

The New York Stock Exchange
As a foreign private issuer with American Depository 
Shares representing ordinary shares, preference shares 
and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
(the NYSE), NatWest Group plc is not required to comply 
with all of the NYSE corporate governance standards 
applicable to US domestic companies (the NYSE Standards) 
provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of 
the NYSE Standards and discloses any significant ways 
in which its corporate governance practices differ from 
the NYSE Standards.

NatWest Group plc is also required to provide an Annual 
Written Affirmation to the NYSE of its compliance with the 
mandatory applicable NYSE Standards. In March 2023 
NatWest Group plc submitted its most recent Annual 
Written Affirmation to the NYSE which confirmed NatWest 
Group plc’s full compliance with the applicable provisions.

The Group Audit Committee fully complies with the 
mandatory provisions of the NYSE Standards (including 
by reference to the rules of the Exchange Act) that relate 
to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit 
committees. More detailed information about the Group 
Audit Committee and its work during 2023 is set out in 
the Group Audit Committee report on pages 110 to 114.

The Board has reviewed its corporate governance 
arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with 
the NYSE Standards, subject to the following departures:

i.  NYSE Standards require the majority of the Board to be 
independent. The NYSE Standards contain different tests 
from the Code for determining whether a director is 
independent. NatWest Group plc follows the Code’s 
requirements in determining the independence of its 
directors and currently has eight independent non-
executive directors, one of whom is the Senior 
Independent Director.

ii. The NYSE Standards require non-management directors 
to hold regular sessions without management present, 
and that independent directors meet at least once a year. 
The Code requires the Chairman to hold meetings with 
non- executive directors without the executives present 
and non-executive directors are to meet without the 
Chairman present at least once a year to appraise 
the Chairman’s performance and NatWest Group plc 
complies with the requirements of the Code.

iii. The NYSE Standards require that the nominating/

corporate governance committee of a listed company 
be composed entirely of independent directors. The 
Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the 
Group Nominations and Governance Committee, which is 
permitted under the Code (which requires that a majority 
of members of the committee should be independent 
non-executive directors). The terms of reference of the 
Group Nominations and Governance Committee differ 
in certain limited respects from the requirements set 
out in the NYSE Standards, including because the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee does not have 
responsibility for overseeing the evaluation of management.

164

iv. The NYSE standards require that the compensation 
committee of a listed company be composed entirely 
of independent directors. Although the members of 
the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 
(Group RemCo) are deemed independent in compliance 
with the provisions of the Code, the Board has not 
assessed the independence of the members of the 
Group RemCo and Group RemCo has not assessed 
the independence of any compensation consultant, legal 
counsel or other adviser, in each case, in accordance 
with the independence tests prescribed by the NYSE 
Standards. The NYSE Standards require that the 
compensation committee must have direct responsibility 
to review and approve the CEO’s remuneration. As 
stated at the start of this Compliance report, in the 
case of NatWest Group plc, the Board rather than 
the Group RemCo reserves the authority to make 
the final determination of the remuneration of the CEO.
v. The NYSE Standards require listed companies to adopt 

and disclose corporate governance guidelines. 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2023, NatWest 
Group plc has complied with all of the provisions of the 
Code (subject to the exceptions described above) and the 
Code does not require NatWest Group plc to disclose the 
full range of corporate governance guidelines with which 
it complies.

vi. The NYSE Standards require listed companies to adopt 
and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for 
directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose 
any waivers of the code for directors or executive 
officers. NatWest Group has adopted a code of conduct 
which is supplemented by a number of key policies and 
guidance dealing with matters including, among others, 
anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, 
sanctions, confidentiality, inside information, health, safety 
and environment, conflicts of interest, market conduct 
and management records. This code of conduct applies 
to all officers and employees and is fully aligned to the 
PRA and FCA Conduct Rules which apply to all directors. 
The Code of Conduct is available to view on NatWest 
Group’s website at natwestgroup.com.

This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate 
governance report and the Report of the directors.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsReport of the directors

The directors present their report together with the audited 
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Other information incorporated into this report by reference 
can be found at:

Page/Note

Strategic report

Our colleagues

Climate-related financial disclosures

Stakeholder engagement

Section 172(1) statement

Viability statement

Financial review

Board of directors and secretary

Corporate governance

Segmental analysis

Share capital and other equity

Post balance sheet events

Risk factors

36

48

24

66

70

84

88

Note 4

Note 22

Note 34

417

Disclosures required pursuant to Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (as amended) (‘2008 Regs’) are located on the 
following pages:

Employee engagement (Paras 11 and 11A, Schedule 7, 
2008 Regs):

 – Pages 24 to 29 (section 172(1) statement and 

stakeholder engagement)

 – Page 28 (Colleagues)
 – Page 102 (Corporate governance report, 

workforce engagement)

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others 
(Para 11B, Schedule 7, 2008 Regs):

 – Pages 24 to 29 (section 172(1) statement and 

stakeholder engagement)

 – Pages 101 to 102 (Corporate governance report, 

stakeholder engagement)

Group structure
NatWest Group plc is the parent of NatWest Group and its 
subsidiary undertakings are structured in compliance with 
ring-fencing requirements. There are three main subsidiaries

 – NatWest Holdings Limited (the parent of the ring-fenced 

group which includes National Westminster Bank Plc, The 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC)

 – NatWest Markets Plc (the investment bank and the 

parent of NatWest Markets N.V.) and

 – The Royal Bank of Scotland International (Holdings) 
Limited (the parent of The Royal Bank of Scotland 
International Limited).

Further details of the principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 8 
of the parent company financial statements and a full list of 
subsidiary companies and overseas branches is shown in 
Note 12 of the parent company financial statements.

165

HM Treasury (HMT) shareholding
Following placing and open offers in December 2008 
and in April 2009, HMT owned approximately 70.3% of 
the enlarged ordinary share capital of the company. In 
December 2009, the company issued a further £25.5 billion 
of new capital to HMT in the form of B shares. The table 
below summarises the changes in HMT’s shareholding in 
the company since 2009:

Date

Transaction

August 2015 HMT sold 630 million ordinary shares in 

the company

October 
2015

HMT converted its holding of 51 billion B 
shares into 5.1 billion new ordinary shares 
in the company

June 2018

HMT sold 925 million ordinary shares in 
the company

March 2021 NatWest Group carried out an off-market 

May 2021

July 2021

purchase of 591 million of its ordinary shares 
from HMT

HMT sold 580 million ordinary shares in 
the company through an accelerated book 
building process to institutional investors

HMT announced its intention to sell part of 
its shareholding in NatWest Group over a 
12 month period via a trading plan 

March 2022 NatWest Group carried out an off-market 

purchase of 550 million of its ordinary shares 
from HMT

June 2022

April 2023

May 2023

HMT announced an extension to its trading 
plan for a further 12-month term to 
August 2023 

HMT announced an extension to its trading 
plan to terminate no later than 
11 August 2025 

NatWest Group carried out an off-market 
purchase of 469 million of its ordinary 
shares from HMT

At 31 December 2023, HMT’s holding in the total voting 
rights of the company was 37.97%. The percentage was 
correct as at the date of notification on 8 December 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsReport of the directors continued

Activities
NatWest Group is principally engaged in providing a wide 
range of banking and other financial services. Further details 
of the organisational structure and business overview of 
NatWest Group, including the products and services provided 
by each of its operating segments and the markets in which 
they operate, are contained in the Business review. Details 
of the strategy for delivering the company’s objectives can 
be found in the Strategic report.

Employment for disabled persons
NatWest Group makes workplace adjustments to 
support colleagues with a disability, health or mental 
health condition and/or a neurodivergence to succeed.  
If a colleague develops a disability, health or mental health 
condition and/or a neurodivergence NatWest Group will, 
wherever possible, make adjustments to support them 
in their existing job or re-deploy them to a more suitable 
alternative job.

Results and dividends
UK company law states that dividends can only be paid if 
a company has sufficient distributable profits available to 
cover the dividend. A company’s distributable profits are 
classed as its accumulated, realised profits (not previously 
distributed or capitalised), less its accumulated, realised 
losses (not previously written off in a reduction or re-
organisation of capital). At 31 December 2023, NatWest 
Group plc’s distributable profits were £32,217 million.

The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of 
NatWest Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2023 
was £4,394 million compared with a profit of £3,340 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2022, as set out in the 
consolidated income statement on page 298.

In 2023 NatWest Group paid an interim dividend 
of £491 million, or 5.5 pence per ordinary share  
(2022 – £364 million, or 3.5 pence per ordinary share).

The company has announced that the directors have 
recommended a final dividend of £1.0 billion, or 11.5 pence 
per ordinary share (2022 – £1.0 billion, or 10.0 pence per 
ordinary share). The final dividend recommended by 
directors is subject to shareholders’ approval at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 23 April 2024.

If approved, payment will be made on 29 April 2024 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
15 March 2024. The ex-dividend date will be 14 March 2024.

Subject to the condition mentioned above, the payment of 
interim dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of 
the Board.

Colleagues
As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group employed 61,600 
people (excluding temporary staff). Details of all related 
costs are included in Note 3 to the consolidated accounts.

The NatWest Group Careers site gives comprehensive 
insights into NatWest Group jobs, culture, locations and 
application processes. It also hosts a variety of blog content 
to portray stories of what it is like to work at NatWest 
Group. The company also makes sure that candidates 
can easily request reasonable adjustments to support  
at any stage of the recruitment process.

Going concern
NatWest Group’s business activities and financial position, 
the factors likely to affect its future development and 
performance and its objectives and policies in managing 
the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are 
discussed in the Business review. The risk factors which 
could materially affect NatWest Group’s future results are 
set out on pages 417 to 441. NatWest Group’s regulatory 
capital resources and significant developments in 2023 and 
anticipated future developments are detailed in the Capital, 
liquidity and funding section on pages 243 to 261. This 
section also describes NatWest Group’s funding and liquidity 
profile, including changes in key metrics and the build up of 
liquidity reserves.

The directors have prepared the financial statements on 
a going concern basis after assessing the principal risks, 
forecasts, projections and other relevant evidence over 
the twelve months from the date the financial statements 
are approved.

UK Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure
NatWest Group plc’s 2023 financial statements have 
been prepared in compliance with the principles set out 
in the Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure published 
by UK Finance. The Code sets out five disclosure principles 
together with supporting guidance. The principles are that 
NatWest Group and other major UK banks will provide high 
quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures; review 

166

and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for 
key areas of interest to market participants; assess the 
applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations 
to their disclosures, acknowledging the importance of such 
guidance; seek to enhance the comparability of financial 
statement disclosures across the UK banking sector; 
and clearly differentiate in their annual reports between 
information that is audited and information that is unaudited.

Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) and 
Disclosures on Expected Credit Losses (DECL) 
Taskforce recommendations
The EDTF, established by the Financial Stability Board, 
published its report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of 
Banks’ in October 2012, with an update in November 2015 
covering IFRS 9 expected credit losses (ECL). The DECL 
Taskforce, jointly established by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, Financial Reporting Council and the Prudential 
Regulation Authority, published its phase 2 report 
recommendations in December 2019.

NatWest Group plc’s 2023 Annual Report and Accounts and 
Pillar 3 Report reflect EDTF and have regard to DECL 
Taskforce recommendations.

Authority to repurchase shares
On-market purchases
At the AGM in 2022, shareholders authorised the company 
to make market purchases of up to 1,122,905,024 ordinary 
shares. The authority was amended at the General Meeting 
held on 25 August 2022 to preserve the position as if the 
August 2022 share consolidation had not taken place.

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2022 AGM 
(2022 Authority) to carry out a share buyback programme 
(Programme) of up to £800 million, as announced to the 
market on 17 February 2023. The Programme’s purpose 
is to reduce the ordinary share capital of NatWest Group. 
The maximum number of ordinary shares that could be 
purchased under the Programme was 966,284,391. This 
number reflects the impact on the 2022 Authority of the 
reduction in issued share capital following the off-market 
buyback announced on 28 March 2022.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts167

Report of the directors continued

The Programme commenced on 20 February 2023 and 
completed on 16 June 2023. The company purchased 
301,380,053 ordinary shares (nominal value £324,563,134) 
at an average price of 265.4456 pence per ordinary share, 
for the total consideration of £799,999,997.76. All of the 
purchased ordinary shares were cancelled, representing 
3.16% of the company’s issued ordinary share capital.

At the AGM in 2023, shareholders renewed the authority 
for the company to make market purchases of up to 
966,778,930 ordinary shares.

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2023 
AGM (2023 Authority) to carry out a Programme of up to 
£500 million, as announced to the market on 28 July 2023. 
The maximum number of ordinary shares that can be 
purchased under the Programme is 919,858,922. This 
number reflects the impact on the 2023 Authority of the 
reduction in issued share capital following the off-market 
buyback announced on 22 May 2023.

The Programme commenced on 31 July 2023 and will end 
no later than 14 March 2024. As at 31 December 2023 
158,956,435 ordinary shares (nominal value £171,183,853) 
had been purchased by the company at an average price 
of 217.6375 pence per ordinary share for the total 
consideration of £345,948,738. All of the purchased 
ordinary shares were cancelled, representing 1.75%  
of the company’s issued ordinary share capital.

Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for the 
company to make market purchases or ordinary shares 
at the AGM in 2024.

Off-market purchases
At a General Meeting held on 6 February 2019, shareholders 
approved a special resolution authorising the company to 
make off-market purchases of up to 4.99% of its issued 
ordinary share capital in any 12-month period from HMT 
(or its nominee). Full details are set out in the Circular and 
Notice of General Meeting available at natwestgroup.com. 
Amendments to the Directed Buyback Contract were 
approved by the shareholders at a General Meeting on 
25 August 2022. The authority for the company to make 
off-market purchases of its ordinary shares from HMT  
(or its nominee) under the terms of the Directed Buyback 
Contract was renewed at the AGM in 2023.

The company used the authority obtained at the 2023 AGM 
to make an off-market purchase of 469,200,081 ordinary 
shares (nominal value £505,292,395) in the company from 
HMT on 22 May 2023, at a price of 268.4 pence per 
ordinary share for the total consideration of £1,259,333,017, 
representing 4.95% of the company’s issued ordinary 
share capital. The company cancelled 336,200,081 of the 
purchased ordinary shares and transferred the remaining 
133,000,000 ordinary shares to treasury.

Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for the 
company to make off-market purchases of its ordinary 
shares from HMT (or its nominee) at the AGM in 2024.

At the AGM in 2023, shareholders renewed the authority 
for the company to make an off-market purchase of its 
preference shares. Shareholders will be asked to renew 
the authority at the AGM in 2024.

Additional information
Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the 
directors, the following additional information is required 
to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 to the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008.

The rights and obligations attached to the company’s 
ordinary shares and preference shares are set out in 
the Articles of Association. Copies can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or can be found 
at natwestgroup.com.

The cumulative preference shares represent less than 
0.005% of the total voting rights of the company, the 
remainder being represented by the ordinary shares.

In a show of hands at a General Meeting of the company, 
every holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference 
shares who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote, shall have one vote.

On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares who is present 
in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have four 
votes for every share held. Every holder of cumulative 
preference shares shall have one vote for each 25p nominal 
amount held. The notices of Annual General Meetings and 
General Meetings specify the deadlines for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation 
to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.

There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in the company other than certain restrictions which 
may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations 
(for example, insider trading laws). At the 2021 AGM, 
shareholders gave authority to directors to offer a scrip 
dividend alternative on any dividend paid up to the 
conclusion of the AGM in 2024. Shareholders will be asked 
to approve this authority at the AGM in 2024. Pursuant to 
the UK Listing Rules, certain employees of the company 
require the approval of the company to deal in the 
company’s shares.

The rules governing the powers of directors and their 
appointment, including in relation to issuing or buying back 
shares, are set out in our Articles of Association. It will be 
proposed at the 2024 AGM that the directors’ authorities to 
allot shares under the Companies Act 2006 (the Companies 
Act) be renewed. The Articles of Association may only be 
amended by a special resolution at a General Meeting of 
shareholders. The company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities and/or voting rights. There are no 
persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard 
to control of the company. A number of the company’s 
employee share plans include restrictions on transfers of 
shares while shares are subject to the plans. Note 3 to the 
consolidated financial statements sets out a summary of 
the plans.

Under the rules of certain employee share plans, voting 
rights are exercised by the Trustees of the plan on receipt 
of participants’ instructions. If a participant does not submit 
an instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.

For shares held in the company’s other employee share 
trusts, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, 
the Trustees abstain from voting. The Trustees would take 
independent advice before accepting any offer in respect 
of their shareholdings for the company in a takeover 
bid situation. The Trustees have chosen to waive their 
entitlement to the dividend on shares held by the Trusts.

A change of control of the company following a takeover 
bid may cause a number of agreements to which the 
company is party to take effect, alter or terminate. All of 
the company’s employee share plans contain provisions 
relating to a change of control. In the context of the 
company as a whole, these agreements are not  
considered to be significant.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsReport of the directors continued

Directors
The names and brief biographical details of the current 
directors are shown on pages 84 to 87.

Howard Davies, Frank Dangeard, Roisin Donnelly, Patrick 
Flynn, Yasmin Jetha, Katie Murray, Mark Seligman and 
Lena Wilson all served throughout 2023 and to the date 
of signing of the financial statements.

Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2023 
and Paul Thwaite was appointed on 25 July 2023.

On 25 July 2023 Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent 
with the Board to step down as Group Chief Executive 
with immediate effect.

Mike Rogers resigned from the Board on 25 April 2023 
and Morten Friis resigned on 31 July 2023.

Howard Davies has confirmed his intention to resign from 
the Board on 15 April 2024. Richard Haythornthwaite joined 
the Board as an independent non-executive director on 
8 January 2024 and, following a handover period, will 
succeed Howard Davies as Chair on 15 April 2024.

All directors of the company are required to stand for 
election or re-election annually by shareholders at the AGM. 
In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the election or 
re-election of independent directors requires approval by 
all shareholders and also by independent shareholders. 
Howard Davies will not be standing for re-election at the 
company’s 2024 AGM, having confirmed his intention to 
resign on 15 April 2024.

Directors’ interests
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company 
at 31 December 2023 are shown on page 156. None of the 
directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company 
or in the shares or loan capital of any of the subsidiary 
undertakings of the company, during the period from 
1 January 2023 to 15 February 2024.

Directors’ indemnities
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying 
Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by the 
company to its directors, members of the NatWest Group 
and NWH Executive Committees, individuals authorised by 
the PRA/FCA, certain directors and/or officers of NatWest 
Group subsidiaries and all trustees of NatWest Group 
pension schemes.

Controlling shareholder
In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the company 
has entered into an agreement with HM Treasury 
(the ‘Controlling Shareholder’) which is intended to 
ensure that the Controlling Shareholder complies with the 
independence provisions set out in the UK Listing Rules. The 
company has complied with the independence provisions in 
the relationship agreement and as far as the company is 
aware the independence and procurement provisions in 
the relationship agreement have been complied with in 
the period by the controlling shareholder.

Shareholdings
The table below shows the shareholders that have notified 
NatWest Group that they hold more than 3% of the total 
voting rights of the company at 31 December 2023.

Solicitor for the Affairs of His 
Majesty’s Treasury as Nominee 
for His Majesty’s Treasury
Norges Bank

Ordinary 
shares  

(millions)

% of issued 
share capital 
with voting 
rights held(1)

3,343
323

37.97
3.07

(1)  Percentages provided were correct at the date of notification on 8 December 

2023 and 5 November 2021, respectively.

On 2 February 2024 a notification under Rule 5 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTR’) was received 
from HMT notifying that it held 3,067 million ordinary 
shares, representing 34.96% of the issued share capital 
with voting rights.

Listing rule 9.8.4
The information to be disclosed in the Annual Report and 
Accounts under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this Directors’ report 
with the exception of details of contracts of significance 
under LR 9.8.4 (10) and (11) given in Material contracts 
on page 442.

Political donations
At the AGM in 2023, shareholders gave authority, under 
Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, for a period of one 
year, for the company (and its subsidiaries) to make political 
donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum 
aggregate sum of £100,000. This authorisation was taken 
as a precaution only as the company has a longstanding 
policy of not making political donations or incurring political 
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.

168

During 2023, NatWest Group made no political donations, 
nor incurred any political expenditure in the UK or EU 
and it is not proposed that its longstanding policy of not 
making contributions to any political party be changed. 
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation 
at the AGM in 2024.

Directors’ disclosure to auditors
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:

a. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the company’s auditors 
are unaware; and

b. the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a director to make himself/herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the company’s auditors are aware  
of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act.

Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP (EY LLP) are the auditors and have 
indicated their willingness to continue in office. A resolution 
to re-appoint EY LLP as the company’s auditors will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.

By order of the Board

Jan Cargill
Chief Governance Officer and Company Secretary

15 February 2024

NatWest Group plc is registered in Scotland No. SC45551

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsStatement of directors’ responsibilities

This statement should be read in conjunction with the 
responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on 
pages 285 to 297.

The directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are required to 
prepare Group financial statements, and as permitted by 
the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company 
financial statements, for each financial year in accordance 
with UK adopted International Accounting Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board. They are 
responsible for preparing financial statements that present 
fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows of NatWest Group.

In preparing those financial statements, the directors are 
required to:

 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply 

them consistently.

 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable, 

relevant and reliable.

 – state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements.

 – prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company 
and Group will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of NatWest Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts 
complies with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of NatWest Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ 
report, Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate 
governance statement that comply with that law and 
those regulations. The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the company’s website.

The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:

 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
UK adopted International Accounting Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and

 – the Strategic report and Directors’ report (incorporating 

the Financial review) include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.

169

In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.

By order of the Board

Howard Davies
Chairman 
15 February 2024

John-Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial Officer

Board of directors

Chairman
Howard Davies

Executive directors 
John-Paul Thwaite

Katie Murray

Non-executive directors
Mark Seligman

Frank Dangeard

Roisin Donnelly

Patrick Flynn

Rick Haythornthwaite

Yasmin Jetha

Stuart Lewis

Lena Wilson

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts170

Serving our

customers

every day

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsRisk and capital management

171

172 Risk management framework

243 Capital, liquidity and funding risk

172 Introduction

172 Culture

173 Governance 

175 Risk appetite

176 Identification and measurement

176 Mitigation

176 Testing and monitoring

177 Stress testing

243 Definitions and sources of risk

244 Capital, liquidity and funding management

247 Key points

248 Minimum requirements 

249 Measurement

262 Market risk

262 Non-traded market risk

269 Traded market risk

181 Credit risk

273 Market risk – linkage to balance sheet

181 Definition, sources of risk and key developments

274 Pension risk

182 Governance and risk appetite

275 Compliance and conduct risk

182 Identification and measurement

276 Financial crime risk

277 Climate risk

279 Operational risk

281 Model risk

282 Reputational risk

182 Mitigation

183 Assessment and monitoring

184 Problem debt management

186 Forbearance

186 Impairment, provisioning and write-offs

189 Significant increase in credit risk and asset lifetimes

190 Economic loss drivers and UK economic uncertainty

196 Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis

199 Measurement uncertainty and ECL adequacy

200 Banking activities

239 Trading activities

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117722

172

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

Risk management framework

Where marked as audited in the section header, certain 
information in the Risk and capital management section 
(pages 172 to 282) is within the scope of the Independent 
auditor’s report.

IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn
NatWest Group operates an enterprise-wide risk 
management framework, which is centred on the 
embedding of a strong risk culture. The framework 
ensures the governance, capabilities and methods are in 
place to facilitate risk management and decision-making 
across the organisation. 

The framework ensures that NatWest Group’s principal 
risks – which are detailed in this section – are 
appropriately controlled and managed. It sets out the 
standards and objectives for risk management as well as 
defining the division of roles and responsibilities. This 
seeks to ensure a consistent approach to risk 
management across NatWest Group and its subsidiaries. 
It aligns risk management with NatWest Group’s overall 
strategic objectives. The framework, which is designed 
and maintained by NatWest Group’s independent Risk 
function, is owned by the Chief Risk Officer. It is reviewed 
and approved annually by the Board. The framework 
incorporates risk governance, NatWest Group’s three 
lines of defence operating model and the Risk function’s 
mandate.

Risk appetite, supported by a robust set of principles, 
policies and practices, defines the levels of tolerance for a 
variety of risks and provides a structured approach to 
risk-taking within agreed boundaries.

While all NatWest Group colleagues are responsible for 
managing risk, the Risk function provides oversight and 
monitoring of risk management activities, including the 
implementation of the framework and adherence to its 
supporting policies, standards and operational 
procedures. The Chief Risk Officer plays an integral role 
in providing the Board with advice on NatWest Group’s 
risk profile, the performance of its controls and in 
providing challenge where a proposed business strategy 
may exceed risk tolerance.

In addition, there is a process to identify and manage top 
and emerging threats, which are those that could have a 
significant negative impact on NatWest Group’s ability to 
meet its strategic objectives. 

Both top and emerging threats may incorporate aspects 
of – or correlate to – a number of principal risks and are 
reported alongside them to the Board on a regular basis.

These aim to act as an effective basis for a strong risk 
culture because the Critical People Capabilities form the 
basis of all recruitment and selection processes.

CCuullttuurree
NatWest Group’s multi-year programme to enhance risk 
management capability at different levels of the 
organisation has an ongoing emphasis on risk culture. 
The approach to risk culture, under the banner of 
intelligent risk-taking, ensures a focus on robust risk 
management behaviours and practices. This underpins 
the strategy and values across all three lines of defence, 
enables NatWest Group to support better customer 
outcomes, develop a stronger and more sustainable 
business and deliver an improved cost base.

NatWest Group expects leaders to act as role models for 
strong risk behaviours and practices building clarity, 
developing capability and motivating employees to reach 
the required standards set out in the intelligent risk-
taking approach. Colleagues are expected to:

 Consistently role-model the values and behaviours in 

Our Code, based on strong ethical standards.
 Empower others to take risks aligned to NatWest 
Group’s strategy, explore issues from a fresh 
perspective, and tackle challenges in new and better 
ways across organisational boundaries.

 Manage risk in line with appropriate risk appetite.
 Ensure each decision made keeps NatWest Group, 

colleagues, customers, communities and shareholders 
safe and secure.

 Understand their role in managing risk, remaining 
clear and capable, grounded in knowledge of 
regulatory obligations.

 Consider risk in all actions and decisions.
 Escalate risks and issues early; taking action to 

mitigate risks and learning from mistakes and near-
misses, reporting and communicating these 
transparently.

 Challenge others’ attitudes, ideas and actions. 

The target intelligent risk-taking behaviours are 
embedded in NatWest Group’s Critical People Capabilities 
and are clearly aligned to the core values of inclusive, 
curious, robust, sustainable and ambitious. 

Training
Enabling employees to have the capabilities and 
confidence to manage risk is core to NatWest Group’s 
learning strategy. NatWest Group offers a wide range of 
learning, both technical and behavioural, across the risk 
disciplines. This training may be mandatory, role-specific 
or for personal development. Mandatory learning for all 
staff is focused on keeping employees, customers and 
NatWest Group safe. This is easily accessed online and is 
assigned to each person according to their role and 
business area. The system allows monitoring at all levels 
to ensure completion.

Our Code
NatWest Group’s conduct guidance, Our Code, provides 
direction on expected behaviour and sets out the 
standards of conduct that support the values. The code 
explains the effect of decisions that are taken and 
describes the principles that must be followed.



These principles cover conduct-related issues as well 
as wider business activities. They focus on desired 
outcomes, with practical guidelines to align the 
values with commercial strategy and actions. The 
embedding of these principles facilitates sound 
decision-making and a clear focus on good customer 
outcomes.

 Where appropriate, if conduct falls short of NatWest 
Group’s required standards, the accountability 
review process is used to assess how this should be 
reflected in pay outcomes for the individuals 
concerned (for more information on this process 
refer to page 135). The NatWest Group 
remuneration policy ensures that the remuneration 
arrangements for all employees reflect the principles 
and standards prescribed by the PRA rulebook and 
the FCA handbook. Any employee falling short of the 
expected standards would also be subject to internal 
disciplinary policies and procedures. If appropriate, 
the relevant authority would be notified.

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

117733

117733

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

Risk management framework continued

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

Risk management framework continued

Committee structure

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

Committee structure

The diagram shows NatWest Group’s governance structure in 2023 and the main purposes of each committee.

The diagram shows NatWest Group’s governance structure in 2023 and the main purposes of each committee.

(1) Risk Policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. They are consistently applied across the Group and 

subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk.

(2)

In addition, the Group Technical Asset & Liability Management Committee, chaired by the Group Treasurer, provides oversight of capital and balance sheet management in line with approved risk appetite under normal and stress conditions. Reviews and 

challenges the financial strategy, risk management, balance sheet and remuneration and policy implications of the Group’s pension schemes.

(1) Risk Policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. They are consistently applied across the Group and 

The EDC Disclosures Steering Group has been established by the Group CFO to (i) review and approve the Group’s responses to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) surveys where ESG content is considered material to Investors or decision-

(3)

subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk.

useful to users of the reports; (ii) to assess whether the Group should respond to and review new ad hoc survey requests; (iii) to review and approve ESG disclosures published on the Group’s website and externally that are material to investors or decision 

In addition, the Group Technical Asset & Liability Management Committee, chaired by the Group Treasurer, provides oversight of capital and balance sheet management in line with approved risk appetite under normal and stress conditions. Reviews and 

useful to users of the reports; and (iv) to review and recommend to the Group EDC, ESG related disclosures in the quarterly, and annual suite of results releases.

(2)

challenges the financial strategy, risk management, balance sheet and remuneration and policy implications of the Group’s pension schemes.

(3)

The EDC Disclosures Steering Group has been established by the Group CFO to (i) review and approve the Group’s responses to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) surveys where ESG content is considered material to Investors or decision-

useful to users of the reports; (ii) to assess whether the Group should respond to and review new ad hoc survey requests; (iii) to review and approve ESG disclosures published on the Group’s website and externally that are material to investors or decision 

useful to users of the reports; and (iv) to review and recommend to the Group EDC, ESG related disclosures in the quarterly, and annual suite of results releases.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

Risk management framework continued

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117733

173

117733

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
Risk management framework continued
Committee structure
The diagram shows NatWest Group’s governance structure in 2023 and the main purposes of each committee.
GGoovveerrnnaannccee

Committee structure
The diagram shows NatWest Group’s governance structure in 2023 and the main purposes of each committee.

NatWest Group plc Board

Ensures there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed and managed. It reviews and approves the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework (EWRMF)  
(including NatWest Group’s risk appetite framework) and approves the risk appetite for principal risks. Monitors performance against risk appetite, considers material risks and reviews the effectiveness of 
risk management and internal control systems. 

Group Board Risk Committee

Group Audit Committee

Provides oversight and advice to the Board on current and potential future risk exposures; future 
risk profile including risk appetite; and the approval and effectiveness of the EWRMF. Reviews 
NatWest Group’s performance relative to risk appetite; the effectiveness of internal controls 
required to manage risk; all material risk exposures and management’s recommendations to 
monitor, control and mitigate them, including all principal risks. Approves the Key Risk Policies(1) 
and provides input on remuneration decisions from a risk management perspective. Approves the 
Risk Management Strategy and oversees its effective delivery. Reviews and recommends to the 
Board the assumptions, scenarios and metrics used for stress tests.

Assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities relating to accounting policies, internal control 
and financial reporting functions, including consideration of any relevant non-financial disclosures 
or related controls which may impact the financial statements. Reviews NatWest Group’s internal 
controls systems relating to financial management and compliance with laws and/or regulations 
relating to financial reporting, accounting issues, and safeguarding of assets. Reviews the 
procedures for monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. 

Group Executive Risk Committee

Group Executive Committee

Supports the NatWest Group CRO 
and other accountable executives 
in discharging risk management 
accountabilities. Reviews, challenges and 
debates all material risk exposures across 
NatWest Group and the performance of 
NatWest Group relative to risk appetite. 
Reviews the EWRMF, Key Risk Policies(1) 
and Risk Management Strategy and 
supports their recommendation to Group 
BRC. Oversees implementation of 
the EWRMF.

Supports the Group CEO in discharging 
their individual accountabilities including 
matters relating to strategy, financials, 
capital, and operational issues. Considers 
material or enterprise wide risk and 
control matters across the Group as 
appropriate. Supports the Group CEO 
in identifying matters for escalation 
to the Board or an appropriate 
Board Committee.

Group Asset & Liability 
Management Committee(2)

Group Executive 
Disclosure Committee(3)

Supports the Group CFO in overseeing 
the effective management of NatWest 
Group’s current and future balance sheet 
in line with chosen business strategy and 
Board-approved risk appetite, under 
normal and stress conditions and in the 
escalation of matters to the appropriate 
Executive or Board Committee. Supports 
the Group CFO’s and Group CRO’s 
recommendation to Group BRC of the 
assumptions, scenarios and metrics 
used for stress tests.

Supports the Group CFO in discharging 
their individual accountabilities, including 
the review of all material financial and 
non-financial disclosures made by 
NatWest Group to ensure that they are 
accurate, complete and fairly represent 
the business and financial condition of 
NatWest Group with no material 
misstatements or omissions. 

(1) Risk Policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. They are consistently applied across the Group and 

(2)

(1) Risk Policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectation, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. They are consistently applied across the Group and 
(3)

subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk.
In addition, the Group Technical Asset & Liability Management Committee, chaired by the Group Treasurer, provides oversight of capital and balance sheet management in line with approved risk appetite under normal and stress conditions. Reviews and 
challenges the financial strategy, risk management, balance sheet and remuneration and policy implications of the Group’s pension schemes.
The EDC Disclosures Steering Group has been established by the Group CFO to (i) review and approve the Group’s responses to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) surveys where ESG content is considered material to Investors or decision-
subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk.
useful to users of the reports; (ii) to assess whether the Group should respond to and review new ad hoc survey requests; (iii) to review and approve ESG disclosures published on the Group’s website and externally that are material to investors or decision 
In addition, the Group Technical Asset & Liability Management Committee, chaired by the Group Treasurer, provides oversight of capital and balance sheet management in line with approved risk appetite under normal and stress conditions. Reviews and 
useful to users of the reports; and (iv) to review and recommend to the Group EDC, ESG related disclosures in the quarterly, and annual suite of results releases.
challenges the financial strategy, risk management, balance sheet and remuneration and policy implications of the Group’s pension schemes.
The EDC Disclosures Steering Group has been established by the Group CFO to (i) review and approve the Group’s responses to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) surveys where ESG content is considered material to Investors or decision-
useful to users of the reports; (ii) to assess whether the Group should respond to and review new ad hoc survey requests; (iii) to review and approve ESG disclosures published on the Group’s website and externally that are material to investors or decision 
useful to users of the reports; and (iv) to review and recommend to the Group EDC, ESG related disclosures in the quarterly, and annual suite of results releases.

(2)

(3)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

Risk management framework continued

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117744

174

117744

Risk management structure
Risk management framework continued
The diagram shows NatWest Group’s risk management structure in 2023. 

Risk management structure
The diagram shows NatWest Group’s risk management structure in 2023. 

Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

RBSI CEO

NWM CEO

NWH CEO

RBSI CRO

NWM CRO

NWH CRO

Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO)

The first line of defence is responsible for managing its direct risks, and with the support 

Risk appetite framework 

of specialist functions, it is also responsible for managing its consequential risks, by 

identifying, assessing, mitigating, monitoring and reporting risks. 

Leads the RBSI Risk function. Responsibilities 
include policy, governance, frameworks, 
oversight and challenge, risk culture and 
reporting. Contributes to RBSI strategy as a 
member of the RBSI Executive Committee.

Leads the NWM Risk function. 
Responsibilities include policy, governance, 
frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk 
culture and reporting. Contributes to NWM 
strategy as a member of the NWM 
Executive Committee.

Leads the NWH Risk function. 
Responsibilities include policy, governance, 
frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk 
culture and reporting. Delivers risk services 
across NatWest Group governed by 
appropriate service level agreements. 
Contributes to NWH strategy as a member 
of the NWH Executive Committee. Member 
of NatWest Group Exco.

Leads the NatWest Group Risk function. 
Defines and delivers the risk, conduct, 
compliance and financial crime strategies. 
Defines overall risk service provision 
requirements to enable delivery of NatWest 
Group strategies, including policies, 
governance, frameworks, oversight and 
challenge, risk culture and risk reporting. 
Contributes to the development of strategy, 
transformation and culture as a member 
of the Executive Committee.

(1)
(2)
(3)

(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)

(5)
(4)

(5)

The Group Chief Executive Officer also performs the NWH Chief Executive Officer role.
The Group Chief Risk Officer also performs the NWH Chief Risk Officer role, is a member of NatWest Group Exco, NatWest Group ERC and an attendee at NatWest Group BRC.
The NWH Risk function provides risk management services across NWH, including to the NatWest Group Chief Risk Officer and – where agreed – to NWM and RBSI Chief Risk Officers. These services are managed, as appropriate, through service level 
agreements.
The NWH Risk function is independent of the NWH customer-facing business segments and support functions. Its structure is divided into three parts (Directors of Risk, Specialist Risk Directors and Chief Operating Officer) to facilitate effective management 
The Group Chief Executive Officer also performs the NWH Chief Executive Officer role.
of the risks facing NWH. Risk committees in the customer businesses oversee risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focus on ensuring that these are adequately monitored and controlled. The Directors of Risk, (Retail 
The Group Chief Risk Officer also performs the NWH Chief Risk Officer role, is a member of NatWest Group Exco, NatWest Group ERC and an attendee at NatWest Group BRC.
Banking; Commercial & Institutional Banking (Ring-Fenced Bank); Wealth Businesses; Digital X and Functions; Finance and Treasury and Non-financial Risk; the Head of Restructuring and the Chief Operating Officer report to the NWH Chief Risk Officer. 
The NWH Risk function provides risk management services across NWH, including to the NatWest Group Chief Risk Officer and – where agreed – to NWM and RBSI Chief Risk Officers. These services are managed, as appropriate, through service level 
The Director of Risk, Ulster Bank Ireland DAC reports to the Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Chief Executive. They also have a reporting line to the NWH Chief Risk Officer and to the Chair of the Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Board Risk Committee. 
agreements.
The Chief Risk Officers for NWM and RBSI have dual reporting lines into the Group Chief Risk Officer and the respective Chief Executive Officers of their entities. There are additional reporting lines to the NWM and RBSI Board Risk Committee chairs and a 
The NWH Risk function is independent of the NWH customer-facing business segments and support functions. Its structure is divided into three parts (Directors of Risk, Specialist Risk Directors and Chief Operating Officer) to facilitate effective management 
right of access to the respective Risk Committees.
of the risks facing NWH. Risk committees in the customer businesses oversee risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focus on ensuring that these are adequately monitored and controlled. The Directors of Risk, (Retail 
Banking; Commercial & Institutional Banking (Ring-Fenced Bank); Wealth Businesses; Digital X and Functions; Finance and Treasury and Non-financial Risk; the Head of Restructuring and the Chief Operating Officer report to the NWH Chief Risk Officer. 
The Director of Risk, Ulster Bank Ireland DAC reports to the Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Chief Executive. They also have a reporting line to the NWH Chief Risk Officer and to the Chair of the Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Board Risk Committee. 
The Chief Risk Officers for NWM and RBSI have dual reporting lines into the Group Chief Risk Officer and the respective Chief Executive Officers of their entities. There are additional reporting lines to the NWM and RBSI Board Risk Committee chairs and a 
right of access to the respective Risk Committees.

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

117755

Risk management framework continued

Three lines of defence

NatWest Group uses the industry-standard three lines of defence model to articulate 

accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk. This supports the embedding of 

effective risk management throughout the organisation. All roles below the CEO sit 

within one of the three lines. The CEO ensures the efficient use of resources and the 

effective management of risks as stipulated in the risk management framework and is 

therefore considered to be outside the three lines of defence principles.

FFiirrsstt  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  

The first line of defence incorporates most roles in NatWest Group, including those in the 

customer-facing businesses, Technology and Services as well as support functions such 

as People and Transformation, Legal and Finance. 

The first line of defence is empowered to take risks within the constraints of the risk 

management framework, policies, risk appetite statements and measures set by the 

Board. 

losses.

The third line of defence executes its duties freely and objectively in accordance with the 

Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors’ Code of Ethics and International Standards on 

independence and objectivity.

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee

Risk appetite defines the type and aggregate level of risk NatWest Group is willing to 

accept in pursuit of its strategic objectives and business plans. Risk appetite supports 

sound risk-taking, the promotion of robust risk practices and risk behaviours, and is 

calibrated at least annually.

For certain principal risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk NatWest Group 

can assume before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital and liquidity 

requirements, the operational environment, and from a conduct perspective. Establishing 

risk capacity helps determine where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a 

buffer between internal risk appetite and NatWest Group’s ultimate capacity to absorb 

SSeeccoonndd  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  

line. 

The second line of defence comprises the Risk function and is independent of the first 

The second line of defence is empowered to design and maintain the risk management 

framework and its components. It undertakes proactive risk oversight and continuous 

monitoring activities to confirm that NatWest Group engages in permissible and 

sustainable risk-taking activities.

The second line of defence advises on, monitors, challenges, approves and escalates 

where required and reports on the risk-taking activities of the first line, ensuring that 

these are within the constraints of the risk management framework, policies, risk 

appetite statements and measures set by the Board.

TThhiirrdd  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  

second lines.

The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function and is independent of the first and 

The third line of defence is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Board, 

its subsidiary legal entity boards and executive management on the overall design and 

operating effectiveness of the risk management framework and its components. This 

includes the adequacy and effectiveness of key internal controls, governance and the risk 

management in place to monitor, manage and mitigate the principal risks to NatWest 

Group and its subsidiary companies achieving their objectives.

The risk appetite framework supports effective risk management by promoting sound 

risk-taking through a structured approach, within agreed boundaries. It also ensures 

emerging threats and risk-taking activities that might be out of appetite are identified, 

assessed, escalated and addressed in a timely manner. 

To facilitate this, a detailed review of the framework is carried out annually. The review 

includes:

expectations.

for risk appetite.

 Assessing the adequacy of the framework compared to internal and external 

 Ensuring the framework remains effective and acts as a strong control environment 

 Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the organisation.

Establishing risk appetite 

In line with the risk appetite framework, risk appetite is maintained across NatWest 

Group through risk appetite statements. These are in place for all principal risks and 

describe the extent and type of activities that can be undertaken. 

Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite supported by risk 

limits and triggers that operate as a defence against excessive risk-taking. Risk measures 

and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk appetite approach and a key 

part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-day risk management decisions. A clear 

tolerance for each principal risk is set in alignment with business activities.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117755

175

Risk management framework continued

Three lines of defence
NatWest Group uses the industry-standard three lines of defence model to articulate 
accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk. This supports the embedding of 
effective risk management throughout the organisation. All roles below the CEO sit 
within one of the three lines. The CEO ensures the efficient use of resources and the 
effective management of risks as stipulated in the risk management framework and is 
therefore considered to be outside the three lines of defence principles.

FFiirrsstt  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  
The first line of defence incorporates most roles in NatWest Group, including those in the 
customer-facing businesses, Technology and Services as well as support functions such 
as People and Transformation, Legal and Finance. 

The first line of defence is empowered to take risks within the constraints of the risk 
management framework, policies, risk appetite statements and measures set by the 
Board. 

The first line of defence is responsible for managing its direct risks, and with the support 
of specialist functions, it is also responsible for managing its consequential risks, by 
identifying, assessing, mitigating, monitoring and reporting risks. 

SSeeccoonndd  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  
The second line of defence comprises the Risk function and is independent of the first 
line. 

The second line of defence is empowered to design and maintain the risk management 
framework and its components. It undertakes proactive risk oversight and continuous 
monitoring activities to confirm that NatWest Group engages in permissible and 
sustainable risk-taking activities.

The second line of defence advises on, monitors, challenges, approves and escalates 
where required and reports on the risk-taking activities of the first line, ensuring that 
these are within the constraints of the risk management framework, policies, risk 
appetite statements and measures set by the Board.

TThhiirrdd  lliinnee  ooff  ddeeffeennccee  
The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function and is independent of the first and 
second lines.

The third line of defence is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Board, 
its subsidiary legal entity boards and executive management on the overall design and 
operating effectiveness of the risk management framework and its components. This 
includes the adequacy and effectiveness of key internal controls, governance and the risk 
management in place to monitor, manage and mitigate the principal risks to NatWest 
Group and its subsidiary companies achieving their objectives.

The third line of defence executes its duties freely and objectively in accordance with the 
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors’ Code of Ethics and International Standards on 
independence and objectivity.

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee
Risk appetite defines the type and aggregate level of risk NatWest Group is willing to 
accept in pursuit of its strategic objectives and business plans. Risk appetite supports 
sound risk-taking, the promotion of robust risk practices and risk behaviours, and is 
calibrated at least annually.

For certain principal risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk NatWest Group 
can assume before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital and liquidity 
requirements, the operational environment, and from a conduct perspective. Establishing 
risk capacity helps determine where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a 
buffer between internal risk appetite and NatWest Group’s ultimate capacity to absorb 
losses.

Risk appetite framework 
The risk appetite framework supports effective risk management by promoting sound 
risk-taking through a structured approach, within agreed boundaries. It also ensures 
emerging threats and risk-taking activities that might be out of appetite are identified, 
assessed, escalated and addressed in a timely manner. 

To facilitate this, a detailed review of the framework is carried out annually. The review 
includes:

 Assessing the adequacy of the framework compared to internal and external 

expectations.

 Ensuring the framework remains effective and acts as a strong control environment 

for risk appetite.

 Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the organisation.

Establishing risk appetite 
In line with the risk appetite framework, risk appetite is maintained across NatWest 
Group through risk appetite statements. These are in place for all principal risks and 
describe the extent and type of activities that can be undertaken. 

Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite supported by risk 
limits and triggers that operate as a defence against excessive risk-taking. Risk measures 
and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk appetite approach and a key 
part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-day risk management decisions. A clear 
tolerance for each principal risk is set in alignment with business activities.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117766

176

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

117777

Risk management framework continued

The process of reviewing and updating risk appetite statements is completed alongside 
the business and financial planning process. This ensures that plans and risk appetite are 
appropriately aligned.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
Mitigation is a critical aspect of ensuring that risk profile remains within risk appetite. Risk 
mitigation strategies are discussed and agreed within NatWest Group. 

The Board sets risk appetite for all principal risks to help ensure NatWest Group is well 
placed to meet its priorities and long-term targets, even in challenging economic 
environments. This supports NatWest Group in remaining resilient and secure as it 
pursues its strategic business objectives. 

Risk appetite statements and associated measures are reviewed at least annually by the 
Board on the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure they remain 
appropriate and aligned to strategy.

NatWest Group’s risk profile is continually monitored and frequently reviewed. 
Management focus is concentrated on all principal risks as well as the top and emerging 
threats that may correlate to them. Risk profile relative to risk appetite is reported 
regularly to senior management and the Board.

NatWest Group policies directly support the qualitative aspects of risk appetite. They 
define the qualitative expectations, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and 
extent of permissible risk-taking and are consistently applied across NatWest Group and 
its subsidiaries.

IIddeennttiiffiiccaattiioonn  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Identification and measurement within the risk management process comprises:

 Regular assessment of the overall risk profile, incorporating market developments 

and trends, as well as external and internal factors.

 Monitoring of the risks associated with lending and credit exposures.
 Assessment of trading and non-trading portfolios.
 Review of potential risks in new business activities and processes.
 Analysis of potential risks in any complex and unusual business transactions.

The financial and non-financial risks that NatWest Group faces are detailed in its risk 
directory. This provides a common risk language to ensure consistent terminology is 
used across NatWest Group. The risk directory is subject to annual review to ensure it 
continues to fully reflect the risks that NatWest Group faces. 

When evaluating possible strategies, costs and benefits, residual risks (risks that are 
retained) and secondary risks (those that arise from risk mitigation actions themselves) 
are also considered. Monitoring and review processes are in place to evaluate results. 
Early identification, and effective management of changes in legislation and regulation 
are critical to the successful mitigation of compliance and conduct risk. The effects of all 
changes are managed to ensure the timely achievement of compliance. Those changes 
assessed as having a high or medium-high impact are managed more closely. Emerging 
threats that could affect future results and performance are also closely monitored. 
Action is taken to mitigate potential risks as and when required. Further in-depth 
analysis, including the stress testing of exposures, is also carried out.

TTeessttiinngg  aanndd  mmoonniittoorriinngg
Specific activities relating to compliance and conduct, credit and financial crime risks are 
subject to testing and monitoring by the Risk function. This confirms to both internal and 
external stakeholders – including the Board, senior management, the customer-facing 
businesses, Internal Audit and NatWest Group’s regulators – that risk policies and 
procedures are being correctly implemented and that they are operating adequately and 
effectively. Thematic reviews and targeted reviews are also carried out where relevant 
to ensure appropriate customer outcomes.

Independent control testing of the NWH Group Risk function is completed on principal 
processes and controls impacting the financial statements, in line with section 404 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, which focusses on the formalised evaluation, testing and 
reporting of significant internal controls over financial reporting and the associated 
control environment.

The Risk Testing & Monitoring Forum assesses and validates the annual plan as well as 
the ongoing programme of reviews.

Risk management framework continued

SSttrreessss  tteessttiinngg

Stress testing – capital management

Stress testing is a key risk management tool and a fundamental component of NatWest 

Group’s approach to capital management. It is used to quantify and evaluate the 

potential impact of specified changes to risk factors on the financial strength of NatWest 

Group, including its capital position. 

Stress testing includes:

 Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical future state to define 

 Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact of an incremental change to one or 

changes in risk factors.

more risk factors.

The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages:

 Identify macro and NatWest Group specific vulnerabilities 

DDeeffiinnee

sscceennaarriiooss

and risks.

vulnerabilities.

 Define and calibrate scenarios to examine risks and 

 Formal governance process to agree scenarios.

AAsssseessss  iimmppaacctt

 Assess impact to current and projected P&L and balance 

 Translate scenarios into risk drivers.

sheet across NatWest Group.

CCaallccuullaattee

rreessuullttss  aanndd

aasssseessss

iimmpplliiccaattiioonnss

DDeevveelloopp  aanndd

aaggrreeee

mmaannaaggeemmeenntt

aaccttiioonnss

 Aggregate impacts into overall results.

 Results form part of the risk management process.

 Scenario results are used to inform business and capital 

plans.

 Scenario results are analysed by subject matter experts. 

Appropriate management actions are then developed.

 Scenario results and management actions are reviewed by 

the relevant Executive Risk Committees and Board Risk 

Committees. Approval of scenarios is delegated to the 

NatWest Group Board Risk Committee by the NatWest 

Group Board.

Stress testing is used widely across NatWest Group. The diagram below summarises key 

areas of focus.

Contingency 

planning & management

Assess financial 

performance

actions

Early 

warning

indicators

Tail risk

assessment

((33))

RRiisskk

mmoonniittoorriinngg

SSttrreessss  tteessttiinngg  

uussaaggee  wwiitthhiinn  

NNaattWWeesstt  

GGrroouupp

((11))

SSttrraatteeggiicc

ffiinnaanncciiaall

&&  ccaappiittaall

ppllaannnniinngg

Capital 

adequacy

Earnings

stability

((44))

RRiisskk

mmiittiiggaattiioonn

((22))

RRiisskk

aappppeettiittee

Business

vulnerabilities

analysis

Sector review

& credit limit

setting

Specific areas that involve capital management include:

 SSttrraatteeggiicc  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aanndd  ccaappiittaall  ppllaannnniinngg – by assessing the impact of sensitivities and 

scenarios on the capital plan and capital ratios.

 RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  –– by gaining a better understanding of the drivers of, and the 

underlying risks associated with, risk appetite.

 RRiisskk  mmoonniittoorriinngg  –– by monitoring the risks and horizon-scanning events that could 

potentially affect NatWest Group’s financial strength and capital position.

 RRiisskk  mmiittiiggaattiioonn – by identifying actions to mitigate risks, or those that could be taken, 

in the event of adverse changes to the business or economic environment. Principal 

risk mitigating actions are documented in NatWest Group’s recovery plan.

Reverse stress testing is also carried out in order to identify and assess scenarios that 

would cause NatWest Group’s business model to become unviable. Reverse stress 

testing allows potential vulnerabilities in the business model to be examined more fully.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117777

177

Risk management framework continued

SSttrreessss  tteessttiinngg

Stress testing – capital management
Stress testing is a key risk management tool and a fundamental component of NatWest 
Group’s approach to capital management. It is used to quantify and evaluate the 
potential impact of specified changes to risk factors on the financial strength of NatWest 
Group, including its capital position. 

Stress testing includes:

 Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical future state to define 

changes in risk factors.

 Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact of an incremental change to one or 

more risk factors.

The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages:

DDeeffiinnee
sscceennaarriiooss

 Identify macro and NatWest Group specific vulnerabilities 

and risks.

 Define and calibrate scenarios to examine risks and 

vulnerabilities.

 Formal governance process to agree scenarios.

AAsssseessss  iimmppaacctt

 Translate scenarios into risk drivers.
 Assess impact to current and projected P&L and balance 

sheet across NatWest Group.

CCaallccuullaattee
rreessuullttss  aanndd
aasssseessss
iimmpplliiccaattiioonnss

DDeevveelloopp  aanndd
aaggrreeee
mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
aaccttiioonnss

 Aggregate impacts into overall results.
 Results form part of the risk management process.
 Scenario results are used to inform business and capital 

plans.

 Scenario results are analysed by subject matter experts. 
Appropriate management actions are then developed.
 Scenario results and management actions are reviewed by 
the relevant Executive Risk Committees and Board Risk 
Committees. Approval of scenarios is delegated to the 
NatWest Group Board Risk Committee by the NatWest 
Group Board.

Stress testing is used widely across NatWest Group. The diagram below summarises key 
areas of focus.

Contingency 
Contingency 
planning & management 
planning & management
actions
actions

Assess financial 
Assess financial 
performance
performance

Early 
Early 
warning 
warning
indicators
indicators

Tail risk
Tail risk 
assessment
assessment

(4) 
((44))
Risk 
RRiisskk
mitigation
mmiittiiggaattiioonn

Capital  
Capital 
adequacy
adequacy

Earnings 
Earnings
stability
stability

(3) 
((33))
Risk 
RRiisskk
monitoring
mmoonniittoorriinngg

Stress testing 
SSttrreessss  tteessttiinngg  
usage within 
uussaaggee  wwiitthhiinn  
NatWest 
NNaattWWeesstt  
Group
GGrroouupp

(1) 
((11))
Strategic 
SSttrraatteeggiicc
financial 
ffiinnaanncciiaall
& capital  
&&  ccaappiittaall
planning
ppllaannnniinngg

(3) 
((22))
Risk  
RRiisskk
appetite
aappppeettiittee

Business
Business 
vulnerabilities
vulnerabilities 
analysis
analysis

Sector review
Sector review 
& credit limit 
& credit limit
setting
setting

Specific areas that involve capital management include:
 SSttrraatteeggiicc  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aanndd  ccaappiittaall  ppllaannnniinngg – by assessing the impact of sensitivities and 

scenarios on the capital plan and capital ratios.

 RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  –– by gaining a better understanding of the drivers of, and the 

underlying risks associated with, risk appetite.

 RRiisskk  mmoonniittoorriinngg  –– by monitoring the risks and horizon-scanning events that could 

potentially affect NatWest Group’s financial strength and capital position.

 RRiisskk  mmiittiiggaattiioonn – by identifying actions to mitigate risks, or those that could be taken, 
in the event of adverse changes to the business or economic environment. Principal 
risk mitigating actions are documented in NatWest Group’s recovery plan.

Reverse stress testing is also carried out in order to identify and assess scenarios that 
would cause NatWest Group’s business model to become unviable. Reverse stress 
testing allows potential vulnerabilities in the business model to be examined more fully.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117788

178

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

117799

Risk management framework continued

Risk management framework continued

Capital sufficiency – going concern forward-looking view
Going concern capital requirements are examined on a forward-looking basis – including 
as part of the annual budgeting process – by assessing the resilience of capital adequacy 
and leverage ratios under hypothetical future states. These assessments include 
assumptions about regulatory and accounting factors (such as IFRS 9). They incorporate 
economic variables and key assumptions on balance sheet and P&L drivers, such as 
impairments, to demonstrate that NatWest Group and its operating subsidiaries maintain 
sufficient capital. A range of future states are tested. In particular, capital requirements 
are assessed:

 Based on a forecast of future business performance, given expectations of economic 

and market conditions over the forecast period.

 Based on a forecast of future business performance under adverse economic and 
market conditions over the forecast period. Scenarios of different severity may be 
examined.

The potential impact of normal and adverse economic and market conditions on capital 
requirements is assessed through stress testing, the results of which are not only used 
widely across NatWest Group but also by the regulators to set specific capital buffers. 
NatWest Group takes part in stress tests run by regulatory authorities to test industry-
wide vulnerabilities under crystallising global and domestic systemic risks. 

Stress and peak-to-trough movements are used to help assess the amount of capital 
NatWest Group needs to hold in stress conditions in accordance with the capital risk 
appetite framework.

Internal assessment of capital adequacy
An internal assessment of material risks is carried out annually to enable an evaluation of 
the amount, type and distribution of capital required to cover these risks. This is referred 
to as the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The ICAAP consists of 
a point-in-time assessment of exposures and risks at the end of the financial year 
together with a forward-looking stress capital assessment. The ICAAP is approved by 
the Board and submitted to the PRA.

The ICAAP is used to form a view of capital adequacy separately to the minimum 
regulatory requirements. The ICAAP is used by the PRA to assess NatWest Group’s 
specific capital requirements through the Pillar 2 framework.

Capital allocation
NatWest Group has mechanisms to allocate capital across its legal entities and 
businesses. These aim to optimise the use of capital resources taking into account 
applicable regulatory requirements, strategic and business objectives and risk appetite. 
The framework for allocating capital is approved by the CFO with support from the 
Asset & Liability Management Committee. 

Governance
Capital management is subject to substantial review and governance. The Board 
approves the capital plans, including those for key legal entities and businesses as well as 
the results of the stress tests relating to those capital plans.

Stress testing – liquidity
LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  ccoonnttiinnggeennccyy  ppllaannnniinngg
A suite of tools is used to monitor, limit and stress test the liquidity and funding risks on 
the balance sheet. Limit frameworks are in place to control the level of liquidity risk, 
asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations. Liquidity and funding risks are 
reviewed at significant legal entity and business levels daily, with performance reported 
to the Asset & Liability Management Committee on a regular basis. Liquidity condition 
indicators are monitored daily. This ensures any build-up of stress is detected early and 
the response escalated appropriately through recovery planning. 

IInntteerrnnaall  aasssseessssmmeenntt  ooff  lliiqquuiiddiittyy
Under the liquidity risk management framework, NatWest Group maintains the Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process. This includes assessment of net stressed 
liquidity outflows under a range of severe but plausible stress scenarios. Each scenario 
evaluates either an idiosyncratic, market-wide or combined stress event as described in 
the table below.

TTyyppee

DDeessccrriippttiioonn

IIddiioossyynnccrraattiicc  
sscceennaarriioo

The market perceives NatWest Group to be suffering from a severe 
stress event, which results in an immediate assumption of increased 
credit risk or concerns over solvency.

MMaarrkkeett--wwiiddee  
sscceennaarriioo

A market stress event affecting all participants in a market through 
contagion, potential counterparty failure and other market risks. 
NatWest Group is affected under this scenario but no more severely 
than any other participants with equivalent exposure.

CCoommbbiinneedd  
sscceennaarriioo

This scenario models the combined impact of an idiosyncratic and 
market stress occurring at once, severely affecting funding markets 
and the liquidity of some assets.

NatWest Group uses the most severe outcome to set the internal stress testing scenario 
which underpins its internal liquidity risk appetite. This complements the regulatory 
liquidity coverage ratio requirement.

Stress testing – recovery and resolution planning

Stress testing – market risk

The NatWest Group recovery plan explains how NatWest Group and its subsidiaries – as 

NNoonn--ttrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk

a consolidated group – would identify and respond to a financial stress event and restore 

Non-traded exposures are reported to the PRA on a quarterly basis. This provides the 

its financial position so that it remains viable on an ongoing basis.

The recovery plan ensures risks that could delay the implementation of a recovery 

strategy are highlighted and preparations are made to minimise the impact of these 

risks. Preparations include:

 Developing a series of recovery indicators to provide early warning of potential stress 

 Clarifying roles, responsibilities and escalation routes to minimise uncertainty or 

 Developing a recovery playbook to provide a concise description of the actions 

required during recovery.

 Detailing a range of options to address different stress conditions.

 Appointing dedicated option owners to reduce the risk of delay and capacity 

events.

delay.

concerns.

regulator with an overview of NatWest Group’s banking book interest rate exposure. The 

report includes detailed product information analysed by interest rate driver and other 

characteristics, including accounting classification, currency and counterparty type. 

Scenario analysis based on hypothetical adverse scenarios is performed on non-traded 

exposures as part of the Bank of England and European Banking Authority stress test 

exercises. NatWest Group also produces an internal scenario analysis as part of its 

financial planning cycles.

Non-traded exposures are capitalised through the ICAAP. This covers gap risk, basis 

risk, credit spread risk, pipeline risk, structural foreign exchange risk, prepayment risk, 

equity risk and accounting volatility risk. The ICAAP is completed with a combination of 

value and earnings measures. The total non-traded market risk capital requirement is 

determined by adding the different charges for each sub risk type. The ICAAP 

methodology captures at least ten years of historical volatility, produced with a 99% 

confidence level. Methodologies are reviewed by NatWest Group Model Risk and the 

results are approved by the NatWest Group Technical Asset & Liability Management 

The plan is intended to enable NatWest Group to maintain critical services and products 

it provides to its customers, maintain its core business lines and operate within risk 

appetite while restoring NatWest Group’s financial condition. It is assessed for 

Committee.

appropriateness on an ongoing basis and reviewed and approved by the Board prior to 

Non-traded market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the 

submission to the PRA on a biennial basis. Individual recovery plans are also prepared for 

capital plan presented to the Board. The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted 

NatWest Holdings Limited, NatWest Markets Plc, RBS International Limited, and NatWest 

once a year, with a planning horizon of five years. The scenario narratives cover both 

Markets N.V.. These plans detail the recovery options, recovery indicators and escalation 

regulatory scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by NatWest Group.

Fire drill simulations of possible recovery events are used to test the effectiveness of 

key vulnerabilities in terms of plausible vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio 

NatWest Group and individual legal entity recovery plans. The fire drills are designed to 

would suffer material losses. These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or 

replicate possible financial stress conditions and allow senior management to rehearse 

forward-looking/hypothetical. Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for internal 

the responses and decisions that may be required in an actual stress event. The results 

management information and is not subject to limits. The results for relevant scenarios 

and lessons learnt from the fire drills are used to enhance NatWest Group’s approach to 

are reported to senior management.

Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio and expresses its 

routes for each entity.

recovery planning.

Under the resolution assessment part of the PRA rulebook, NatWest Group is required to 

NatWest Group carries out regular market risk stress testing to identify vulnerabilities 

carry out an assessment of its preparations for resolution, submit a report of the 

and potential losses in excess of, or not captured in, value-at-risk. The calculated 

assessment to the PRA and publish a summary of this report.

stresses measure the impact of changes in risk factors on the fair values of the trading 

TTrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk

portfolios. 

Resolution would be implemented if NatWest Group was assessed by the UK authorities 

to have failed and the appropriate regulator put it into resolution. The process of 

NatWest Group conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based stress 

resolution is owned and implemented by the Bank of England (as the UK resolution 

testing. Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal management. Using 

authority). NatWest Group ensures ongoing maintenance and enhancements of its 

the historical simulation framework employed for value-at-risk, the current portfolio is 

resolution capabilities, in line with regulatory requirements.

stressed using historical data since 1 January 2005. This methodology simulates the 

impact of the 99.9 percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor 

movements over the period, assuming variable holding periods specific to the risk factors 

and the businesses. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

117799

179

Risk management framework continued

Stress testing – recovery and resolution planning
The NatWest Group recovery plan explains how NatWest Group and its subsidiaries – as 
a consolidated group – would identify and respond to a financial stress event and restore 
its financial position so that it remains viable on an ongoing basis.

The recovery plan ensures risks that could delay the implementation of a recovery 
strategy are highlighted and preparations are made to minimise the impact of these 
risks. Preparations include:

 Developing a series of recovery indicators to provide early warning of potential stress 

events.

 Clarifying roles, responsibilities and escalation routes to minimise uncertainty or 

delay.

 Developing a recovery playbook to provide a concise description of the actions 

required during recovery.

 Detailing a range of options to address different stress conditions.
 Appointing dedicated option owners to reduce the risk of delay and capacity 

concerns.

The plan is intended to enable NatWest Group to maintain critical services and products 
it provides to its customers, maintain its core business lines and operate within risk 
appetite while restoring NatWest Group’s financial condition. It is assessed for 
appropriateness on an ongoing basis and reviewed and approved by the Board prior to 
submission to the PRA on a biennial basis. Individual recovery plans are also prepared for 
NatWest Holdings Limited, NatWest Markets Plc, RBS International Limited, and NatWest 
Markets N.V.. These plans detail the recovery options, recovery indicators and escalation 
routes for each entity.

Fire drill simulations of possible recovery events are used to test the effectiveness of 
NatWest Group and individual legal entity recovery plans. The fire drills are designed to 
replicate possible financial stress conditions and allow senior management to rehearse 
the responses and decisions that may be required in an actual stress event. The results 
and lessons learnt from the fire drills are used to enhance NatWest Group’s approach to 
recovery planning.

Under the resolution assessment part of the PRA rulebook, NatWest Group is required to 
carry out an assessment of its preparations for resolution, submit a report of the 
assessment to the PRA and publish a summary of this report.

Resolution would be implemented if NatWest Group was assessed by the UK authorities 
to have failed and the appropriate regulator put it into resolution. The process of 
resolution is owned and implemented by the Bank of England (as the UK resolution 
authority). NatWest Group ensures ongoing maintenance and enhancements of its 
resolution capabilities, in line with regulatory requirements.

Stress testing – market risk
NNoonn--ttrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk
Non-traded exposures are reported to the PRA on a quarterly basis. This provides the 
regulator with an overview of NatWest Group’s banking book interest rate exposure. The 
report includes detailed product information analysed by interest rate driver and other 
characteristics, including accounting classification, currency and counterparty type. 

Scenario analysis based on hypothetical adverse scenarios is performed on non-traded 
exposures as part of the Bank of England and European Banking Authority stress test 
exercises. NatWest Group also produces an internal scenario analysis as part of its 
financial planning cycles.

Non-traded exposures are capitalised through the ICAAP. This covers gap risk, basis 
risk, credit spread risk, pipeline risk, structural foreign exchange risk, prepayment risk, 
equity risk and accounting volatility risk. The ICAAP is completed with a combination of 
value and earnings measures. The total non-traded market risk capital requirement is 
determined by adding the different charges for each sub risk type. The ICAAP 
methodology captures at least ten years of historical volatility, produced with a 99% 
confidence level. Methodologies are reviewed by NatWest Group Model Risk and the 
results are approved by the NatWest Group Technical Asset & Liability Management 
Committee.

Non-traded market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the 
capital plan presented to the Board. The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted 
once a year, with a planning horizon of five years. The scenario narratives cover both 
regulatory scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by NatWest Group.

Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio and expresses its 
key vulnerabilities in terms of plausible vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio 
would suffer material losses. These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or 
forward-looking/hypothetical. Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for internal 
management information and is not subject to limits. The results for relevant scenarios 
are reported to senior management.

TTrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk
NatWest Group carries out regular market risk stress testing to identify vulnerabilities 
and potential losses in excess of, or not captured in, value-at-risk. The calculated 
stresses measure the impact of changes in risk factors on the fair values of the trading 
portfolios. 

NatWest Group conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based stress 
testing. Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal management. Using 
the historical simulation framework employed for value-at-risk, the current portfolio is 
stressed using historical data since 1 January 2005. This methodology simulates the 
impact of the 99.9 percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor 
movements over the period, assuming variable holding periods specific to the risk factors 
and the businesses. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118800

180

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

118811

Risk management framework continued

Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework and their results are 
reported regularly to senior management. Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out 
periodically as part of the bank-wide, cross-risk capital planning process. The scenario 
narratives are translated into risk factor shocks using historical events and insights by 
economists, risk managers and the first line. 

Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the capital plan 
presented to the Board. The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted once a 
year, with a planning horizon of five years. The scenario narratives cover both regulatory 
scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by NatWest Group. 

Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio and expresses its 
key vulnerabilities in terms of plausible, vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio 
would suffer material losses. These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or 
forward-looking/hypothetical. Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for internal 
management information and is not subject to limits. The results for relevant scenarios 
are reported to senior management. 

Internal scenarios – climate
In 2023, NatWest Group deployed a new in-house corporate transition risk model, as 
part of an internal scenario analysis exercise, to assess climate transition related credit 
risks to corporate counterparties. 

This involved running the following two climate scenarios:

 A disruptive policy response scenario, where the introduction of policy from the 
Network for Greening the Financial System delayed transition scenario, is 
accelerated to this decade. 

 Inevitable policy response 1.8°C scenario, which anticipates investor, corporate and 
civil society pressure will push policymakers to make changes between 2023 and 
2033, that could result in warming at or below 1.8°C by 2100.

These scenarios tested NatWest Group’s resilience to alternative transition pathways, 
including a disruptive transition, and to identify losses that are sensitive to scenario policy 
and technology assumptions.

The corporate transition risk model and internal exercise builds on the learnings from the 
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario and integrates climate into ICAAP. The model is 
capable of accounting for sector specific exposure to climate-related transition risks and 
counterparty specific response to a limited set of demand shocks and rising carbon 
prices, by mitigating emissions and passing costs through to customers.

Regulatory stress testing
The Bank of England published the results of the 2022 annual cyclical scenario (ACS) 
stress test on 12 July 2023. NatWest Group remained above its CET1 capital and Tier 1 
leverage ratio hurdle rates in stress and was not required to strengthen its capital 
position as a result of the stress tests. The results of this stress test, and other relevant 
information, will be used to help inform NatWest Group capital buffers (both the UK 
countercyclical capital buffer rate and PRA buffers). 

The 2022 stress test aimed to assess the impact of a UK and global macroeconomic 
stress on UK banks, spanning a five-year period from Q3 2022 to Q2 2027. It is a 
coherent ‘tail risk’ scenario, designed to be severe and broad enough to assess the 
resilience of UK banks to a range of adverse shocks.  

The stress scenario is broadly similar to the 2019 ACS and more severe overall than the 
global financial crisis, with the key difference being elevated levels of inflation. Annual UK 
inflation averaged around 11% over the first three years of the scenario, peaking at 17% 
in early 2023.

The stress test was based on an end-of-June 2022 balance sheet starting position. 

Further details can be found at: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/stress-
testing/2023/bank-of-england-stress-testing-results 

Following the UK’s exit from the European Union, only relevant European subsidiaries of 
NatWest Group take part in the European Banking Authority stress tests. NatWest Group 
itself does not participate.

NatWest Group is taking part in the Bank of England’s system-wide exploratory scenario 
in 2023/24. The objective of the exercise is to understand the risks and behaviours 
flowing from non-bank financial institutions under stress, and how these risks could 
amplify market shocks and pose a risk to financial stability. The Bank of England will 
publish a report on this scenario in 2024 following completion of the exercise. 

Definition, sources of risk and key developments in 2023

obligation to settle outstanding amounts.

Page

DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Credit risk is the risk that customers, counterparties or issuers fail to meet a contractual 

Credit risk

IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn

Governance and risk appetite

Identification and measurement

Mitigation

Assessment and monitoring

Problem debt management

Forbearance

Credit grading models

Impairment, provisioning and write-offs

Governance and post model adjustments

Significant increase in credit risk

Asset lifetimes

Economic loss drivers

Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis

Measurement uncertainty and ECL adequacy

Movement in ECL provision

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ––  BBaannkkiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

Segment analysis – portfolio summary

Segmental loans and impairment metrics

Sector analysis – portfolio summary

Wholesale forbearance

Credit risk enhancement and mitigation

Personal portfolio

Commercial real estate

Flow statements 

Stage 3 vintage analysis

Asset quality

Derivatives

Debt securities

Cross border exposure

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ––  TTrraaddiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

Securities financing transactions and collateral

Stage 2 decomposition – arrears status and contributing factors

Stage 2 decomposition – by a significant increase in credit risk trigger

181

182

182

182

183

184

185

186

186

187

189

189

190

196

199

199

200

201

204

207

213

215

216

221

222

230

232

234

235

239

240

241

242

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk ((aauuddiitteedd))

The principal sources of credit risk for NatWest Group are lending, off-balance sheet 

products, derivatives and securities financing, and debt securities. NatWest Group is also 

exposed to settlement risk through foreign exchange, trade finance and payments 

activities. 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233

 Personal lending grew as a result of strong demand across both mortgages and 

unsecured lending, although mortgage demand reduced during the second half of the 

year in line with trends in the UK mortgage market. Adjustments were made to 

affordability assumptions and stress rates to ensure that lending continued to be 

assessed appropriately, given the high interest rate and inflationary environment. 

Support for customers was proactively promoted during the year and the number of 

customers requesting support (primarily forbearance) increased gradually. Although 

there was an increase in arrears during the year, this was partly driven by overall 

growth in Retail Banking portfolios in recent years, as well as adjustments to lending 

criteria following COVID-19. Indicators of difficulty to pay remain at or below levels 

 Wholesale lending increased during the year, driven by financial institutions sectors. 

Sector appetite continues to be reviewed regularly, with particular focus on sector 

clusters and sub-sectors that are deemed to represent a heightened risk, including 

due to cost of living, supply chain and inflationary pressures.

 Overall expected credit loss (ECL) increased during 2023 reflecting portfolio growth 

alongside broadly stable portfolio performance. There were Stage 3 default flow 

increases, particularly in the Personal portfolio, but these were broadly in line with 

expectations due to growth and normalisation of risk parameters. This was mitigated 

by a net ECL reduction from 2023 updates to economic scenarios and 

weightings. ECL post model adjustments increased during the year reflecting 

continued economic uncertainty from inflation, higher interest rates and liquidity 

concerns.

 NatWest Group continued to align its financial planning process with the climate 

transition planning process. This included adding climate policy and technology-

related transition assumptions into NatWest Group’s base case macroeconomic 

scenario used for financial planning and assessment of ECL in this IFRS 9 reporting 

period. This resulted in an increase in ECL of £6 million.

 Several models were redeveloped in 2023, most notably IFRS 9 probability of default 

(PD) and loss given default (LGD) models for business loans and stress testing models 

for Personal mortgages, financial institutions and non-UK corporates economic 

response models for Wholesale lending.

Financial instruments within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework

observed before COVID-19.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118811

181

Credit risk

IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn

Definition, sources of risk and key developments in 2023
Governance and risk appetite
Identification and measurement
Mitigation
Assessment and monitoring
Problem debt management
Forbearance
Credit grading models
Impairment, provisioning and write-offs
Governance and post model adjustments
Significant increase in credit risk
Asset lifetimes
Economic loss drivers
Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis
Measurement uncertainty and ECL adequacy
Movement in ECL provision

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ––  BBaannkkiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

Financial instruments within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework
Segment analysis – portfolio summary
Segmental loans and impairment metrics
Sector analysis – portfolio summary
Wholesale forbearance
Credit risk enhancement and mitigation
Personal portfolio
Commercial real estate
Flow statements 
Stage 2 decomposition – arrears status and contributing factors
Stage 2 decomposition – by a significant increase in credit risk trigger
Stage 3 vintage analysis
Asset quality

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ––  TTrraaddiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

Securities financing transactions and collateral
Derivatives
Debt securities
Cross border exposure

Page

181
182
182
182
183
184
185
186
186
187
189
189
190
196
199
199

200
201
204
207
213
215
216
221
222
230
232
234
235

239
240
241
242

DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Credit risk is the risk that customers, counterparties or issuers fail to meet a contractual 
obligation to settle outstanding amounts.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk ((aauuddiitteedd))
The principal sources of credit risk for NatWest Group are lending, off-balance sheet 
products, derivatives and securities financing, and debt securities. NatWest Group is also 
exposed to settlement risk through foreign exchange, trade finance and payments 
activities. 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 Personal lending grew as a result of strong demand across both mortgages and 

unsecured lending, although mortgage demand reduced during the second half of the 
year in line with trends in the UK mortgage market. Adjustments were made to 
affordability assumptions and stress rates to ensure that lending continued to be 
assessed appropriately, given the high interest rate and inflationary environment. 
Support for customers was proactively promoted during the year and the number of 
customers requesting support (primarily forbearance) increased gradually. Although 
there was an increase in arrears during the year, this was partly driven by overall 
growth in Retail Banking portfolios in recent years, as well as adjustments to lending 
criteria following COVID-19. Indicators of difficulty to pay remain at or below levels 
observed before COVID-19.

 Wholesale lending increased during the year, driven by financial institutions sectors. 
Sector appetite continues to be reviewed regularly, with particular focus on sector 
clusters and sub-sectors that are deemed to represent a heightened risk, including 
due to cost of living, supply chain and inflationary pressures.

 Overall expected credit loss (ECL) increased during 2023 reflecting portfolio growth 
alongside broadly stable portfolio performance. There were Stage 3 default flow 
increases, particularly in the Personal portfolio, but these were broadly in line with 
expectations due to growth and normalisation of risk parameters. This was mitigated 
by a net ECL reduction from 2023 updates to economic scenarios and 
weightings. ECL post model adjustments increased during the year reflecting 
continued economic uncertainty from inflation, higher interest rates and liquidity 
concerns.

 NatWest Group continued to align its financial planning process with the climate 
transition planning process. This included adding climate policy and technology-
related transition assumptions into NatWest Group’s base case macroeconomic 
scenario used for financial planning and assessment of ECL in this IFRS 9 reporting 
period. This resulted in an increase in ECL of £6 million.

 Several models were redeveloped in 2023, most notably IFRS 9 probability of default 
(PD) and loss given default (LGD) models for business loans and stress testing models 
for Personal mortgages, financial institutions and non-UK corporates economic 
response models for Wholesale lending.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118822

182

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

118833

Credit risk continued

Credit risk continued

GGoovveerrnnaannccee  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The credit risk function provides oversight and challenge of frontline credit risk 
management activities. Governance activities include:

 Defining and proposing credit risk appetite measures for Board approval.
 Establishing credit risk policy, standards and toolkits which set out the mandatory 
limits and parameters required to ensure that credit risk is managed within risk 
appetite and which provide the minimum standards for the identification, assessment, 
management, monitoring and reporting of credit risk.

 Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk remains within the 
appetite set by the Board and that it is being managed adequately and effectively.

 Assessing the adequacy of ECL provisions including approving key IFRS 9 inputs 

(such as significant increase in credit risk (SICR) thresholds) and any necessary in-
model and post model adjustments through NatWest Group and business unit 
provisions and model committees. 

 Development and approval of credit grading models.
 Providing regular reporting on credit risk to the Board Risk Committee and Board. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  
Credit risk appetite is approved by the Board and is set and monitored through risk 
appetite frameworks tailored to NatWest Group’s Personal and Wholesale segments. Risk 
appetite statements and associated measures are reviewed at least annually by the 
Board on the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure they remain 
appropriate and aligned to strategy.

Personal
The Personal credit risk appetite framework sets limits that control the quality and 
concentration of both existing and new business for each relevant business segment. 
These risk appetite measures consider the segments’ ability to grow sustainably and the 
level of losses expected under stress. Credit risk is further controlled through operational 
limits specific to customer or product characteristics. 

Wholesale
For Wholesale credit, the framework has been designed to reflect factors that influence 
the ability to operate within risk appetite. Tools such as stress testing and economic 
capital are used to measure credit risk volatility and develop links between the 
framework and risk appetite limits. 

Operational limits are used to manage concentrations of risk which may arise across four 
lenses – single name, sector, country and product and asset classes. The framework is 
supported by a suite of transactional acceptance standards that set out the risk 
parameters within which businesses should operate.

IIddeennttiiffiiccaattiioonn  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt  

CCrreeddiitt  sstteewwaarrddsshhiipp  (audited)
Risks are identified through relationship management and credit stewardship of 
customers and portfolios. Credit stewardship takes place throughout the customer 
relationship, beginning with the initial approval. It includes the application of credit 
assessment standards, credit risk mitigation and collateral, ensuring that credit 
documentation is complete and appropriate, carrying out regular portfolio or customer 
reviews and problem debt identification and management. 

Asset quality (audited)
All credit grades map to an asset quality (AQ) scale, used for financial reporting. This AQ 
scale is based on Basel PDs. Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 (where the PD is 
less than 100%) and defaulted non-performing loans as AQ10 or Stage 3 under IFRS 9 
(where the PD is 100%). Loans are defined as defaulted when the payment status 
becomes 90 days past due, or earlier if there is clear evidence that the borrower is 
unlikely to repay, for example bankruptcy or insolvency.

Counterparty credit risk
Counterparty credit risk arises from the obligations of customers under derivative and 
securities financing transactions. NatWest Group mitigates counterparty credit risk 
through collateralisation and netting agreements, which allow amounts owed by NatWest 
Group to a counterparty to be netted against amounts the counterparty owes NatWest 
Group. 

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
Mitigation techniques, as set out in the appropriate credit risk toolkits and transactional 
acceptance standards, are used in the management of credit portfolios across NatWest 
Group. These techniques mitigate credit concentrations in relation to an individual 
customer, a borrower group or a collection of related borrowers. Where possible, 
customer credit balances are netted against obligations. Mitigation tools can include 
structuring a security interest in a physical or financial asset, the use of credit derivatives 
including credit default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation 
structures, and the use of guarantees and similar instruments (for example, credit 
insurance) from related and third parties. 

Property is used to mitigate credit risk across a number of portfolios, in particular 
residential mortgage lending and commercial real estate (CRE). 

The valuation methodologies for collateral in the form of residential mortgage property 
and CRE are detailed below. 

RReessiiddeennttiiaall  mmoorrttggaaggeess – NatWest Group takes collateral in the form of residential 

property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages. NatWest Group values 

Underwriting standards and portfolio performance are monitored on an ongoing basis to 

ensure they remain adequate in the current market environment and are not weakened 

residential property individually during the loan underwriting process, either by obtaining 

materially to sustain growth. 

an appraisal by a suitably qualified appraiser (for example, Royal Institution of Chartered 

Surveyors (RICS)) or using a statistically valid model. In both cases, a sample of the 

valuation outputs are periodically reviewed by an independent RICS qualified appraiser. 

NatWest Group updates Retail Banking UK residential property values quarterly using 

country (Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) or English regional specific Office for 

National Statistics House Price indices.

The actual performance of each portfolio is tracked relative to operational limits. The 

limits apply to a range of credit risk-related measures including projected credit default 

rates across products and the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the mortgage portfolios. 

Where operational limits identify areas of concern management action is taken to adjust 

credit or business strategy.

Within the Private Banking and RBSI segments, properties securing loans greater than 

Wholesale 

£2.5 million or €3 million are revalued every three years.

The current indexed value of the property is a component of the ECL provisioning 

calculation.

another.

Wholesale customers, including corporates, banks and other financial institutions are 

managed on an individual basis. Customers are aggregated as a single risk when 

sufficiently interconnected to the extent that a failure of one could lead to the failure of 

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  rreeaall  eessttaattee  vvaalluuaattiioonnss – NatWest Group has an actively managed panel of 

chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography and property sectors in 

which NatWest Group takes collateral. Suitable RICS registered valuers for particular 

assets are contracted through a service agreement to ensure consistency of quality and 

advice. In the UK, an independent third-party market indexation is applied to update 

external valuations for commercial property once they are more than a year old. For 

loan obligations in excess of £2.5 million and where the charged property has a book 

value in excess of £0.5 million, a formal valuation review is commissioned at least every 

three years. 

AAsssseessssmmeenntt  aanndd  mmoonniittoorriinngg  

Practices for credit stewardship – including credit assessment, approval and monitoring 

as well as the identification and management of problem debts – differ between the 

Personal and Wholesale portfolios.

Personal 

Personal customers are served through a lending approach that entails offering a large 

number of small-value loans. To ensure that these lending decisions are made 

consistently, NatWest Group analyses internal credit information as well as external data 

supplied by credit reference agencies (including historical debt servicing behaviour of 

customers with respect to both NatWest Group and other lenders). NatWest Group then 

sets its lending rules accordingly, developing different rules for different products. 

The process is then largely automated, with each customer receiving an individual credit 

score that reflects both internal and external behaviours and this score is compared with 

the lending rules set. For relatively high-value, complex personal loans, including some 

residential mortgage lending, specialist credit managers make the final lending decisions. 

These decisions are made within specified delegated authority limits that are issued 

dependent on the experience of the individual.

A credit assessment is carried out before credit facilities are made available to 

customers. The assessment process is dependent on the complexity of the transaction. 

Credit approvals are subject to environmental, social and governance risk policies which 

restrict exposure to certain highly carbon intensive industries as well as those with 

potentially heightened reputational impacts. Customer specific climate risk commentary 

is now mandatory.  

For lower risk transactions below specific thresholds, credit decisions can be approved 

through a combination of fully automated or relationship manager self-sanctioning within 

the business. This process is facilitated through an auto-decision making system, which 

utilises scorecards, strategies and policy rules. 

For all other transactions, credit is only granted to customers following joint approval by 

an approver from the business and the credit risk function or by two credit officers. The 

joint business and credit approvers act within a delegated approval authority under the 

Wholesale Credit Authorities framework policy. The level of delegated authority held by 

approvers is dependent on their experience and expertise with only a small number of 

senior executives holding the highest approval authority. 

Transactional acceptance standards provide detailed transactional lending and risk 

acceptance metrics and structuring guidance. As such, these standards provide a 

mechanism to manage risk appetite at the customer/transaction level and are 

supplementary to the established credit risk appetite.  

Credit quality through PD credit grades or performance against a combination of risk 

triggers in business banking, and LGD are reviewed and if appropriate reapproved 

annually. The review process assesses borrower performance, including reconfirmation 

or adjustment of risk parameter estimates; the adequacy of security; compliance with 

terms and conditions; and refinancing risk.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118833

183

Credit risk continued

RReessiiddeennttiiaall  mmoorrttggaaggeess – NatWest Group takes collateral in the form of residential 
property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages. NatWest Group values 
residential property individually during the loan underwriting process, either by obtaining 
an appraisal by a suitably qualified appraiser (for example, Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS)) or using a statistically valid model. In both cases, a sample of the 
valuation outputs are periodically reviewed by an independent RICS qualified appraiser. 
NatWest Group updates Retail Banking UK residential property values quarterly using 
country (Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) or English regional specific Office for 
National Statistics House Price indices.

Underwriting standards and portfolio performance are monitored on an ongoing basis to 
ensure they remain adequate in the current market environment and are not weakened 
materially to sustain growth. 

The actual performance of each portfolio is tracked relative to operational limits. The 
limits apply to a range of credit risk-related measures including projected credit default 
rates across products and the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the mortgage portfolios. 
Where operational limits identify areas of concern management action is taken to adjust 
credit or business strategy.

Within the Private Banking and RBSI segments, properties securing loans greater than 
£2.5 million or €3 million are revalued every three years.

The current indexed value of the property is a component of the ECL provisioning 
calculation.

Wholesale 
Wholesale customers, including corporates, banks and other financial institutions are 
managed on an individual basis. Customers are aggregated as a single risk when 
sufficiently interconnected to the extent that a failure of one could lead to the failure of 
another.

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  rreeaall  eessttaattee  vvaalluuaattiioonnss – NatWest Group has an actively managed panel of 
chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography and property sectors in 
which NatWest Group takes collateral. Suitable RICS registered valuers for particular 
assets are contracted through a service agreement to ensure consistency of quality and 
advice. In the UK, an independent third-party market indexation is applied to update 
external valuations for commercial property once they are more than a year old. For 
loan obligations in excess of £2.5 million and where the charged property has a book 
value in excess of £0.5 million, a formal valuation review is commissioned at least every 
three years. 

AAsssseessssmmeenntt  aanndd  mmoonniittoorriinngg  
Practices for credit stewardship – including credit assessment, approval and monitoring 
as well as the identification and management of problem debts – differ between the 
Personal and Wholesale portfolios.

Personal 
Personal customers are served through a lending approach that entails offering a large 
number of small-value loans. To ensure that these lending decisions are made 
consistently, NatWest Group analyses internal credit information as well as external data 
supplied by credit reference agencies (including historical debt servicing behaviour of 
customers with respect to both NatWest Group and other lenders). NatWest Group then 
sets its lending rules accordingly, developing different rules for different products. 

The process is then largely automated, with each customer receiving an individual credit 
score that reflects both internal and external behaviours and this score is compared with 
the lending rules set. For relatively high-value, complex personal loans, including some 
residential mortgage lending, specialist credit managers make the final lending decisions. 
These decisions are made within specified delegated authority limits that are issued 
dependent on the experience of the individual.

A credit assessment is carried out before credit facilities are made available to 
customers. The assessment process is dependent on the complexity of the transaction. 
Credit approvals are subject to environmental, social and governance risk policies which 
restrict exposure to certain highly carbon intensive industries as well as those with 
potentially heightened reputational impacts. Customer specific climate risk commentary 
is now mandatory.  

For lower risk transactions below specific thresholds, credit decisions can be approved 
through a combination of fully automated or relationship manager self-sanctioning within 
the business. This process is facilitated through an auto-decision making system, which 
utilises scorecards, strategies and policy rules. 

For all other transactions, credit is only granted to customers following joint approval by 
an approver from the business and the credit risk function or by two credit officers. The 
joint business and credit approvers act within a delegated approval authority under the 
Wholesale Credit Authorities framework policy. The level of delegated authority held by 
approvers is dependent on their experience and expertise with only a small number of 
senior executives holding the highest approval authority. 

Transactional acceptance standards provide detailed transactional lending and risk 
acceptance metrics and structuring guidance. As such, these standards provide a 
mechanism to manage risk appetite at the customer/transaction level and are 
supplementary to the established credit risk appetite.  

Credit quality through PD credit grades or performance against a combination of risk 
triggers in business banking, and LGD are reviewed and if appropriate reapproved 
annually. The review process assesses borrower performance, including reconfirmation 
or adjustment of risk parameter estimates; the adequacy of security; compliance with 
terms and conditions; and refinancing risk.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118844

184

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

118855

Credit risk continued

PPrroobblleemm  ddeebbtt  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt

Personal 
EEaarrllyy  pprroobblleemm  iiddeennttiiffiiccaattiioonn
Pre-emptive triggers are in place to help identify customers that may be at risk of being 
in financial difficulty. These triggers are both internal, using NatWest Group data, and 
external using information from credit reference agencies. Proactive contact is then 
made with the customer to establish if they require help with managing their finances. By 
adopting this approach, the aim is to prevent a customer’s financial position 
deteriorating.

Personal customers experiencing financial difficulty are managed by the Collections 
team. If the Collections team is unable to provide appropriate support after discussing 
suitable options with the customer, management of that customer moves to the 
Recoveries team. If at any point in the collections and recoveries process, the customer is 
identified as being potentially vulnerable, the customer will be separated from the regular 
process and supported by a specialist team to ensure the customer receives appropriate 
support for their circumstances.

In July 2023, Mortgage Charter support was introduced for residential mortgage 
customers. Mortgage Charter support includes temporary interest only or term 
extensions at the customer’s request. A request for Mortgage Charter does not, of itself 
trigger transfer to a specialist team.

CCoolllleeccttiioonnss  
When a customer exceeds an agreed limit or misses a regular monthly payment the 
customer is contacted by NatWest Group and requested to remedy the position. If the 
situation is not resolved then, where appropriate, the Collections team will become more 
involved and the customer will be supported by skilled debt management staff who 
endeavour to provide customers with bespoke solutions. Solutions include short-term 
account restructuring, refinance loans and forbearance which can include interest 
suspension and ‘breathing space’. All treatments available to customers experiencing 
financial difficulties are reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate for customers 
impacted by current economic conditions.

In the event that an affordable and sustainable agreement with a customer cannot be 
reached, the debt will transition to the Recoveries team. 

For provisioning purposes, under IFRS 9, exposure to customers managed by the 
Collections team is categorised as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime loss assessment, 
unless it is 90 days past due or has triggered any other unlikeliness to pay indicators, in 
which case it is categorised as Stage 3.

RReeccoovveerriieess  
The Recoveries team will issue a notice of intention to default to the customer and, if 
appropriate, a formal demand, while also registering the account with credit reference 
agencies where appropriate. Following this, the customer’s debt may then be placed 
with a third-party debt collection agency, or alternatively a solicitor, in order to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with the customer. An option that may also be considered, is 
the sale of unsecured debt. Exposures subject to formal debt recovery are defaulted and, 
under IFRS 9, categorised as Stage 3.

Wholesale 
EEaarrllyy  pprroobblleemm  iiddeennttiiffiiccaattiioonn  
Each segment and sector have defined early warning indicators to identify customers 
experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase monitoring if needed. Early warning 
indicators may be internal, such as a customer’s bank account activity, or external, such 
as a publicly-listed customer’s share price. If early warning indicators show a customer is 
experiencing potential or actual difficulty, or if relationship managers or credit officers 
identify other signs of financial difficulty, they may decide to classify the customer within 
the Risk of Credit Loss framework. 

There is an equivalent process for Business Banking customers, with problem debt cases 
reallocated to increased monitoring and support under a Portfolio Management 
Relationship team or the Financial Health and Support Team. Broader macro-economic 
trends including commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and consumer and 
government spend are also tracked, helping inform decisions on sector risk appetite. 
Customer level early warning indicators are regularly reviewed to ensure alignment with 
prevailing economic conditions, ensuring both the volume and focus of alerts is aligned to 
the point-in-time risk within each sector.

TThhee  aalliiggnneedd  RRiisskk  ooff  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  aanndd  VViiaabbiilliittyy  ffrraammeewwoorrkk  
This framework focuses on all Wholesale customers to provide early identification of 
credit deterioration, support intelligent risk-taking, ensure fair and consistent customer 
outcomes and provide key insights into Wholesale lending portfolios. Expert judgment is 
applied by experienced credit risk officers to classify cases into categories that reflect 
progressively deteriorating credit risk to NatWest Group. There are two classifications in 
the framework that apply to non-defaulted customers who are in financial stress – 
Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss. For the purposes of provisioning, all 
exposures categorised as Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit Loss are categorised 
as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime loss assessment. The framework also applies to 
those customers that have met NatWest Group’s default criteria (AQ10 exposures). 
Defaulted exposures are categorised as Stage 3 impaired for provisioning purposes.

Heightened Monitoring customers are performing customers that have met certain 
characteristics, which have led to significant credit deterioration. Collectively, 
characteristics reflect circumstances that may affect the customer’s ability to meet 
repayment obligations. Characteristics include trading issues, covenant breaches, 
material PD downgrades and past due facilities. 

Credit risk continued

current risk appetite.

Heightened Monitoring customers require pre-emptive actions (outside the customer’s 

Throughout this period, the mainstream relationship manager will remain an integral part 

normal trading patterns) to return or maintain their facilities within NatWest Group’s 

of the customer relationship. Insolvency is considered as a last resort and if deemed 

necessary, NatWest Group will work to recover its capital in a fair and efficient manner, 

while upholding the fair treatment of customers and NatWest Group’s core values.

Risk of Credit Loss customers are performing customers that have met the criteria for 

Heightened Monitoring and also pose a risk of credit loss to NatWest Group in the next 

12 months should mitigating action not be taken or not be successful.  

FFoorrbbeeaarraannccee ((aauuddiitteedd))

Once classified as either Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit Loss, a number of 

mandatory actions are taken in accordance with policies. Actions include a review of the 

customer’s credit grade, facility and security documentation and the valuation of 

security. Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and the size of the exposure, 

the customer relationship strategy is reassessed by credit officers, by specialist credit risk 

or relationship management units in the relevant business, or by Restructuring.

Agreed customer management strategies are regularly monitored by both the business 

and credit teams. The largest Risk of Credit Loss exposures are regularly reviewed by a 

Risk of Credit Loss forum. The forum members are experienced credit, business and 

restructuring specialists. The purpose of the forum is to review and challenge the 

strategies undertaken for customers that pose the largest risk of credit loss to NatWest 

Group.

Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that may affect the 

customer’s ability to service its debt. Corrective actions may include granting a customer 

various types of concessions. Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of 

specific appetite, the credit quality of the customer, the market environment and the loan 

structure and security. All customers granted forbearance are classified Heightened 

Monitoring as a minimum. 

Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a 

loan/debt in response to a customer’s financial difficulties. 

The aim of forbearance is to support and restore the customer to financial health while 

minimising risk. To ensure that forbearance is appropriate for the needs of the customer, 

minimum standards are applied when assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting 

forbearance.

A credit exposure may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary 

concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another temporary or 

permanent revision of the loan’s terms.

Loans are reported as forborne until they meet the exit criteria as detailed in the 

appropriate regulatory guidance. These include being classified as performing for two 

years since the last forbearance event, making regular repayments and the loan/debt 

being less than 30 days past due. 

Types of forbearance

PPeerrssoonnaall  

In the Personal portfolio, forbearance may involve payment concessions, loan 

rescheduling (including extensions in contractual maturity) and capitalisation of arrears. 

Forbearance support is provided for both mortgages and unsecured lending.

In the Wholesale portfolio, forbearance may involve covenant waivers, amendments to 

margins, payment concessions and loan rescheduling (including extensions in contractual 

maturity), capitalisation of arrears, and debt forgiveness or debt-for-equity swaps.

For Personal portfolios, forborne loans are separated and regularly monitored and 

reported while the forbearance strategy is implemented, until they exit forbearance.  

Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: return the customer to a 

satisfactory status, offer additional lending and continue monitoring, transfer the 

relationship to Restructuring if appropriate, or exit the relationship.

WWhhoolleessaallee

The aligned Risk of Credit Loss and Viability framework does not apply to problem debt 

management for business banking customers. These customers are, where necessary, 

managed by specialist problem debt management teams, depending on the size of 

exposure or by the business banking recoveries team where a loan has been impaired.

PPeerrssoonnaall  

Monitoring of forbearance

RReessttrruuccttuurriinngg

Where customers are categorised as Risk of Credit Loss and the lending exposure is 

above £1 million, relationships are supported by the Restructuring team. The objective of 

WWhhoolleessaallee

Restructuring is to protect NatWest Group’s capital. Restructuring does this by working 

In the Wholesale portfolio, customer PDs and facility LGDs are reassessed prior to 

with corporate and commercial customers in financial difficulty to help them understand 

finalising any forbearance arrangement. The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy 

their options and how their restructuring or repayment strategies can be delivered. 

is highly dependent on the co-operation of the borrower and a viable business or 

Helping viable customers return to financial health and restoring a normal banking 

repayment outcome. Where forbearance is no longer appropriate, NatWest Group will 

relationship is always the preferred outcome; however, where this is not possible, 

consider other options such as the enforcement of security, insolvency proceedings or 

NatWest Group will work with customers to achieve a solvent outcome. 

both, although these are options of last resort.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118855

185

Credit risk continued

Heightened Monitoring customers require pre-emptive actions (outside the customer’s 
normal trading patterns) to return or maintain their facilities within NatWest Group’s 
current risk appetite.

Risk of Credit Loss customers are performing customers that have met the criteria for 
Heightened Monitoring and also pose a risk of credit loss to NatWest Group in the next 
12 months should mitigating action not be taken or not be successful.  

Once classified as either Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit Loss, a number of 
mandatory actions are taken in accordance with policies. Actions include a review of the 
customer’s credit grade, facility and security documentation and the valuation of 
security. Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and the size of the exposure, 
the customer relationship strategy is reassessed by credit officers, by specialist credit risk 
or relationship management units in the relevant business, or by Restructuring.

Agreed customer management strategies are regularly monitored by both the business 
and credit teams. The largest Risk of Credit Loss exposures are regularly reviewed by a 
Risk of Credit Loss forum. The forum members are experienced credit, business and 
restructuring specialists. The purpose of the forum is to review and challenge the 
strategies undertaken for customers that pose the largest risk of credit loss to NatWest 
Group.

Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that may affect the 
customer’s ability to service its debt. Corrective actions may include granting a customer 
various types of concessions. Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of 
specific appetite, the credit quality of the customer, the market environment and the loan 
structure and security. All customers granted forbearance are classified Heightened 
Monitoring as a minimum. 

Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: return the customer to a 
satisfactory status, offer additional lending and continue monitoring, transfer the 
relationship to Restructuring if appropriate, or exit the relationship.

The aligned Risk of Credit Loss and Viability framework does not apply to problem debt 
management for business banking customers. These customers are, where necessary, 
managed by specialist problem debt management teams, depending on the size of 
exposure or by the business banking recoveries team where a loan has been impaired.

RReessttrruuccttuurriinngg
Where customers are categorised as Risk of Credit Loss and the lending exposure is 
above £1 million, relationships are supported by the Restructuring team. The objective of 
Restructuring is to protect NatWest Group’s capital. Restructuring does this by working 
with corporate and commercial customers in financial difficulty to help them understand 
their options and how their restructuring or repayment strategies can be delivered. 
Helping viable customers return to financial health and restoring a normal banking 
relationship is always the preferred outcome; however, where this is not possible, 
NatWest Group will work with customers to achieve a solvent outcome. 

Throughout this period, the mainstream relationship manager will remain an integral part 
of the customer relationship. Insolvency is considered as a last resort and if deemed 
necessary, NatWest Group will work to recover its capital in a fair and efficient manner, 
while upholding the fair treatment of customers and NatWest Group’s core values.

FFoorrbbeeaarraannccee ((aauuddiitteedd))
Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a 
loan/debt in response to a customer’s financial difficulties. 

The aim of forbearance is to support and restore the customer to financial health while 
minimising risk. To ensure that forbearance is appropriate for the needs of the customer, 
minimum standards are applied when assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting 
forbearance.

A credit exposure may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary 
concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another temporary or 
permanent revision of the loan’s terms.

Loans are reported as forborne until they meet the exit criteria as detailed in the 
appropriate regulatory guidance. These include being classified as performing for two 
years since the last forbearance event, making regular repayments and the loan/debt 
being less than 30 days past due. 

Types of forbearance
PPeerrssoonnaall  
In the Personal portfolio, forbearance may involve payment concessions, loan 
rescheduling (including extensions in contractual maturity) and capitalisation of arrears. 
Forbearance support is provided for both mortgages and unsecured lending.

WWhhoolleessaallee
In the Wholesale portfolio, forbearance may involve covenant waivers, amendments to 
margins, payment concessions and loan rescheduling (including extensions in contractual 
maturity), capitalisation of arrears, and debt forgiveness or debt-for-equity swaps.

Monitoring of forbearance
PPeerrssoonnaall  
For Personal portfolios, forborne loans are separated and regularly monitored and 
reported while the forbearance strategy is implemented, until they exit forbearance.  

WWhhoolleessaallee
In the Wholesale portfolio, customer PDs and facility LGDs are reassessed prior to 
finalising any forbearance arrangement. The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy 
is highly dependent on the co-operation of the borrower and a viable business or 
repayment outcome. Where forbearance is no longer appropriate, NatWest Group will 
consider other options such as the enforcement of security, insolvency proceedings or 
both, although these are options of last resort.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118866

186

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

118877

Credit risk continued

Provisioning for forbearance (audited)
PPeerrssoonnaall  
The methodology used for provisioning in respect of Personal forborne loans will differ 
depending on whether the loans are performing or non-performing and which business is 
managing them due to local market conditions. 

Granting forbearance will only change the arrears status of the loan in specific 
circumstances, which can include capitalisation of principal and interest in arrears, where 
the loan may be returned to the performing book if the customer has demonstrated an 
ability to meet regular payments and is likely to continue to do so. 

The loan would continue to be reported as forborne until it meets the exit criteria set out 
by the appropriate regulatory guidance.

For ECL provisioning, all forborne but performing exposures are categorised as Stage 2 
and are subject to a lifetime loss provisioning assessment. Where the forbearance 
treatment includes the cessation of interest on the customer balance (i.e. non-accrual), 
this will be treated as a Stage 3 default.

For non-performing forborne loans, the Stage 3 loss assessment process is the same as 
for non-forborne loans.

WWhhoolleessaallee
Provisions for forborne loans are assessed in accordance with normal provisioning 
policies. The customer’s financial position and prospects – as well as the likely effect of 
the forbearance, including any concessions granted, and revised PD or LGD gradings – 
are considered in order to establish whether an impairment provision increase is 
required.

Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually credit assessed in most cases. 
Performing loans subject to forbearance treatment are categorised as Stage 2 and 
subject to a lifetime loss assessment.

Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt exceeding the present value 
of the estimated future cash flows. This difference will lead to a customer being classified 
as non-performing.  

In the case of non-performing forborne loans, an individual loan impairment provision 
assessment generally takes place prior to forbearance being granted. The amount of the 
loan impairment provision may change once the terms of the forbearance are known, 
resulting in an additional provision charge or a release of the provision in the period the 
forbearance is granted.

The transfer of Wholesale loans from impaired to performing status follows assessment 
by relationship managers and credit. When no further losses are anticipated and the 
customer is expected to meet the loan’s revised terms, any provision is written-off or 
released and the balance of the loan can be returned to performing status once the exit 
criteria, as set out by regulatory guidance, are met. Refer to pages 213 and 216 for 
further details on Wholesale and Personal forbearance. 

CCrreeddiitt  ggrraaddiinngg  mmooddeellss 
Credit grading models is the collective term used to describe all models, frameworks and 
methodologies used to calculate PD, exposure at default (EAD), LGD, maturity and the 
production of credit grades.

Credit grading models are designed to provide: 

 An assessment of customer and transaction characteristics. 
 A meaningful differentiation of credit risk.
 Accurate internal default rate, loss and exposure estimates that are used in the 

capital calculation or wider risk management purposes.

IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt,,  pprroovviissiioonniinngg  aanndd  wwrriittee--ooffffss  ((aauuddiitteedd))
In the overall assessment of credit risk, impairment provisioning and write-offs are used 
as key indicators of credit quality.

NatWest Group’s IFRS 9 provisioning models, which use existing IRB models as a starting 
point, incorporate term structures and forward-looking information. Regulatory 
conservatism within the IRB models has been removed as appropriate to comply with the 
IFRS 9 requirement for unbiased ECL estimates. 

Five key areas may materially influence the measurement of credit impairment under 
IFRS 9 – two of these relate to model build and three relate to model application:

Model build: 
 The determination of economic indicators that have most influence on credit loss for 

each portfolio and the severity of impact (this leverages existing stress testing models 
which are reviewed annually).

 The build of term structures to extend the determination of the risk of loss beyond 12 

months that will influence the impact of lifetime loss for exposures in Stage 2.

Model application:
 The assessment of the SICR and the formation of a framework capable of consistent 

application. 

 The determination of asset lifetimes that reflect behavioural characteristics while also 

representing management actions and processes (using historical data and 
experience).

 The choice of forward-looking economic scenarios and their respective probability 

weights. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 2.3 

IFRS 9 ECL model design principles (audited)
Modelling of ECL for IFRS 9 follows the conventional approach to divide the estimation of 
credit losses into its component parts of PD, LGD and EAD. 

To meet IFRS 9 requirements, the PD, LGD and EAD parameters differ from their Pillar 1 
internal ratings based (IRB) counterparts in the following aspects:

Credit risk continued

 UUnnbbiiaasseedd  –– material regulatory conservatism has been removed from IFRS 9 

WWhhoolleessaallee

parameters to produce unbiased estimates.

 PPooiinntt--iinn--ttiimmee – IFRS 9 parameters reflect actual economic conditions at the reporting 

date instead of long-run average or downturn conditions.

 EEccoonnoommiicc  ffoorreeccaassttss – IFRS 9 PD estimates and, where appropriate, EAD and LGD 

estimates reflect forward-looking economic conditions.

 LLiiffeettiimmee  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt – IFRS 9 PD, LGD and EAD are provided as multi-period term 

structures up to exposure lifetimes instead of over a fixed one-year horizon. 

IFRS 9 requires that at each reporting date, an entity shall assess whether the credit risk 

on an account has increased significantly since initial recognition. Part of this assessment 

requires a comparison to be made between the current lifetime PD (i.e. the PD over the 

remaining lifetime at the reporting date) and the equivalent lifetime PD as determined at 

the date of initial recognition.  

For assets originated before IFRS 9 was introduced, comparable lifetime origination PDs 

did not exist. These have been retrospectively created using the relevant model inputs 

applicable at initial recognition.

PD estimates

PPeerrssoonnaall  mmooddeellss

Personal PD models follow a discrete multi-horizon survival approach, predicting 

quarterly PDs up to lifetime at account level, with a key driver being scores from related 

IRB PD models. Forward-looking economic information is brought in by economic 

response models, which leverage the existing stress test model suite. The current suite of 

PD models was introduced in 2022 replacing the previous, first-generation models to 

remediate a range of model weaknesses.

WWhhoolleessaallee  mmooddeellss

Wholesale PD models use a point-in-time/through-the-cycle framework to convert one-

year regulatory PDs into point-in-time estimates that reflect economic conditions at the 

reporting date. The framework utilises credit cycle indices (CCIs) for a comprehensive set 

of region/industry segments. Further detail on CCIs is provided in the Economic loss 

One year point-in-time PDs are extended to forward-looking lifetime PDs using a 

conditional transition matrix approach and a set of econometric forecasting models.

The general approach for the IFRS 9 LGD models is to leverage corresponding IRB LGD 

models with bespoke adjustments to ensure estimates are unbiased and, where relevant, 

drivers section.

LGD estimates

forward-looking. 

PPeerrssoonnaall  

Forward-looking information has only been incorporated for the secured portfolios, 

where changes in property prices can be readily accommodated. Analysis has shown 

minimal impact of economic conditions on LGDs for the other Personal portfolios. 

Forward-looking economic information is incorporated into LGD estimates using the 

existing point-in-time/through-the-cycle framework. For low default portfolios, including 

sovereigns and banks, loss data is too scarce to substantiate estimates that vary with 

economic conditions. Consequently, for these portfolios, LGD estimates are assumed to 

be constant throughout the projection horizon.

EAD estimates

PPeerrssoonnaall  

The IFRS 9 Personal modelling approach for EAD is dependent on product type. 

 Revolving products use the existing IRB models as a basis, with appropriate 

adjustments incorporating a term structure based on time to default.

 Amortising products use an amortising schedule, where a formula is used to calculate 

the expected balance based on remaining terms and interest rates.

Analysis has indicated that there is minimal impact on EAD arising from changes in the 

economy for all Personal portfolios except mortgages. Therefore, forward-looking 

information is only incorporated in the mortgage EAD model (through forecast changes 

in interest rates).

WWhhoolleessaallee

For Wholesale, EAD values are projected using product specific credit conversion factors 

(CCFs), closely following the product segmentation and approach of the respective IRB 

model. However, the CCFs are estimated over multi-year time horizons and contain no 

regulatory conservatism or downturn assumptions.

No explicit forward-looking information is incorporated, on the basis of analysis showing 

the temporal variation in CCFs is mainly attributable to changes in exposure 

management practices rather than economic conditions. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee  aanndd  ppoosstt  mmooddeell  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss ((aauuddiitteedd))

The IFRS 9 PD, EAD and LGD models are subject to NatWest Group’s model risk policy 

that stipulates periodic model monitoring, periodic re-validation and defines approval 

procedures and authorities according to model materiality. Various post model 

adjustments were applied where management judged they were necessary to ensure an 

adequate level of overall ECL provision. All post model adjustments were subject to 

review, challenge and approval through model or provisioning committees.

Post model adjustments will remain a key focus area of NatWest Group’s ongoing ECL 

adequacy assessment process. A holistic framework has been established including 

reviewing a range of economic data, external benchmark information and portfolio 

performance trends with a particular focus on segments of the portfolio (both 

commercial and consumer) that are likely to be more susceptible to high inflation, high 

interest rates and supply chain disruption.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118877

187

Credit risk continued

 UUnnbbiiaasseedd  –– material regulatory conservatism has been removed from IFRS 9 

parameters to produce unbiased estimates.

 PPooiinntt--iinn--ttiimmee – IFRS 9 parameters reflect actual economic conditions at the reporting 

date instead of long-run average or downturn conditions.

 EEccoonnoommiicc  ffoorreeccaassttss – IFRS 9 PD estimates and, where appropriate, EAD and LGD 

estimates reflect forward-looking economic conditions.

 LLiiffeettiimmee  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt – IFRS 9 PD, LGD and EAD are provided as multi-period term 

structures up to exposure lifetimes instead of over a fixed one-year horizon. 

IFRS 9 requires that at each reporting date, an entity shall assess whether the credit risk 
on an account has increased significantly since initial recognition. Part of this assessment 
requires a comparison to be made between the current lifetime PD (i.e. the PD over the 
remaining lifetime at the reporting date) and the equivalent lifetime PD as determined at 
the date of initial recognition.  

For assets originated before IFRS 9 was introduced, comparable lifetime origination PDs 
did not exist. These have been retrospectively created using the relevant model inputs 
applicable at initial recognition.

PD estimates
PPeerrssoonnaall  mmooddeellss
Personal PD models follow a discrete multi-horizon survival approach, predicting 
quarterly PDs up to lifetime at account level, with a key driver being scores from related 
IRB PD models. Forward-looking economic information is brought in by economic 
response models, which leverage the existing stress test model suite. The current suite of 
PD models was introduced in 2022 replacing the previous, first-generation models to 
remediate a range of model weaknesses.

WWhhoolleessaallee  mmooddeellss
Wholesale PD models use a point-in-time/through-the-cycle framework to convert one-
year regulatory PDs into point-in-time estimates that reflect economic conditions at the 
reporting date. The framework utilises credit cycle indices (CCIs) for a comprehensive set 
of region/industry segments. Further detail on CCIs is provided in the Economic loss 
drivers section.

One year point-in-time PDs are extended to forward-looking lifetime PDs using a 
conditional transition matrix approach and a set of econometric forecasting models.

LGD estimates
The general approach for the IFRS 9 LGD models is to leverage corresponding IRB LGD 
models with bespoke adjustments to ensure estimates are unbiased and, where relevant, 
forward-looking. 

PPeerrssoonnaall  
Forward-looking information has only been incorporated for the secured portfolios, 
where changes in property prices can be readily accommodated. Analysis has shown 
minimal impact of economic conditions on LGDs for the other Personal portfolios. 

WWhhoolleessaallee
Forward-looking economic information is incorporated into LGD estimates using the 
existing point-in-time/through-the-cycle framework. For low default portfolios, including 
sovereigns and banks, loss data is too scarce to substantiate estimates that vary with 
economic conditions. Consequently, for these portfolios, LGD estimates are assumed to 
be constant throughout the projection horizon.

EAD estimates
PPeerrssoonnaall  
The IFRS 9 Personal modelling approach for EAD is dependent on product type. 

 Revolving products use the existing IRB models as a basis, with appropriate 

adjustments incorporating a term structure based on time to default.

 Amortising products use an amortising schedule, where a formula is used to calculate 

the expected balance based on remaining terms and interest rates.

Analysis has indicated that there is minimal impact on EAD arising from changes in the 
economy for all Personal portfolios except mortgages. Therefore, forward-looking 
information is only incorporated in the mortgage EAD model (through forecast changes 
in interest rates).

WWhhoolleessaallee
For Wholesale, EAD values are projected using product specific credit conversion factors 
(CCFs), closely following the product segmentation and approach of the respective IRB 
model. However, the CCFs are estimated over multi-year time horizons and contain no 
regulatory conservatism or downturn assumptions.

No explicit forward-looking information is incorporated, on the basis of analysis showing 
the temporal variation in CCFs is mainly attributable to changes in exposure 
management practices rather than economic conditions. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee  aanndd  ppoosstt  mmooddeell  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss ((aauuddiitteedd))
The IFRS 9 PD, EAD and LGD models are subject to NatWest Group’s model risk policy 
that stipulates periodic model monitoring, periodic re-validation and defines approval 
procedures and authorities according to model materiality. Various post model 
adjustments were applied where management judged they were necessary to ensure an 
adequate level of overall ECL provision. All post model adjustments were subject to 
review, challenge and approval through model or provisioning committees.

Post model adjustments will remain a key focus area of NatWest Group’s ongoing ECL 
adequacy assessment process. A holistic framework has been established including 
reviewing a range of economic data, external benchmark information and portfolio 
performance trends with a particular focus on segments of the portfolio (both 
commercial and consumer) that are likely to be more susceptible to high inflation, high 
interest rates and supply chain disruption.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118888

188

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

118899

Credit risk continued

ECL post model adjustments
The table below shows ECL post model adjustments.

2023

Deferred model calibrations
Economic uncertainty
Other adjustments
Total
Of which: 
 - Stage 1 
 - Stage 2
 - Stage 3

2022

Economic uncertainty
Other adjustments
Total
Of which: 
 - Stage 1 
 - Stage 2
 - Stage 3
.

Post model adjustments increased since 31 December 2022, with notable shifts in all 
categories. This reflected:

 The addition of deferred model calibration post model adjustments to account for 
elevated refinance risks on deteriorated exposures largely due to pressures from 
inflation and liquidity. 

 The increase in the economic uncertainty post model adjustments for Wholesale 
portfolios relating to inflation, supply chain and liquidity prompted by continued 
affordability risks, as a result of higher interest rates and sustained inflation. This was 
partially offset by a reduction in COVID-19 related post model adjustments.

 RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg – The post model adjustments for economic uncertainty increased 
slightly to £157 million at 31 December 2023, from £153 million at 31 December 
2022. Continued consumer affordability risks, as a result of higher interest rates and 
sustained inflation, prompted an uplift in the cost of living post model adjustment (up 
from £127 million to £144 million). The cost of living post model adjustment captured 
the risk on segments in the Retail Banking portfolio that are more susceptible to the 
effects of cost of living rises. It focused on key affordability lenses, including 
customers with lower income in fuel poverty, over-indebted borrowers and 
customers vulnerable to a potential mortgage rate shock. This increase during the 
year was partly offset by some LGD post model adjustment reductions. Additionally, 
the judgemental post model adjustment relating to the modelling of cards EAD 

Retail Banking

Commercial

Central items

Mortgages

Other

Private Banking

& Institutional

& other (1)

£m
-
118
1
119

75
31
13

102
8
110

62
32
16

£m
-
39
-
39

14
25
-

51
20
71

27
44
-

£m
1
13
-
14

6
8
-

6
-
6

3
3
-

£m
23
256
8
287

115
167
5

191
16
207

63
139
5

£m
-
3
23
26

10
9
7

2
15
17

-
16
1

Total

£m
24
429
32
485

220
240
25

352
59
411

155
234
22

(£20 million at 31 December 2022) was discontinued at H1 2023 and the latest 
update to the post model adjustment for legacy higher risk interest only residential 
mortgages resulted in a £7 million reduction in the post model adjustment from 31 
December 2022, reflecting latest analysis of the portfolio segment.  

 CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall – The post model adjustments for economic uncertainty 
increased to £256 million at 31 December 2023, from £191 million at 31 December 
2022. It included an overlay of £50 million at 31 December 2023, from £108 million at 
31 December 2022, to cover the residual risks from COVID-19, including the risk that 
government support schemes could affect future recoveries and concerns 
surrounding associated debt, to customers that have utilised government support 
schemes. The inflation and supply chain post model adjustment was maintained with 
a mechanistic adjustment, via a sector-level downgrade, being applied to the sectors 
that were considered most at risk from these headwinds. A number of additional 
sectors were added to the sector-level downgrade reflecting the ongoing pressures 
from inflation being higher for longer plus broader concerns around reducing cash 
reserves across many sectors. The impact of the sector-level downgrades is a post 
model adjustment increase to £206 million at 31 December 2023 from £83 million at 
31 December 2022, reflecting these significant headwinds which are not fully 
captured in the models. The £23 million judgemental overlay for deferred model 
calibrations relates to refinance risk with the existing mechanistic modelling approach 
not fully capturing the risk on deteriorated exposures. Other adjustments included an 
overlay of £7 million to mitigate the effect of operational timing delays in the 
identification and flagging of a SICR.

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ((SSIICCRR))  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The criteria are based on a significant amount of empirical analysis and seek to meet 

three key objectives:

Credit risk continued

Exposures that are considered significantly credit deteriorated since initial recognition are 

classified in Stage 2 and assessed for lifetime ECL measurement (exposures not 

considered deteriorated carry a 12 month ECL). NatWest Group has adopted a 

framework to identify deterioration based primarily on relative movements in lifetime PD 

supported by additional qualitative backstops. The principles applied are consistent 

across NatWest Group and align to credit risk management practices, where 

appropriate. 

The framework comprises the following elements:

 IIFFRRSS  99  lliiffeettiimmee  PPDD  aasssseessssmmeenntt  ((tthhee  pprriimmaarryy  ddrriivveerr)) – on modelled portfolios, the 

assessment is based on the relative deterioration in forward-looking lifetime PD and 

is assessed monthly. To assess whether credit deterioration has occurred, the 

residual lifetime PD at balance sheet date (which PD is established at date of initial 

recognition (DOIR)) is compared to the current PD. If the current lifetime PD exceeds 

the residual origination PD by more than a threshold amount, deterioration is 

assumed to have occurred and the exposure transferred into Stage 2 for a lifetime 

loss assessment. For Wholesale, a doubling of PD would indicate a SICR subject to a 

minimum PD uplift of 0.1%. For Personal portfolios, the criteria vary by risk band, with 

lower risk exposures needing to deteriorate more than higher risk exposures, as 

outlined in the following table:

PPeerrssoonnaall  rriisskk  bbaannddss

Risk band A

Risk band B

Risk band C

PPDD  bbaannddiinnggss  ((bbaasseedd  oonn rreessiidduuaall  

PPDD  ddeetteerriioorraattiioonn  tthhrreesshhoolldd  

lliiffeettiimmee  PPDD  ccaallccuullaatteedd  aatt  DDOOIIRR))

<0.762%

<4.306%

>=4.306%

ccrriitteerriiaa

PD@DOIR + 1%

PD@DOIR + 3%

1.7 x PD@DOIR

 QQuuaalliittaattiivvee  hhiigghh--rriisskk  bbaacckkssttooppss – the PD assessment is complemented with the use of 

qualitative high-risk backstops to further inform whether significant deterioration in 

lifetime risk of default has occurred. The qualitative high-risk backstop assessment 

includes the use of the mandatory 30+ days past due backstop, as prescribed by 

IFRS 9 guidance, and other features such as forbearance support, Wholesale 

exposures managed within the Risk of Credit Loss framework, and adverse credit 

bureau results for Personal customers. 

 PPeerrssiisstteennccee  ((PPeerrssoonnaall  aanndd  bbuussiinneessss  bbaannkkiinngg  ccuussttoommeerrss  oonnllyy)) – the persistence rule 

ensures that accounts which have met the criteria for PD driven deterioration are still 

considered to be significantly deteriorated for three months thereafter. This additional 

rule enhances the timeliness of capture in Stage 2. The persistence rule is applied to 

years.

PD driven deterioration only.

 CCrriitteerriiaa  eeffffeeccttiivveenneessss – the criteria should be effective in identifying significant credit 

deterioration and prospective default population.

 SSttaaggee  22 ssttaabbiilliittyy – the criteria should not introduce unnecessary volatility in the Stage 

2 population.

 PPoorrttffoolliioo  aannaallyyssiiss – the criteria should produce results which are intuitive when 

reported as part of the wider credit portfolio.

Monitoring the effect on relative PD deterioration when originating new lending at times 

of weaker economic outlook (therefore, higher PDs at initial recognition) is important to 

ensure SICR criteria remains effective.

AAsssseett  lliiffeettiimmeess ((aauuddiitteedd))

The choice of initial recognition and asset duration is another critical judgment in 

determining the quantum of lifetime losses that apply. 

 The date of initial recognition reflects the date that a transaction (or account) was 

first recognised on the balance sheet; the PD recorded at that time provides the 

baseline used for subsequent determination of SICR as detailed above. 

 For asset duration, the approach applied (in line with IFRS 9 requirements) is:





TTeerrmm  lleennddiinngg  –– the contractual maturity date, reduced for behavioural trends 

where appropriate (such as, expected prepayment and amortisation).

RReevvoollvviinngg  ffaacciilliittiieess – for Personal portfolios (except credit cards), asset duration 

is based on behavioural life and this is normally greater than contractual life 

(which would typically be overnight). For Wholesale portfolios, asset duration is 

based on annual customer review schedules and will be set to the next review 

date.

In the case of credit cards, the most significant judgment is to reflect the operational 

practice of card reissuance and the associated credit assessment as enabling a formal 

re-origination trigger. As a consequence, a capped lifetime approach of up to 36 months 

is used on credit card balances. If the approach was uncapped the ECL impact is 

estimated at approximately £110 million (2022 – £80 million). However, credit card 

balances originated under the 0% balance transfer product and representing 

approximately 37% (2022 – 19%) of performing card balances, have their ECL calculated 

on a behavioural lifetime approach as opposed to being capped at a maximum of three 

The capped approach reflects NatWest Group practice of a credit-based review of 

customers prior to credit card issuance and complies with IFRS 9. Benchmarking 

information indicates that peer UK banks use behavioural approaches in the main for 

credit card portfolios with average durations between three and ten years. Across 

Europe, durations are shorter and are, in some cases, as low as one year. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

118899

189

Credit risk continued

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ((SSIICCRR))  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Exposures that are considered significantly credit deteriorated since initial recognition are 
classified in Stage 2 and assessed for lifetime ECL measurement (exposures not 
considered deteriorated carry a 12 month ECL). NatWest Group has adopted a 
framework to identify deterioration based primarily on relative movements in lifetime PD 
supported by additional qualitative backstops. The principles applied are consistent 
across NatWest Group and align to credit risk management practices, where 
appropriate. 

The criteria are based on a significant amount of empirical analysis and seek to meet 
three key objectives:

 CCrriitteerriiaa  eeffffeeccttiivveenneessss – the criteria should be effective in identifying significant credit 

deterioration and prospective default population.

 SSttaaggee  22 ssttaabbiilliittyy – the criteria should not introduce unnecessary volatility in the Stage 

2 population.

 PPoorrttffoolliioo  aannaallyyssiiss – the criteria should produce results which are intuitive when 

reported as part of the wider credit portfolio.

The framework comprises the following elements:

 IIFFRRSS  99  lliiffeettiimmee  PPDD  aasssseessssmmeenntt  ((tthhee  pprriimmaarryy  ddrriivveerr)) – on modelled portfolios, the 

assessment is based on the relative deterioration in forward-looking lifetime PD and 
is assessed monthly. To assess whether credit deterioration has occurred, the 
residual lifetime PD at balance sheet date (which PD is established at date of initial 
recognition (DOIR)) is compared to the current PD. If the current lifetime PD exceeds 
the residual origination PD by more than a threshold amount, deterioration is 
assumed to have occurred and the exposure transferred into Stage 2 for a lifetime 
loss assessment. For Wholesale, a doubling of PD would indicate a SICR subject to a 
minimum PD uplift of 0.1%. For Personal portfolios, the criteria vary by risk band, with 
lower risk exposures needing to deteriorate more than higher risk exposures, as 
outlined in the following table:

PPeerrssoonnaall  rriisskk  bbaannddss
Risk band A
Risk band B
Risk band C

PPDD  bbaannddiinnggss  ((bbaasseedd  oonn rreessiidduuaall  

PPDD  ddeetteerriioorraattiioonn  tthhrreesshhoolldd  

lliiffeettiimmee  PPDD  ccaallccuullaatteedd  aatt  DDOOIIRR))

<0.762%
<4.306%
>=4.306%

ccrriitteerriiaa

PD@DOIR + 1%
PD@DOIR + 3%
1.7 x PD@DOIR

 QQuuaalliittaattiivvee  hhiigghh--rriisskk  bbaacckkssttooppss – the PD assessment is complemented with the use of 
qualitative high-risk backstops to further inform whether significant deterioration in 
lifetime risk of default has occurred. The qualitative high-risk backstop assessment 
includes the use of the mandatory 30+ days past due backstop, as prescribed by 
IFRS 9 guidance, and other features such as forbearance support, Wholesale 
exposures managed within the Risk of Credit Loss framework, and adverse credit 
bureau results for Personal customers. 

 PPeerrssiisstteennccee  ((PPeerrssoonnaall  aanndd  bbuussiinneessss  bbaannkkiinngg  ccuussttoommeerrss  oonnllyy)) – the persistence rule 

ensures that accounts which have met the criteria for PD driven deterioration are still 
considered to be significantly deteriorated for three months thereafter. This additional 
rule enhances the timeliness of capture in Stage 2. The persistence rule is applied to 
PD driven deterioration only.

Monitoring the effect on relative PD deterioration when originating new lending at times 
of weaker economic outlook (therefore, higher PDs at initial recognition) is important to 
ensure SICR criteria remains effective.

AAsssseett  lliiffeettiimmeess ((aauuddiitteedd))
The choice of initial recognition and asset duration is another critical judgment in 
determining the quantum of lifetime losses that apply. 

 The date of initial recognition reflects the date that a transaction (or account) was 
first recognised on the balance sheet; the PD recorded at that time provides the 
baseline used for subsequent determination of SICR as detailed above. 
 For asset duration, the approach applied (in line with IFRS 9 requirements) is:





TTeerrmm  lleennddiinngg  –– the contractual maturity date, reduced for behavioural trends 
where appropriate (such as, expected prepayment and amortisation).
RReevvoollvviinngg  ffaacciilliittiieess – for Personal portfolios (except credit cards), asset duration 
is based on behavioural life and this is normally greater than contractual life 
(which would typically be overnight). For Wholesale portfolios, asset duration is 
based on annual customer review schedules and will be set to the next review 
date.

In the case of credit cards, the most significant judgment is to reflect the operational 
practice of card reissuance and the associated credit assessment as enabling a formal 
re-origination trigger. As a consequence, a capped lifetime approach of up to 36 months 
is used on credit card balances. If the approach was uncapped the ECL impact is 
estimated at approximately £110 million (2022 – £80 million). However, credit card 
balances originated under the 0% balance transfer product and representing 
approximately 37% (2022 – 19%) of performing card balances, have their ECL calculated 
on a behavioural lifetime approach as opposed to being capped at a maximum of three 
years.

The capped approach reflects NatWest Group practice of a credit-based review of 
customers prior to credit card issuance and complies with IFRS 9. Benchmarking 
information indicates that peer UK banks use behavioural approaches in the main for 
credit card portfolios with average durations between three and ten years. Across 
Europe, durations are shorter and are, in some cases, as low as one year. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119900

190

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

119911

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))
Introduction 
The portfolio segmentation and selection of economic loss drivers for IFRS 9 follows the 
approach used in stress testing. To enable robust modelling the forecasting models for 
each portfolio segment (defined by product or asset class and where relevant, industry 
sector and region) are based on a selected, small number of economic variables, 
(typically three to four) that best explain the temporal variations in portfolio loss rates. 
The process to select economic loss drivers involves empirical analysis and expert 
judgement.

The most significant economic loss drivers for the most material portfolios are shown in 
the table below:

Portfolio

Economic loss drivers

UK Personal mortgages

UK unemployment rate, sterling swap rate, UK house 
price index, UK real wage

UK Personal unsecured

UK unemployment rate, sterling swap rate, UK real 
wage

UK corporates

UK stock price index, UK gross domestic product, Bank 
of England base rate

UK commercial real estate

UK stock price index, UK commercial property price 
index, UK GDP, Bank of England base rate

Economic scenarios 
At 31 December 2023, the range of anticipated future economic conditions was defined 
by a set of four internally developed scenarios and their respective probabilities. In 
addition to the base case, they comprised upside, downside and extreme downside 
scenarios. The scenarios primarily reflected the current risks faced by the economy, 
particularly in relation to the path of inflation and interest rates.

For 2023, the four scenarios were deemed appropriate in capturing the uncertainty in 
economic forecasts and the non-linearity in outcomes under different scenarios. These 
four scenarios were developed to provide sufficient coverage across potential rises in 
unemployment, inflation, asset price declines and the degree of permanent damage to 
the economy, around which there remains pronounced levels of uncertainty.

UUppssiiddee – This scenario assumes robust growth as inflation falls sharply and rates are 
lowered more quickly than expected. Consumer spending is supported by savings built 
up since COVID-19 and further helped by fiscal support and strong business investment. 
The labour market remains resilient, with the unemployment rate falling. The housing 
market slows down compared to the previous year but remains robust. 

Compared to 31 December 2022, the upside scenario remains similarly configured, 
exploring a more benign set of economic outcomes, including a stronger performing 
stock market, real estate prices, and supported by a stronger global growth backdrop, 
relative to the base case view. Reflecting recent outturn data, inflation falls back quicker 
and the labour market is tighter than previously assumed.

BBaassee  ccaassee – High inflation and tight monetary policy leads to muted economic growth. 
However, continued disinflation allows an easing cycle to start in 2024. The 
unemployment rate rises modestly but there are no wide-spread job losses. Inflation 
moderates and falls to a target level of 2% by early 2025. The housing market 
experiences modest nominal price decline but the extent of the decline is lower than 
experienced during prior stresses. Housing market activities remain weak but gains pace 
gradually as interest rates fall and real income recovers.

Since 31 December 2022, the economic outlook has improved as energy prices fell 
sharply and the labour market remained resilient. The near-term inflation outlook 
remains elevated and upside risks remain but they have reduced since last year. Rates 
increased to levels higher than expected previously and are expected to remain higher 
for longer. Economic growth is still expected to be muted in the near-term. The base 
case now assumes muted growth in 2023 as opposed to a mild recession assumed 
previously. The unemployment rate still rises but the peak is marginally lower and is 
underpinned by a resilient labour market The peak to trough house price correction 
remains broadly similar to the previous assumption but the timing of the fall is more 
spread out.

DDoowwnnssiiddee – Inflation resurges as energy prices rise and core inflation remains persistently 
high. The economy experiences a recession as consumer confidence weakens due to a 
fall in real income. Interest rates are raised higher than the base case and remain 
elevated for longer. High rates are assumed to have a more significant impact on the 
labour market. Unemployment is higher than the base case scenario while house prices 
experience declines comparable to previous episodes of stress.

Compared to 31 December 2022, the downside scenario explores risks associated with 
ongoing price pressures and significantly higher interest rates across the period. This 
contrasts with last year’s scenario, which assumed lower rates than the base case view. 
Partly as a result, UK economic activity and labour market are slightly weaker. Nominal 
asset prices, while experiencing declines comparable with past downturns, perform 
slightly better than previously assumed.

EExxttrreemmee  ddoowwnnssiiddee – This scenario assumes a classical recession with loss of consumer 
confidence leading to a deep economic recession. This results in widespread job losses 
with the unemployment rate rising above the levels seen during the 2008 financial crisis. 
Rates are cut sharply in response, leading to some support to the recovery. House prices 
lose approximately a third of their value.

Compared to 31 December 2022, the extreme downside again captures an extreme set 
of economic outcomes, with very sharp falls in asset prices and a marked deterioration in 
the labour market. The key difference is the assumed path for interest rates. Unlike at 31 
December 2022, when recessionary risks were explored in the context of a stubbornly 
high inflation environment, both inflation and interest rates are now assumed to follow a 
significantly lower trajectory – consistent with recession driven by material weakness in 
domestic demand.

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))

Main macroeconomic variables

FFiivvee--yyeeaarr  ssuummmmaarryy

GDP

Unemployment

House price index

Commercial real estate price

Consumer price index

Bank of England base rate

UK stock price index

World GDP

Probability weight

The main macroeconomic variables for each of the four scenarios used for expected credit loss (ECL) modelling are set out in the main macroeconomic variables table below. 

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Upside

Base case

Downside

downside

average  

Upside

Base case

Downside

downside

average

Extreme

Weighted

Extreme

Weighted

%

1.8

3.5

3.9

3.1

1.7

3.8

4.8

3.7

(0.2)

%

1.0

4.6

0.3

2.6

3.7

3.3

3.2

%

0.5

5.2

(0.4)

(2.0)

5.2

5.6

1.2

2.7

20.4

%

(0.3)

6.8

(5.7)

(6.8)

1.8

2.9

(0.4)

1.8

13.4

%  

(0.6)

0.9

4.8

0.3

2.8

4.0

2.8

3.0

%

2.2

3.9

5.1

1.2

3.6

2.4

3.0

3.7

(1.9)

%

1.3

4.5

0.8

4.2

3.1

1.4

3.3

%

0.8

4.9

(0.7)

(2.8)

4.4

1.5

(1.1)

1.7

20.8

%

0.4

6.7

(4.4)

(9.1)

8.2

4.5

(3.7)

1.1

15.6

(2.5)

%

1.2

4.8

0.6

4.8

2.8

0.5

2.7

21.2

45.0

18.6

45.0

(1)

(2)

The five-year summary runs from 2023-27 for 31 December 2023 and from 2022-26 for 31 December 2022.

The table shows CAGR for annual GDP, average levels for the unemployment rate and Bank of England base rate and Q4 to Q4 CAGR for other parameters.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119911

191

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))
The main macroeconomic variables for each of the four scenarios used for expected credit loss (ECL) modelling are set out in the main macroeconomic variables table below. 

Main macroeconomic variables

FFiivvee--yyeeaarr  ssuummmmaarryy
GDP
Unemployment
House price index
Commercial real estate price
Consumer price index
Bank of England base rate
UK stock price index
World GDP
Probability weight

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Upside

Base case

Downside

downside

average  

Upside

Base case

Downside

downside

average

Extreme

Weighted

Extreme

Weighted

%

1.8
3.5
3.9
3.1
1.7
3.8
4.8
3.7
21.2

%

1.0
4.6
0.3
(0.2)
2.6
3.7
3.3
3.2
45.0

%

0.5
5.2
(0.4)
(2.0)
5.2
5.6
1.2
2.7
20.4

%

(0.3)
6.8
(5.7)
(6.8)
1.8
2.9
(0.4)
1.8
13.4

%  

0.9
4.8
0.3
(0.6)
2.8
4.0
2.8
3.0

%

2.2
3.9
5.1
1.2
3.6
2.4
3.0
3.7
18.6

%

1.3
4.5
0.8
(1.9)
4.2
3.1
1.4
3.3
45.0

%

0.8
4.9
(0.7)
(2.8)
4.4
1.5
(1.1)
1.7
20.8

%

0.4
6.7
(4.4)
(9.1)
8.2
4.5
(3.7)
1.1
15.6

%

1.2
4.8
0.6
(2.5)
4.8
2.8
0.5
2.7

(1)
(2)

The five-year summary runs from 2023-27 for 31 December 2023 and from 2022-26 for 31 December 2022.
The table shows CAGR for annual GDP, average levels for the unemployment rate and Bank of England base rate and Q4 to Q4 CAGR for other parameters.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119922

192

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

119933

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Climate transition
During 2023, NatWest Group continued to align its financial planning process with the 
climate transition planning process. This included adding climate policy and technology 
related transition assumptions into NatWest Group’s base case macroeconomic scenario 
used for financial planning and assessment of ECL in this IFRS 9 reporting period. This 
resulted in an increase in ECL of less than £1 million.

As in the initial iteration of the Climate transition plan, included in NatWest Group’s 2022 
Climate-related Disclosures Report, NatWest Group assesses the effects of climate 
transition policies within the base case macroeconomic scenario, using the UK Climate 
Change Committee (CCC) Balanced Net Zero (BNZ) scenario, aligned with the UK CCC 
sixth carbon budget, as a starting point. In addition, NatWest Group included estimated 
average policy delay into the climate economic assumptions for IFRS 9 purposes, based 
on the credibility ratings for sectoral policies provided by the UK CCC 2022 Progress 
Report to Parliament, to reflect estimated time delays based on credibility ratings as 
follows:

 CCrreeddiibbllee  ppoolliicciieess – estimated zero years of delayed adjustment to the BNZ pathway 

for the associated policy. 

 PPoolliicciieess  wwiitthh  ssoommee  oorr  ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  rriisskk – estimated three and five years of delay 

respectively for the associated policy. 

 PPoolliicciieess  wwiitthh  iinnssuuffffiicciieenntt  ppllaannss – estimated ten years of delay for the associated policy.

The base case macroeconomic scenario now explicitly includes assumptions about the 
changes in transition policy expressed as an additional implicit carbon price. Implicit 
carbon price is an additional cost related to greenhouse gas emissions as a result of 
climate transition policy. 

NatWest Group assumes that between now and 2028, the transition policy will change 
slowly, and the implicit carbon price will increase modestly by £10.5/tCO2e, which is 
consistent with the UK CCC BNZ scenario. The base case macroeconomic scenario also 
included assumptions about abatement technology development and specific sectors’ 
transition, for example, the switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. 
NatWest Group will continue to enhance this analysis, including updates in the UK CCC 
2023 Progress Report to Parliament published in June 2023.

While previous NatWest Group IFRS 9 base case scenarios included some climate 
transition considerations, they were based on all enacted policies and available 
technologies. The new approach described here applies to explicitly identifying the effect 
of additional climate transition policy. 

NatWest Group and its customers have a dependency on timely and appropriate 
government policies to provide the necessary impetus for technology development and 
customer behaviour changes, to enable the UK’s successful transition to net zero. Policy 
delays and risks outlined in the UK CCC 2022 and 2023 Progress Reports, if not 
adequately addressed in a timely manner, put at risk the UK’s net zero transition and in 
turn that of NatWest Group and its customers. 

For this first iteration of climate economic assumptions included within the base case 
macroeconomic scenario, NatWest Group focused on policy and technology related 
transition risks. It is assumed that in more extreme scenarios it is likely that climate policy 
changes would offset adverse/benign economic conditions. NatWest Group’s tools, 
methodologies and assessment of climate risks will continue to evolve to further align 
financial planning and climate transition planning processes.

Probability weightings of scenarios 
NatWest Group’s quantitative approach to IFRS 9 multiple economic scenarios (MES) 
involves selecting a suitable set of discrete scenarios to characterise the distribution of 
risks in the economic outlook and assigning appropriate probability weights. This 
quantitative approach is used for 31 December 2023.

The approach involves comparing UK GDP paths for NatWest Group’s scenarios against 
a set of 1,000 model runs, following which, a percentile in the distribution is established 
that most closely corresponded to the scenario. Probability weight for base case is set 
first based on judgement, while probability weights for the alternate scenarios are 
assigned based on these percentiles scores.

The assigned probability weights were judged to be aligned with the subjective 
assessment of balance of the risks in the economy. The weights were broadly 
comparable to those used at 31 December 2022 but with slightly less downside skew. 
This is reasonable as the inflation outturn since then has been encouraging, with 
continued disinflation and a reduced risk of stagflation. However, the risks still remain 
elevated and there is considerable uncertainty in the economic outlook, particularly with 
respect to persistence and the range of outcomes on inflation. Given that backdrop, 
NatWest Group judges it appropriate that downside-biased scenarios have higher 
combined probability weights than the upside-biased scenario. It presents good coverage 
to the range of outcomes assumed in the scenarios, including the potential for a robust 
recovery on the upside and exceptionally challenging outcomes on the downside. A 
21.2% weighting was applied to the upside scenario, a 45.0% weighting applied to the 
base case scenario, a 20.4% weighting applied to the downside scenario and a 13.4% 
weighting applied to the extreme downside scenario.

2600

2500

2400

2300

2200

2100

2000

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss

UK gross domestic product (£bn)

Bank of England base rate (%)

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

UK unemployment rate (%)

2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119933

193

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss

2600

2500

2400

2300

2200

2100

2000

UK gross domestic product (£bn)

Bank of England base rate (%)

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0
2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

UK unemployment rate (%)

9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2023Q1

2024Q1

2025Q1

2026Q1

2027Q1

2028Q1

Upside

Downside

Base case

Extreme downside

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119944

194

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

119955

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))
Annual figures

Upside %
0.5
3.6
2.3
1.2
1.2
1.2

Upside %
4.2
3.9
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.3

Upside %
(2.9)
7.2
9.4
2.8
3.3
3.5

Upside %
(7.2)
12.7
3.5
4.6
2.9
1.3

Base case %
0.5
0.4
1.3
1.6
1.4
1.4

Base case %
4.2
4.7
4.7
4.6
4.6
4.5

GDP - annual growth

Downside %
0.5
(1.1)
0.4
1.2
1.3
1.3

Extreme downside %
0.5
(2.7)
(1.6)
1.2
1.2
1.2

Weighted average %
0.5
0.3
1.0
1.4
1.3
1.3

Unemployment rate - annual average

Downside %
4.2
5.2
5.8
5.6
5.5
5.3

Extreme downside %
4.2
6.2
8.4
8.0
7.4
6.7

Weighted average %
4.2
4.8
5.1
5.0
4.8
4.7

House price index - four quarter change

Base case %
(2.9)
(5.0)
3.1
3.4
3.4
3.4

Downside %
(2.9)
(7.1)
(3.1)
5.5
6.1
4.4

Extreme downside %
(2.9)
(11.5)
(14.2)
(5.8)
7.2
6.6

Commercial real estate price - four quarter change

Base case %
(7.2)
-
2.7
2.0
1.9
0.8

Downside %
(7.2)
(7.3)
(2.0)
3.8
3.1
2.6

Extreme downside %
(7.2)
(18.4)
(20.0)
6.7
8.5
8.6

Weighted average %
(2.9)
(3.7)
1.2
2.7
4.3
3.9

Weighted average %
(7.2)
(1.2)
(0.5)
3.4
3.0
2.0

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028

Upside %
4.6
0.9
0.7
1.1
1.2
1.1

Upside %
4.68
4.79
3.46
3.17
2.75
2.50

Upside %
3.7
8.1
5.1
3.6
3.6
2.9

Consumer price index - four quarter change

Base case %
4.6
2.5
2.0
1.9
1.9
1.9

Downside %
4.6
8.5
5.3
3.8
3.7
3.6

Extreme downside %
4.6
(1.2)
1.7
2.0
2.0
2.0

Bank of England base rate - annual average

Base case %
4.68
4.77
3.46
2.85
2.75
2.75

Downside %
4.68
6.10
6.08
5.69
5.31
5.06

Extreme downside %
4.68
4.00
2.06
2.00
2.00
2.25

UK stock price index - four quarter change

Base case %
3.7
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2

Downside %
3.7
(17.4)
8.7
7.9
5.6
5.3

Extreme downside %
3.7
(41.5)
24.9
16.7
11.0
9.9

Weighted average %
4.6
2.9
2.4
2.1
2.2
2.1

Weighted average %
4.68
4.94
3.81
3.38
3.17
3.10

Weighted average %
3.7
(5.9)
6.5
5.5
4.6
4.3

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))

Worst points

GDP

Unemployment rate - peak

House price index

Commercial real estate price

Consumer price index - highest four quarter change

Bank of England base rate  - extreme level

UK stock price index

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Downside

%

(1.2)

5.8

(12.5)

(16.6)

10.3

6.5

(14.3)

Quarter

Q3 2024

Q1 2025

Q4 2025

Q1 2025

Q1 2023

Q4 2024

Q4 2024

Extreme

downside

%

(4.5)

8.5

(31.7)

(39.9)

10.3

5.3

(39.3)

Quarter

Q4 2024

Q2 2025

Q2 2026

Q3 2025

Q1 2023

Q4 2023

Q4 2024

Weighted

average

%

0.3

5.2

(6.5)

(10.2)

10.3

5.3

(2.4)

Downside

%

(3.2)

6.0

(15.0)

(21.8)

15.7

4.0

(26.0)

Quarter

Q4 2023

Q1 2024

Q1 2025

Q4 2023

Q1 2023

Q1 2023

Q4 2023

Extreme

downside

%

(4.7)

8.5

(26.2)

(46.8)

17.0

6.0

(48.7)

Quarter

Q4 2023

Q3 2024

Q3 2025

Q3 2024

Q4 2023

Q1 2024

Q4 2023

Weighted

average

%

(0.8)

5.4

(3.4)

(16.4)

11.7

4.1

(14.1)

(1) Unless specified otherwise, the figures show falls relative to the starting period. The calculations are performed over five years, with a starting point of Q4 2022 for 31 December 2023 scenarios and Q4 2021 for 31 December 2022 scenarios.

Use of the scenarios in Personal lending

Personal lending follows a discrete scenario approach. The PD, EAD, LGD and resultant 

ECL for each discrete scenario is calculated using product specific economic response 

models. Probability weighted averages across the suite of economic scenarios are then 

calculated for each of the model outputs, with the weighted PD being used for staging 

section.

The effects of these risks are not expected to be fully captured by forward-looking credit 

modelling, particularly given the high inflation environment, low unemployment base case 

outlook. Any incremental ECL effects for these risks will be captured via post model 

adjustments and are detailed further in the Governance and post model adjustments 

Business Banking utilises the Personal lending methodology rather than the Wholesale 

During 2023, the monitoring framework for the retail model suite was enhanced to 

purposes. 

lending methodology.

Use of the scenarios in Wholesale lending

Wholesale lending follows a continuous scenario approach to calculate ECL. PD and LGD 

treatment of government-guaranteed loans. 

Model and monitoring enhancements

enable more granular performance tracking at key segment levels, such as balance 

transfers versus non-balance transfers for the credit cards models. A new Business 

Banking PD, EAD and LGD model suite was redeveloped in 2023, ensuring appropriate 

In addition, the retail economic response models, which are used to bring forward-

looking information into the IFRS 9 PD models, were redeveloped to bring in more 

inflationary drivers. In Wholesale lending, new economic response models were 

introduced in 2022 and 2023 that follow an improved modelling approach and put higher 

weight on stock price indices compared to previous models. 

values arising from multiple economic forecasts (based on the concept of credit cycle 

indices) are simulated around the central projection. The central projection is a weighted 

average of economic scenarios with the scenarios translated into credit cycle indices 

using the Wholesale economic response models. 

UK economic uncertainty 

The high inflation environment alongside high interest rates are presenting significant 

headwinds for some businesses and consumers, in many cases compounding. These cost 

pressures remain a feature of the economic environment, though they are expected to 

moderate over 2024 and 2025 in the base case scenario. NatWest Group has considered 

where these are most likely to affect the customer base, with the cost of borrowing 

during 2023 for both businesses and consumers presenting an additional affordability 

challenge.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119955

195

Credit risk continued

EEccoonnoommiicc  lloossss  ddrriivveerrss ((aauuddiitteedd))
Worst points

GDP
Unemployment rate - peak
House price index
Commercial real estate price
Consumer price index - highest four quarter change
Bank of England base rate  - extreme level
UK stock price index

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Downside

%
(1.2)
5.8
(12.5)
(16.6)
10.3
6.5
(14.3)

Quarter
Q3 2024
Q1 2025
Q4 2025
Q1 2025
Q1 2023
Q4 2024
Q4 2024

Extreme

downside

%
(4.5)
8.5
(31.7)
(39.9)
10.3
5.3
(39.3)

Quarter
Q4 2024
Q2 2025
Q2 2026
Q3 2025
Q1 2023
Q4 2023
Q4 2024

Weighted

average

%
0.3
5.2
(6.5)
(10.2)
10.3
5.3
(2.4)

Downside

%
(3.2)
6.0
(15.0)
(21.8)
15.7
4.0
(26.0)

Quarter
Q4 2023
Q1 2024
Q1 2025
Q4 2023
Q1 2023
Q1 2023
Q4 2023

Extreme

downside

%
(4.7)
8.5
(26.2)
(46.8)
17.0
6.0
(48.7)

Quarter
Q4 2023
Q3 2024
Q3 2025
Q3 2024
Q4 2023
Q1 2024
Q4 2023

Weighted

average

%
(0.8)
5.4
(3.4)
(16.4)
11.7
4.1
(14.1)

(1) Unless specified otherwise, the figures show falls relative to the starting period. The calculations are performed over five years, with a starting point of Q4 2022 for 31 December 2023 scenarios and Q4 2021 for 31 December 2022 scenarios.

Use of the scenarios in Personal lending
Personal lending follows a discrete scenario approach. The PD, EAD, LGD and resultant 
ECL for each discrete scenario is calculated using product specific economic response 
models. Probability weighted averages across the suite of economic scenarios are then 
calculated for each of the model outputs, with the weighted PD being used for staging 
purposes. 

Business Banking utilises the Personal lending methodology rather than the Wholesale 
lending methodology.

Use of the scenarios in Wholesale lending
Wholesale lending follows a continuous scenario approach to calculate ECL. PD and LGD 
values arising from multiple economic forecasts (based on the concept of credit cycle 
indices) are simulated around the central projection. The central projection is a weighted 
average of economic scenarios with the scenarios translated into credit cycle indices 
using the Wholesale economic response models. 

UK economic uncertainty 
The high inflation environment alongside high interest rates are presenting significant 
headwinds for some businesses and consumers, in many cases compounding. These cost 
pressures remain a feature of the economic environment, though they are expected to 
moderate over 2024 and 2025 in the base case scenario. NatWest Group has considered 
where these are most likely to affect the customer base, with the cost of borrowing 
during 2023 for both businesses and consumers presenting an additional affordability 
challenge.

The effects of these risks are not expected to be fully captured by forward-looking credit 
modelling, particularly given the high inflation environment, low unemployment base case 
outlook. Any incremental ECL effects for these risks will be captured via post model 
adjustments and are detailed further in the Governance and post model adjustments 
section.

Model and monitoring enhancements
During 2023, the monitoring framework for the retail model suite was enhanced to 
enable more granular performance tracking at key segment levels, such as balance 
transfers versus non-balance transfers for the credit cards models. A new Business 
Banking PD, EAD and LGD model suite was redeveloped in 2023, ensuring appropriate 
treatment of government-guaranteed loans. 

In addition, the retail economic response models, which are used to bring forward-
looking information into the IFRS 9 PD models, were redeveloped to bring in more 
inflationary drivers. In Wholesale lending, new economic response models were 
introduced in 2022 and 2023 that follow an improved modelling approach and put higher 
weight on stock price indices compared to previous models. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119966

196

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

119977

Credit risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  sseennssiittiivviittyy  aannaallyyssiiss ((aauuddiitteedd))
The recognition and measurement of ECL is complex and involves the use of significant 
judgment and estimation, particularly in times of economic volatility and uncertainty. This 
includes the formulation and incorporation of multiple forward-looking economic 
conditions into ECL to meet the measurement objective of IFRS 9. The ECL provision is 
sensitive to the model inputs and economic assumptions underlying the estimate.

The focus of the simulations is on ECL provisioning requirements on performing 
exposures in Stage 1 and Stage 2. The simulations are run on a stand-alone basis and 
are independent of each other; the potential ECL impacts reflect the simulated impact at 
31 December 2023. Scenario impacts on SICR should be considered when evaluating the 
ECL movements of Stage 1 and Stage 2. In all scenarios the total exposure was the 
same but exposure by stage varied in each scenario.

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  sseennssiittiivviittyy  aannaallyyssiiss ((aauuddiitteedd))

Stage 3 provisions are not subject to the same level of measurement uncertainty – 
default is an observed event as at the balance sheet date. Stage 3 provisions therefore 
were not considered in this analysis.

NatWest Group’s core criterion to identify a SICR is founded on PD deterioration. Under 
the simulations, PDs change and result in exposures moving between Stage 1 and Stage 
2 contributing to the ECL impact.

The impact arising from the base case, upside, downside and extreme downside 
scenarios was simulated. These scenarios are used in the methodology for Personal 
multiple economic scenarios as described in the Economic loss drivers section. In the 
simulations, NatWest Group has assumed that the economic macro variables associated 
with these scenarios replace the existing base case economic assumptions, giving them a 
100% probability weighting and therefore serving as a single economic scenario.

These scenarios were applied to all modelled portfolios in the analysis below, with the 
simulation impacting both PDs and LGDs. Post model adjustments included in the ECL 
estimates that were modelled were sensitised in line with the modelled ECL movements, 
but those that were judgmental in nature, primarily those for deferred model calibrations 
and economic uncertainty, were not (refer to the Governance and post model 
adjustments section) on the basis these would be re-evaluated by management through 
ECL governance for any new economic scenario outlook and not be subject to an 
automated calculation. As expected, the scenarios create differing impacts on ECL by 
portfolio and the impacts are deemed reasonable. In this simulation, it is assumed that 
existing modelled relationships between key economic variables and loss drivers hold, but 
in practice other factors would also have an impact, for example, potential customer 
behaviour changes and policy changes by lenders that might impact on the wider 
availability of credit.

Moderate

Moderate

Extreme

Base

upside

downside

downside

Actual

scenario

scenario

scenario

scenario

173,982

174,642

175,311

171,320

165,143

8,802

26,933

123,228

332,945

8,838

27,088

124,107

334,675

8,992

27,200

124,742

336,245

8,652

26,645

122,243

328,860

8,334

22,326

104,657

300,460

86

221

102

276

685

0.05%

2.51%

0.38%

0.22%

0.21%

17,825

3,772

3,306

13,512

38,415

60

445

93

364

962

0.34%

11.80%

2.81%

2.69%

2.50%

86

222

80

246

634

0.05%

2.51%

0.30%

0.20%

0.19%

17,165

3,736

3,151

12,633

36,685

56

435

80

310

881

0.33%

11.64%

2.54%

2.45%

2.40%

84

219

61

211

575

0.05%

2.44%

0.22%

0.17%

0.17%

16,496

3,582

3,039

11,998

35,115

48

383

68

264

763

0.29%

10.69%

2.24%

2.20%

2.17%

84

221

131

331

767

0.05%

2.55%

0.49%

0.27%

0.23%

20,487

3,922

3,594

14,497

42,500

70

487

111

432

0.34%

12.42%

3.09%

2.98%

2.59%

79

211

184

434

908

0.05%

2.53%

0.82%

0.41%

0.30%

26,664

4,240

7,913

32,083

70,900

100

554

273

789

0.38%

13.07%

3.45%

2.46%

2.42%

1,100

1,716

Credit risk continued

22002233

Stage 1 modelled loans (£m)

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 modelled ECL (£m)

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 coverage

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 modelled loans (£m)

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 modelled ECL (£m)

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 coverage

Retail Banking - mortgages

Retail Banking - unsecured

Wholesale - property

Wholesale - non-property

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119977

197

Credit risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  sseennssiittiivviittyy  aannaallyyssiiss ((aauuddiitteedd))

22002233
Stage 1 modelled loans (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 modelled ECL (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 coverage
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 modelled loans (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 modelled ECL (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 2 coverage
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Moderate

Moderate

Extreme

Base

upside

downside

downside

Actual

scenario

scenario

scenario

scenario

173,982
8,802
26,933
123,228
332,945

174,642
8,838
27,088
124,107
334,675

175,311
8,992
27,200
124,742
336,245

171,320
8,652
26,645
122,243
328,860

165,143
8,334
22,326
104,657
300,460

86
221
102
276
685

0.05%
2.51%
0.38%
0.22%
0.21%

17,825
3,772
3,306
13,512
38,415

60
445
93
364
962

0.34%
11.80%
2.81%
2.69%
2.50%

86
222
80
246
634

0.05%
2.51%
0.30%
0.20%
0.19%

17,165
3,736
3,151
12,633
36,685

56
435
80
310
881

0.33%
11.64%
2.54%
2.45%
2.40%

84
219
61
211
575

0.05%
2.44%
0.22%
0.17%
0.17%

16,496
3,582
3,039
11,998
35,115

48
383
68
264
763

0.29%
10.69%
2.24%
2.20%
2.17%

84
221
131
331
767

0.05%
2.55%
0.49%
0.27%
0.23%

20,487
3,922
3,594
14,497
42,500

70
487
111
432
1,100

0.34%
12.42%
3.09%
2.98%
2.59%

79
211
184
434
908

0.05%
2.53%
0.82%
0.41%
0.30%

26,664
4,240
7,913
32,083
70,900

100
554
273
789
1,716

0.38%
13.07%
3.45%
2.46%
2.42%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119988

198

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

119999

Credit risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  sseennssiittiivviittyy  aannaallyyssiiss ((aauuddiitteedd))

Credit risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  aaddeeqquuaaccyy ((aauuddiitteedd))

MMoovveemmeenntt  iinn  EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonn  (1)

 If the economics were as negative as observed in the extreme downside (i.e. 100% 

The table below shows the main ECL provision movements during the year.

22002233
Stage 1 and Stage 2 modelled loans (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 and Stage 2 modelled ECL (£m)
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Stage 1 and Stage 2 coverage
Retail Banking - mortgages
Retail Banking - unsecured
Wholesale - property
Wholesale - non-property

Reconciliation to Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL (£m)
ECL on modelled exposure
ECL on UBIDAC modelled exposures
ECL on non-modelled exposures

Total Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL (£m)
Variance to actual total Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL (£m)
Reconciliation to Stage 1 and Stage 2 flow exposure (£m)
Modelled loans
UBIDAC loans
Non-modelled loans
Other asset classes

Moderate

Moderate

Extreme

Base

upside

downside

downside

Actual

scenario

scenario

scenario

scenario

191,807
12,574
30,239
136,740
371,360

191,807
12,574
30,239
136,740
371,360

191,807
12,574
30,239
136,740
371,360

191,807
12,574
30,239
136,740
371,360

191,807
12,574
30,239
136,740
371,360

146
666
195
640
1,647

0.08%
5.30%
0.64%
0.47%
0.44%

1,647
8
30

1,685

142
657
160
556
1,515

0.07%
5.23%
0.53%
0.41%
0.41%

1,515
8
30

1,553
(132)

132
602
129
475
1,338

0.07%
4.79%
0.43%
0.35%
0.36%

1,338
8
30

1,376
(309)

154
708
242
763
1,867

0.08%
5.63%
0.80%
0.56%
0.50%

1,867
8
30

1,905
220

179
765
457
1,223
2,624

0.09%
6.08%
1.51%
0.89%
0.71%

2,624
8
30

2,662
977

371,360
318
19,522
153,439

371,360
318
19,522
153,439

371,360
318
19,522
153,439

371,360
318
19,522
153,439

371,360
318
19,522
153,439

probability weighting), total Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL was simulated to increase by 

around £1 billion (approximately 58%). In this scenario, Stage 2 exposure increased 

significantly and was the key driver of the simulated ECL rise. The movement in 

Stage 2 balances in the other simulations was less significant.

 In the Wholesale portfolio, there was a significant increase in ECL under both a 

moderate and extreme downside scenario. The Wholesale property ECL increase 

was mainly due to commercial real estate prices which showed negative growth until 

2025 and significant deterioration in the stock index. The non-property increase was 

mainly due to GDP contraction and significant deterioration in the stock index.

 A net improvement in the economic scenarios since 2022 resulted in a reduction in 

modelled ECL. 

 Given that continued uncertainty remained due to high inflation, high interest rates 

during 2023 and supply chain disruption, NatWest Group utilised a framework of 

quantitative and qualitative measures to support the levels of ECL coverage. This 

included economic data, credit performance insights, supply chain contagion analysis 

and problem debt trends. This was particularly important for consideration of post 

model adjustments.

 As the effects of these economic risks evolve into 2024, there is a risk of further 

credit deterioration. However, the income statement effect of this should have been 

mitigated by the forward-looking provisions retained on the balance sheet at 31 

December 2023.

 There are a number of key factors that could drive further downside to impairments, 

through deteriorating economic and credit metrics and increased stage migration as 

credit risk increases for more customers. Such factors which could impact the IFRS 9 

models, include an adverse deterioration in unemployment and GDP in the economies 

in which NatWest Group operates.

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Transfers to disposal groups and reclassifications

Changes in economic forecasts

Changes in risk metrics and exposure: Stage 1 and Stage 2

Changes in risk metrics and exposure: Stage 3

   Changes in post model adjustments for Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3

Judgmental changes: 

Write-offs and other

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

At 1 January 2022

2022 movements

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

ECL provision

£m

3,434

(80)

(125)

95

557

74

(310)

3,645

3,806

(372)

3,434

(1)   The above table is not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.

 During the year, overall ECL increased reflecting portfolio growth alongside broadly 

stable portfolio performance. There were Stage 3 default flow increases, particularly 

in the Personal portfolio, but these were broadly in line with expectations due to 

growth and normalisation of risk parameters. This was mitigated by a net ECL 

reduction from 2023 updates to economic scenarios and weightings. 

 Judgemental ECL post model adjustments, increased from 31 December 2022, 

reflecting continued economic uncertainty from inflation being higher for longer, 

higher interest rates and liquidity concerns, and represented 13% of total ECL (2022 

– 12%).

 For the Wholesale portfolio, default levels were lower than historic trends as the 

effects of higher inflation, supply chain disruption and higher interest rates, had to 

date, not led to a significant change in defaults.

 Stage 3 balances increased due to default flows, as described above, alongside 

reduced write-off activity in 2023.

(1) Variations in future undrawn exposure values across the scenarios are modelled, however the exposure position reported is that used to calculate modelled ECL as at 31 December 2023 and therefore does not include variation in future undrawn exposure 

values.

(2) Reflects ECL for all modelled exposure in scope for IFRS 9. The analysis excludes non-modelled portfolios and exposure relating to bonds and cash.
(3)
(4) All simulations are run on a stand-alone basis and are independent of each other, with the potential ECL impact reflecting the simulated impact as at 31 December 2023  The simulations change the composition of Stage 1 and Stage 2 exposure but total 

Exposures related to Ulster Bank RoI continuing operations were not included in the simulations, the current Ulster Bank RoI ECL has been included across all scenarios to enable reconciliation to other disclosures.

exposure is unchanged under each scenario as the loan population is static.
(5) Refer to the Economic loss drivers section for details of economic scenarios.
(6) Refer to the NatWest Group plc 2022 Annual Report and Accounts for 2022 comparatives.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

119999

199

Credit risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  uunncceerrttaaiinnttyy  aanndd  EECCLL  aaddeeqquuaaccyy ((aauuddiitteedd))
 If the economics were as negative as observed in the extreme downside (i.e. 100% 
probability weighting), total Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL was simulated to increase by 
around £1 billion (approximately 58%). In this scenario, Stage 2 exposure increased 
significantly and was the key driver of the simulated ECL rise. The movement in 
Stage 2 balances in the other simulations was less significant.

 In the Wholesale portfolio, there was a significant increase in ECL under both a 

moderate and extreme downside scenario. The Wholesale property ECL increase 
was mainly due to commercial real estate prices which showed negative growth until 
2025 and significant deterioration in the stock index. The non-property increase was 
mainly due to GDP contraction and significant deterioration in the stock index.
 A net improvement in the economic scenarios since 2022 resulted in a reduction in 

modelled ECL. 

 Given that continued uncertainty remained due to high inflation, high interest rates 
during 2023 and supply chain disruption, NatWest Group utilised a framework of 
quantitative and qualitative measures to support the levels of ECL coverage. This 
included economic data, credit performance insights, supply chain contagion analysis 
and problem debt trends. This was particularly important for consideration of post 
model adjustments.

 As the effects of these economic risks evolve into 2024, there is a risk of further 

credit deterioration. However, the income statement effect of this should have been 
mitigated by the forward-looking provisions retained on the balance sheet at 31 
December 2023.

 There are a number of key factors that could drive further downside to impairments, 
through deteriorating economic and credit metrics and increased stage migration as 
credit risk increases for more customers. Such factors which could impact the IFRS 9 
models, include an adverse deterioration in unemployment and GDP in the economies 
in which NatWest Group operates.

MMoovveemmeenntt  iinn  EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonn  (1)
The table below shows the main ECL provision movements during the year.

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Transfers to disposal groups and reclassifications
Changes in economic forecasts
Changes in risk metrics and exposure: Stage 1 and Stage 2
Changes in risk metrics and exposure: Stage 3
Judgmental changes: 
   Changes in post model adjustments for Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3
Write-offs and other
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
At 1 January 2022
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

(1)   The above table is not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.

ECL provision

£m
3,434
(80)
(125)
95
557

74
(310)
3,645
3,806
(372)
3,434

 During the year, overall ECL increased reflecting portfolio growth alongside broadly 
stable portfolio performance. There were Stage 3 default flow increases, particularly 
in the Personal portfolio, but these were broadly in line with expectations due to 
growth and normalisation of risk parameters. This was mitigated by a net ECL 
reduction from 2023 updates to economic scenarios and weightings. 

 Judgemental ECL post model adjustments, increased from 31 December 2022, 
reflecting continued economic uncertainty from inflation being higher for longer, 
higher interest rates and liquidity concerns, and represented 13% of total ECL (2022 
– 12%).

 For the Wholesale portfolio, default levels were lower than historic trends as the 

effects of higher inflation, supply chain disruption and higher interest rates, had to 
date, not led to a significant change in defaults.

 Stage 3 balances increased due to default flows, as described above, alongside 

reduced write-off activity in 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

200

200

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

201

Credit risk – Banking activities

IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn
This section details the credit risk profile of NatWest Group’s banking activities. Refer to Accounting policy 2.3 and 
Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for policies and critical judgments relating to impairment loss 
determination.

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  wwiitthhiinn  tthhee  ssccooppee  ooff  tthhee  IIFFRRSS  99  EECCLL  ffrraammeewwoorrkk  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for balance sheet analysis of financial assets that are 
classified as amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), the starting point for IFRS 9 
ECL framework assessment. 

Balance sheet total gross amortised cost and FVOCI
In scope of IFRS 9 ECL framework
% in scope
Loans to customers - in scope - amortised cost
Loans to customers - in scope - FVOCI
Loans to banks - in scope - amortised cost
TToottaall  llooaannss  --  iinn  ssccooppee
  Stage 1
  Stage 2
  Stage 3
Other financial assets - in scope - amortised cost
Other financial assets - in scope - FVOCI
TToottaall  ootthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  --  iinn  ssccooppee
  Stage 1
  Stage 2
Out of scope of IFRS 9 ECL framework
Loans to customers - out of scope - amortised cost
Loans to banks - out of scope - amortised cost
Other financial assets - out of scope - amortised cost
Other financial assets - out of scope - FVOCI
na = not applicable

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Gross

£bn
553.8
545.3
98%
385.3
0.1
6.7
392.1
348.6
37.9
5.6
124.9
28.3
153.2
152.0
1.2
8.5
(0.4)
0.3
8.3
0.3

ECL

£bn

Net

£bn

3.6
-
-
3.6
0.7
0.9
2.0
-
-
-
-
-
na
na
na
na
na

381.7
0.1
6.7
388.5
347.9
37.0
3.6
124.9
28.3
153.2
152.0
1.2
8.5
(0.4)
0.3
8.3
0.3

Gross

£bn
554.3
550.3
99%
370.1
0.1
6.9
377.1
325.2
46.8
5.1
156.4
16.8
173.2
172.4
0.8
4.0
(0.4)
0.2
4.1
0.1

ECL

£bn

3.3
-
-
3.3
0.6
0.9
1.8
-
-
-
-
-
na
na
na
na
na

Net

£bn

366.8
0.1
6.9
373.8
324.6
45.9
3.3
156.4
16.8
173.2
172.4
0.8
4.0
(0.4)
0.2
4.1
0.1

The assets outside the scope of IFRS 9 ECL framework 
were as follows:

 Settlement balances, items in the course of collection, 
cash balances and other non-credit risk assets of £8.6 
billion (2022 – £4.3 billion). These were assessed as 
having no ECL unless there was evidence that they 
were defaulted. 

 Equity shares of £0.3 billion (2022 – £0.4 billion) as not 



within the IFRS 9 ECL framework by definition.  
Fair value adjustments on loans hedged by interest rate 
swaps, where the underlying loan was within the IFRS 9 
ECL scope of £(0.3) billion (2022 – £(0.6) billion). 

Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to contingent liabilities and commitments 
disclosed in Note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements, reputationally-committed limits were also 
included in the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework. These 
were offset by £0.1 billion (2022 – £(0.1) billion) out of scope 
balances primarily related to facilities that, if drawn, would 
not be classified as amortised cost or FVOCI, or undrawn 
limits relating to financial assets exclusions. Total contingent 
liabilities (including financial guarantees) and commitments 
within IFRS 9 ECL scope of £132.0 billion (2022 – £137.2 
billion) comprised Stage 1 £120.6 billion (2022 – £119.2 
billion); Stage 2 £10.7 billion (2022 – £17.3 billion); and 
Stage 3 £0.7 billion (2022 – £0.7 billion). 

The ECL relating to off balance sheet exposures was £0.1 
billion (2022 – £0.1 billion). The total ECL in the remainder 
of the Credit risk section of £3.6 billion (2022 – £3.4 billion) 
included ECL for both on and off-balance sheet exposures 
for non-disposal groups.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows gross loans and ECL, by segment and stage, within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework. 

Retail

Private

 Commercial &

Central items

Banking

Banking

Institutional

£m

£m

£m

182,297

21,208

3,133

-

3,133

17,565

906

258

186

72

119,047

15,771

2,162

845

1,317

136,980

Subtotal excluding disposal group loans

206,638

18,729

29,693

392,040

LLooaannss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  aanndd  FFVVOOCCII ((11))

22002233

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Disposal group loans

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss ((22))

Total 

Stage 1

Stage 2 

Stage 3

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Total 

Stage 1 (%)

Stage 2 (%)

Stage 3 (%)

Total 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//lloosssseess

ECL (release)/charge (4)

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Continuing operations

Discontinued operations

Total

Amounts written-off 

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Subtotal excluding ECL provisions on disposal group loans

ECL provisions on disposal group loans

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee ((33))

ECL provisions coverage excluding disposal group loans

ECL provisions coverage on disposal group loans

For the notes to this table refer to the following page. 

306

502

1,097

-

1,097

1,905

0.17

2.37

35.01

0.92

465

(172)

440

197

-

197

465

188

-

188

0.11

2.21

13.18

0.40

20

20

34

34

-

74

14

(9)

15

8

8

-

14

2

2

-

356

447

819

298

521

1,622

0.30

2.83

37.88

1.18

94

(222)

182

134

80

54

94

122

40

82

29,760

392,107

& other

£m

29,677

6

10

-

10

67

27

7

10

-

10

44

36

80

0.09

nm

100.00

0.15

53.73

0.27

(9)

(10)

(6)

(1)

5

6

8

1

5

7

-

7

Total

£m

348,586

37,891

5,563

1,031

4,532

67

709

976

1,960

332

1,628

3,645

36

3,681

0.20

2.58

35.23

0.93

53.73

0.94

578

(397)

645

330

89

241

578

(6)

572

319

42

277

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

201

201

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows gross loans and ECL, by segment and stage, within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework. 

Retail

Private

 Commercial &

Central items

22002233
LLooaannss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  aanndd  FFVVOOCCII ((11))
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Subtotal excluding disposal group loans
Disposal group loans
Total 
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss ((22))
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Subtotal excluding ECL provisions on disposal group loans
ECL provisions on disposal group loans
Total 
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee ((33))
Stage 1 (%)
Stage 2 (%)
Stage 3 (%)
ECL provisions coverage excluding disposal group loans
ECL provisions coverage on disposal group loans
Total 
IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//lloosssseess
ECL (release)/charge (4)
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations
Total
Amounts written-off 
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
For the notes to this table refer to the following page. 

Banking

Banking

Institutional

£m

£m

£m

182,297
21,208
3,133
-
3,133
206,638

17,565
906
258
186
72
18,729

119,047
15,771
2,162
845
1,317
136,980

& other

£m

29,677
6
10
-
10
29,693
67
29,760

Total

£m

348,586
37,891
5,563
1,031
4,532
392,040
67
392,107

306
502
1,097
-
1,097
1,905

0.17
2.37
35.01
0.92

465
(172)
440
197
-
197
465

188
-
188

20
20
34
34
-
74

0.11
2.21
13.18
0.40

14
(9)
15
8
8
-
14

2
2
-

356
447
819
298
521
1,622

0.30
2.83
37.88
1.18

94
(222)
182
134
80
54
94

122
40
82

27
7
10
-
10
44
36
80

0.09
nm
100.00
0.15
53.73
0.27

5
6
8
(9)
1
(10)
5
(6)
(1)
7
-
7

709
976
1,960
332
1,628
3,645
36
3,681

0.20
2.58
35.23
0.93
53.73
0.94

578
(397)
645
330
89
241
578
(6)
572
319
42
277

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

202

202

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

203

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

2022
LLooaannss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  aanndd  FFVVOOCCII ((11))
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Subtotal excluding disposal group loans
Disposal group loans
Total 
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss ((22))
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Subtotal excluding ECL provisions on disposal group loans
ECL provisions on disposal group loans
Total 
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee ((33))
Stage 1 (%)
Stage 2 (%)
Stage 3 (%)
ECL provisions coverage excluding disposal group loans
ECL provisions coverage on disposal group loans
Total 
IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//lloosssseess
ECL (release)/charge (4)
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations
Total
Amounts written-off 
Of which: individual
Of which: collective

Retail

Banking

£m

174,727
21,561
2,565
-
2,565
198,853

251
450
917
-
917
1,618

0.14
2.09
35.75
0.81

229
(146)
268
107
-
107
229

216
-
216

Private

Banking

£m

18,367
801
242
168
74
19,410

21
14
26
26
-
61

0.11
1.75
10.74
0.31

(2)
2
(7)
3
3
-
(2)

15
15
-

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

risk section are shown on a continuing basis and therefore exclude these exposures. 

22002233

Personal

Wholesale

Total

2022

Personal

Wholesale

Total

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI

Loan

Contingent

ECL provisions

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

commitments

liabilities

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Off-balance sheet 

£m

4

15

19

-

193

193

£m

2

38

40

-

40

40

£m

8

59

67

-

1,502

1,502

£m

-

1

1

-

413

413

£m

-

2

2

-

19

19

£m

-

3

3

-

17

17

£m

1

7

8

-

19

19

£m

1

24

25

-

17

17

£m

2

34

36

-

53

53

Stage 1

£m

2

6

8

-

1,269

1,269

 Commercial &

Central items

The table below shows Ulster Bank RoI disposal groups for Personal and Wholesale, by stage, for gross loans, off-balance sheet exposures and ECL. The tables in the rest of the Credit 

Institutional

£m

108,791
24,226
2,166
905
1,261
135,183

& other

£m

23,339
245
123
48
75
23,707
1,502
25,209

Total

£m

325,224
46,833
5,096
1,121
3,975
377,153
1,502
378,655

342
534
747
251
496
1,623

0.31
2.20
34.49
1.20

122
(135)
108
149
57
92
122

224
153
71

18
45
69
10
59
132
53
185

0.08
18.37
56.10
0.56
3.53
0.73

(12)
(11)
24
(25)
(6)
(19)
(12)
(71)
(83)
27
-
27

632
1,043
1,759
287
1,472
3,434
53
3,487

0.19
2.23
34.52
0.91
3.53
0.92

337
(290)
393
234
54
180
337
(71)
266
482
168
314

(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Includes loans to customers and banks.
Includes £9 million (2022 – £3 million) related to assets classified as FVOCI and 
£0.1 billion (2022 – £0.1 billion) related to off-balance sheet exposures.
ECL provisions coverage is calculated as ECL provisions divided by loans – 
amortised cost and FVOCI. It is calculated on loans and total ECL provisions, 
including ECL for other (non-loan) assets and unutilised exposure. Some 
segments with a high proportion of debt securities or unutilised exposure may 
result in a not meaningful coverage ratio.
Includes a £16 million release (2022 – £3 million charge) related to other 
financial assets, of which £6 million charge (2022 – nil) related to assets 
classified as FVOCI, and includes a £9 million release (2022 – £5 million release) 
related to contingent liabilities.
The table shows gross loans only and excludes amounts that were outside the 
scope of the ECL framework. Refer to the Financial instruments within the 
scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework section for further details. Other financial 
assets within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework were cash and balances 
at central banks totalling £103.1 billion (2022 – £143.3 billion) and debt 
securities of £50.1 billion (2022 – £29.9 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

203

203

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows Ulster Bank RoI disposal groups for Personal and Wholesale, by stage, for gross loans, off-balance sheet exposures and ECL. The tables in the rest of the Credit 
risk section are shown on a continuing basis and therefore exclude these exposures. 

22002233

Personal
Wholesale
Total

2022

Personal
Wholesale
Total

Off-balance sheet 

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI

Loan

Contingent

ECL provisions

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

commitments

liabilities

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

£m
2
6
8

-
1,269
1,269

£m
4
15
19

-
193
193

£m
2
38
40

-
40
40

£m
8
59
67

-
1,502
1,502

£m
-
1
1

-
413
413

£m
-
2
2

-
19
19

£m
-
3
3

-
17
17

£m
1
7
8

-
19
19

£m
1
24
25

-
17
17

£m
2
34
36

-
53
53

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

204

204

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

205

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  llooaannss  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows gross loans and ECL provisions, by days past due, by segment and stage, within the scope of the ECL framework.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  llooaannss  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows ECL and ECL provisions coverage, by days past due, by segment and stage, within the scope of the ECL framework.

22002233

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg
PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Personal
Wholesale
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Personal 
Wholesale
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Personal
Wholesale
TToottaall  llooaannss
Of which:
   Personal
   Wholesale 

2022
RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg
PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Personal
Wholesale
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Personal
Wholesale
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Personal
Wholesale
TToottaall  llooaannss 
Of which:
   Personal
   Wholesale 

Stage 1

£m

182,297
17,565
14,296
3,269
119,047
2,268
116,779
29,677
4
29,673
348,586

Not past

due

£m

20,128
772
158
614
14,689
15
14,674
5
2
3
35,594

198,865
149,721

20,303
15,291

174,727
18,367
15,182
3,185
108,791
2,475
106,316
23,339
54
23,285
325,224

192,438
132,786

20,653
730
122
608
22,520
17
22,503
234
70
164
44,137

20,862
23,275

Gross loans

Stage 2 (1)

1-30 DPD

>30 DPD

Total

Stage 3

£m

738
77
73
4
657
21
636
-
-
-
1,472

832
640

605
39
35
4
956
17
939
4
3
1
1,604

660
944

£m

342
57
24
33
425
7
418
1
1
-
825

374
451

303
32
16
16
750
7
743
7
6
1
1,092

Total

£m

£m

£m

21,208
906
255
651
15,771
43
15,728
6
3
3
37,891

21,509
16,382

21,561
801
173
628
24,226
41
24,185
245
79
166
46,833

258
209
49

3,133 206,638
18,729
14,760
3,969
2,162 136,980
2,363
2,110 134,617
29,693
13
29,680
5,563 392,040

10
6
4

52

3,400 223,774
2,163 168,266

242
207
35

2,565 198,853
19,410
15,562
3,848
2,166 135,183
2,562
2,120 132,621
23,707
146
23,561
5,096 377,153

123
13
110

46

332
760

21,854
24,979

2,831 217,123
2,265 160,030

ECL provisions (2)

Stage 2 (1)

Not past

Stage 1

£m

306
20
3
17
356
2
354
27
5
22
709

316
393

251
21
5
16
342
3
339
18
1
17
632

260
372

due

£m

453
18
2
16
415
-
415
6
1
5
892

456
436

406
14
1
13
491
1
490
42
11
31
953

419
534

1-30 DPD

>30 DPD

Total

Stage 3

£m

15
1
-
1
21
-
21
-
-
-
37

15
22

14
-
-
-
26
-
26
1
1
-
41

15
26

£m

34
1
-
1
11
-
11
1
1
-
47

35
12

30
-
-
-
17
-
17
2
2
-
49

32
17

£m

502
20
2
18
447
-
447
7
2
5
976

506
470

450
14
1
13
534
1
533
45
14
31
1,043

466
577

£m

1,097
34
20
14
819
16
803
10
9
1
1,960

1,142
818

917
26
17
9
747
12
735
69
11
58
1,759

957
802

Total

£m

1,905
74
25
49
1,622
18
1,604
44
16
28
3,645

1,964
1,681

1,618
61
23
38
1,623
16
1,607
132
26
106
3,434

1,683
1,751

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

22002233

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg

Personal

Wholesale

Personal

Wholesale

Personal

Wholesale

TToottaall  llooaannss

Of which:

   Personal

   Wholesale 

2022

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg

Personal

Wholesale

Personal

Wholesale

Personal

Wholesale

TToottaall  llooaannss

Of which:

   Personal

   Wholesale 

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

Stage 1

Not past due

1-30 DPD

>30 DPD

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 2 (1,2)

%

0.17

0.11

0.02

0.52

0.30

0.09

0.30

0.09

nm

0.07

0.20

0.16

0.26

0.14

0.11

0.03

0.50

0.31

0.12

0.32

0.08

1.85

0.07

0.19

0.14

0.28

%

2.25

2.33

1.27

2.61

2.83

-

2.83

nm

nm

nm

2.51

2.25

2.85

1.97

1.92

0.82

2.14

2.18

5.88

2.18

17.95

15.71

18.90

2.16

2.01

2.29

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

%

2.03

1.30

25.00

3.20

3.30

2.51

1.80

3.44

2.72

2.77

25.00

33.33

2.56

2.27

2.75

%

9.94

1.75

3.03

2.59

-

-

2.63

nm

nm

-

5.70

9.36

2.66

-

-

-

-

-

2.27

2.29

28.57

33.33

4.49

9.64

2.24

2.31

9.90

Total

%

2.37

2.21

0.78

2.76

2.83

-

2.84

nm

nm

nm

2.58

2.35

2.87

2.09

1.75

0.58

2.07

2.20

2.44

2.20

18.37

17.72

18.67

2.23

2.13

2.31

Stage 3

%

35.01

13.18

9.57

28.57

37.88

30.77

38.06

nm

nm

25.00

35.23

33.59

37.82

35.75

10.74

8.21

25.71

34.49

26.09

34.67

56.10

84.62

52.73

34.52

33.80

35.41

Total

%

0.92

0.40

0.17

1.23

1.18

0.76

1.19

0.15

nm

0.09

0.93

0.88

1.00

0.81

0.31

0.15

0.99

1.20

0.62

1.21

0.56

17.81

0.45

0.91

0.78

1.09

ECL

Total (release)

/charge

£m

465

Amounts

written-off

14

(3)

17

94

5

89

5

15

(10)

578

482

96

229

(2)

(3)

122

1

4

118

(12)

11

(23)

337

241

96

£m

188

122

121

2

2

-

1

7

2

5

319

193

126

216

15

2

13

224

2

222

27

1

26

482

221

261

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

(1)

(2)

30 DPD – 30 days past due, the mandatory 30 days past due backstop as prescribed by the IFRS 9 guidance for a SICR.

Some segments with a high proportion of debt securities or unutilised exposure may result in a not meaningful coverage ratio.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

205

205

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  llooaannss  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows ECL and ECL provisions coverage, by days past due, by segment and stage, within the scope of the ECL framework.

22002233

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg
PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Personal
Wholesale
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Personal
Wholesale
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Personal
Wholesale
TToottaall  llooaannss
Of which:
   Personal
   Wholesale 

2022
RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg
PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Personal
Wholesale
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Personal
Wholesale
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Personal
Wholesale
TToottaall  llooaannss
Of which:
   Personal
   Wholesale 

Stage 1

Not past due

1-30 DPD

>30 DPD

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 2 (1,2)

%

0.17
0.11
0.02
0.52
0.30
0.09
0.30
0.09
nm
0.07
0.20

0.16
0.26

0.14
0.11
0.03
0.50
0.31
0.12
0.32
0.08
1.85
0.07
0.19

0.14
0.28

%

2.25
2.33
1.27
2.61
2.83
-
2.83
nm
nm
nm
2.51

2.25
2.85

1.97
1.92
0.82
2.14
2.18
5.88
2.18
17.95
15.71
18.90
2.16

2.01
2.29

%

2.03
1.30
-
25.00
3.20
-
3.30
-
-
-
2.51

1.80
3.44

2.31
-
-
-
2.72
-
2.77
25.00
33.33
-
2.56

2.27
2.75

%

9.94
1.75
-
3.03
2.59
-
2.63
nm
nm
-
5.70

9.36
2.66

9.90
-
-
-
2.27
-
2.29
28.57
33.33
-
4.49

9.64
2.24

Total

%

2.37
2.21
0.78
2.76
2.83
-
2.84
nm
nm
nm
2.58

2.35
2.87

2.09
1.75
0.58
2.07
2.20
2.44
2.20
18.37
17.72
18.67
2.23

2.13
2.31

Stage 3

%

35.01
13.18
9.57
28.57
37.88
30.77
38.06
nm
nm
25.00
35.23

33.59
37.82

35.75
10.74
8.21
25.71
34.49
26.09
34.67
56.10
84.62
52.73
34.52

33.80
35.41

Total

%

0.92
0.40
0.17
1.23
1.18
0.76
1.19
0.15
nm
0.09
0.93

0.88
1.00

0.81
0.31
0.15
0.99
1.20
0.62
1.21
0.56
17.81
0.45
0.91

0.78
1.09

ECL

Total (release)

/charge

Amounts

written-off

£m

465
14
(3)
17
94
5
89
5
15
(10)
578

482
96

229
(2)
(3)
1
122
4
118
(12)
11
(23)
337

241
96

£m

188
2
2
-
122
1
121
7
2
5
319

193
126

216
15
2
13
224
2
222
27
1
26
482

221
261

(1)
(2)

30 DPD – 30 days past due, the mandatory 30 days past due backstop as prescribed by the IFRS 9 guidance for a SICR.
Some segments with a high proportion of debt securities or unutilised exposure may result in a not meaningful coverage ratio.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

206

206

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

207

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeggmmeennttaall  llooaannss  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

 RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg – Balance sheet growth continued during H2 2023, although at a 
reduced pace compared to H1 2023, reflecting the wider UK mortgage market 
trends. Unsecured balances growth in H2 2023, primarily in credit cards, was a 
continuation of the strong customer demand seen in the first half of the year. 
Lending criteria and affordability assumptions continue to be reviewed to ensure 
new business is assessed appropriately in the higher interest rate and inflationary 
environment. While portfolio performance continued to remain stable, total ECL 
coverage increased. The rise in coverage was reflective of increased Stage 3 ECL 
on unsecured portfolios, mainly due to reduced write-off activity, however, Stage 3 
inflows were higher this year, in line with growth and normalisation of risk 
parameters. The modest increase in good book coverage during the year reflected 
a slight increase in early arrears levels and a rise in the unsecured mix of the 
portfolio. Furthermore, post model adjustments to capture increased affordability 
pressures on customers due to high inflation and interest rates have increased 
during the year, ensuring ECL reflects the continued uncertainty despite modelled 
ECL reductions due to improved forward-looking economic updates since the end 
of 2022.

 CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall – Growth in exposure in Commercial & Institutional was 
driven by increased exposure to financial institutions, partially offset by reductions 
in other sectors including retail. There were also continued repayments of COVID-
19 government lending schemes, and strategic reductions in certain sectors. 
Sector appetite continues to be reviewed regularly, with particular focus on sector 
clusters and sub-sectors that are vulnerable to inflationary and supply chain 
pressures or deemed to represent a heightened risk. Stage 2 ECL reduced due to 
positive portfolio performance and improvements in the latest economic scenarios. 
Coverage decreased due to portfolio growth with ECL broadly flat, but coverage 
on Stage 1 and Stage 2 was significantly above pre-COVID-19 levels, reflecting 
continued economic uncertainty.

 OOtthheerr – Balance sheet growth in 2023 compared to 2022 was mainly due to an 
increase in central items held in the course of treasury related management 
activities.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows financial assets and off-balance sheet exposures gross of ECL and related ECL provisions, impairment and past due by sector, asset quality and geographical 

region.

22002233

  - UK

  - RoI

LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy

  - Other Europe

  - RoW

LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee

  - Stage 1

  - Stage 2

  - Stage 3

  - Of which: individual

  - Of which: collective

LLooaannss  --  ppaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss ((22))

  - Not past due

  - Past due 1-30 days

  - Past due 31-90 days

  - Past due 91-180 days

  - Past due >180 days

LLooaannss  --  SSttaaggee  22

  - Not past due

  - Past due 1-30 days

  - Past due 31-90 days

WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  lliiffee ((33))

   - ECL measurement (years)

WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss ((33))

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy

  - IFRS 9 (%)

  - Basel (%)

  - UK

  - RoI

  - Other Europe

  - RoW

For the notes to this table refer to page 211. 

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Property

Other wholesale

Sovereign

Personal

Wholesale

£m

208,275

208,275

-

-

-

208,275

188,140

17,854

2,281

122

2,159

208,275

205,405

1,178

518

445

729

17,854

16,803

765

286

9

0.50

0.67

420

420

-

-

-

£m

5,904

5,893

11

-

-

5,904

3,742

2,022

140

-

140

5,904

5,743

2,022

1,971

41

38

32

50

27

24

3

3.45

3.37

376

365

11

-

-

£m

9,595

9,592

3

-

-

9,595

6,983

1,633

979

20

959

9,595

8,578

71

112

103

731

1,633

1,529

40

64

6

5.29

3.15

1,168

1,163

5

-

-

Total

£m

223,774

223,760

14

-

-

223,774

198,865

21,509

3,400

142

3,258

223,774

219,726

1,290

668

580

1,510

21,509

20,303

832

374

6

0.75

0.84

1,964

1,948

16

-

-

£m

31,207

30,703

9

375

120

31,207

27,316

3,270

31,207

30,264

621

240

381

491

179

42

231

3,270

3,071

100

99

1.45

0.94

398

384

6

-

7

7

£m

77,339

65,033

888

5,096

6,322

77,339

63,690

12,145

1,504

625

879

77,339

74,052

2,222

12,145

11,287

437

71

557

516

342

6

1.59

1.25

1,201

999

6

146

50

FI

£m

57,087

39,906

279

7,865

9,037

57,087

56,105

966

57,087

56,735

16

2

14

332

12

2

6

966

932

24

10

2

0.19

0.17

66

38

1

12

15

£m

2,633

2,016

-

399

218

2,633

2,610

1

22

22

-

2,633

2,633

-

-

-

-

1

1

-

-

-

0.37

0.37

16

13

-

-

3

Total

£m

168,266

137,658

1,176

13,735

15,697

168,266

149,721

16,382

2,163

889

1,274

168,266

163,684

3,045

16,382

15,291

628

115

794

640

451

6

1.07

0.81

1,681

1,434

7

165

75

Total

£m

392,040

361,418

1,190

13,735

15,697

392,040

348,586

37,891

5,563

1,031

4,532

392,040

383,410

4,335

1,296

695

2,304

37,891

35,594

1,472

825

6

0.89

0.83

3,645

3,382

23

165

75

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

207

207

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows financial assets and off-balance sheet exposures gross of ECL and related ECL provisions, impairment and past due by sector, asset quality and geographical 
region.

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Total

Property

Other wholesale

FI

Sovereign

Total

Total

Personal

Wholesale

22002233
LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW
LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee
  - Stage 1
  - Stage 2
  - Stage 3
  - Of which: individual
  - Of which: collective
LLooaannss  --  ppaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss ((22))
  - Not past due
  - Past due 1-30 days
  - Past due 31-90 days
  - Past due 91-180 days
  - Past due >180 days
LLooaannss  --  SSttaaggee  22
  - Not past due
  - Past due 1-30 days
  - Past due 31-90 days
WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  lliiffee ((33))
   - ECL measurement (years)
WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss ((33))
  - IFRS 9 (%)
  - Basel (%)
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW

For the notes to this table refer to page 211. 

£m
208,275
208,275
-
-
-
208,275
188,140
17,854
2,281
122
2,159
208,275
205,405
1,178
518
445
729
17,854
16,803
765
286

9

0.50
0.67
420
420
-
-
-

£m
5,904
5,893
11
-
-
5,904
3,742
2,022
140
-
140
5,904
5,743
41
38
32
50
2,022
1,971
27
24

3

3.45
3.37
376
365
11
-
-

£m
9,595
9,592
3
-
-
9,595
6,983
1,633
979
20
959
9,595
8,578
71
112
103
731
1,633
1,529
40
64

£m
223,774
223,760
14
-
-
223,774
198,865
21,509
3,400
142
3,258
223,774
219,726
1,290
668
580
1,510
21,509
20,303
832
374

6

6

5.29
3.15
1,168
1,163
5
-
-

0.75
0.84
1,964
1,948
16
-
-

£m
31,207
30,703
9
375
120
31,207
27,316
3,270
621
240
381
31,207
30,264
491
179
42
231
3,270
3,071
100
99

6

1.45
0.94
398
384
-
7
7

£m
77,339
65,033
888
5,096
6,322
77,339
63,690
12,145
1,504
625
879
77,339
74,052
2,222
437
71
557
12,145
11,287
516
342

6

1.59
1.25
1,201
999
6
146
50

£m
57,087
39,906
279
7,865
9,037
57,087
56,105
966
16
2
14
57,087
56,735
332
12
2
6
966
932
24
10

2

0.19
0.17
66
38
1
12
15

£m
2,633
2,016
-
399
218
2,633
2,610
1
22
22
-
2,633
2,633
-
-
-
-
1
1
-
-

-

0.37
0.37
16
13
-
-
3

£m
168,266
137,658
1,176
13,735
15,697
168,266
149,721
16,382
2,163
889
1,274
168,266
163,684
3,045
628
115
794
16,382
15,291
640
451

£m
392,040
361,418
1,190
13,735
15,697
392,040
348,586
37,891
5,563
1,031
4,532
392,040
383,410
4,335
1,296
695
2,304
37,891
35,594
1,472
825

6

6

1.07
0.81
1,681
1,434
7
165
75

0.89
0.83
3,645
3,382
23
165
75

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

208

208

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

209

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

22002233
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ssttaaggee 
  - Stage 1
  - Stage 2
  - Stage 3
  - Of which: individual
  - Of which: collective
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee  ((%%))
  - Stage 1 (%)
  - Stage 2 (%)
  - Stage 3 (%)
EECCLL  ((rreelleeaassee))//cchhaarrggee
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW
Amounts written-off 
LLooaannss  bbyy  rreessiidduuaall  mmaattuurriittyy
 - <1 year 
 - 1-5 year
 - > 5 < 15 year
 - > 15 year
OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy ((44))
  - AQ1-AQ4
  - AQ5-AQ8
OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
  - Loan commitments
  - Financial guarantees
OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy ((44))
  - AQ1-AQ4
  - AQ5-AQ8
  - AQ9 
  - AQ10

For the notes to this table refer to page 211. 

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Total

Property

Other wholesale

FI

Sovereign

Total

Total

Personal

Wholesale

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Property Other wholesale

Sovereign

Personal

Wholesale

£m
420
88
61
271
12
259
0.20
0.05
0.34
11.88
35
35
-
-
-
32
208,275
3,375
9,508
46,453
148,939
-
-
-
9,843
9,843
-
9,843
9,099
721
7
16

£m
376
76
207
93
-
93
6.37
2.03
10.24
66.43
193
184
9
-
-
70
5,904
3,398
2,506
-
-
-
-
-
17,284
17,284
-
17,284
448
16,518
6
312

£m
1,168
152
238
778
14
764
12.17
2.18
14.57
79.47
254
249
5
-
-
91
9,595
3,169
5,431
993
2
-
-
-
8,462
8,417
45
8,462
7,271
1,162
4
25

£m
1,964
316
506
1,142
26
1,116
0.88
0.16
2.35
33.59
482
468
14
-
-
193
223,774
9,942
17,445
47,446
148,941
-
-
-
35,589
35,544
45
35,589
16,818
18,401
17
353

£m
398
102
98
198
60
138
1.28
0.37
3.00
31.88
34
42
(2)
(6)
-
39
31,207
5,696
17,216
5,701
2,594
1
1
-
14,205
13,861
344
14,205
10,916
3,266
3
20

£m
1,201
234
356
611
242
369
1.55
0.37
2.93
40.63
58
61
(8)
55
(50)
86
77,339
25,312
32,573
14,167
5,287
2,689
2,689
-
59,716
57,081
2,635
59,716
36,380
23,030
12
294

£m
66
44
15
7
2
5
0.12
0.08
1.55
43.75
6
(4)
1
11
(2)
1
57,087
43,497
11,616
1,939
35
26,816
26,084
732
22,221
20,765
1,456
22,221
20,644
1,574
-
3

£m
16
13
1
2
2
-
0.61
0.50
100.00
9.09
(2)
(2)
-
-
-
-
2,633
489
1,872
199
73
123,683
123,683
-
227
227
-
227
165
45
-
17

£m
1,681
393
470
818
306
512
1.00
0.26
2.87
37.82
96
97
(9)
60
(52)
126
168,266
74,994
63,277
22,006
7,989
153,189
152,457
732
96,369
91,934
4,435
96,369
68,105
27,915
15
334

£m
3,645
709
976
1,960
332
1,628
0.93
0.20
2.58
35.23
578
565
5
60
(52)
319
392,040
84,936
80,722
69,452
156,930
153,189
152,457
732
131,958
127,478
4,480
131,958
84,923
46,316
32
687

LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy

2022 (5)

  - UK

  - RoI

  - Other Europe

  - RoW

LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee

  - Stage 1

  - Stage 2

  - Stage 3

  - Of which: individual

  - Of which: collective

LLooaannss  --  ppaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss ((22))

  - Not past due

  - Past due 1-30 days

  - Past due 31-90 days

  - Past due 91-180 days

  - Past due >180 days

LLooaannss  --  SSttaaggee  22

  - Not past due

  - Past due 1-30 days

  - Past due 31-90 days

WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  lliiffee ((33))

   - ECL measurement (years)

WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss ((33))

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy

  - IFRS 9 (%)

  - Basel (%)

  - UK

  - RoI

  - Other Europe

  - RoW

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

£m

202,957

202,957

-

-

-

202,957

182,245

18,787

1,925

172

1,753

202,957

200,634

916

510

380

517

588

248

8

0.50

0.65

376

376

-

-

-

£m

4,460

4,420

40

-

-

4,460

3,275

1,076

109

-

109

4,460

4,335

33

29

24

39

19

18

2

2.62

2.97

257

254

3

-

-

£m

9,706

9,602

104

-

-

9,706

6,918

1,991

797

13

784

9,706

8,825

86

104

79

612

1,991

1,872

53

66

6

4.78

3.11

1,050

1,027

23

-

-

Total

£m

217,123

216,979

144

-

-

217,123

192,438

21,854

2,831

185

2,646

217,123

213,794

1,035

643

483

1,168

21,854

20,862

660

332

5

0.71

0.79

1,683

1,657

26

-

-

£m

31,036

29,935

34

607

460

31,036

26,300

4,035

701

309

392

31,036

29,986

462

297

48

243

4,035

3,595

180

260

4

1.84

1.01

420

386

13

13

8

£m

78,060

65,867

1,102

4,815

6,276

78,060

56,955

19,590

1,515

592

923

78,060

74,251

2,637

563

35

574

759

496

6

2.05

1.40

1,251

1,004

66

76

105

FI

£m

48,138

32,480

74

6,967

8,617

48,138

46,738

1,353

48,138

47,824

278

47

33

14

24

5

7

5

4

3

0.23

0.16

63

42

1

7

13

£m

2,796

2,253

-

346

197

2,796

2,793

2,796

2,796

1

2

2

-

-

-

-

-

1

1

-

-

-

0.24

0.24

17

13

-

-

4

Total

£m

160,030

130,535

1,210

12,735

15,550

160,030

132,786

24,979

2,265

936

1,329

160,030

154,857

3,377

24,979

23,275

865

107

824

944

760

5

1.41

0.92

1,751

1,445

80

96

130

Total

£m

377,153

347,514

1,354

12,735

15,550

377,153

325,224

46,833

5,096

1,121

3,975

377,153

368,651

4,412

1,508

590

1,992

46,833

44,137

1,604

1,092

5

1.01

0.85

3,434

3,102

106

96

130

18,787

17,951

1,076

1,039

19,590

18,335

1,353

1,344

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

209

209

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

2022 (5)
LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW
LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee
  - Stage 1
  - Stage 2
  - Stage 3
  - Of which: individual
  - Of which: collective
LLooaannss  --  ppaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss ((22))
  - Not past due
  - Past due 1-30 days
  - Past due 31-90 days
  - Past due 91-180 days
  - Past due >180 days
LLooaannss  --  SSttaaggee  22
  - Not past due
  - Past due 1-30 days
  - Past due 31-90 days
WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  lliiffee ((33))
   - ECL measurement (years)
WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss ((33))
  - IFRS 9 (%)
  - Basel (%)
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Total

Property Other wholesale

FI

Sovereign

Total

Total

Personal

Wholesale

£m
202,957
202,957
-
-
-
202,957
182,245
18,787
1,925
172
1,753
202,957
200,634
916
510
380
517
18,787
17,951
588
248

8

0.50
0.65
376
376
-
-
-

£m
4,460
4,420
40
-
-
4,460
3,275
1,076
109
-
109
4,460
4,335
33
29
24
39
1,076
1,039
19
18

2

2.62
2.97
257
254
3
-
-

£m
9,706
9,602
104
-
-
9,706
6,918
1,991
797
13
784
9,706
8,825
86
104
79
612
1,991
1,872
53
66

£m
217,123
216,979
144
-
-
217,123
192,438
21,854
2,831
185
2,646
217,123
213,794
1,035
643
483
1,168
21,854
20,862
660
332

6

5

4.78
3.11
1,050
1,027
23
-
-

0.71
0.79
1,683
1,657
26
-
-

£m
31,036
29,935
34
607
460
31,036
26,300
4,035
701
309
392
31,036
29,986
462
297
48
243
4,035
3,595
180
260

4

1.84
1.01
420
386
13
13
8

£m
78,060
65,867
1,102
4,815
6,276
78,060
56,955
19,590
1,515
592
923
78,060
74,251
2,637
563
35
574
19,590
18,335
759
496

6

2.05
1.40
1,251
1,004
66
76
105

£m
48,138
32,480
74
6,967
8,617
48,138
46,738
1,353
47
33
14
48,138
47,824
278
5
24
7
1,353
1,344
5
4

3

0.23
0.16
63
42
1
7
13

£m
2,796
2,253
-
346
197
2,796
2,793
1
2
2
-
2,796
2,796
-
-
-
-
1
1
-
-

-

0.24
0.24
17
13
-
-
4

£m
160,030
130,535
1,210
12,735
15,550
160,030
132,786
24,979
2,265
936
1,329
160,030
154,857
3,377
865
107
824
24,979
23,275
944
760

£m
377,153
347,514
1,354
12,735
15,550
377,153
325,224
46,833
5,096
1,121
3,975
377,153
368,651
4,412
1,508
590
1,992
46,833
44,137
1,604
1,092

5

5

1.41
0.92
1,751
1,445
80
96
130

1.01
0.85
3,434
3,102
106
96
130

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

210

210

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

211

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Mortgages (1)

Credit cards

Other personal

Total

Property Other wholesale

FI

Sovereign

Total

Total

heightened climate-related risk. 

Personal

Wholesale

The table below shows ECL by stage, for the Personal portfolio and selected sectors of the Wholesale portfolio including those that contain an element of exposure classified as 

2022 (5)
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ssttaaggee 
  - Stage 1
  - Stage 2
  - Stage 3
  - Of which: individual
  - Of which: collective
EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee  ((%%))
  - Stage 1 (%)
  - Stage 2 (%)
  - Stage 3 (%)
EECCLL  ((rreelleeaassee))//cchhaarrggee
  - UK
  - RoI
  - Other Europe
  - RoW
Amounts written-off 
LLooaannss  bbyy  rreessiidduuaall  mmaattuurriittyy 
 - <1 year 
 - 1-5 year 
 - > 5 < 15 year
 - > 15 year
OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy ((44))
  - AQ1-AQ4
  - AQ5-AQ8
OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
  - Loan commitments
  - Financial guarantees
OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy ((44))
  - AQ1-AQ4
  - AQ5-AQ8
  - AQ9
  - AQ10

£m
376
81
62
233
18
215
0.19
0.04
0.33
12.10
(74)
(74)
-
-
-
31
202,957
3,347
10,968
46,500
142,142
-
-
-
18,782
18,782
-
18,782
17,676
1,089
2
15

£m
257
62
122
73
-
73
5.76
1.89
11.34
66.97
56
57
(1)
-
-
67
4,460
2,655
1,805
-
-
-
-
-
15,848
15,848
-
15,848
436
15,048
74
290

£m
1,050
117
282
651
10
641
10.82
1.69
14.16
81.68
259
247
12
-
-
123
9,706
3,368
5,387
950
1
-
-
-
8,547
8,496
51
8,547
7,353
1,170
4
20

£m
1,683
260
466
957
28
929
0.78
0.14
2.13
33.80
241
230
11
-
-
221
217,123
9,370
18,160
47,450
142,143
-
-
-
43,177
43,126
51
43,177
25,465
17,307
80
325

£m
420
99
98
223
79
144
1.35
0.38
2.43
31.81
108
103
1
1
3
34
31,036
6,118
16,768
5,259
2,891
49
-
49
14,308
13,895
413
14,308
11,573
2,706
4
25

£m
1,251
226
465
560
165
395
1.60
0.40
2.37
36.96
(27)
(51)
(26)
 04
46
187
78,060
26,971
33,071
13,392
4,626
581
567
14
59,718
56,500
3,218
59,718
37,265
22,094
25
334

£m
63
32
14
17
13
4
0.13
0.07
1.03
36.17
19
14
(2)
1
6
40
48,138
36,192
10,380
1,379
187
14,704
14,156
548
19,555
18,223
1,332
19,555
17,899
1,655
-
1

£m
17
15
-
2
2
-
0.61
0.54
-
100.00
(4)
(4)
-
(1)
1
-
2,796
906
1,630
184
76
157,860
157,860
-
268
268
-
268
205
62
-
1

£m
1,751
372
577
802
259
543
1.09
0.28
2.31
35.41
96
62
(27)
5
56
261
160,030
70,187
61,849
20,214
7,780
173,194
172,583
611
93,849
88,886
4,963
93,849
66,942
26,517
29
361

£m
3,434
632
1,043
1,759
287
1,472
0.91
0.19
2.23
34.52
337
292
(16)
5
56
482
377,153
79,557
80,009
67,664
149,923
173,194
172,583
611
137,026
132,012
5,014
137,026
92,407
43,824
109
686

2023

PPeerrssoonnaall

   Mortgages

   Credit cards

   Other personal

WWhhoolleessaallee

Property

Sovereigns

Other wholesale

Of which:

   Agriculture

Financial institutions (1)

   Airlines and aerospace

   Automotive

   Building materials

   Chemicals

   Industrials

   Land transport & logistics

   Leisure

   Mining & metals

   Oil and gas

   Power utilities

   Retail

   Shipping

   Water & waste

Total

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI

Off-balance sheet 

ECL provisions

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Loan commitments

Contingent liabilities

Stage 1

Stage 2

12,145

1,504

611

1,201

£m

198,865

188,140

3,742

6,983

149,721

27,316

56,105

2,610

63,690

3,851

1,525

7,223

1,204

354

2,269

4,231

4,394

241

915

5,604

5,846

207

3,536

£m

21,509

17,854

2,022

1,633

16,382

3,270

966

1

1,011

454

1,008

282

62

543

578

32

125

418

35

173

1,318

2,163

168,266

£m

3,400

2,281

140

979

621

16

22

90

3

76

72

4

70

61

4

27

40

224

3

13

Total

£m

223,774

208,275

5,904

9,595

31,207

57,087

2,633

77,339

4,952

1,982

8,307

1,558

420

2,882

4,870

6,927

277

1,067

6,062

7,388

245

3,722

2,245

288

£m

35,544

9,843

17,284

8,417

91,934

13,861

20,765

227

57,081

950

1,788

3,844

1,475

785

2,896

3,025

1,887

545

1,959

8,257

4,717

71

1,904

£m

45

-

-

45

4,435

344

1,456

-

2,635

21

178

103

72

13

148

184

145

7

237

554

429

31

84

£m

316

88

76

152

393

102

44

13

234

19

18

4

6

1

10

11

31

13

23

-

3

-

4

£m

506

61

207

238

470

98

15

1

356

35

7

18

9

9

18

14

74

-

2

13

35

1

5

Stage 3

£m

1,142

271

93

778

818

198

7

2

34

26

2

8

1

23

18

91

4

29

24

2

4

118

Total

£m

1,964

420

376

1,168

1,681

398

66

16

88

13

62

23

11

51

43

4

34

50

196

176

3

13

348,586

37,891

5,563

392,040

127,478

4,480

709

976

1,960

3,645

(1)

Includes a portion of Private Banking lending secured against residential real estate, in line with ECL calculation methodology. Private Banking and RBS International mortgages are reported in UK, reflecting the country of lending origination and includes 
crown dependencies.
30 DPD – 30 days past due, the mandatory 30 days past due backstop as prescribed by the IFRS 9 guidance for a SICR.

(2)
(3) Not within the scope of the Independent auditors’ report.

(4) AQ bandings are based on Basel PDs and mapping is as follows:

Internal asset quality band
AQ1
AQ2
AQ3
AQ4
AQ5

Probability of default range
0% - 0.034%
0.034% - 0.048%
0.048% - 0.095%
0.095% - 0.381%
0.381% - 1.076%

Indicative S&P rating
AAA to AA
AA to AA-
A+ to A
BBB+ to BBB-
BB+ to BB

Internal asset quality band
AQ6
AQ7
AQ8
AQ9
AQ10

£0.3 billion (2022 – £0.3 billion) of AQ10 Personal balances primarily relate to loan commitments, the drawdown of which is effectively prohibited.

(5)    Previously published sectors for the Wholesale portfolio have been re-presented to reflect updated internal sector reporting. 

Probability of default range
1.076% - 2.153%
2.153% - 6.089%
6.089% - 17.222%
17.222% - 100%
100%

Indicative S&P rating
BB- to B+
B+ to B
B- to CCC+
CCC to C
D

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

211

211

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows ECL by stage, for the Personal portfolio and selected sectors of the Wholesale portfolio including those that contain an element of exposure classified as 
heightened climate-related risk. 

2023

PPeerrssoonnaall
   Mortgages
   Credit cards
   Other personal
WWhhoolleessaallee
Property
Financial institutions (1)
Sovereigns
Other wholesale
Of which:
   Agriculture
   Airlines and aerospace
   Automotive
   Building materials
   Chemicals
   Industrials
   Land transport & logistics
   Leisure
   Mining & metals
   Oil and gas
   Power utilities
   Retail
   Shipping
   Water & waste
Total

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI

Off-balance sheet 

ECL provisions

Stage 1

£m
198,865
188,140
3,742
6,983
149,721
27,316
56,105
2,610
63,690

3,851
1,525
7,223
1,204
354
2,269
4,231
4,394
241
915
5,604
5,846
207
3,536
348,586

Stage 2

£m
21,509
17,854
2,022
1,633
16,382
3,270
966
1
12,145

1,011
454
1,008
282
62
543
578
2,245
32
125
418
1,318
35
173
37,891

Stage 3

Total

Loan commitments

Contingent liabilities

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m
3,400
2,281
140
979
2,163
621
16
22
1,504

90
3
76
72
4
70
61
288
4
27
40
224
3
13
5,563

£m
223,774
208,275
5,904
9,595
168,266
31,207
57,087
2,633
77,339

4,952
1,982
8,307
1,558
420
2,882
4,870
6,927
277
1,067
6,062
7,388
245
3,722
392,040

£m
35,544
9,843
17,284
8,417
91,934
13,861
20,765
227
57,081

950
1,788
3,844
1,475
785
2,896
3,025
1,887
545
1,959
8,257
4,717
71
1,904
127,478

£m
45
-
-
45
4,435
344
1,456
-
2,635

21
178
103
72
13
148
184
145
7
237
554
429
31
84
4,480

£m
316
88
76
152
393
102
44
13
234

19
4
18
6
1
10
11
31
-
3
13
23
-
4
709

£m
506
61
207
238
470
98
15
1
356

35
7
18
9
9
18
14
74
-
2
13
35
1
5
976

£m
1,142
271
93
778
818
198
7
2
611

34
2
26
8
1
23
18
91
4
29
24
118
2
4
1,960

Total

£m
1,964
420
376
1,168
1,681
398
66
16
1,201

88
13
62
23
11
51
43
196
4
34
50
176
3
13
3,645

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

212

212

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

213

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Loans - amortised cost and FVOCI

Off-balance sheet 

ECL provisions

shows current exposure but reflects risk transfers where there is a guarantee by another customer.

The table below shows Wholesale forbearance, Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss by sector. Personal forbearance is disclosed in the Personal portfolio section. The table 

2022 (2)

PPeerrssoonnaall
   Mortgages
   Credit cards
   Other personal
WWhhoolleessaallee
Property
Financial institutions (1)
Sovereigns
Other wholesale
Of which:
   Agriculture
   Airlines and aerospace
   Automotive
   Building materials
   Chemicals
   Industrials
   Land transport & logistics
   Leisure
   Mining & metals
   Oil and gas
   Power utilities
   Retail
   Shipping
   Water & waste
Total

Stage 1

£m
192,438
182,245
3,275
6,918
132,786
26,300
46,738
2,793
56,955

3,646
483
5,776
1,244
384
2,148
3,863
3,416
173
953
4,228
6,497
161
3,026
325,224

Stage 2

£m
21,854
18,787
1,076
1,991
24,979
4,035
1,353
1
19,590

1,034
1,232
1,498
284
117
1,037
1,304
3,787
230
159
406
1,746
151
335
46,833

Stage 3

£m
2,831
1,925
109
797
2,265
701
47
2
1,515

93
19
30
15
1
82
72
260
5
60
6
150
14
7
5,096

Total

Loan commitments

Contingent liabilities

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m
217,123
202,957
4,460
9,706
160,030
31,036
48,138
2,796
78,060

4,773
1,734
7,304
1,543
502
3,267
5,239
7,463
408
1,172
4,640
8,393
326
3,368
377,153

£m
43,126
18,782
15,848
8,496
88,886
13,895
18,223
269
56,499

968
1,715
4,009
1,407
650
3,135
3,373
1,907
545
2,157
6,960
4,682
110
2,143
132,012

£m
51
-
-
51
4,963
413
1,332
-
3,218

24
174
99
78
12
195
190
102
5
248
1,182
416
22
101
5,014

£m
260
81
62
117
372
99
32
15
226

21
2
18
7
1
10
13
27
-
3
9
21
-
4
632

£m
466
62
122
282
577
98
14
-
465

31
40
18
7
2
16
34
147
1
3
11
29
7
4
1,043

£m
957
233
73
651
802
223
17
2
560

43
8
11
7
1
24
18
115
5
31
1
68
6
4
1,759

Total

£m
1,683
376
257
1,050
1,751
420
63
17
1,251

95
50
47
21
4
50
65
289
6
37
21
118
13
12
3,434

(1)
(2)

Financial institutions include transactions, such as securitisations, where the underlying assets may be in other sectors.
Previously published sectors for the Wholesale portfolio have been re-presented to reflect updated internal sector reporting.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

WWhhoolleessaallee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee  ((aauuddiitteedd))

22002233

2022

Forbearance (flow)

Forbearance (stock)

Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss

Forbearance (flow)

Forbearance (stock)

Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

 LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy  aanndd  sseeccttoorr – In line with NatWest Group’s strategic focus, 

exposures continued to be mainly in the UK. Exposure to the Republic of Ireland 

reduced during 2023 as part of the phased withdrawal of Ulster Bank RoI.

 LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee – There was an increase in Stage 1 exposure due to mortgage 

growth in Personal and lending to financial institutions in Wholesale. An overall 

improvement in forward-looking economics during 2023 drove a reduction in IFRS 9 

PDs, meaning a reduction in the proportion of most portfolio segments triggering PD 

deterioration rules, resulting in a net migration of exposures from Stage 2 into Stage 

1 during 2023.

Property

Financial institution

Sovereign

£m

916

1,071

1,089

723

900

920

£m

56

70

276

105

107

112

£m

22

22

-

-

-

-

Other

£m

2,568

3,752

4,119

2,598

4,742

3,501

Total 

£m

3,562

4,915

5,484

3,426

5,749

4,533

 LLooaannss  ––  PPaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss – In Personal, the value of arrears increased during 2023 

as expected with portfolio growth in recent years and adjustments to lending criteria 

following COVID-19.

 WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss – IFRS 9 PDs remained broadly stable overall, with 

some increases in Personal portfolios, most notably in credit cards which had a PD 

modelling update. In Wholesale, some reductions were observed in PDs in corporate 

and property portfolios, linked to the economic scenario updates during the year.

 EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ssttaaggee – Portfolio growth was the key driver behind an increase in 

Stage 1 provisions. Stage 2 provisions reduced during 2023, reflecting broadly stable 

credit performance of the portfolios and the effect of improved 2023 forward-looking 

scenario updates. As outlined previously, Stage 3 provisions have yet to be materially 

affected by the customer affordability risks linked to the current economic 

uncertainty prevalent in the UK. However, there has been an increase in Stage 3 

ECL linked to a modest rise in default levels and reduced write-off activity.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

213

213

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

WWhhoolleessaallee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows Wholesale forbearance, Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss by sector. Personal forbearance is disclosed in the Personal portfolio section. The table 
shows current exposure but reflects risk transfers where there is a guarantee by another customer.

22002233

Forbearance (flow)
Forbearance (stock)
Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss

2022

Forbearance (flow)
Forbearance (stock)
Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
 LLooaannss  bbyy  ggeeooggrraapphhyy  aanndd  sseeccttoorr – In line with NatWest Group’s strategic focus, 
exposures continued to be mainly in the UK. Exposure to the Republic of Ireland 
reduced during 2023 as part of the phased withdrawal of Ulster Bank RoI.
 LLooaannss  bbyy  ssttaaggee – There was an increase in Stage 1 exposure due to mortgage 
growth in Personal and lending to financial institutions in Wholesale. An overall 
improvement in forward-looking economics during 2023 drove a reduction in IFRS 9 
PDs, meaning a reduction in the proportion of most portfolio segments triggering PD 
deterioration rules, resulting in a net migration of exposures from Stage 2 into Stage 
1 during 2023.

Property

Financial institution

Sovereign

£m

916
1,071
1,089

723
900
920

£m

56
70
276

105
107
112

£m

22
22
-

-
-
-

Other

£m

2,568
3,752
4,119

2,598
4,742
3,501

Total 

£m

3,562
4,915
5,484

3,426
5,749
4,533

 LLooaannss  ––  PPaasstt  dduuee  aannaallyyssiiss – In Personal, the value of arrears increased during 2023 
as expected with portfolio growth in recent years and adjustments to lending criteria 
following COVID-19.

 WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  1122  mmoonntthhss  PPDDss – IFRS 9 PDs remained broadly stable overall, with 
some increases in Personal portfolios, most notably in credit cards which had a PD 
modelling update. In Wholesale, some reductions were observed in PDs in corporate 
and property portfolios, linked to the economic scenario updates during the year.
 EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  bbyy  ssttaaggee – Portfolio growth was the key driver behind an increase in 
Stage 1 provisions. Stage 2 provisions reduced during 2023, reflecting broadly stable 
credit performance of the portfolios and the effect of improved 2023 forward-looking 
scenario updates. As outlined previously, Stage 3 provisions have yet to be materially 
affected by the customer affordability risks linked to the current economic 
uncertainty prevalent in the UK. However, there has been an increase in Stage 3 
ECL linked to a modest rise in default levels and reduced write-off activity.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

214

214

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

215

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

WWhhoolleessaallee  ssuuppppoorrtt  sscchheemmeess  (1)
The table below shows the sector split for the Bounce Back Loans Scheme (BBLS) as well as associated debt split by stage. Associated debt refers to non-BBLS lending to customers 
who also have BBLS lending.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  eennhhaanncceemmeenntt  aanndd  mmiittiiggaattiioonn  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows exposures of modelled portfolios within the scope of the ECL framework and related credit risk enhancement and mitigation (CREM).

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
WWhhoolleessaallee 
Property
Financial institutions
Other
Total

31 December 2022
WWhhoolleessaallee 
Property
Financial institutions
Other
Total

BBL

Associated debt

ECL on associated debt

Gross carrying amount

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

661
16
2,210
2,887

27
1
231
259

150
3
495
648

BBL

Total

£m

838
20
2,936
3,794

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

687
7
2,080
2,774

202
2
849
1,053

82
-
163
245

Total

£m

971
9
3,092
4,072

Stage 1
£m

Stage 2 
£m

Stage 3
£m

7
-
24
31

13
-
53
66

33
-
93
126

Gross carrying amount

Associated debt

ECL on associated debt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

966
24
3,233
4,223

186
4
641
831

48
-
342
390

Total

£m

1,200
28
4,216
5,444

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

874
9
2,338
3,221

205
2
884
1,091

60
-
117
177

Total

£m

1,139
11
3,339
4,489

Stage 1
£m

Stage 2 
£m

Stage 3
£m

10
-
26
36

14
-
57
71

26
1
70
97

(1) Not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.

SSeeccttoorr  aannaallyyssiiss  ––  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ssuummmmaarryy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
 EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoovveerraaggee – Overall provisions coverage remained broadly consistent 
with 31 December 2022. This was mainly a result of continued stable portfolio 
performance and MES economics-driven modelled ECL releases contrasted with 
increased economic uncertainty, captured through ECL post model adjustments.
 EECCLL  cchhaarrggee  –– The impairment charge for 2023 of £578 million primarily reflected the 

underlying Stage 3 charges and portfolio growth. 

 LLooaannss  bbyy  rreessiidduuaall  mmaattuurriittyy – The maturity profile of the portfolios remained 

consistent with prior periods. In mortgages, as expected, the vast majority of 
exposures were greater than five years. In unsecured lending, cards and other 
exposures were concentrated in less than five years. In Wholesale, more than 80% of 
exposures mature in less than five years.

 OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy  – Consisting almost entirely of cash and 

balances at central banks and debt securities held in the course of treasury related 
management activities, these assets were mainly within the AQ1-AQ4 bands.     

 OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  eexxppoossuurreess  bbyy  aasssseett  qquuaalliittyy – In Personal, undrawn exposures were 
reflective of available credit lines in credit cards and current accounts. Additionally, 
the mortgage portfolio had undrawn exposures, where a formal offer had been made 
to a customer but had not yet drawn down; the value decreased in line with the 
pipeline of offers. There was also a legacy portfolio of flexible mortgages where a 
customer had the right and ability to draw down further funds. 

The asset quality was aligned to the wider portfolio. In Wholesale, off-balance sheet 
exposures increased due to a rise in securitisations lending within financial 
institutions, with asset quality in line with existing off-balance sheet exposures.

 WWhhoolleessaallee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee  ––  Increased levels of forbearance were observed in Q4 2023. 
The retail, leisure, commercial real estate and power and utilities sectors represented 
the largest share of completed forbearance. Labour shortages/increased cost of 
labour, rising energy prices, supply chain issues and higher interest rates continue to 
weigh on these sectors. Payment holidays and covenant waivers were the most 
common forms of forbearance granted.

 HHeeiigghhtteenneedd  MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  RRiisskk  ooff  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  –– Risk of Credit Loss framework 

exposures and inflows increased in 2023 compared to 2022. Heightened inflows were 
seen in the mobility and logistics, renewables and utilities, and technology, media and 
telecoms sector clusters, offset by decreases in consumer industries. Heightened 
inflows were seen in the automotive, media, power utilities and leveraged funds 
sectors, partially offset by leisure, airlines and aerospace and land transport and 
logistics. Retail SME customers do not form part of the Wholesale Risk of Credit Loss 
framework. Customers in financial difficulty within this group are managed by 
specialist problem debt management teams. The balances in arrears and recoveries 
remained flat in 2023, with inflows continuing to be driven by Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme (BBLS) exposures. Excluding BBLS balances, the debt value for this 
population that are in problem debt/recoveries also remained stable.

Maximum credit risk

CREM by type

CREM coverage

Exposure post CREM

 Stage 3

Financial (1)

Property

Other (2)

£bn

£bn

£bn

Total

£bn

Stage 3

£bn

Total

£bn

Stage 3

£bn

22002233

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

Cash and balances at central banks

Loans - amortised cost (3)

  Personal (4)

  Wholesale (5)

Debt securities

TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

  Personal (6,7)

  Wholesale

TToottaall  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree

CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss

2022

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

Cash and balances at central banks

Loans - amortised cost (3)

  Personal (4)

  Wholesale (5)

Debt securities

TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

  Personal (6,7)

  Wholesale

TToottaall  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree

CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss

Gross

exposure

£bn

103.1

392.0

223.7

168.3

50.1

545.2

35.6

96.4

132.0

677.2

143.2

377.2

217.2

160.0

29.9

550.3

43.2

93.9

137.0

687.3

ECL

£bn

-

3.5

1.9

1.6

3.5

-

-

0.1

0.1

3.6

-

3.3

1.7

1.6

3.3

-

-

0.1

0.1

3.4

Total

£bn

103.1

388.5

221.8

166.7

50.1

541.7

35.6

96.3

131.9

673.6

143.2

373.9

215.5

158.4

29.9

547.0

43.2

93.8

136.9

683.9

£bn

-

3.5

2.2

1.3

-

3.5

0.3

0.4

0.7

4.2

-

3.4

1.9

1.5

-

3.4

0.3

0.4

0.7

4.1

37.4

0.9

36.5

-

-

37.4

1.0

2.6

3.6

41.0

31.8

0.9

30.9

-

-

31.8

0.7

3.1

3.8

35.6

248.2

207.5

40.7

-

-

248.2

4.0

7.1

11.1

259.3

243.1

202.1

41.0

-

-

243.1

4.4

7.4

11.8

254.9

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

21.8

21.8

21.8

4.1

4.1

25.9

21.7

21.7

21.7

4.0

4.0

25.7

307.4

208.4

99.0

-

-

307.4

5.0

13.8

18.8

326.2

296.6

203.0

93.6

-

-

296.6

5.1

14.5

19.6

316.2

-

3.1

2.0

1.1

3.1

-

-

0.1

0.1

3.2

-

3.0

1.7

1.3

3.0

-

-

0.1

0.1

3.1

103.1

81.1

13.4

67.7

50.1

234.3

30.6

82.5

113.1

347.4

143.2

77.3

12.5

64.8

29.9

250.4

38.1

79.3

117.3

367.7

-

0.4

0.2

0.2

-

0.4

0.3

0.3

0.6

1.0

-

0.4

0.2

0.2

-

0.4

0.3

0.3

0.6

1.0

(1)

(2)

(6)

(7)

Includes cash and securities collateral.

legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty. 

Includes guarantees, charges over trade debtors, other asset finance related physical collateral as well as the amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through netting arrangements, mainly cash management pooling, which give NatWest Group a 

(3) NatWest Group holds collateral in respect of individual loans – amortised cost to banks and customers. This collateral includes mortgages over property (both personal and commercial); charges over business assets such as plant and equipment; 

inventories and trade debtors; and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower. NatWest Group obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements. Collateral values are capped at the value of the loan. 

(4)

Stage 3 mortgage exposures have relatively limited uncovered exposure reflecting the security held. On unsecured credit cards and other personal borrowing, the residual uncovered amount reflects historical experience of continued cash recovery post 

default through ongoing engagement with customers.

(5)

Stage 3 exposures post credit risk enhancement and mitigation in Wholesale mainly represent enterprise value and the impact of written down collateral values; an individual assessment to determine ECL will consider multiple scenarios and in some 

instances allocate a probability weighting to a collateral value in excess of the written down value.

£0.3 billion (2022 – £0.3 billion) Personal Stage 3 balances primarily relate to loan commitments, the draw down of which is effectively prohibited.

The Personal gross exposure value includes £5.9 billion (2022 – £14.0 billion) in respect of pipeline mortgages where a committed offer has been made to a customer but where the funds have not yet been drawn down. When drawn down, the exposure 

would be covered by a security over the borrower’s property.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

215

215

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  eennhhaanncceemmeenntt  aanndd  mmiittiiggaattiioonn  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows exposures of modelled portfolios within the scope of the ECL framework and related credit risk enhancement and mitigation (CREM).

Maximum credit risk

CREM by type

CREM coverage

Exposure post CREM

 Stage 3

Financial (1)

Property

Other (2)

£bn

£bn

£bn

Total

£bn

Stage 3

£bn

Total

£bn

Stage 3

£bn

22002233

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Loans - amortised cost (3)
  Personal (4)
  Wholesale (5)
Debt securities
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss
  Personal (6,7)
  Wholesale
TToottaall  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree

2022

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Loans - amortised cost (3)
  Personal (4)
  Wholesale (5)
Debt securities
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss
  Personal (6,7)
  Wholesale
TToottaall  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree

Gross

exposure

£bn

103.1
392.0
223.7
168.3
50.1
545.2

35.6
96.4
132.0
677.2

143.2
377.2
217.2
160.0
29.9
550.3

43.2
93.9
137.0
687.3

ECL

£bn

-
3.5
1.9
1.6
-
3.5

-
0.1
0.1
3.6

-
3.3
1.7
1.6
-
3.3

-
0.1
0.1
3.4

Total

£bn

103.1
388.5
221.8
166.7
50.1
541.7

35.6
96.3
131.9
673.6

143.2
373.9
215.5
158.4
29.9
547.0

43.2
93.8
136.9
683.9

£bn

-
3.5
2.2
1.3
-
3.5

0.3
0.4
0.7
4.2

-
3.4
1.9
1.5
-
3.4

0.3
0.4
0.7
4.1

-
37.4
0.9
36.5
-
37.4

1.0
2.6
3.6
41.0

-
31.8
0.9
30.9
-
31.8

0.7
3.1
3.8
35.6

-
248.2
207.5
40.7
-
248.2

4.0
7.1
11.1
259.3

-
243.1
202.1
41.0
-
243.1

4.4
7.4
11.8
254.9

-
21.8
-
21.8
-
21.8

-
4.1
4.1
25.9

-
21.7
-
21.7
-
21.7

-
4.0
4.0
25.7

-
307.4
208.4
99.0
-
307.4

5.0
13.8
18.8
326.2

-
296.6
203.0
93.6
-
296.6

5.1
14.5
19.6
316.2

-
3.1
2.0
1.1
-
3.1

-
0.1
0.1
3.2

-
3.0
1.7
1.3
-
3.0

-
0.1
0.1
3.1

103.1
81.1
13.4
67.7
50.1
234.3

30.6
82.5
113.1
347.4

143.2
77.3
12.5
64.8
29.9
250.4

38.1
79.3
117.3
367.7

-
0.4
0.2
0.2
-
0.4

0.3
0.3
0.6
1.0

-
0.4
0.2
0.2
-
0.4

0.3
0.3
0.6
1.0

(1)
(2)

Includes cash and securities collateral.
Includes guarantees, charges over trade debtors, other asset finance related physical collateral as well as the amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through netting arrangements, mainly cash management pooling, which give NatWest Group a 
legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty. 

(3) NatWest Group holds collateral in respect of individual loans – amortised cost to banks and customers. This collateral includes mortgages over property (both personal and commercial); charges over business assets such as plant and equipment; 

(4)

(5)

(6)
(7)

inventories and trade debtors; and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower. NatWest Group obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements. Collateral values are capped at the value of the loan. 
Stage 3 mortgage exposures have relatively limited uncovered exposure reflecting the security held. On unsecured credit cards and other personal borrowing, the residual uncovered amount reflects historical experience of continued cash recovery post 
default through ongoing engagement with customers.
Stage 3 exposures post credit risk enhancement and mitigation in Wholesale mainly represent enterprise value and the impact of written down collateral values; an individual assessment to determine ECL will consider multiple scenarios and in some 
instances allocate a probability weighting to a collateral value in excess of the written down value.
£0.3 billion (2022 – £0.3 billion) Personal Stage 3 balances primarily relate to loan commitments, the draw down of which is effectively prohibited.
The Personal gross exposure value includes £5.9 billion (2022 – £14.0 billion) in respect of pipeline mortgages where a committed offer has been made to a customer but where the funds have not yet been drawn down. When drawn down, the exposure 
would be covered by a security over the borrower’s property.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

216

216

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

217

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Disclosures in the Personal portfolio section include drawn exposure (gross of provisions). 

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))

PPeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg
MMoorrttggaaggeess
Of which:
  Owner occupied
  Buy-to-let
  Interest only
  Mixed (1)
  ECL provisions (2)
OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg ((33))
ECL provisions (2)
TToottaall  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg
MMoorrttggaaggee  LLTTVV  rraattiiooss
  - Owner occupied
    - Stage 1
    - Stage 2
    - Stage 3
  - Buy-to-let
    - Stage 1
    - Stage 2
    - Stage 3
GGrroossss  nneeww  mmoorrttggaaggee  lleennddiinngg
Of which:
  Owner occupied 
  - LTV > 90%
  Weighted average LTV (4)
  Buy-to-let
  Weighted average LTV (4)
  Interest only
  Mixed (1)
MMoorrttggaaggee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee
Forbearance flow (5)
Forbearance stock
  Current
  1-3 months in arrears
  >3 months in arrears

Retail

Banking

£m

192,915

174,167
18,748
25,805
10,068
397
13,758
1,508
206,673

55%
55%
54%
48%
52%
52%
50%
50%
29,664

27,718
1,173
70%
1,946
58%
2,680
1,568

569
1,416
950
116
350

Private

Banking

£m

13,222

11,629
1,593
11,631
25
12
1,395
12
14,617

59%
59%
63%
61%
59%
60%
57%
53%
1,400

1,267
-
63%
133
65%
1,224
2

22
28
10
2
16

2023

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

& other

£m

2,200

1,464
736
461
10
6
222
2
2,422

56%
54%
54%
72%
52%
52%
49%
58%
180

136
-
69%
44
52%
23
-

9
15
6
2
7

£m

-

-
-
-
-
-
13
16
13

-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-

Total

£m

208,337

187,260
21,077
37,897
10,103
415
15,388
1,538
223,725

55%
55%
54%
49%
53%
53%
50%
51%
31,244

29,121
1,173
70%
2,123
58%
3,927
1,570

600
1,459
966
120
373

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

PPeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg

MMoorrttggaaggeess

Of which:

  Owner occupied

  Buy-to-let

  Interest only

  Mixed (1)

  ECL provisions (2)

OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg ((33))

ECL provisions (2)

TToottaall  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg

MMoorrttggaaggee  LLTTVV  rraattiiooss

  - Owner occupied

    - Stage 1

    - Stage 2

    - Stage 3

  - Buy-to-let

    - Stage 1

    - Stage 2

    - Stage 3

Of which:

  Owner occupied 

  - LTV > 90%

  Weighted average LTV (4)

  Buy-to-let

  Weighted average LTV (4)

  Interest only

  Mixed (1)

MMoorrttggaaggee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee

Forbearance flow (5)

Forbearance stock

  Current

  1-3 months in arrears

  >3 months in arrears

Commercial &

Central items

2022

Institutional

& other

£m

Retail

Banking

£m

186,891

168,790

18,101

21,469

9,768

355

11,935

1,257

198,826

52%

52%

52%

45%

50%

51%

49%

47%

36,305

1,265

69%

4,922

64%

5,323

2,309

182

1,015

649

133

233

Private

Banking

£m

13,709

12,096

1,613

11,877

1

9

1,853

15

15,562

59%

59%

61%

59%

59%

59%

53%

55%

2,701

-

65%

267

66%

2,664

-

7

16

8

-

8

£m

2,357

1,541

816

519

16

6

267

3

2,624

56%

56%

60%

74%

53%

53%

48%

57%

327

221

-

65%

106

60%

62

2

4

8

6

2

-

Total

£m

202,957

182,427

20,530

33,865

9,785

370

14,198

1,301

217,155

53%

53%

52%

47%

51%

52%

49%

50%

44,522

39,227

1,265

69%

5,295

64%

8,049

2,311

193

1,039

663

135

241

143

26

143

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

GGrroossss  nneeww  mmoorrttggaaggee  lleennddiinngg

41,227

2,968

(1)

Includes accounts which have an interest only sub-account and a capital and 

interest sub-account to provide a more comprehensive view of interest only 

(2) Retail Banking excludes a non-material amount of lending and provisions held 

on relatively small legacy portfolios.

(3) Comprises unsecured lending except for Private Banking, which includes both 

secured and unsecured lending. It excludes loans that are commercial in 

exposures.

nature.

(4) New mortgage lending LTV reflects the LTV at the time of lending.

(5)

Forbearance flows only include an account once per year, although some 

accounts may be subject to multiple forbearance deals. Forbearance deals post 

default are excluded from these flows.

For the key points to this table refer to the following page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

217

217

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))

PPeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg
MMoorrttggaaggeess
Of which:
  Owner occupied
  Buy-to-let
  Interest only
  Mixed (1)
  ECL provisions (2)
OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg ((33))
ECL provisions (2)
TToottaall  ppeerrssoonnaall  lleennddiinngg
MMoorrttggaaggee  LLTTVV  rraattiiooss
  - Owner occupied
    - Stage 1
    - Stage 2
    - Stage 3
  - Buy-to-let
    - Stage 1
    - Stage 2
    - Stage 3
GGrroossss  nneeww  mmoorrttggaaggee  lleennddiinngg
Of which:
  Owner occupied 
  - LTV > 90%
  Weighted average LTV (4)
  Buy-to-let
  Weighted average LTV (4)
  Interest only
  Mixed (1)
MMoorrttggaaggee  ffoorrbbeeaarraannccee
Forbearance flow (5)
Forbearance stock
  Current
  1-3 months in arrears
  >3 months in arrears

Retail

Banking

£m

186,891

168,790
18,101
21,469
9,768
355
11,935
1,257
198,826

52%
52%
52%
45%
50%
51%
49%
47%
41,227

36,305
1,265
69%
4,922
64%
5,323
2,309

182
1,015
649
133
233

Private

Banking

£m

13,709

12,096
1,613
11,877
1
9
1,853
15
15,562

59%
59%
61%
59%
59%
59%
53%
55%
2,968

2,701
-
65%
267
66%
2,664
-

7
16
8
-
8

2022

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

& other

£m

2,357

1,541
816
519
16
6
267
3
2,624

56%
56%
60%
74%
53%
53%
48%
57%
327

221
-
65%
106
60%
62
2

4
8
6
2
-

£m

-

-
-
-
-
-
143
26
143

-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-
-
-
-
-

Total

£m

202,957

182,427
20,530
33,865
9,785
370
14,198
1,301
217,155

53%
53%
52%
47%
51%
52%
49%
50%
44,522

39,227
1,265
69%
5,295
64%
8,049
2,311

193
1,039
663
135
241

(1)

Includes accounts which have an interest only sub-account and a capital and 
interest sub-account to provide a more comprehensive view of interest only 
exposures.

(2) Retail Banking excludes a non-material amount of lending and provisions held 

on relatively small legacy portfolios.

(3) Comprises unsecured lending except for Private Banking, which includes both 
secured and unsecured lending. It excludes loans that are commercial in 
nature.

(4) New mortgage lending LTV reflects the LTV at the time of lending.
(5)

Forbearance flows only include an account once per year, although some 
accounts may be subject to multiple forbearance deals. Forbearance deals post 
default are excluded from these flows.

For the key points to this table refer to the following page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

218

218

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

219

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Mortgage LTV distribution by stage 

The table below shows gross mortgage lending and related ECL by LTV band for the Retail Banking portfolio. Mortgage lending not within the scope of governance and post model 
adjustments reflected portfolios carried at fair value.

Mortgages

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage 

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Retail Banking mortgage LTV distribution by region  

The table below shows gross mortgage lending by LTV band for Retail Banking, by geographical region. 

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg

22002233

≤50%
>50% and ≤70%
>70% and ≤80%
>80% and ≤90%
>90% and ≤100%
>100%
Total with LTVs
Other
Total

2022

≤50%
>50% and ≤70%
>70% and ≤80%
>80% and ≤90%
>90% and ≤100%
>100%
Total with LTVs
Other
Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

Total  

£m  

68,092
65,777
22,537
13,583
3,008
22
173,019
186
173,205

71,321
68,178
17,602
7,918
1,409
35
166,463
59
166,522

7,447
7,011
1,633
1,143
370
6
17,610
1
17,611

8,257
7,792
1,602
944
18
7
18,620
1
18,621

1,145
767
113
47
14
11

76,684
73,555
24,283
14,773
3,392
39
2,097 192,726
189
2,099 192,915

2

1,036
616
62
17
6
10

80,614
76,586
19,266
8,879
1,433
52
1,747 186,830
61
1,748 186,891

1

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total   

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

27
35
13
9
2
-
86
1
87

26
32
7
6
3
2
76
3
79

£m

18
26
7
6
3
-
60
-
60

20
30
6
5
-
-
61
-
61

£m

134
85
15
7
3
5
249
1
250

121
71
11
5
2
4
214
1
215

£m  

179
146
35
22
8
5
395
2
397

167
133
24
16
5
6
351
4
355

%

0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
-
0.1
0.5
0.1

-
-
-
0.1
0.2
5.7
-
5.1
-

%

0.2
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.8
-
0.3
-
0.3

0.2
0.4
0.4
0.5
-
-
0.3
-
0.3

%

11.7
11.1
13.3
14.9
21.4
45.5
11.9
50.0
11.9

11.7
11.5
17.7
29.4
33.3
40.0
12.3
100.0
12.3

Total

%

0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
12.8
0.2
1.1
0.2

0.2
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.3
11.5
0.2
6.6
0.2

 Growth in the mortgage portfolio decreased in the second half of 2023, consistent with trends in the wider UK mortgage market.
 Mortgage portfolio LTV increased, partly due to the higher relative proportion of new business from recent years’ strong lending performance, as well as easing of house prices reflected in the 

Office for National Statistics house price indices.

 The proportion of overall interest only mortgage balances increased in 2023 driven by the implementation of the Mortgage Charter. Interest only new lending reduced during the year 





consistent with the reduction in buy-to-let new lending.
Portfolios and new business were closely monitored against agreed operating limits. These included loan-to-value ratios, buy-to-let concentrations, new-build concentrations and credit quality. 
Lending criteria, affordability calculations and assumptions for new lending were adjusted during the year, considering inflationary pressure and interest rate rises, to maintain credit quality in 
line with appetite and to ensure customers are assessed fairly.
Support for customers was proactively promoted during the year. The flow and stock of forbearance increased during the year. The reported forbearance values included customers who 
used Mortgage Charter support if indicators of financial stress were already present before Mortgage Charter support was taken. The number of customers requesting support outside of 
Mortgage Charter (primarily forbearance) increased gradually during the year, but remained within expectations.

 Other personal lending balances increased during the year mainly as a result of credit card new business. Lending criteria were carefully managed and the credit quality (based on new 

business PD) of the new business written improved, compared to 2022.

 As noted previously, ECL increased. For further details on the movements in ECL provisions at product level, refer to the Flow statements section.

22002233

South East

Greater London

Scotland

North West

South West

West Midlands

East of England

Rest of the UK

Total

2022

South East

Greater London

Scotland

North West

South West

West Midlands

East of England

Rest of the UK

Total

(1)

(2)

50%≤80%

80%≤100%

>100%

£m

Weighted

average LTV

Flood risk (1)

Lending at high/

Total

very high risk (2)

≤50%

£m

14,645

14,689

5,051

7,314

7,308

5,391

8,576

13,711

76,685

15,856

15,200

5,024

7,670

7,874

5,477

9,241

14,312

80,654

£m

18,510

18,044

5,938

8,629

8,296

7,072

11,810

19,540

97,839

17,670

17,550

6,174

8,672

7,922

7,014

11,492

19,408

95,902

£m

3,107

2,366

1,445

1,881

1,379

1,404

2,208

4,374

18,164

1,396

1,336

1,163

1,236

627

862

987

2,712

10,319

Total

£m

36,263

35,100

12,435

17,826

16,984

13,868

22,594

37,657

192,727

34,923

34,087

12,362

17,580

16,423

13,354

21,722

36,475

186,926

32

39

1

1

1

2

1

1

-

1

1

1

2

-

1

2

43

51

%

54

53

54

54

53

55

55

56

54

51

51

54

52

50

53

52

54

52

Other

£m

175

188

2

3

2

2

1

1

2

3

3

1

2

1

1

2

48

61

Total

£m

36,265

35,103

12,437

17,828

16,985

13,869

22,596

37,832

192,915

34,926

34,090

12,363

17,582

16,424

13,355

21,724

36,523

186,987

%

19

18

6

9

9

7

12

20

100

19

18

7

9

9

7

12

19

100

%

5.0

6.1

4.2

4.9

3.7

2.5

4.5

4.5

4.7

4.1

2.3

3.2

2.2

3.0

1.2

2.1

3.2

2.8

Not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.

Flood risk is modelled by calculating an estimated loss for each flood source different types of flooding (Fluvial, pluvial, tidal), annualised for each source and combined for a total flood score. Flood defences are considered where available. Flood scores are 

allocated per property based on the potential annualised loss (£) to a property dependent on the type, frequency and depth of flooding modelled across different return periods. The scoring ranges from 0 to 100, with 0 being lowest and 100 being the 

highest risk. A score of 61 and above is considered to be high risk and properties with a score of 81 and above considered to be very high risk after flood mitigants are taken into account.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

219

219

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Retail Banking mortgage LTV distribution by region  
The table below shows gross mortgage lending by LTV band for Retail Banking, by geographical region. 

22002233

South East
Greater London
Scotland
North West
South West
West Midlands
East of England
Rest of the UK
Total

2022

South East
Greater London
Scotland
North West
South West
West Midlands
East of England
Rest of the UK
Total

≤50%

£m

14,645
14,689
5,051
7,314
7,308
5,391
8,576
13,711
76,685

15,856
15,200
5,024
7,670
7,874
5,477
9,241
14,312
80,654

50%≤80%

80%≤100%

>100%

£m

18,510
18,044
5,938
8,629
8,296
7,072
11,810
19,540
97,839

17,670
17,550
6,174
8,672
7,922
7,014
11,492
19,408
95,902

£m

3,107
2,366
1,445
1,881
1,379
1,404
2,208
4,374
18,164

1,396
1,336
1,163
1,236
627
862
987
2,712
10,319

£m

1
1
1
2
1
1
-
32
39

1
1
1
2
-
1
2
43
51

Total

£m

36,263
35,100
12,435
17,826
16,984
13,868
22,594
37,657
192,727

34,923
34,087
12,362
17,580
16,423
13,354
21,722
36,475
186,926

Weighted

average LTV

Other

%

54
53
54
54
53
55
55
56
54

51
51
54
52
50
53
52
54
52

£m

2
3
2
2
1
1
2
175
188

3
3
1
2
1
1
2
48
61

Total

£m

36,265
35,103
12,437
17,828
16,985
13,869
22,596
37,832
192,915

34,926
34,090
12,363
17,582
16,424
13,355
21,724
36,523
186,987

Flood risk (1)

Lending at high/

Total

very high risk (2)

%

19
18
6
9
9
7
12
20
100

19
18
7
9
9
7
12
19
100

%

5.0
6.1
4.2
4.9
3.7
2.5
4.5
4.5
4.7

4.1
2.3
3.2
2.2
3.0
1.2
2.1
3.2
2.8

(1)
(2)

Not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.
Flood risk is modelled by calculating an estimated loss for each flood source different types of flooding (Fluvial, pluvial, tidal), annualised for each source and combined for a total flood score. Flood defences are considered where available. Flood scores are 
allocated per property based on the potential annualised loss (£) to a property dependent on the type, frequency and depth of flooding modelled across different return periods. The scoring ranges from 0 to 100, with 0 being lowest and 100 being the 
highest risk. A score of 61 and above is considered to be high risk and properties with a score of 81 and above considered to be very high risk after flood mitigants are taken into account.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

220

220

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

221

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

PPeerrssoonnaall  ppoorrttffoolliioo  ((aauuddiitteedd)) 
Retail Banking fixed rate mortgages by roll-off date (1)
The table below shows gross fixed rate mortgage lending for Retail Banking, by roll-off date.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  rreeaall  eessttaattee  ((CCRREE))

CRE LTV distribution by stage (audited)

The table below shows CRE current exposure and related ECL by LTV band.

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  mmoorrttggaaggeess  --  ggrroossss  eexxppoossuurree
FFiixxeedd  rraattee  rroollll--ooffff
< 1 year
>1 year < 2 years
> 2 years
Total 

Stage 1

£m

30,867
39,013
87,402
157,282

2023

Stage 2

£m

3,670
3,513
7,461
14,644

Stage 3

£m

295
290
590
1,175

Total  

£m  

34,832 
42,816
95,453 
173,101  

Stage 1

£m

37,391
32,266
84,116
153,773

2022

Stage 2

£m

4,644
4,063
7,103
15,810

Stage 3

£m

276
240
438
954

Total

£m

42,311
36,569
91,657
170,537

Retail Banking mortgages by Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating (1)
The table below represents the energy efficiency of Retail Banking residential mortgages.

EEPPCC  rraattiinngg
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
Unclassified
Total

31 December 2023

Owner occupied

Buy-to-let

£bn

547
21,566
29,764
46,924
16,027
3,360
736
55,243
174,167

£bn

13
1,458
5,712
6,056
1,557
62
16
3,874
18,748

Total

£bn

560
23,024
35,476
52,980
17,584
3,422
752
59,117
192,915

31 December 2022

Owner occupied

Buy-to-let

£bn

424
19,874
28,049
47,497
17,153
3,691
789
51,313
168,790

£bn

12
1,342
5,228
6,033
1,687
86
21
3,692
18,101

Total

£bn

436
21,216
33,277
53,530
18,840
3,777
810
55,005
186,891

(1) Not within the scope of the independent auditors’ report.
(2)

As at 31 December 2023, £140.8 billion, 67.6%, of the total residential mortgages portfolio had Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) data available (2022 – £138.8 billion, 68.3%). Of which, 44.1% were rated as EPC A to C (2022 – 41.6%).

(1) Relates mainly to business banking and unsecured corporate lending. 

(2) Relates to the development of commercial and residential properties. LTV is not a meaningful measure for this type of lending activity.

Total portfolio average LTV

22002233

≤50%

>50% and ≤70%

>70% and ≤100%

>100%

Total with LTVs

Other (1)

Investment

Development (2)

Total

2022

≤50%

>50% and ≤70%

>70% and ≤100%

>100%

Total with LTVs

Other (1)

Investment

Development (2)

Total

Total portfolio average LTV

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

£m

7,173

3,165

319

241

10,898

47%

2,189

13,087

1,717

14,804

7,010

3,515

259

102

10,886

45%

1,800

12,686

1,553

14,239

£m

664

619

112

6

1,401

51%

390

1,791

147

1,938

658

798

82

10

1,548

52%

627

2,175

332

2,507

Total

£m

7,898

3,878

515

273

12,564

48%

2,624

15,188

1,913

17,101

7,725

4,356

497

135

12,713

47%

2,482

15,195

1,942

17,137

£m

61

94

84

26

265

72%

45

310

49

359

57

43

156

23

279

75%

55

334

57

391

£m

38

22

3

1

64

10

74

12

86

36

23

1

1

61

9

70

13

83

£m

15

21

6

1

43

7

50

5

55

12

18

3

1

34

15

49

8

57

£m

9

18

21

16

64

19

83

25

16

12

42

14

84

108

27

111

28

139

£m

62

61

30

18

171

36

207

42

249

64

53

46

16

179

51

230

49

279

%

0.5

0.7

0.9

0.4

0.6

0.5

0.6

0.7

0.6

0.5

0.7

0.4

1.0

0.6

0.5

0.6

0.8

0.6

%

2.3

3.4

5.4

16.7

3.1

1.8

2.8

3.4

2.8

1.8

2.3

3.7

10.0

2.2

2.4

2.3

2.4

2.3

%

14.8

19.1

25.0

61.5

24.2

42.2

26.8

51.0

30.1

28.1

27.9

26.9

60.9

30.1

49.1

33.2

49.1

35.6

%

0.8

1.6

5.8

6.6

1.4

1.4

1.4

2.2

1.5

0.8

1.2

9.1

11.8

1.4

2.0

1.5

2.5

1.6

 OOvveerraallll – The majority of the CRE portfolio was located and managed in the UK. 

 CCrreeddiitt  qquuaalliittyy  ––  The CRE portfolio has coped well to date with the fall in capital values 

Business appetite and strategy was aligned across NatWest Group.

and increase in rates, with no significant increase to loans coming into the Risk of 



22002233  ttrreennddss  ––  In H2 2023, conditions were impacted by the uncertain interest rate 

Credit Loss Framework.

outlook. Investment volumes were at historic lows for much of 2023, and values 

 RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  ––  Lending appetite is subject to regular review.

continued to drift downwards in some sectors. There were some early signs of 

improving sentiment following a sharp reduction in medium-term interest rates, but 

valuations remain somewhat uncertain, particularly in the office sector. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

221

221

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  rreeaall  eessttaattee  ((CCRREE))
CRE LTV distribution by stage (audited)
The table below shows CRE current exposure and related ECL by LTV band.

22002233

≤50%
>50% and ≤70%
>70% and ≤100%
>100%
Total with LTVs
Total portfolio average LTV
Other (1)
Investment
Development (2)
Total

2022

≤50%
>50% and ≤70%
>70% and ≤100%
>100%
Total with LTVs
Total portfolio average LTV
Other (1)
Investment
Development (2)
Total

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

7,173
3,165
319
241
10,898
47%
2,189
13,087
1,717
14,804

7,010
3,515
259
102
10,886
45%
1,800
12,686
1,553
14,239

£m

664
619
112
6
1,401
51%
390
1,791
147
1,938

658
798
82
10
1,548
52%
627
2,175
332
2,507

£m

61
94
84
26
265
72%
45
310
49
359

57
43
156
23
279
75%
55
334
57
391

Total

£m

7,898
3,878
515
273
12,564
48%
2,624
15,188
1,913
17,101

7,725
4,356
497
135
12,713
47%
2,482
15,195
1,942
17,137

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total 

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

£m

38
22
3
1
64

10
74
12
86

36
23
1
1
61

9
70
13
83

£m

15
21
6
1
43

7
50
5
55

12
18
3
1
34

15
49
8
57

£m

9
18
21
16
64

19
83
25
108

16
12
42
14
84

27
111
28
139

£m

62
61
30
18
171

36
207
42
249

64
53
46
16
179

51
230
49
279

%

0.5
0.7
0.9
0.4
0.6

0.5
0.6
0.7
0.6

0.5
0.7
0.4
1.0
0.6

0.5
0.6
0.8
0.6

%

2.3
3.4
5.4
16.7
3.1

1.8
2.8
3.4
2.8

1.8
2.3
3.7
10.0
2.2

2.4
2.3
2.4
2.3

%

14.8
19.1
25.0
61.5
24.2

42.2
26.8
51.0
30.1

28.1
27.9
26.9
60.9
30.1

49.1
33.2
49.1
35.6

%

0.8
1.6
5.8
6.6
1.4

1.4
1.4
2.2
1.5

0.8
1.2
9.1
11.8
1.4

2.0
1.5
2.5
1.6

(1) Relates mainly to business banking and unsecured corporate lending. 
(2) Relates to the development of commercial and residential properties. LTV is not a meaningful measure for this type of lending activity.

 OOvveerraallll – The majority of the CRE portfolio was located and managed in the UK. 



Business appetite and strategy was aligned across NatWest Group.
22002233  ttrreennddss  ––  In H2 2023, conditions were impacted by the uncertain interest rate 
outlook. Investment volumes were at historic lows for much of 2023, and values 
continued to drift downwards in some sectors. There were some early signs of 
improving sentiment following a sharp reduction in medium-term interest rates, but 
valuations remain somewhat uncertain, particularly in the office sector. 

 CCrreeddiitt  qquuaalliittyy  ––  The CRE portfolio has coped well to date with the fall in capital values 
and increase in rates, with no significant increase to loans coming into the Risk of 
Credit Loss Framework.

 RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  ––  Lending appetite is subject to regular review.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

222

222

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

223

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The flow statements that follow show the main ECL and related income statement movements. They also show the changes in ECL as well as the changes in related financial assets 
used in determining ECL. Due to differences in scope, exposures may differ from those reported in other tables, principally in relation to exposures in Stage 1 and Stage 2. These 
differences do not have a material ECL effect. Other points to note:

 Financial assets include treasury liquidity portfolios, comprising balances at central banks and debt securities, as well as loans. Both modelled and non-modelled portfolios are 

included.

 Stage transfers (for example, exposures moving from Stage 1 into Stage 2) are a key feature of the ECL movements, with the net re-measurement cost of transitioning to a worse 

stage being a primary driver of income statement charges. Similarly, there is an ECL benefit for accounts improving stage. 

 Changes in risk parameters shows the reassessment of the ECL within a given stage, including any ECL overlays and residual income statement gains or losses at the point of 

write-off or accounting write-down. 

 Other (P&L only items) includes any subsequent changes in the value of written-down assets (for example, fortuitous recoveries) along with other direct write-off items such as 

  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer

direct recovery costs. Other (P&L only items) affects the income statement but does not affect balance sheet ECL movements. 

 Amounts written-off represent the gross asset written-down against accounts with ECL, including the net asset write-down for any debt sale activity. 
 There were some flows from Stage 1 into Stage 3 including transfers due to unexpected default events with a post model adjustment in place for Commercial & Institutional to 

account for this risk. 

 The effect of any change in post model adjustments during the year is typically reported under changes in risk parameters, as are any effects arising from changes to the 

underlying models. Refer to the section on Governance and post model adjustments for further details.

 All movements are captured monthly and aggregated. Interest suspended post default is included within Stage 3 ECL with the movement in the value of suspended interest during 

the year reported under currency translation and other adjustments.

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  ttoottaall
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Transfers to disposal groups and fair value
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
507,539
(2,462)
(49,502)
47,264
(336)
311

1,530

1
-
-
504,345
503,636
546,178
(38,639)
507,539
506,907

£m  
632
3
(318)
762
(6)
32
(544)
(52)
205
(6)
(397)
(5)
-
-
709

302
330
632

£m
48,482
(232)
49,502
(47,264)
(3,221)
631

(7,516)

(86)
(2)

40,294
39,318
35,557
12,925
48,482
47,439

£m  
1,043
6
318
(762)
(293)
61
810
17
(188)
6
645
(34)
(2)
-
976

1,478
(435)
1,043

£m
5,231
128
-
-
3,557
(942)

(1,946)

(90)
(317)

5,621
3,661
5,238
(7)
5,231
3,472

£m  
1,759
145
-
-
299
(93)
241
306
(193)
(24)
330
(41)
(317)
(146)
1,960

2,026
(267)
1,759

£m
561,252
(2,566)
-
-
-
-

(7,932)

(175)
(319)

550,260
546,615
586,973
(25,721)
561,252
557,818

ECL

£m
3,434
154
-
-
-
-
507
271
(176)
(24)
578
(80)
(319)
(146)
3,645

3,806
(372)
3,434

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  --  mmoorrttggaaggeess

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Currency translation and other adjustments

Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2

Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1

Transfers to Stage 3

Transfers from Stage 3

  Changes in risk parameters

  Other changes in net exposure

  Other (P&L only items)

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess

Amounts written-off

Unwinding of discount

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

Net carrying amount

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222

2022 movements

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL

Financial assets

ECL

Financial assets

Financial assets

165,264

£m

-

(18,779)

16,742

(61)

40

10,832

-

174,038

173,951

159,966

5,298

165,264

165,185

£m

79

(1)

(19)

37

-

1

(21)

24

(13)

(10)

-

-

-

87

24

55

79

18,831

£m

-

18,779

(16,742)

(1,028)

294

(2,307)

-

17,827

17,767

10,748

8,083

18,831

18,770

(37)

£m

61

1

19

(7)

7

27

(5)

(6)

16

-

-

-

60

155

(94)

61

1,762

£m

78

-

-

1,089

(334)

(497)

(30)

2,068

1,818

1,267

495

1,762

1,547

ECL  

£m  

215

77

-

-

7

(8)

6

72

(43)

(9)

26

(30)

(46)

250

250

(35)

215

185,857

£m

78

-

-

-

-

8,028

(30)

193,933

193,536

171,981

13,876

185,857

185,502

ECL

£m

355

77

-

-

-

-

12

91

(62)

(9)

32

(30)

(46)

397

429

(74)

355

 ECL levels for mortgages increased during 2023, reflecting continued strong growth. 

While portfolio performance remained stable, increased economic uncertainty is 

captured through ECL post model adjustments (reflected in changes in risk 

 The Stage 3 inflows remained broadly stable, albeit with signs of an upward drift in 

default rates, reflecting slightly poorer arrears performance on mortgages recently 

rolled off onto higher product rates. Furthermore, the increase in Stage 3 ECL overall 

parameters).

reflected recent house price index deterioration. 

 There were net flows into Stage 2 from Stage 1 with an upward trend in early 

arrears coupled with the collective migration into Stage 2 of higher risk customers 

utilising new Mortgage Charter treatments (approximately £0.9 billion exposure). PDs 

remained broadly stable due to the impact of improved economics since 2022 and 

balance paydown within Stage 2 resulted in a lower Stage 2 balance in 2023.

 The relatively small ECL cost for net re-measurement on stage transfer included the 

effect of risk targeted ECL adjustments, when previously in the good book. Refer to 

the Governance and post model adjustments section for further details.

 Write-off occurs once the repossessed property has been sold and there is a residual 

shortfall balance remaining outstanding. This would typically be within five years from 

 The increase in the cost of living post model adjustment during 2023 proportionately 

default but can be longer. 

allocated more ECL to Stage 1 given the forward-looking nature of the affordability 

threat. Refer to the Governance and post model adjustments section for more 

information.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
  
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

223

223

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  --  mmoorrttggaaggeess
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
Net carrying amount
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

£m
165,264
-
(18,779)
16,742
(61)
40

10,832

-

174,038
173,951
159,966
5,298
165,264
165,185

ECL

£m
79
(1)
(19)
37
-
1
(21)
24
(13)
-
(10)
-
-
87

24
55
79

Financial assets

£m
18,831
-
18,779
(16,742)
(1,028)
294

(2,307)

-

17,827
17,767
10,748
8,083
18,831
18,770

ECL

£m
61
1
19
(37)
(7)
7
27
(5)
(6)
-
16
-
-
60

155
(94)
61

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
1,762
78
-
-
1,089
(334)

(497)

(30)

2,068
1,818
1,267
495
1,762
1,547

£m  
215
77
-
-
7
(8)
6
72
(43)
(9)
26
(30)
(46)
250

250
(35)
215

£m
185,857
78
-
-
-
-

8,028

(30)

193,933
193,536
171,981
13,876
185,857
185,502

ECL

£m
355
77
-
-
-
-
12
91
(62)
(9)
32
(30)
(46)
397

429
(74)
355

 ECL levels for mortgages increased during 2023, reflecting continued strong growth. 
While portfolio performance remained stable, increased economic uncertainty is 
captured through ECL post model adjustments (reflected in changes in risk 
parameters).

 There were net flows into Stage 2 from Stage 1 with an upward trend in early 

arrears coupled with the collective migration into Stage 2 of higher risk customers 
utilising new Mortgage Charter treatments (approximately £0.9 billion exposure). PDs 
remained broadly stable due to the impact of improved economics since 2022 and 
balance paydown within Stage 2 resulted in a lower Stage 2 balance in 2023.

 The increase in the cost of living post model adjustment during 2023 proportionately 
allocated more ECL to Stage 1 given the forward-looking nature of the affordability 
threat. Refer to the Governance and post model adjustments section for more 
information.

 The Stage 3 inflows remained broadly stable, albeit with signs of an upward drift in 
default rates, reflecting slightly poorer arrears performance on mortgages recently 
rolled off onto higher product rates. Furthermore, the increase in Stage 3 ECL overall 
reflected recent house price index deterioration. 

 The relatively small ECL cost for net re-measurement on stage transfer included the 
effect of risk targeted ECL adjustments, when previously in the good book. Refer to 
the Governance and post model adjustments section for further details.

 Write-off occurs once the repossessed property has been sold and there is a residual 
shortfall balance remaining outstanding. This would typically be within five years from 
default but can be longer. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
  
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224

224

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  --  ccrreeddiitt  ccaarrddss
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
3,062
-
(1,933)
753
(21)
2

1,612

-

3,475
3,405
2,740
322
3,062
3,001

£m  
61
-
(42)
52
(1)
1
(31)
18
12
-
(1)
-
-
70

58
3
61

£m
1,098
-
1,933
(753)
(122)
7

(117)

-

2,046
1,842
947
151
1,098
978

£m  
120
-
42
(52)
(45)
3
162
25
(51)
-
136
-
-
204

141
(21)
120

£m
113
4
-
-
143
(9)

(36)

(69)

146
57
91
22
113
42

£m  
71
4
-
-
46
(4)
41
8
(1)
1
49
(69)
(7)
89

60
11
71

£m
4,273
4
-
-
-
-

1,459

(69)

5,667
5,304
3,778
495
4,273
4,021

ECL

£m
252
4
-
-
-
-
172
51
(40)
1
184
(69)
(7)
363

259
(7)
252

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  --  ootthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall  uunnsseeccuurreedd

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Currency translation and other adjustments

Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2

Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1

Transfers to Stage 3

Transfers from Stage 3

  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer

  Changes in risk parameters

  Other changes in net exposure

  Other (P&L only items)

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess

Amounts written-off

Unwinding of discount

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222

2022 movements

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Financial assets

Financial assets

Financial assets

Financial assets

£m

4,784

(2,775)

2,284

(61)

-

7

-

1,001

5,240

5,091

4,548

236

4,784

4,673

ECL  

£m  

111

-

(118)

317

(3)

3

(224)

(41)

104

(161)

-

-

-

149

52

59

111

£m

2,028

-

2,775

(2,284)

(326)

23

(558)

(1)

1,657

1,419

1,967

61

2,028

1,759

ECL  

£m  

269

-

118

(317)

(128)

9

329

14

(55)

288

(1)

-

-

238

294

(25)

269

£m

779

26

-

-

387

(30)

(111)

(88)

963

205

629

150

779

148

ECL  

£m  

631

26

-

-

131

(12)

53

82

(33)

20

122

(88)

(32)

758

540

91

631

ECL

£m

1,011

26

-

-

-

-

158

55

16

20

249

(89)

(32)

1,145

886

125

1,011

7,591

£m

26

-

-

-

-

-

332

(89)

7,860

6,715

7,144

447

7,591

6,580

 The overall increase in ECL was mainly due to the increase in Stage 2 ECL. 
 While portfolio performance remained stable, a net flow into Stage 2 from Stage 1 
was observed as PDs increased with observed unemployment and PD modelling 
updates capturing more economic downside.

 Credit card balances continued to grow since the 2022 year end, in line with industry 
trends in the UK, reflecting strong customer demand, while sustaining robust risk 
appetite. 

 Stage 3 inflows remained relatively stable during the year, although there was a 

modest upward trend in default levels, in line with growth and normalisation of risk 
parameters.

 Charge-off (analogous to partial write-off) typically occurs after 12 missed payments.

 Total ECL increased, mainly in Stage 3. While default levels were broadly stable, they 

 Unsecured retail balances grew steadily until Q3 2023 but, in line with industry trends 

were higher than in 2022. This increase was in line with growth and normalisation of 

in the UK, stabilised in the last quarter of the year.

risk parameters. Furthermore, write-off levels were lower during 2023, which 

 Write-off occurs once recovery activity with the customer has been concluded or 

sustained a higher Stage 3 ECL position at 31 December 2023.

there are no further recoveries expected, but no later than six years after default.

 A slight rise in early arrears levels since 2022 and modest PD increases during the 

year resulted in a net migration from Stage 1 into Stage 2. However, good book ECL 

and coverage levels were largely consistent with 2022, with the improved economic 

outlook since 2022 mitigating further IFRS 9 PD increases and balance paydown 

within Stage 2. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225

225

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg  --  ootthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall  uunnsseeccuurreedd
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
4,784
-
(2,775)
2,284
(61)
7

1,001

-

5,240
5,091
4,548
236
4,784
4,673

£m  
111
-
(118)
317
(3)
3
(224)
(41)
104
-
(161)
-
-
149

52
59
111

£m
2,028
-
2,775
(2,284)
(326)
23

(558)

(1)

1,657
1,419
1,967
61
2,028
1,759

£m  
269
-
118
(317)
(128)
9
329
14
(55)
-
288
(1)
-
238

294
(25)
269

£m
779
26
-
-
387
(30)

(111)

(88)

963
205
629
150
779
148

£m  
631
26
-
-
131
(12)
53
82
(33)
20
122
(88)
(32)
758

540
91
631

£m
7,591
26
-
-
-
-
-

332

(89)

7,860
6,715
7,144
447
7,591
6,580

ECL

£m
1,011
26
-
-
-
-
158
55
16
20
249
(89)
(32)
1,145

886
125
1,011

 Total ECL increased, mainly in Stage 3. While default levels were broadly stable, they 
were higher than in 2022. This increase was in line with growth and normalisation of 
risk parameters. Furthermore, write-off levels were lower during 2023, which 
sustained a higher Stage 3 ECL position at 31 December 2023.

 A slight rise in early arrears levels since 2022 and modest PD increases during the 

year resulted in a net migration from Stage 1 into Stage 2. However, good book ECL 
and coverage levels were largely consistent with 2022, with the improved economic 
outlook since 2022 mitigating further IFRS 9 PD increases and balance paydown 
within Stage 2. 

 Unsecured retail balances grew steadily until Q3 2023 but, in line with industry trends 

in the UK, stabilised in the last quarter of the year.

 Write-off occurs once recovery activity with the customer has been concluded or 
there are no further recoveries expected, but no later than six years after default.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226

226

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  ttoottaall
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Inter-group transfers
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
2022 movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

£m
160,352
(1,702)
-
(23,886)
25,353
(109)
180

16,114

-

176,302
175,946
152,224
8,128
160,352
160,010

ECL  

£m  

342
1
-
(129)
334
(2)
27
(253)
(62)
98
(5)
(222)
-
-
356

129
213
342

Financial assets

£m
24,711
(226)
-
23,886
(25,353)
(1,523)
266

(4,731)

(1)

17,029
16,582
19,731
4,980
24,711
24,177

ECL  

£m  

534
(1)
-
129
(334)
(90)
34
276
(42)
(58)
6
182
(1)
-
447

785
(251)
534

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
2,198
26
-
-
-
1,632
(446)

(1,128)

(121)

2,161
1,342
2,155
43
2,198
1,451

£m  
747
46
-
-
-
92
(61)
129
136
(95)
(36)
134
(121)
(54)
819

750
(3)
747

£m
187,261
(1,902)
-
-
-
-
-

10,255

(122)

195,492
193,870
174,110
13,151
187,261
185,638

ECL

£m
1,623
46
-
-
-
-
-
152
32
(55)
(35)
94
(122)
(54)
1,622

1,664
(41)
1,623

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  --  ccoorrppoorraattee

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Currency translation and other adjustments

Inter-group transfers

Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2

Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1

Transfers to Stage 3

Transfers from Stage 3

  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer

  Changes in risk parameters

  Other changes in net exposure

  Other (P&L only items)

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess

Amounts written-off

Unwinding of discount

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Financial assets

Financial assets

Financial assets

Financial assets

£m

53,595

(419)

88

(17,161)

18,525

(91)

124

6,741

-

61,402

61,176

ECL  

£m  

218

2

1

(96)

246

(2)

21

(189)

(36)

61

(5)

(169)

-

-

226

£m

19,235

(180)

(66)

17,161

(18,525)

(1,098)

204

(4,455)

(1)

12,275

11,931

ECL  

£m  

431

-

-

96

(246)

(69)

26

202

(44)

(51)

5

112

(1)

-

344

£m

1,434

25

(30)

-

-

1,189

(328)

(758)

(78)

1,454

852

ECL  

£m  

504

41

(2)

-

-

71

(47)

103

126

(75)

(37)

117

(78)

(41)

602

1,153

ECL

£m

43

(1)

-

-

-

-

116

46

(65)

(37)

60

(79)

(41)

1,172

£m

74,264

(574)

(8)

-

-

-

-

1,528

(79)

75,131

73,959

 There was modest exposure growth, with increased new lending largely offset by 

 Overall impairment charges were low as the effects of inflation, high interest rates 

repayments.

and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant increase in defaults. 

 ECL remained broadly flat but reductions in Stage 2 ECL from repayments were 

The 2023 charge was largely driven by charges on a few individual customers.

offset by an increase in Stage 3 from a few individual customers.

 Growth in exposures was mainly driven by financial institutions sectors. 
 ECL remained broadly stable during 2023 reflecting stable portfolio performance.
 Reductions in modelled ECL from improving economic variables and risk metrics 

were partially offset by increases in post model adjustments to capture continued 
economic uncertainty.

 Stage 3 ECL increased mainly due to charges on a few individual customers.
 Overall impairment charges were low as the effects of inflation, high interest rates 

and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant increase in defaults. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227

227

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  --  ccoorrppoorraattee
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Inter-group transfers
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
53,595
(419)
88
(17,161)
18,525
(91)
124

6,741

-

61,402
61,176

£m  
218
2
1
(96)
246
(2)
21
(189)
(36)
61
(5)
(169)
-
-
226

£m
19,235
(180)
(66)
17,161
(18,525)
(1,098)
204

(4,455)

(1)

12,275
11,931

£m  
431
-
-
96
(246)
(69)
26
202
(44)
(51)
5
112
(1)
-
344

£m
1,434
25
(30)
-
-
1,189
(328)

(758)

(78)

1,454
852

£m  
504
41
(2)
-
-
71
(47)
103
126
(75)
(37)
117
(78)
(41)
602

£m
74,264
(574)
(8)
-
-
-
-

1,528

(79)

75,131
73,959

ECL

£m
1,153
43
(1)
-
-
-
-
116
46
(65)
(37)
60
(79)
(41)
1,172

 There was modest exposure growth, with increased new lending largely offset by 

 Overall impairment charges were low as the effects of inflation, high interest rates 

repayments.

 ECL remained broadly flat but reductions in Stage 2 ECL from repayments were 

offset by an increase in Stage 3 from a few individual customers.

and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant increase in defaults. 
The 2023 charge was largely driven by charges on a few individual customers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228

228

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  --  pprrooppeerrttyy
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Inter-group transfers
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m
24,878
(6)
(38)
(5,010)
4,498
(14)
43

1,689

-

26,040
25,946

£m  
92
(1)
-
(30)
77
(1)
4
(54)
(24)
31
-
(47)
-
-
94

£m
3,986
(8)
(8)
5,010
(4,498)
(401)
56

(982)

-

3,155
3,066

£m  
89
-
-
30
(77)
(20)
7
64
2
(6)
-
60
-
-
89

£m
628
1
7
-
-
415
(99)

(313)

(33)

606
411

ECL  

£m  
214
(2)
1
-
-
21
(11)
24
8
(16)
-
16
(33)
(11)
195

Financial assets

£m
29,492
(13)
(39)
-
-
-
-

394

(33)

29,801
29,423

ECL

£m
395
(3)
1
-
-
-
-
34
(14)
9
-
29
(33)
(11)
378

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  --  ootthheerr

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Currency translation and other adjustments

Inter-group transfers

Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2

Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1

Transfers to Stage 3

Transfers from Stage 3

  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer

  Changes in risk parameters

  Other changes in net exposure

  Other (P&L only items)

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess

Amounts written-off

Unwinding of discount

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Financial assets

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

£m

81,879

(1,278)

(49)

(1,716)

2,330

(4)

15

7,683

-

88,860

88,824

ECL  

£m  

32

(1)

-

(3)

12

-

2

7

-

-

-

(6)

36

(11)

(2)

£m

1,490

(38)

74

1,716

(2,330)

(24)

6

705

-

1,599

1,585

£m  

14

-

-

3

(12)

(1)

-

11

1

(2)

10

-

-

-

14

£m

136

22

-

-

-

28

(21)

(56)

(8)

101

79

£m  

29

5

-

-

-

1

3

-

2

1

(2)

(4)

(8)

(2)

22

£m

83,505

(1,316)

47

-

-

-

-

8,332

(8)

90,560

90,488

ECL

£m

75

4

-

-

-

-

-

3

1

2

5

(1)

(8)

(2)

72

 The property portfolio remained stable throughout 2023 with minor movements on 



exposure and ECL.

 Overall, there was a small reduction on ECL as write-offs exceeded impairment 

Impairment charges were lower than historic trends, as the effects of inflation, high 
interest rates and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant 
increase in defaults.  

charges.

 Growth in exposure was observed due to increased lending in the securitisation 

 Overall impairment charges were low as the effects of inflation, high interest rates 

and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant increase in defaults.  

 The growth was within high quality assets, so ECL was broadly flat with write-offs 

sector.

exceeding impairment charges.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229

229

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

FFllooww  ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  --  ootthheerr
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Currency translation and other adjustments
Inter-group transfers
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1
Transfers to Stage 3
Transfers from Stage 3
  Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer
  Changes in risk parameters
  Other changes in net exposure
  Other (P&L only items)
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//cchhaarrggeess
Amounts written-off
Unwinding of discount
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
NNeett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  aammoouunntt

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL  

Financial assets

ECL

£m
81,879
(1,278)
(49)
(1,716)
2,330
(4)
15

7,683

-

88,860
88,824

£m  
32
(1)
-
(3)
12
-
2
(11)
(2)
7
-
(6)
-
-
36

£m
1,490
(38)
74
1,716
(2,330)
(24)
6

705

-

1,599
1,585

£m  
14
-
-
3
(12)
(1)
-
11
1
(2)
-
10
-
-
14

£m
136
-
22
-
-
28
(21)

(56)

(8)

101
79

£m  
29
5
-
-
-
1
(2)
3
-
(4)
2
1
(8)
(2)
22

£m
83,505
(1,316)
47
-
-
-
-

8,332

(8)

90,560
90,488

£m
75
4
-
-
-
-
-
3
(1)
1
2
5
(8)
(2)
72

 Growth in exposure was observed due to increased lending in the securitisation 

 Overall impairment charges were low as the effects of inflation, high interest rates 

sector.

and supply chain disruption have, to date, not led to a significant increase in defaults.  

 The growth was within high quality assets, so ECL was broadly flat with write-offs 

exceeding impairment charges.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

230

230

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  aarrrreeaarrss  ssttaattuuss  aanndd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiinngg  ffaaccttoorrss
The tables below show Stage 2 decomposition for the Personal and Wholesale portfolios.

UK mortgages

Credit cards

22002233

PPeerrssoonnaall
Currently >30 DPD
Currently <=30 DPD
 - PD deterioration
 - PD persistence
 - Other driver (adverse credit, forbearance etc)
Total Stage 2

2022
PPeerrssoonnaall
Currently >30 DPD
Currently <=30 DPD
 - PD deterioration
 - PD persistence
 - Other driver (adverse credit, forbearance etc)
Total Stage 2

Loans

£m

291
17,563
12,807
2,317
2,439
17,854

205
18,582
16,342
867
1,373
18,787

ECL

£m

1
60
48
6
6
61

1
61
56
2
3
62

Loans

£m

14
2,008
1,455
481
72
2,022

10
1,066
805
200
61
1,076

ECL

£m

7
200
160
32
8
207

5
117
97
13
7
122

Other 

Loans

£m

51
1,582
831
373
378
1,633

52
1,939
1,093
185
661
1,991

ECL

£m

19
219
126
33
60
238

18
264
150
16
98
282

Total

Loans

£m

356
21,153
15,093
3,171
2,889
21,509

267
21,587
18,240
1,252
2,095
21,854

ECL

£m

27
479
334
71
74
506

24
442
303
31
108
466

 The levels of PD driven deterioration decreased in 2023, mainly in the mortgage 
portfolio. The economic scenario updates during 2023 resulted in a reduction in 
lifetime PDs for the mortgage and personal loan portfolios. This drove a segment of 
lower risk cases out of PD SICR deterioration (and captured in PD persistence in the 
case of Q4 MES update).

 The PD modelling update during H1 2023 on the credit card portfolio resulted in 
more downside risk captured through modelled ECL and this, alongside modest 
increase in early arrears levels, led to more PD SICR deterioration being captured 
during 2023.

 Higher risk mortgage customers who utilised the new Mortgage Charter measures 
were collectively migrated into Stage 2, approximately £0.9 billion of exposures, and 
captured in the other driver category.

 Accounts that are less than 30 days past due continue to represent the vast majority 
of the Stage 2 population, whilst noting that the greater than 30 days past due 
population increased during 2023. As expected, ECL coverage was higher in 
accounts that were more than 30 days past due than those in Stage 2 for other 
reasons.

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  aarrrreeaarrss  ssttaattuuss  aanndd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiinngg  ffaaccttoorrss

 - Other driver (forbearance, RoCL etc)

Total Stage 2

22002233

WWhhoolleessaallee

Currently >30 DPD

Currently <=30 DPD

 - PD deterioration

 - PD persistence

2022

WWhhoolleessaallee

Currently >30 DPD

Currently <=30 DPD

 - PD deterioration

 - PD persistence

 - Other driver (forbearance, RoCL etc)

Total Stage 2

Property

Corporate

Financial institutions

Sovereign

Loans

£m

99

3,171

2,166

220

785

3,270

255

3,780

2,503

81

1,196

4,035

ECL

£m

4

94

72

4

18

98

3

95

62

3

30

98

Loans

£m

342

11,803

7,465

838

3,500

12,145

487

19,103

15,714

269

3,120

19,590

ECL

£m

9

347

222

16

109

356

11

454

357

9

88

465

Loans

£m

10

956

750

13

193

966

1,350

1,230

3

5

115

1,353

ECL

£m

-

15

8

-

7

15

-

14

10

-

4

14

Loans

£m

ECL

£m

Total

Loans

£m

-

1

-

-

1

1

-

1

-

-

1

1

-

1

-

-

1

1

-

-

-

-

-

-

451

15,931

10,381

1,071

4,479

16,382

745

24,234

19,447

355

4,432

24,979

 The improved economic outlook, including a more optimistic forecast for stock index 

 PD deterioration remained the primary trigger for identifying a SICR and Stage 2 

and commercial real estate valuations, resulted in a reduction of IFRS 9 PDs. 

treatment. 

Consequently, compared to 2022, a large proportion of exposure no longer exhibited 

a SICR and migrated back into Stage 1 resulting in a reduction in Stage 2 exposure.

231

ECL

£m

13

457

302

20

135

470

14

563

429

12

122

577

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

231

231

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  aarrrreeaarrss  ssttaattuuss  aanndd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiinngg  ffaaccttoorrss

22002233

WWhhoolleessaallee
Currently >30 DPD
Currently <=30 DPD
 - PD deterioration
 - PD persistence
 - Other driver (forbearance, RoCL etc)
Total Stage 2

2022
WWhhoolleessaallee
Currently >30 DPD
Currently <=30 DPD
 - PD deterioration
 - PD persistence
 - Other driver (forbearance, RoCL etc)
Total Stage 2

Property

Corporate

Financial institutions

Sovereign

Loans

£m

99
3,171
2,166
220
785
3,270

255
3,780
2,503
81
1,196
4,035

ECL

£m

4
94
72
4
18
98

3
95
62
3
30
98

Loans

£m

342
11,803
7,465
838
3,500
12,145

487
19,103
15,714
269
3,120
19,590

ECL

£m

9
347
222
16
109
356

11
454
357
9
88
465

Loans

£m

10
956
750
13
193
966

3
1,350
1,230
5
115
1,353

ECL

£m

-
15
8
-
7
15

-
14
10
-
4
14

Loans

£m

ECL

£m

-
1
-
-
1
1

-
1
-
-
1
1

-
1
-
-
1
1

-
-
-
-
-
-

Total

Loans

£m

451
15,931
10,381
1,071
4,479
16,382

745
24,234
19,447
355
4,432
24,979

ECL

£m

13
457
302
20
135
470

14
563
429
12
122
577

 The improved economic outlook, including a more optimistic forecast for stock index 

 PD deterioration remained the primary trigger for identifying a SICR and Stage 2 

and commercial real estate valuations, resulted in a reduction of IFRS 9 PDs. 
Consequently, compared to 2022, a large proportion of exposure no longer exhibited 
a SICR and migrated back into Stage 1 resulting in a reduction in Stage 2 exposure.

treatment. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

232

232

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  bbyy  aa  ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ttrriiggggeerr

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  bbyy  aa  ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ttrriiggggeerr

2023
PPeerrssoonnaall  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))
PD movement
PD persistence
Adverse credit bureau recorded with credit reference agency
Forbearance support provided
Customers in collections
Collective SICR and other reasons (2)
Days past due >30

2022

PPeerrssoonnaall  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))
PD movement
PD persistence
Adverse credit bureau recorded with credit reference agency
Forbearance support provided
Customers in collections
Collective SICR and other reasons (2)
Days past due >30

For the notes to this table refer to the following page. 

UK mortgages

Credit cards

£m

%

£m

%

Other 

£m

12,969
2,317
1,047
137
178
1,087
119
17,854

16,477
866
929
101
153
195
66
18,787

72.5
13.0
5.9
0.8
1.0
6.1
0.7
100.0

87.7
4.6
4.9
0.5
0.8
1.0
0.4
100.0

1,469
481
49
1
2
20
-
2,022

814
200
52
1
2
7
-
1,076

72.7
23.8
2.4
-
0.1
1.0
-
100.0

75.7
18.6
4.8
0.1
0.2
0.7
-
100.0

866
374
99
11
8
266
9
1,633

1,129
186
96
17
4
546
13
1,991

%

52.9
22.9
6.1
0.7
0.5
16.3
0.6
100.0

56.7
9.3
4.8
0.9
0.2
27.4
0.7
100.0

Total

£m

15,304
3,172
1,195
149
188
1,373
128
21,509

18,420
1,252
1,077
119
159
748
79
21,854

%

71.1
14.7
5.6
0.7
0.9
6.4
0.6
100.0

84.3
5.7
4.9
0.5
0.7
3.4
0.4
100.0

 PD-related SICR triggers continued to represent the vast majority of Stage 2.
 The levels of PD driven deterioration decreased in 2023, mainly in the mortgage 
portfolio. The economic scenario updates during 2023 resulted in a reduction in 
lifetime PDs for the mortgage and personal loan portfolios, which drove a segment of 
lower risk cases out of PD SICR deterioration.

 The Q4 2023 economic modelling updates that reduced PDs on mortgages and loans 

are captured in PD persistence category (for at least three months).

 The PD modelling update during H1 2023 on the credit card portfolio resulted in 
more downside risk captured through modelled ECL and this, alongside modest 
increase in early arrears levels, led to more PD SICR deterioration being captured 
during 2023.

 Higher risk mortgage customers who utilised the new Mortgage Charter measures 

are collectively migrated into Stage 2, approximately £0.9 billion of exposures. This is 
captured in the collective SICR and other reasons category. 

22002233

WWhhoolleessaallee  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))

PD movement

PD persistence

Risk of Credit Loss

Forbearance support provided

Customers in collections

Collective SICR and other reasons (2)

Days past due >30

2022

WWhhoolleessaallee  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))

PD movement

PD persistence

Risk of Credit Loss

Forbearance support provided

Customers in collections

Collective SICR and other reasons (2)

Days past due >30

100.0

12,145

100.0

100.0

16,382

100.0

Property

£m

Corporate

Financial institutions

Sovereign

%

£m

%

%

£m

2,211

223

563

49

7

70

147

3,270

2,569

82

596

41

13

566

168

67.6

6.8

17.2

1.6

0.2

2.1

4.5

63.7

2.0

14.8

1.0

0.3

14.0

4.2

7,611

847

2,630

373

23

457

204

15,962

269

1,664

476

44

970

205

62.5

7.0

21.7

3.1

0.2

3.8

1.7

1.4

8.5

2.4

0.2

5.0

1.0

£m

760

13

120

-

-

72

1

966

5

32

19

-

64

2

78.7

1.3

12.4

-

-

7.5

0.1

100.0

0.4

2.4

1.4

-

4.7

0.1

81.5

1,231

91.0

%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100.0

100.0

100.0

-

-

-

-

-

1

-

1

-

-

-

-

-

1

-

1

Total

£m

10,582

1,083

3,313

422

30

600

352

19,762

356

2,292

536

57

1,601

375

24,979

(1)

(2)

The table is prepared on a hierarchical basis from top to bottom, for example, accounts with PD deterioration may also trigger backstop(s) but are only reported under PD deterioration.

Includes cases where a PD assessment cannot be made and accounts where the PD has deteriorated beyond a prescribed backstop threshold aligned to risk management practices.

4,035

100.0

19,590

100.0

1,353

100.0

 PD deterioration continued to be the primary trigger of migration of exposures from 

 Moving exposures on to the Risk of Credit Loss framework remained an important 

Stage 1 into Stage 2. As the economic outlook improved, there was a reduction in 

backstop indicator of a SICR. The exposures classified under the Stage 2 Risk of 

cases triggering Stage 2. 

Credit Loss framework trigger increased over the year, as less exposures were 

captured under the PD deterioration Stage 2 trigger. 

233

%

64.6

6.6

20.2

2.6

0.2

3.7

2.1

79.2

1.4

9.2

2.1

0.2

6.4

1.5

100.0

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

233

233

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  22  ddeeccoommppoossiittiioonn  bbyy  aa  ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ttrriiggggeerr

22002233

WWhhoolleessaallee  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))
PD movement
PD persistence
Risk of Credit Loss
Forbearance support provided
Customers in collections
Collective SICR and other reasons (2)
Days past due >30

2022

WWhhoolleessaallee  ttrriiggggeerr ((11))
PD movement
PD persistence
Risk of Credit Loss
Forbearance support provided
Customers in collections
Collective SICR and other reasons (2)
Days past due >30

Property

£m

2,211
223
563
49
7
70
147
3,270

2,569
82
596
41
13
566
168
4,035

Corporate

Financial institutions

Sovereign

%

£m

%

67.6
6.8
17.2
1.6
0.2
2.1
4.5
100.0

63.7
2.0
14.8
1.0
0.3
14.0
4.2
100.0

7,611
847
2,630
373
23
457
204
12,145

15,962
269
1,664
476
44
970
205
19,590

62.5
7.0
21.7
3.1
0.2
3.8
1.7
100.0

81.5
1.4
8.5
2.4
0.2
5.0
1.0
100.0

£m

760
13
120
-
-
72
1
966

1,231
5
32
19
-
64
2
1,353

%

£m

%

78.7
1.3
12.4
-
-
7.5
0.1
100.0

91.0
0.4
2.4
1.4
-
4.7
0.1
100.0

-
-
-
-
-
1
-
1

-
-
-
-
-
1
-
1

-
-
-
-
-
100.0
-
100.0

-
-
-
-
-
100.0
-
100.0

Total

£m

10,582
1,083
3,313
422
30
600
352
16,382

19,762
356
2,292
536
57
1,601
375
24,979

%

64.6
6.6
20.2
2.6
0.2
3.7
2.1
100.0

79.2
1.4
9.2
2.1
0.2
6.4
1.5
100.0

(1)
(2)

The table is prepared on a hierarchical basis from top to bottom, for example, accounts with PD deterioration may also trigger backstop(s) but are only reported under PD deterioration.
Includes cases where a PD assessment cannot be made and accounts where the PD has deteriorated beyond a prescribed backstop threshold aligned to risk management practices.

 PD deterioration continued to be the primary trigger of migration of exposures from 
Stage 1 into Stage 2. As the economic outlook improved, there was a reduction in 
cases triggering Stage 2. 

 Moving exposures on to the Risk of Credit Loss framework remained an important 
backstop indicator of a SICR. The exposures classified under the Stage 2 Risk of 
Credit Loss framework trigger increased over the year, as less exposures were 
captured under the PD deterioration Stage 2 trigger. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

234

234

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

235

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

SSttaaggee  33  vviinnttaaggee  aannaallyyssiiss
The table below shows estimated vintage analysis of the material Stage 3 portfolios.

SSttaaggee  33  llooaannss  ((££bbnn))
Vintage (time in default):
<1 year
1-3 years
3-5 years
>5 years

(1)
(2)

Retail Banking excludes a non-material amount of lending held on relatively small legacy portfolios.
Comparative data for Wholesale has been re-presented to correct the ageing profile.

Retail Banking mortgages (1)

Wholesale

Retail Banking mortgages (1)

2023

2022

2.0

45%
32%
9%
14%
100%

2.2

40%
35%
12%
13%
100%

1.7

43%
26%
12%
19%
100%

Wholesale

2.3

46%
26%
10%
18%
100%

 The increase in the proportion of loans in Stage 3 for less than three years was mainly due to the adoption of the new regulatory definition of default from January 2022, including 
cases captured due to the regulatory default probation rules alone (which represented approximately 11% of Stage 3 Retail Banking mortgages and 9% of Stage 3 Wholesale 
balances).

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL, by stage, for the Personal portfolio.

22002233

UUKK  mmoorrttggaaggeess

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

CCrreeddiitt  ccaarrddss

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

TToottaall

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

188,140

17,854

3,742

2,022

110,694

77,290

156

-

124

3,612

6

-

764

6,178

41

-

6,983

7,572

9,578

704

-

-

1,965

57

-

150

1,374

109

-

1,633

111,582

87,080

203

-

7,722

12,917

870

-

198,865

21,509

Total

£m

118,266

86,868

860

2,281

208,275

124

5,577

63

140

5,904

914

7,552

150

979

9,595

119,304

99,997

1,073

3,400

223,774

2,281

2,281

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

140

140

979

979

3,400

3,400

£m

51

37

-

-

88

1

75

-

-

76

11

138

3

-

152

63

250

3

-

316

£m

20

37

4

-

61

-

193

14

-

207

23

180

35

-

238

43

410

53

-

506

£m

271

271

93

93

778

778

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,142

1,142

Total

£m

71

74

4

271

420

1

268

14

93

376

34

318

38

778

1,168

106

660

56

1,142

1,964

%

0.1

0.1

0.1

0.8

2.1

-

-

-

-

2.0

1.4

2.2

7.3

-

2.2

0.1

0.3

1.5

-

0.2

%

0.3

0.4

0.6

0.3

-

-

-

9.8

24.6

10.2

15.3

13.1

32.1

-

14.6

0.6

3.2

6.1

-

2.4

%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

11.9

11.9

66.4

66.4

79.5

79.5

33.6

33.6

Total

%

0.1

0.1

0.5

11.9

0.2

0.8

4.8

22.2

66.4

6.4

3.7

4.2

25.3

79.5

12.2

0.1

0.7

5.2

33.6

0.9

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

235

235

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL, by stage, for the Personal portfolio.

22002233

UUKK  mmoorrttggaaggeess
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

CCrreeddiitt  ccaarrddss
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

TToottaall
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

Total

£m

110,694
77,290
156
-
188,140

124
3,612
6
-
3,742

764
6,178
41
-
6,983

111,582
87,080
203
-
198,865

7,572
9,578
704
-
17,854

-
1,965
57
-
2,022

150
1,374
109
-
1,633

7,722
12,917
870
-
21,509

-
-
-
2,281
2,281

118,266
86,868
860
2,281
208,275

-
-
-
140
140

-
-
-
979
979

124
5,577
63
140
5,904

914
7,552
150
979
9,595

-
-
-
3,400
3,400

119,304
99,997
1,073
3,400
223,774

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

51
37
-
-
88

1
75
-
-
76

11
138
3
-
152

63
250
3
-
316

£m

20
37
4
-
61

-
193
14
-
207

23
180
35
-
238

43
410
53
-
506

£m

-
-
-
271
271

-
-
-
93
93

-
-
-
778
778

-
-
-
1,142
1,142

Total

£m

71
74
4
271
420

1
268
14
93
376

34
318
38
778
1,168

106
660
56
1,142
1,964

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

%

0.1
0.1
-
-
0.1

0.8
2.1
-
-
2.0

1.4
2.2
7.3
-
2.2

0.1
0.3
1.5
-
0.2

%

0.3
0.4
0.6
-
0.3

-
9.8
24.6
-
10.2

15.3
13.1
32.1
-
14.6

0.6
3.2
6.1
-
2.4

%

-
-
-
11.9
11.9

-
-
-
66.4
66.4

-
-
-
79.5
79.5

-
-
-
33.6
33.6

Total

%

0.1
0.1
0.5
11.9
0.2

0.8
4.8
22.2
66.4
6.4

3.7
4.2
25.3
79.5
12.2

0.1
0.7
5.2
33.6
0.9

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

236

236

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

237

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL, by stage, for the Wholesale portfolio. 

2022

UUKK  mmoorrttggaaggeess
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

CCrreeddiitt  ccaarrddss
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

OOtthheerr  ppeerrssoonnaall
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

TToottaall  ppeerrssoonnaall
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

Total

£m

116,559
65,510
176
-
182,245

98
3,172
5
-
3,275

1,047
5,843
28
-
6,918

117,704
74,525
209
-
192,438

9,208
8,962
617
-
18,787

-
1,036
40
-
1,076

128
1,732
131
-
1,991

9,336
11,730
788
-
21,854

-
-
-
1,925
1,925

125,767
74,472
793
1,925
202,957

-
-
-
109
109

-
-
-
797
797

98
4,208
45
109
4,460

1,175
7,575
159
797
9,706

-
-
-
2,831
2,831

127,040
86,255
997
2,831
217,123

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

45
36
-
-
81

-
61
1
-
62

11
104
2
-
117

56
201
3
-
260

£m

24
34
4
-
62

-
112
10
-
122

17
224
41
-
282

41
370
55
-
466

£m

-
-
-
233
233

-
-
-
73
73

-
-
-
651
651

-
-
-
957
957

Total

£m

69
70
4
233
376

-
173
11
73
257

28
328
43
651
1,050

97
571
58
957
1,683

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

%

0.0
0.1
-
-
 00

-
1.9
20.0
-
1.9

1.1
1.8
7.1
-
1.7

0.1
0.3
1.4
-
0.1

%

0.3
0.4
0.7
-
0.3

-
10.8
25.0
-
11.3

13.3
12.9
31.3
-
14.2

0.4
3.2
7.0
-
2.1

%

-
-
-
12.1
12.1

-
-
-
67.0
67.0

-
-
-
81.7
81.7

-
-
-
33.8
33.8

Total

%

0.1
0.1
0.5
12.1
0.2

-
4.1
24.4
67.0
5.8

2.4
4.3
27.0
81.7
10.8

0.1
0.7
5.8
33.8
0.8



In the Personal portfolio, the majority of exposures were in AQ4 and AQ5 within 
mortgages. The higher proportion of UK mortgage loans in bands AQ5-AQ8 was 
reflected in the overall average Basel PD for mortgages marginally increasing from 
0.65% to 0.67%.



In other personal, the relatively high level of exposures in AQ10 reflected that 
impaired assets can be held on the balance sheet, with commensurate ECL 
provision, for up to six years after default. Furthermore, write-off levels were lower 
during 2023 than 2022. 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttiittuuttiioonnss

63,690

12,145

1,504

1,504

22002233

PPrrooppeerrttyy

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

OOtthheerr

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

SSoovveerreeiiggnn

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

TToottaall

AQ1-AQ4

AQ5-AQ8

AQ9 

AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

£m

27,316

3,270

14,961

12,346

9

-

25,914

37,738

38

-

52,702

3,402

56,105

2,487

123

1

-

-

-

2,610

96,064

53,609

48

-

405

2,799

66

-

937

10,935

273

-

665

284

17

-

966

1

-

-

-

1

2,008

14,018

356

-

149,721

16,382

2,163

2,163

621

621

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

16

16

22

22

Total

£m

15,366

15,145

75

621

31,207

26,851

48,673

311

1,504

77,339

53,367

3,686

18

16

57,087

2,488

123

-

22

2,633

98,072

67,627

404

2,163

168,266

£m

16

86

-

-

102

27

207

234

28

16

44

13

13

84

309

393

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

£m

5

88

5

-

98

13

323

20

-

356

15

6

9

-

-

1

-

-

-

1

25

420

25

-

470

£m

198

198

611

611

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

7

7

-

-

-

2

2

-

-

-

818

818

Total

£m

21

174

5

198

398

40

530

20

611

1,201

34

25

-

7

66

14

-

-

2

16

109

729

25

818

1,681

%

0.1

0.7

0.4

0.1

0.6

0.4

0.1

0.5

0.1

0.5

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.5

0.1

0.6

0.3

%

1.2

3.1

7.6

-

3.0

1.4

3.0

7.3

-

2.9

0.9

3.2

1.6

-

-

-

-

-

1.3

3.0

7.0

-

2.9

100.0

100.0

%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

31.9

31.9

40.6

40.6

43.8

43.8

9.1

9.1

37.8

37.8

Total

%

0.1

1.2

6.7

31.9

1.3

0.2

1.1

6.4

40.6

1.6

0.1

0.7

-

43.8

0.1

0.6

-

-

9.1

0.6

0.1

1.1

6.2

37.8

1.0

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

237

237

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL, by stage, for the Wholesale portfolio. 

22002233

PPrrooppeerrttyy
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

OOtthheerr
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttiittuuttiioonnss
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

SSoovveerreeiiggnn
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

TToottaall
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

14,961
12,346
9
-
27,316

25,914
37,738
38
-
63,690

52,702
3,402
1
-
56,105

2,487
123
-
-
2,610

405
2,799
66
-
3,270

937
10,935
273
-
12,145

665
284
17
-
966

1
-
-
-
1

£m

-
-
-
621
621

-
-
-
1,504
1,504

-
-
-
16
16

-
-
-
22
22

Total

£m

15,366
15,145
75
621
31,207

26,851
48,673
311
1,504
77,339

53,367
3,686
18
16
57,087

2,488
123
-
22
2,633

96,064
53,609
48
-
149,721

2,008
14,018
356
-
16,382

-
-
-
2,163
2,163

98,072
67,627
404
2,163
168,266

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

16
86
-
-
102

27
207
-
-
234

28
16
-
-
44

13
-
-
-
13

84
309
-
-
393

£m

5
88
5
-
98

13
323
20
-
356

6
9
-
-
15

1
-
-
-
1

25
420
25
-
470

£m

-
-
-
198
198

-
-
-
611
611

-
-
-
7
7

-
-
-
2
2

-
-
-
818
818

Total

£m

21
174
5
198
398

40
530
20
611
1,201

34
25
-
7
66

14
-
-
2
16

109
729
25
818
1,681

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

%

0.1
0.7
-
-
0.4

0.1
0.6
-
-
0.4

0.1
0.5
-
-
0.1

0.5
-
-
-
0.5

0.1
0.6
-
-
0.3

%

1.2
3.1
7.6
-
3.0

1.4
3.0
7.3
-
2.9

0.9
3.2
-
-
1.6

100.0
-
-
-
100.0

1.3
3.0
7.0
-
2.9

%

-
-
-
31.9
31.9

-
-
-
40.6
40.6

-
-
-
43.8
43.8

-
-
-
9.1
9.1

-
-
-
37.8
37.8

Total

%

0.1
1.2
6.7
31.9
1.3

0.2
1.1
6.4
40.6
1.6

0.1
0.7
-
43.8
0.1

0.6
-
-
9.1
0.6

0.1
1.1
6.2
37.8
1.0

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

238

238

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

223399

Credit risk – Banking activities continued

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

2022

PPrrooppeerrttyy
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

OOtthheerr
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttiittuuttiioonnss
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

SSoovveerreeiiggnn
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

TToottaall 
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9 
AQ10 

Gross loans

ECL provisions

ECL provisions coverage

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

£m

14,497
11,792
11
-
26,300

20,409
36,511
35
-
56,955

44,257
2,479
2
-
46,738

2,678
115
-
-
2,793

542
3,401
92
-
4,035

5,316
13,942
332
-
19,590

914
429
10
-
1,353

1
-
-
-
1

£m

-
-
-
701
701

-
-
-
1,515
1,515

-
-
-
47
47

-
-
-
2
2

Total

£m

15,039
15,193
103
701
31,036

25,725
50,453
367
1,515
78,060

45,171
2,908
12
47
48,138

2,679
115
-
2
2,796

81,841
50,897
48
-
132,786

6,773
17,772
434
-
24,979

-
-
-
2,265
2,265

88,614
68,669
482
2,265
160,030

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

£m

16
83
-
-
99

24
202
-
-
226

18
14
-
-
32

15
-
-
-
15

73
299
-
-
372

£m

4
89
5
-
98

38
404
23
-
465

5
9
-
-
14

-
-
-
-
-

47
502
28
-
577

£m

-
-
-
223
223

-
-
-
560
560

-
-
-
17
17

-
-
-
2
2

-
-
-
802
802

Total

£m

20
172
5
223
420

62
606
23
560
1,251

23
23
-
17
63

15
-
-
2
17

120
801
28
802
1,751

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

%

0.1
0.7
-
-
0.4

0.1
0.6
-
-
0.4

0.0
0.6
-
-
0.1

0.6
-
-
-
0.5

0.1
0.6
-
-
0.3

%

0.7
2.6
5.4
-
2.4

0.7
2.9
6.9
-
2.4

0.6
2.1
-
-
1.0

-
-
-
-
—

0.7
2.8
6.5
-
2.3

%

-
-
-
31.8
31.8

-
-
-
37.0
37.0

-
-
-
36.2
36.2

-
-
-
100.0
100.0

-
-
-
35.4
35.4

Total

%

0.1
1.1
4.9
31.8
1.4

0.2
1.2
6.3
37.0
1.6

0.1
0.8
-
36.2
0.1

0.6
-
-
100.0
0.6

0.1
1.2
5.8
35.4
1.1

 Asset quality remained stable.
 Customer credit grades were reassessed as and when a request for financing was 
made, a scheduled customer credit review performed or a material credit event 
specific to that customer occurred. Credit grades are reassessed for all customers at 
least annually.

 ECL provisions coverage showed the expected trend, with increased coverage in the 

weaker asset quality bands within Stage 2 compared to Stage 1 and within Stage 3 
compared to Stage 2. 

Credit risk – Trading activities

This section details the credit risk profile of NatWest Group’s trading activities.

SSeeccuurriittiieess  ffiinnaanncciinngg  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  aanndd  ccoollllaatteerraall  ((aauuddiitteedd))  

The table below shows securities financing transactions in Commercial & Institutional and Central items & other. Balance sheet captions include balances held at all classifications under 

IFRS. 

22002233

Gross

IFRS offset

Carrying value

Net

2022

Gross

Net

Master netting arrangements

Securities collateral

Potential for offset not recognised under IFRS

IFRS offset

Carrying value

Master netting arrangements

Securities collateral

Potential for offset not recognised under IFRS

Reverse Repos

Repos

Of which:

Outside netting

can be offset

arrangements

Of which:

Outside netting

can be offset

arrangements

Total

£m

77,508

(25,903)

51,605

(669)

(50,287)

(50,956)

649

61,775

(20,211)

41,564

(2,445)

(38,387)

(40,832)

732

£m

77,050

(25,903)

51,147

(669)

(50,287)

(50,956)

191

61,241

(20,211)

41,030

(2,445)

(38,387)

(40,832)

198

£m

458

458

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

458

534

534

534

Total

£m

66,767

(25,903)

40,864

(669)

(39,475)

(40,144)

720

55,226

(20,211)

35,015

(2,445)

(28,087)

(30,532)

4,483

£m

66,047

(25,903)

40,144

(669)

(39,475)

(40,144)

-

-

50,743

(20,211)

30,532

(2,445)

(28,087)

(30,532)

£m

720

720

720

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,483

4,483

4,483

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

223399

239

Credit risk – Trading activities

This section details the credit risk profile of NatWest Group’s trading activities.

SSeeccuurriittiieess  ffiinnaanncciinngg  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  aanndd  ccoollllaatteerraall  ((aauuddiitteedd))  
The table below shows securities financing transactions in Commercial & Institutional and Central items & other. Balance sheet captions include balances held at all classifications under 
IFRS. 

22002233

Gross
IFRS offset
Carrying value
Master netting arrangements
Securities collateral
Potential for offset not recognised under IFRS
Net

2022

Gross
IFRS offset
Carrying value
Master netting arrangements
Securities collateral
Potential for offset not recognised under IFRS
Net

Reverse Repos

Repos

Total
£m

77,508
(25,903)
51,605
(669)
(50,287)
(50,956)
649

61,775
(20,211)
41,564
(2,445)
(38,387)
(40,832)
732

Of which:

Outside netting

can be offset
£m

arrangements
£m

77,050
(25,903)
51,147
(669)
(50,287)
(50,956)
191

61,241
(20,211)
41,030
(2,445)
(38,387)
(40,832)
198

458
-
458
-
-
-
458

534
-
534
-
-
-
534

Total
£m

66,767
(25,903)
40,864
(669)
(39,475)
(40,144)
720

55,226
(20,211)
35,015
(2,445)
(28,087)
(30,532)
4,483

Of which:

Outside netting

can be offset
£m

arrangements
£m

66,047
(25,903)
40,144
(669)
(39,475)
(40,144)
-

50,743
(20,211)
30,532
(2,445)
(28,087)
(30,532)
-

720
-
720
-
-
-
720

4,483
-
4,483
-
-
-
4,483

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224400

240

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

224411

Credit risk – Trading activities continued

DDeerriivvaattiivveess  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows derivatives by type of contract. The master netting agreements and collateral shown do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS. A 
significant proportion of the derivatives relate to trading activities in Commercial & Institutional. The table also includes hedging derivatives in Central items & other. 

Credit risk – Trading activities continued

DDeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows debt securities held at mandatory fair value through profit or loss by issuer as well as ratings based on the lowest of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. 

Refer to Note 13 on Trading assets and liabilities for details on short positions.

2023

2022

Central and local government

GBP

£bn

Notional

USD

£bn

EUR

£bn

Other

£bn

Total

£bn

Assets

Liabilities

Notional

Assets

Liabilities

£m

£m

£bn

£m

£m

Gross exposure
IFRS offset
CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee
Of which:
Interest rate (1)
Exchange rate
Credit
CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee
Counterparty mark-to-market netting
Cash collateral
Securities collateral
NNeett  eexxppoossuurree
Banks (2)
Other financial institutions (3)
Corporate (4)
Government (5)
NNeett  eexxppoossuurree
UK
Europe
US
RoW
NNeett  eexxppoossuurree

AAsssseett  qquuaalliittyy  ooff  uunnccoollllaatteerraalliisseedd  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  aasssseettss
AQ1-AQ4
AQ5-AQ8
AQ9-AQ10
NNeett  eexxppoossuurree

3,244

3,025

6,012

1,122

13,403

2,952
291
1

1,623
1,397
5

5,466
537
9

227
895
-

10,268
3,120
15
13,403

96,264
(23,869)
72,395

38,483
33,586
326
72,395
(60,355)
(6,788)
(1,664)
3,588
555
1,304
1,690
39
3,588
1,912
1,209
381
86
3,588

99,501
(20,597)
78,904

44,563
34,161
180
78,904
(60,355)
(12,284)
(3,408)
2,857
335
1,422
1,063
37
2,857
1,283
800
607
167
2,857

2,382
471
4
2,857

13,925

10,742
3,168
15
13,925

116,158
(22,111)
94,047

48,535
45,237
275
94,047
(77,365)
(9,761)
(1,185)
5,736
711
1,969
2,969
87
5,736
2,878
2,015
626
217
5,736

118,275
(18,730)
99,545

53,480
45,829
236
99,545
(77,365)
(14,079)
(4,571)
3,530
648
1,732
1,068
82
3,530
1,271
1,196
753
310
3,530

3,014
500
16
3,530

Non-investment grade

22002233

AAA

AA to AA+

A to AA-

BBB- to A-

Unrated

Total

2022

AAA

AA to AA+

A to AA-

BBB- to A-

Unrated

Total

Non-investment grade

UK

£m

2,729

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,729

2,600

2,205

2,345

2,205

2,345

US

£m

2,600

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Other

£m

1,333

19

1,017

693

3,062

469

1,042

372

916

2,799

-

-

-

-

Financial institutions

Corporate

£m

1,132

762

251

295

198

-

2,638

766

1,114

77

149

65

1

2,172

£m

-

4

283

489

149

-

925

3

21

29

296

49

3

401

Total

£m

2,465

3,385

4,280

1,477

347

-

11,954

1,238

4,522

2,683

1,361

114

4

9,922

(1)
(2)

The notional amount of interest rate derivatives includes £7,280 billion (2022 – £8,065 billion) in respect of contracts cleared through central clearing counterparties.
Transactions with certain counterparties with whom NatWest Group has netting arrangements but collateral is not posted on a daily basis; certain transactions with specific terms that may not fall within netting and collateral arrangements; derivative 
positions in certain jurisdictions where the collateral agreements are not deemed to be legally enforceable.
Includes transactions with securitisation vehicles and funds where collateral posting is contingent on NatWest Group’s external rating.

(3)
(4) Mainly large corporates with whom NatWest Group may have netting arrangements in place, but operational capability does not support collateral posting. 
(5)

Sovereigns and supranational entities with no collateral arrangements, collateral arrangements that are not considered enforceable, or one-way collateral agreements in their favour.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224411

241

Credit risk – Trading activities continued

DDeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows debt securities held at mandatory fair value through profit or loss by issuer as well as ratings based on the lowest of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. 
Refer to Note 13 on Trading assets and liabilities for details on short positions.

Central and local government

22002233

AAA
AA to AA+
A to AA-
BBB- to A-
Non-investment grade
Unrated
Total

2022

AAA
AA to AA+
A to AA-
BBB- to A-
Non-investment grade
Unrated
Total

UK

£m

-
-
2,729
-
-
-
2,729

-
-
2,205
-
-
-
2,205

US

£m

-
2,600
-
-
-
-
2,600

-
2,345
-
-
-
-
2,345

Other

£m

1,333
19
1,017
693
-
-
3,062

469
1,042
372
916
-
-
2,799

Financial institutions

Corporate

£m

1,132
762
251
295
198
-
2,638

766
1,114
77
149
65
1
2,172

£m

-
4
283
489
149
-
925

3
21
29
296
49
3
401

Total

£m

2,465
3,385
4,280
1,477
347
-
11,954

1,238
4,522
2,683
1,361
114
4
9,922

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224422

242

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

224433

Credit risk – Trading activities continued

CCrroossss  bboorrddeerr  eexxppoossuurree
Cross border exposures comprise both banking and trading activities, including reverse repurchase agreements. Exposures comprise loans and advances, including finance leases and 
instalment credit receivables, and other monetary assets, such as debt securities. The geographical breakdown is based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of 
ultimate risk. Cross border exposures include non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents but exclude exposures to local residents in local currencies. The table 
shows cross border exposures greater than 0.5% of NatWest Group’s total assets.

22002233

Western Europe
Of which: France
                 Germany
                 Luxembourg
                 Ireland
                 Jersey
United States
Canada

2022

Western Europe
Of which: France
                 Germany
                 Luxembourg
                 Ireland
                 Jersey
United States
Canada

Government

£m

7,830
2,229
1,614
1
29
-
6,764
1,262

5,608
1,875
794
1
28
-
8,080
35

Banks

£m

10,109
2,105
4,525
317
90
-
3,440
2,059

7,385
1,911
3,717
190
70
-
3,852
1,885

Other

£m

26,508
7,839
1,065
7,045
3,622
4,394
16,356
1,132

19,018
3,958
839
5,640
2,823
3,019
12,931
402

Total

£m

44,447
12,173
7,204
7,363
3,741
4,394
26,560
4,453

32,011
7,744
5,350
5,831
2,921
3,019
24,863
2,322

Short positions

Net of short positions

£m

4,655
1,183
1,905
-
99
-
2,974
17

4,438
1,414
1,053
5
66
-
1,429
12

£m

39,792
10,990
5,299
7,363
3,642
4,394
23,586
4,436

27,573
6,330
4,297
5,826
2,855
3,019
23,434
2,310

Capital, liquidity and funding risk

NatWest Group continually ensures a comprehensive approach is taken to the 

 CCEETT11  ccaappiittaall - CET1 capital must be perpetual and capable of unrestricted and 

management of capital, liquidity and funding, underpinned by frameworks, risk appetite 

immediate use to cover risks or losses as soon as these occur. This includes ordinary 

and policies, to manage and mitigate its capital, liquidity and funding risks. The 

shares issued and retained earnings.

framework ensures the tools and capability are in place to facilitate the management 

and mitigation of risk ensuring NatWest Group operates within its regulatory 

requirements and risk appetite.

DDeeffiinniittiioonnss  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Regulatory capital consists of reserves and instruments issued that are available, have a 

degree of permanency and are capable of absorbing losses. A number of strict 

conditions set by regulators must be satisfied to be eligible as capital. 

Capital risk is the inability to conduct business in base or stress conditions on a risk or 

leverage basis due to insufficient qualifying capital as well as the failure to assess, 

monitor, plan and manage capital adequacy requirements.

 AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  11  ((AATT11))  ccaappiittaall  -- This is the second type of loss absorbing capital and 

must be capable of absorbing losses on a going concern basis. These instruments are 

either written down or converted into CET1 capital when the CET1 ratio falls below a 

 TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall  -- Tier 2 capital is supplementary capital and provides loss absorption on 

a gone concern basis. Tier 2 capital absorbs losses after Tier 1 capital. It typically 

consists of subordinated debt securities with a minimum maturity of five years at the 

pre-specified level.

point of issuance.

Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL)

In addition to capital, other specific loss-absorbing instruments, including senior notes 

and Tier 2 capital instruments with certain qualifying criteria issued by NatWest Group, 

may be used to cover certain gone concern capital requirements, which is referred to as 

Liquidity consists of assets that can be readily converted to cash within a short 

MREL. Gone concern refers to the situation in which resources must be available to 

timeframe at a reliable value. Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet actual or 

enable an orderly resolution, in the event that the Bank of England (BoE) deems that 

potential financial obligations in a timely manner when they fall due in the short term. 

NatWest Group has failed or is likely to fail.

Funding consists of on-balance sheet liabilities that are used to provide cash to finance 

assets. Funding risk is the risk that current or prospective financial obligations cannot be 

met as they fall due in the medium to long term, either at all or without increasing 

Liquidity

funding costs unacceptably. 

Liquidity and funding risks arise in a number of ways, including through the maturity 

transformation role that banks perform. The risks are dependent on factors such as:

 Maturity profile;

 Composition of sources and uses of funding;

 The quality and size of the liquidity portfolio;

 Wholesale market conditions; and 

 Depositor and investor behaviour.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Capital

The eligibility of instruments and financial resources as regulatory capital is laid down by 

applicable regulation. Capital is categorised under two tiers (Tier 1 and Tier 2) according 

to the ability to absorb losses, degree of permanency and the ranking of absorbing losses 

on either a going or gone concern basis. There are three broad categories of capital 

across these two tiers: 

NatWest Group maintains a prudent approach to the definition of liquidity portfolio to 

ensure it is available when and where required, taking into account regulatory, legal and 

other constraints. Following ringfencing legislation, liquidity is no longer considered 

fungible across NatWest Group. Principal liquidity portfolios are maintained in the UK 

Domestic Liquidity Sub-Group (UKDoLSub) (primarily in NatWest Bank Plc), NatWest 

Markets Plc, RBS International Limited, NWM N.V and NatWest Bank Europe GmbH. 

Some disclosures in this section where relevant are presented, on a consolidated basis, 

for NatWest Group and the UK DoLSub. 

Liquidity portfolio is divided into primary and secondary liquidity as follows:

 Primary liquidity is LCR eligible assets and includes cash and balances at central 

banks, Treasury bills and high quality government securities.

 Secondary liquidity is assets  eligible as collateral for local central bank liquidity 

facilities. These assets include own-issued securitisations or whole loans that are 

retained on balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they may 

be converted into additional sources of liquidity at very short notice.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224433

243

Capital, liquidity and funding risk

NatWest Group continually ensures a comprehensive approach is taken to the 
management of capital, liquidity and funding, underpinned by frameworks, risk appetite 
and policies, to manage and mitigate its capital, liquidity and funding risks. The 
framework ensures the tools and capability are in place to facilitate the management 
and mitigation of risk ensuring NatWest Group operates within its regulatory 
requirements and risk appetite.

DDeeffiinniittiioonnss  ((aauuddiitteedd))
Regulatory capital consists of reserves and instruments issued that are available, have a 
degree of permanency and are capable of absorbing losses. A number of strict 
conditions set by regulators must be satisfied to be eligible as capital. 

Capital risk is the inability to conduct business in base or stress conditions on a risk or 
leverage basis due to insufficient qualifying capital as well as the failure to assess, 
monitor, plan and manage capital adequacy requirements.

Liquidity consists of assets that can be readily converted to cash within a short 
timeframe at a reliable value. Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet actual or 
potential financial obligations in a timely manner when they fall due in the short term. 

Funding consists of on-balance sheet liabilities that are used to provide cash to finance 
assets. Funding risk is the risk that current or prospective financial obligations cannot be 
met as they fall due in the medium to long term, either at all or without increasing 
funding costs unacceptably. 

Liquidity and funding risks arise in a number of ways, including through the maturity 
transformation role that banks perform. The risks are dependent on factors such as:

 Maturity profile;
 Composition of sources and uses of funding;
 The quality and size of the liquidity portfolio;
 Wholesale market conditions; and 
 Depositor and investor behaviour.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk  ((aauuddiitteedd))

Capital
The eligibility of instruments and financial resources as regulatory capital is laid down by 
applicable regulation. Capital is categorised under two tiers (Tier 1 and Tier 2) according 
to the ability to absorb losses, degree of permanency and the ranking of absorbing losses 
on either a going or gone concern basis. There are three broad categories of capital 
across these two tiers: 

 CCEETT11  ccaappiittaall - CET1 capital must be perpetual and capable of unrestricted and 

immediate use to cover risks or losses as soon as these occur. This includes ordinary 
shares issued and retained earnings.

 AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  11  ((AATT11))  ccaappiittaall  -- This is the second type of loss absorbing capital and 
must be capable of absorbing losses on a going concern basis. These instruments are 
either written down or converted into CET1 capital when the CET1 ratio falls below a 
pre-specified level.

 TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall  -- Tier 2 capital is supplementary capital and provides loss absorption on 
a gone concern basis. Tier 2 capital absorbs losses after Tier 1 capital. It typically 
consists of subordinated debt securities with a minimum maturity of five years at the 
point of issuance.

Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL)
In addition to capital, other specific loss-absorbing instruments, including senior notes 
and Tier 2 capital instruments with certain qualifying criteria issued by NatWest Group, 
may be used to cover certain gone concern capital requirements, which is referred to as 
MREL. Gone concern refers to the situation in which resources must be available to 
enable an orderly resolution, in the event that the Bank of England (BoE) deems that 
NatWest Group has failed or is likely to fail.

Liquidity
NatWest Group maintains a prudent approach to the definition of liquidity portfolio to 
ensure it is available when and where required, taking into account regulatory, legal and 
other constraints. Following ringfencing legislation, liquidity is no longer considered 
fungible across NatWest Group. Principal liquidity portfolios are maintained in the UK 
Domestic Liquidity Sub-Group (UKDoLSub) (primarily in NatWest Bank Plc), NatWest 
Markets Plc, RBS International Limited, NWM N.V and NatWest Bank Europe GmbH. 
Some disclosures in this section where relevant are presented, on a consolidated basis, 
for NatWest Group and the UK DoLSub. 

Liquidity portfolio is divided into primary and secondary liquidity as follows:

 Primary liquidity is LCR eligible assets and includes cash and balances at central 

banks, Treasury bills and high quality government securities.

 Secondary liquidity is assets  eligible as collateral for local central bank liquidity 

facilities. These assets include own-issued securitisations or whole loans that are 
retained on balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they may 
be converted into additional sources of liquidity at very short notice.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224444

244

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

224455

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

Funding
NatWest Group maintains a diversified set of funding sources, including customer 
deposits, wholesale deposits and term debt issuance taking into account regulatory 
metrics (Net Stable Funding Ratio).  The principal levels at which funding risk is managed 
are at NatWest Group, NatWest Holdings Group, UK DoLSub, NatWest Markets Plc, RBS 
International Limited, NWM N.V. and NatWest Bank Europe GmbH. NatWest Group also 
retains access to central bank funding facilities. 

For further details on capital constituents and the regulatory framework covering capital, 
liquidity and funding requirements, refer to the 2023 NatWest Group Pillar 3 Report.

CCaappiittaall  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  
Capital management ensures that there is sufficient capital and other loss-absorbing 
instruments to operate effectively including meeting minimum regulatory requirements, 
operating within Board-approved risk appetite, maintaining its credit rating and 
supporting its strategic goals.

Capital management is critical in supporting the businesses and is enacted through an 
end-to-end framework across businesses and legal entities. Capital is managed within 
the organisation at the following levels; NatWest Group consolidated, NWH Group sub 
consolidated, NatWest Markets Plc, NatWest Markets N.V. and RBS International Limited. 
The banking subsidiaries within NWH Group are governed by the same principles, 
processes and management as NatWest Group. Note that although the aforementioned 
entities are regulated in line with Basel III principles, local implementation of the 
framework differs across geographies.

Capital planning is integrated into NatWest Group’s wider annual budgeting process and 
is assessed and updated at least monthly. Regular returns are submitted to the PRA 
which include a two-year rolling forecast view. Other elements of capital management, 
including risk appetite and stress testing, are set out on pages 175 to 177.

Produce capital plans
Capital plans are produced for NatWest Group, its key operating entities and its 
businesses over a five year planning horizon under expected and stress conditions. 
Stressed capital plans are produced to support internal stress testing in the ICAAP for 
regulatory purposes.

Shorter term forecasts are developed frequently in response to actual performance, 
changes in internal and external business environment and to manage risks and 
opportunities. 

Assess capital adequacy
Capital plans are developed to maintain capital of sufficient quantity and quality to 
support NatWest Group’s business, its subsidiaries and strategic plans over the planning 
horizon within approved risk appetite, as determined via stress testing, and minimum 
regulatory requirements.

Capital resources and capital requirements are assessed across a defined planning 
horizon.

Impact assessment captures input from across NatWest Group including from 
businesses.

Inform capital actions
Capital planning informs potential capital actions including buy backs, redemptions, 
dividends and new issuance to external investors or via internal transactions.

Decisions on capital actions will be influenced by strategic and regulatory requirements, 
risk appetite, costs and prevailing market conditions.

As part of capital planning, NatWest Group will monitor its portfolio of external capital 
securities and assess the optimal blend and most cost effective means of financing. 

Capital planning is one of the tools that NatWest Group uses to monitor and manage 
capital risk on a going and gone concern basis, including the risk of excessive leverage. 

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  
NatWest Group manages its liquidity risk taking into account regulatory, legal and other 
constraints to ensure sufficient liquidity is available where required to cover liquidity 
stresses. The principal levels at which liquidity risk is managed are:

 NatWest Group
 NatWest Holdings Group
 UK DoLSub
 NatWest Markets Plc
 NatWest Markets Securities Inc.
 RBS International Limited
 NWM N.V.
 NatWest Bank Europe GmbH

The UK DoLSub is PRA regulated and comprises NatWest Group’s three licensed 
deposit-taking UK banks: National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB Plc), The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc (RBS plc) and Coutts & Company. 

NatWest Group categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally managed liquidity 
portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid assets. The size of the liquidity portfolios are 
determined by referencing NatWest Group’s liquidity risk appetite. NatWest Group 
retains a prudent approach to setting the composition of the liquidity portfolios, which is 
subject to internal policies applicable to all entities and limits over quality of counterparty, 
maturity mix and currency mix. 

RBS International Limited and NWM N.V. hold locally managed portfolios that comply 
with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules. 

The liquidity value of the portfolio is determined by taking current market prices and 
applying a discount or haircut, to give a liquidity value that represents the amount of 
cash that can be generated by the asset. 

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

FFuunnddiinngg  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  

NatWest Group manages funding risk through a comprehensive framework which 

measures and monitors the funding risk on the balance sheet including quantitative and 

qualitative analysis of the behavioural aspects of its assets and liabilities as well as the 

funding concentration.

PPrruuddeennttiiaall  rreegguullaattiioonn  cchhaannggeess  tthhaatt  mmaayy  iimmppaacctt  ccaappiittaall  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  

NatWest Group faces numerous changes in prudential regulation that may impact the 

minimum amount of capital it must hold and consequently may increase funding costs 

and reduce return on equity. 

Regulatory changes are actively monitored by NatWest Group, including engagement 

with industry associations and regulators and participation in quantitative impact studies. 

Monitoring the changing regulatory landscape forms a fundamental part of capital 

planning and management of its business. NatWest Group believes that its strategy to 

focus on simpler, lower risk activities within a more resilient recovery and resolution 

framework will enable it to manage the impact of these.

The Basel 3.1 changes mainly impact capital requirements for STD and IRB Credit Risk, 

Market Risk, Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA), Counterparty Credit Risk (CCR) and 

Operational Risk. An aggregate “output floor” is also being introduced to ensure that 

total RWAs for firms using advanced or internally modelled methods and subject to the 

floor cannot fall below 72.5% of RWAs under the standardised approach. The proposal 

does not include further changes to the Leverage Ratio, Large Exposures and Liquidity 

Risk frameworks. 

The consultation paper has been followed up with the publication of the PRA’s policy 

statement PS17/23 Implementation of the Basel 3.1 standards near-final part 1.   This 

contains the near final rules on Market Risk, CVA, CCR and Operational Risk sections, 

along with some Pillar 2 guidance relating to these topics.  Part 2, containing rules on the 

remaining Basel 3.1 changes, is expected to be published in Q2 2024.

The PRA rules are expected to be implemented from 1 July 2025. 

Equivalent changes relating to the Basel 3.1 standards will be implemented in EU by 

CRR3 and CRD6 for which the European Commission issued a proposal in October 2021, 

with the near final rules published December 2023. The EU implementation date is 

expected to be 1 January 2025.  Their impact will be limited to NatWest Group’s EU 

UUKK  aanndd  EEUU  iimmpplleemmeennttaattiioonn  ooff  BBaasseell  ffrraammeewwoorrkk

The Basel framework is an internationally agreed set of measures developed by the 

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The Basel III standards are minimum 

requirements which apply to internationally active banks, which ensure a global level 

subsidiaries.

OOtthheerr  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233

playing field on financial regulation.  Individual jurisdictions must decide how to implement 

On 13 November 2023, the PRA published PS14/13 which formally phased out the CET1 

the standards. 

From 1 January 2021, NatWest Group has been regulated under the on-shored CRR and 

associated on-shored binding technical standards which were created by the European 

Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 and amending statutory instruments. As the Withdrawal 

Act applied to the CRR in place as of 31 December 2020, changes to the CRR in the EU 

are not reflected in the UK CRR unless separately legislated and amended by statutory 

instruments. Going forward, the Financial Services Bill gives the PRA the power to write 

prudential rules directly into the PRA rulebook and it will co-ordinate with HM Treasury 

to implement any required changes to the UK CRR. 

On 1 January 2022, PRA implemented changes to the UK CRR to align to the Basel III 

standards which included the introduction of a new standardised approach for 

capital deduction for NPEs (Non- Performing Exposures). The requirement was originally 

introduced in EU CRR and adopted in the UK; however, the PRA considered that it would 

not be appropriate in a UK context to apply the NPE deduction requirement going 

forward. Capital disclosures as of 31 December 2023 reflect the benefit because of the 

reversal of this deduction. 

On 20 November 2023, the PRA announced its 2023 list of O-SIIs (Other Systemically 

Important Institutions) as well as the 2023 O-SII buffers for ring-fenced banks (RFBs). The 

PRA is required to identify O-SIIs on an annual basis. NatWest Group Plc is part of the 

PRA’s O-SII list and the O-SII buffer for its ring-fenced sub-group (i.e. NatWest Holdings 

Group) was kept at 1.5%. The 2023 O-SII rates will apply from 1 January 2025. An O-SII 

buffer can apply to O-SIIs, or parts of an O-SII that are ring-fenced banks.

counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), amendments to the LCR and NSFR rules as well as 

NatWest Group, as a third-country group with two or more subsidiary banking 

new regulation applicable to internal ratings (IRB) models. Changes were also introduced 

institutions in the EU, was approved by the European Central Bank (ECB) to establish a 

to the UK Leverage Ratio framework. Equivalent reforms were implemented in the EU in 

dual IPU (Intermediate Parent Undertaking) structure on behalf of its European 

subsidiaries. As a result, NatWest Bank Europe GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of 

NatWest Holdings Group, will act as the ring-fenced IPU. RBS Holdings N.V., a wholly 

owned subsidiary of NatWest Markets Plc, will act as the non-ring fenced IPU. Both IPUs 

became subject to ECB supervision from 1 January 2024. 

June 2021, known as CRR2.

On 30 November 2022, the PRA published its consultation paper CP16/22 setting out its 

proposed rules and expectations with respect to  the remaining Basel III standards to be 

implemented in the UK, also referred to as “Basel 3.1 standards”. This will complete the 

implementation of post-global financial crisis prudential reforms, which were designed to 

i) increase the quantity of capital in the system, per unit of risk; ii) increase the quality of 

capital held by firms; and iii) improve the accuracy of risk-management firms, reducing 

the variability of risk-weighted assets (RWAs). 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224455

245

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

FFuunnddiinngg  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  
NatWest Group manages funding risk through a comprehensive framework which 
measures and monitors the funding risk on the balance sheet including quantitative and 
qualitative analysis of the behavioural aspects of its assets and liabilities as well as the 
funding concentration.

PPrruuddeennttiiaall  rreegguullaattiioonn  cchhaannggeess  tthhaatt  mmaayy  iimmppaacctt  ccaappiittaall  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  
NatWest Group faces numerous changes in prudential regulation that may impact the 
minimum amount of capital it must hold and consequently may increase funding costs 
and reduce return on equity. 

Regulatory changes are actively monitored by NatWest Group, including engagement 
with industry associations and regulators and participation in quantitative impact studies. 
Monitoring the changing regulatory landscape forms a fundamental part of capital 
planning and management of its business. NatWest Group believes that its strategy to 
focus on simpler, lower risk activities within a more resilient recovery and resolution 
framework will enable it to manage the impact of these.

UUKK  aanndd  EEUU  iimmpplleemmeennttaattiioonn  ooff  BBaasseell  ffrraammeewwoorrkk
The Basel framework is an internationally agreed set of measures developed by the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The Basel III standards are minimum 
requirements which apply to internationally active banks, which ensure a global level 
playing field on financial regulation.  Individual jurisdictions must decide how to implement 
the standards. 

From 1 January 2021, NatWest Group has been regulated under the on-shored CRR and 
associated on-shored binding technical standards which were created by the European 
Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 and amending statutory instruments. As the Withdrawal 
Act applied to the CRR in place as of 31 December 2020, changes to the CRR in the EU 
are not reflected in the UK CRR unless separately legislated and amended by statutory 
instruments. Going forward, the Financial Services Bill gives the PRA the power to write 
prudential rules directly into the PRA rulebook and it will co-ordinate with HM Treasury 
to implement any required changes to the UK CRR. 

On 1 January 2022, PRA implemented changes to the UK CRR to align to the Basel III 
standards which included the introduction of a new standardised approach for 
counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), amendments to the LCR and NSFR rules as well as 
new regulation applicable to internal ratings (IRB) models. Changes were also introduced 
to the UK Leverage Ratio framework. Equivalent reforms were implemented in the EU in 
June 2021, known as CRR2.

On 30 November 2022, the PRA published its consultation paper CP16/22 setting out its 
proposed rules and expectations with respect to  the remaining Basel III standards to be 
implemented in the UK, also referred to as “Basel 3.1 standards”. This will complete the 
implementation of post-global financial crisis prudential reforms, which were designed to 
i) increase the quantity of capital in the system, per unit of risk; ii) increase the quality of 
capital held by firms; and iii) improve the accuracy of risk-management firms, reducing 
the variability of risk-weighted assets (RWAs). 

The Basel 3.1 changes mainly impact capital requirements for STD and IRB Credit Risk, 
Market Risk, Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA), Counterparty Credit Risk (CCR) and 
Operational Risk. An aggregate “output floor” is also being introduced to ensure that 
total RWAs for firms using advanced or internally modelled methods and subject to the 
floor cannot fall below 72.5% of RWAs under the standardised approach. The proposal 
does not include further changes to the Leverage Ratio, Large Exposures and Liquidity 
Risk frameworks. 

The consultation paper has been followed up with the publication of the PRA’s policy 
statement PS17/23 Implementation of the Basel 3.1 standards near-final part 1.   This 
contains the near final rules on Market Risk, CVA, CCR and Operational Risk sections, 
along with some Pillar 2 guidance relating to these topics.  Part 2, containing rules on the 
remaining Basel 3.1 changes, is expected to be published in Q2 2024.

The PRA rules are expected to be implemented from 1 July 2025. 

Equivalent changes relating to the Basel 3.1 standards will be implemented in EU by 
CRR3 and CRD6 for which the European Commission issued a proposal in October 2021, 
with the near final rules published December 2023. The EU implementation date is 
expected to be 1 January 2025.  Their impact will be limited to NatWest Group’s EU 
subsidiaries.

OOtthheerr  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
On 13 November 2023, the PRA published PS14/13 which formally phased out the CET1 
capital deduction for NPEs (Non- Performing Exposures). The requirement was originally 
introduced in EU CRR and adopted in the UK; however, the PRA considered that it would 
not be appropriate in a UK context to apply the NPE deduction requirement going 
forward. Capital disclosures as of 31 December 2023 reflect the benefit because of the 
reversal of this deduction. 

On 20 November 2023, the PRA announced its 2023 list of O-SIIs (Other Systemically 
Important Institutions) as well as the 2023 O-SII buffers for ring-fenced banks (RFBs). The 
PRA is required to identify O-SIIs on an annual basis. NatWest Group Plc is part of the 
PRA’s O-SII list and the O-SII buffer for its ring-fenced sub-group (i.e. NatWest Holdings 
Group) was kept at 1.5%. The 2023 O-SII rates will apply from 1 January 2025. An O-SII 
buffer can apply to O-SIIs, or parts of an O-SII that are ring-fenced banks.

NatWest Group, as a third-country group with two or more subsidiary banking 
institutions in the EU, was approved by the European Central Bank (ECB) to establish a 
dual IPU (Intermediate Parent Undertaking) structure on behalf of its European 
subsidiaries. As a result, NatWest Bank Europe GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
NatWest Holdings Group, will act as the ring-fenced IPU. RBS Holdings N.V., a wholly 
owned subsidiary of NatWest Markets Plc, will act as the non-ring fenced IPU. Both IPUs 
became subject to ECB supervision from 1 January 2024. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224466

246

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

224477

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

SSuummmmaarryy  ooff  ffuuttuurree  cchhaannggeess  ttoo  pprruuddeennttiiaall  rreegguullaattiioonn  iinn  UUKK  tthhaatt  mmaayy  iimmppaacctt  NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  
The table below covers expected future changes to prudential regulation in the UK which may impact NatWest Group at a consolidated level. Certain entities within the group will be 
exposed to changes in prudential regulation from other legislative bodies and/or local supervisory authorities where NatWest Group’s entities are authorised (e.g. EU and Jersey) on a 
solo basis and these changes may be different in substance, scope and timing than those highlighted below.

Area of development

Key changes

IFRS 9 transitional relief
In respect to ECL
provisions

 IFRS 9 CET1 add-back phased out in period to 31 December 2024
 The transitional factor will reduce further from 50% to 25% from January 2024

Capital – Output floor

 Level of application: Applies at highest level of application: Consolidated level for UK Groups; sub-consolidated level 

Credit risk (STD, IRB, 
FIRB)

for Ring Fenced sub-groups.

 Capital stack: Applies to full capital stack including capital buffers.
 Transitional period for the application; starting with 50% at 1 July 2025 through to 72.5% at 1 January 2030. 

 Significant revisions to standardised credit risk, including to unrated corporates, SMEs, specialised lending, 

mortgages & equity exposures.

 Changes to IRB; restrictions on IRB modelling (switch to standardised on central governments and equities, switch 

to FIRB on financial institutions and large corporates), inclusion of input floors and other modelling changes.

 Removal of SME & Infrastructure supporting factors (IRB & standardised).
 Amendments to credit risk mitigation, including the withdrawal of some internal modelling approaches, the removal 

of double default and a new risk weight substitution approach on some exposures.

Source of changes/implementation date

 Implementation: 1 January 2024

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22 
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

Market risk 

 Implementation of FRTB - new standardised & modelled approaches (Expected Shortfall replaces VaR), revised 

banking/trading book boundary.

  Model approval applications are required to be provided during 2024 for standardised MR & CVA.

CVA & counterparty 
credit risk

 Removal of modelled approach.
 New standardised approach, aligned to Basel framework, including the removal of CVA exemptions on sovereigns, 

non-financial counterparties and pension funds.

 Reduced SA-CCR alpha factor from 1.4 to 1 for non-financial counterparties and pension funds.

Operational risk

 New standardised approach
 Internal loss multiplier (ILM) set to 1.
 Changes to the income requirements in scope of the business indicator.

Pillar 2

 PRA commitment to review Pillar 2A methodologies in 2024, to adjust requirements ahead of implementation of the 

Pillar 1 

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22
 Near final rules published in PRA PS17/23
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22
 Near final rules published in PRA PS17/23
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22
 Near final rules published in PRA PS17/23
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

 PRA Basel 3.1 CP16/22
 Implementation: 1 July 2025

Capitalisation of foreign 
exchange positions for 
market risk

 PRA proposal to clarify that items held at historical foreign exchange rates, which only re-value in certain 
circumstances, are not included in Pillar 1 foreign exchange risk requirements as their sensitivity to foreign 
exchange rates is generally zero.

 PRA consultation under CP17/23 closes on 

31 January 2023

 Implementation: 1 July 2025

Identification and 
management of step-in 
risk, shadow banking 
entities and groups of 
connected clients

 PRA proposal to implement Basel guidelines for step-in risk in the PRA Rulebook. 
 PRA proposal to adopt EBA guidelines for limits on exposures to shadow banking entities and connected clients in 

the Large Exposures (CRR) part of the PRA Rulebook. 

 PRA consultation under CP23/23 closes on 

5 March 2024

 Implementation: 1 January 2026

KKeeyy  ppooiinnttss

CCEETT11  rraattiioo

13.4%

(2022 – 14.2%)

MMRREELL

£55.8bn

(2022 - £55.5bn)

RRWWAAss

£183.0bn

(2022 - £176.1bn)

The CET1 ratio decreased 80 basis points due to a £6.9 

Minimum Requirements of own Funds and eligible 

Total RWAs increased by £6.9 billion to £183.0 billion 

billion increase in RWAs and a £0.6 billion decrease in 

Liabilities increased by £0.3 billion to £55.8 billion 

mainly reflecting:

CET1. The CET1 capital decrease was mainly driven by

primarily due to a £0.6 billion decrease in CET1, a £0.1 



an increase in credit risk RWAs of £5.6 billion, 

billion decrease in MREL eligible Tier 2 capital and a 

£1.0 billion increase in senior unsecured debt. The £0.1 

billion decrease in eligible Tier 2 capital is driven by 

redemptions and foreign exchange movements offset by 

the issuance of €0.7 billion subordinated debt in the 

period and other regulatory adjustments. The £1.0 

billion increase in senior unsecured debt is driven by 

new issuances offset by redemptions and foreign 

exchange movements.







distributions to shareholders of £3.6 billion (210 

basis points); consisting of directed buyback of £1.3 

billion; an ordinary interim dividend of £0.5 billion; a 

foreseeable final ordinary dividend of £1.0 billion; 

and a £0.8 billion decrease for the on-market 

ordinary share buyback programme, of which £0.5 

billion is reported as a foreseeable charge; 

a £0.2 billion decrease in the IFRS 9 transitional 

adjustment, primarily due to the annual update in 

the dynamic stage transition percentage and the 

end of transition on the static and historic stages; 

an increase in the intangible assets deduction of 

£0.5 billion;

 and other movements on reserves and regulatory 

adjustments of £0.7 billion. 

These reductions were partially offset by the £4.4 billion 

attributable profit in the period.

driven by an increase in IRB Temporary Model 

Adjustment related to mortgages within Retail 

Banking as well as increased exposures within 

Commercial & Institutional and Retail Banking. 

This was partially offset by reduced exposures 

within Ulster Bank RoI as a result of the 

phased withdrawal from the Republic of 

Ireland. 







an increase in counterparty credit risk RWAs 

of £1.1 billion, primarily due to the call of a 

credit default swap trade in Q2 2023 and the 

subsequent removal of credit risk mitigation.

an increase in operational risk RWAs of £1.1 

billion following the annual recalculation.

a reduction in market risk RWAs of £0.9 billion, 

driven by reduced market volatility in H1 and 

hedging activity as part of ongoing risk 

management in Q4 2023.

UUKK  lleevveerraaggee  rraattiioo

5.0%

(2022 – 5.4%)

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  ppoorrttffoolliioo

£222.8bn

(2022 - £232.6bn)

LLCCRR

144%

(2022 – 145%)

NNSSFFRR

133%

(2022 – 145%)

The leverage ratio decreased by 40 

The portfolio decreased by £9.8 billion to 

The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) 

The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 

basis points to 5.0%. The decrease was 

£222.8 billion, with primary liquidity 

due to a £0.6 billion reduction in Tier 1 

decreasing by £20.6 billion to £148.1 

decreased to 144% during the year 

driven by growth in customer lending 

decreased 12% during the year to 133% 

driven by reduced customer deposits 

capital and a £28.2 billion increase in 

billion. The decrease in primary liquidity 

and reduced customer deposits offset 

and increased lending.

leverage exposure. The key driver in the 

is driven by increased lending and 

by an increase in wholesale funding and 

reduced deposits, offset by UBIDAC 

UBIDAC asset sale.

leverage exposure was an increase in 

other financial assets partially offset by 

a reduction in held for sale assets.

asset sale and increased certificates of 

deposit and commercial paper issuance. 

The growth in secondary liquidity is due 

to an increase in the pre-positioned 

collateral at the Bank of England.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224477

247

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

KKeeyy  ppooiinnttss

CCEETT11  rraattiioo

13.4%

(2022 – 14.2%)

The CET1 ratio decreased 80 basis points due to a £6.9 
billion increase in RWAs and a £0.6 billion decrease in 
CET1. The CET1 capital decrease was mainly driven by







distributions to shareholders of £3.6 billion (210 
basis points); consisting of directed buyback of £1.3 
billion; an ordinary interim dividend of £0.5 billion; a 
foreseeable final ordinary dividend of £1.0 billion; 
and a £0.8 billion decrease for the on-market 
ordinary share buyback programme, of which £0.5 
billion is reported as a foreseeable charge; 
a £0.2 billion decrease in the IFRS 9 transitional 
adjustment, primarily due to the annual update in 
the dynamic stage transition percentage and the 
end of transition on the static and historic stages; 
an increase in the intangible assets deduction of 
£0.5 billion;

 and other movements on reserves and regulatory 

adjustments of £0.7 billion. 

These reductions were partially offset by the £4.4 billion 
attributable profit in the period.

MMRREELL

£55.8bn

(2022 - £55.5bn)

RRWWAAss

£183.0bn

(2022 - £176.1bn)

Minimum Requirements of own Funds and eligible 
Liabilities increased by £0.3 billion to £55.8 billion 
primarily due to a £0.6 billion decrease in CET1, a £0.1 
billion decrease in MREL eligible Tier 2 capital and a 
£1.0 billion increase in senior unsecured debt. The £0.1 
billion decrease in eligible Tier 2 capital is driven by 
redemptions and foreign exchange movements offset by 
the issuance of €0.7 billion subordinated debt in the 
period and other regulatory adjustments. The £1.0 
billion increase in senior unsecured debt is driven by 
new issuances offset by redemptions and foreign 
exchange movements.

Total RWAs increased by £6.9 billion to £183.0 billion 
mainly reflecting:









an increase in credit risk RWAs of £5.6 billion, 
driven by an increase in IRB Temporary Model 
Adjustment related to mortgages within Retail 
Banking as well as increased exposures within 
Commercial & Institutional and Retail Banking. 
This was partially offset by reduced exposures 
within Ulster Bank RoI as a result of the 
phased withdrawal from the Republic of 
Ireland. 
an increase in counterparty credit risk RWAs 
of £1.1 billion, primarily due to the call of a 
credit default swap trade in Q2 2023 and the 
subsequent removal of credit risk mitigation.
an increase in operational risk RWAs of £1.1 
billion following the annual recalculation.
a reduction in market risk RWAs of £0.9 billion, 
driven by reduced market volatility in H1 and 
hedging activity as part of ongoing risk 
management in Q4 2023.

UUKK  lleevveerraaggee  rraattiioo

5.0%

(2022 – 5.4%)

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  ppoorrttffoolliioo

£222.8bn

(2022 - £232.6bn)

LLCCRR

144%

(2022 – 145%)

NNSSFFRR

133%

(2022 – 145%)

The leverage ratio decreased by 40 
basis points to 5.0%. The decrease was 
due to a £0.6 billion reduction in Tier 1 
capital and a £28.2 billion increase in 
leverage exposure. The key driver in the 
leverage exposure was an increase in 
other financial assets partially offset by 
a reduction in held for sale assets.

The portfolio decreased by £9.8 billion to 
£222.8 billion, with primary liquidity 
decreasing by £20.6 billion to £148.1 
billion. The decrease in primary liquidity 
is driven by increased lending and 
reduced deposits, offset by UBIDAC 
asset sale and increased certificates of 
deposit and commercial paper issuance. 
The growth in secondary liquidity is due 
to an increase in the pre-positioned 
collateral at the Bank of England.

The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) 
decreased to 144% during the year 
driven by growth in customer lending 
and reduced customer deposits offset 
by an increase in wholesale funding and 
UBIDAC asset sale.

The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 
decreased 12% during the year to 133% 
driven by reduced customer deposits 
and increased lending.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224488

248

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

224499

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

MMiinniimmuumm  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  

Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA) and Minimum Capital Requirements
NatWest Group is subject to minimum capital requirements relative to RWAs. The table 
below summarises the minimum capital requirements (the sum of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A), 
and the additional capital buffers which are held in excess of the regulatory minimum 
requirements and are usable in stress.

Where the CET1 ratio falls below the sum of the minimum capital and the combined 
buffer requirement, there is a subsequent automatic restriction on the amount available 
to service discretionary payments (including AT1 coupons), known as the MDA. Note 
that different capital requirements apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups and the 
table shown does not reflect any incremental PRA buffer requirements, which are not 
disclosable.

The current capital position provides significant headroom above both our minimum 
requirements and our MDA threshold requirements.

Type
Pillar 1 requirements
Pillar 2A requirements
MMiinniimmuumm  CCaappiittaall  RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss
Capital conservation buffer
Countercyclical capital buffer (1)
MMDDAA  tthhrreesshhoolldd ((22))
Overall capital requirement
Capital ratios at 31 December 2023
Headroom (3) (4)

CET1
4.5%
1.8%
6.3%
2.5%
1.7%
10.5%
10.5%
13.4%
2.9%

Total Tier 1
6.0%
2.4%
8.4%
2.5%
1.7%
n/a
12.6%
15.5%
2.9%

Total capital
8.0%
3.2%
11.2%
2.5%
1.7%
n/a
15.4%
18.4%
3.0%

LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiiooss
The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to leverage exposure under 
the binding PRA UK leverage framework applicable for NatWest Group. 

Type
Minimum ratio
Countercyclical leverage ratio buffer (1)
Total

CET1

2.44%
0.6%
3.04%

Total Tier 1

3.25%
0.6%
3.85%

(1)

The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is set at 35% of NatWest Group’s CCyB. The UK CCyB increased from 1% to 
2% from 5 July 2023. Foreign exposure may be subject to different CCyB rates depending on the rates set in those 
jurisdictions.

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  aanndd  ffuunnddiinngg  rraattiiooss
The table below summarises the minimum requirements for key liquidity and funding 
metrics under the PRA framework. 

Type
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) 
Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)

100%
100%

(1) The Financial Policy Committee increased the UK CCyB rate from 1% to 2% effective from 5 July 2023. The Central Bank 
of Ireland increased CCyB on Irish exposures from 0% to 0.5% applicable 15 June 2023 and 1% from 24 November 2023. 
A further increase to 1.5% will be effective 7 June 2024. 

(2) Pillar 2A requirements for NatWest Group are set as a variable amount with the exception of some fixed add-ons.                                                                         
(3) The headroom does not reflect excess distributable capital and may vary over time.
(4) Headroom as at 31 December 2022 was CET1 4.7%, Total Tier 1 4.8% and Total Capital 5.0%.

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt

CCaappiittaall  ffllooww  ssttaatteemmeenntt

Capital, risk-weighted assets and leverage: Key metrics 

The table below sets out the key capital and leverage ratios. NatWest Group is subject to 

the requirements set out in the PRA Rulebook. The capital and leverage ratios are 

therefore being presented under these frameworks on a transitional basis. 

PRA rules. 

The table below analyses the movement in CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year 

ended 31 December 2023. It is being presented on a transitional basis based on current 

CCaappiittaall  aaddeeqquuaaccyy  rraattiiooss ((11))

CET1

Tier 1

Total

RRWWAAss 

Credit risk

CCaappiittaall

CET1

Tier1

Total

Counterparty credit risk

Market risk

Operational risk

Total RWAs 

LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiiooss

Tier 1 capital

UK leverage exposure

UK leverage ratio (%) (2)

UK average Tier 1 capital (3)

UK average leverage exposure (3)

UK average leverage ratio (%) (3)

At 31 December 2022

Attributable profit for the period

Ordinary interim dividend paid

Directed buyback

Foreseeable ordinary dividends 

Foreseeable charges 

£m

Foreign exchange reserve

FVOCI reserve

Own credit

Share capital and reserve movements in

   respect of employee share schemes

Goodwill and intangibles deduction

Deferred tax assets

Prudential valuation adjustments

Net dated subordinated debt instruments

Foreign exchange movements

Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional

   arrangements

Other movements

2023

%

13.4

15.5

18.4

£m

147,598

7,830

7,363

20,198

182,989

£m

24,440

28,315

33,632

£m

28,315

562,843

5.0%

28,323

571,225

5.0%

2022

%

14.2

16.4

19.3

141,963

6,723

8,300

19,115

176,101

£m

24,992

28,867

33,920

28,867

534,613

5.4%

29,564

531,429

5.6%

CET1

£m

24,992

4,394

(491)

(1,259)

(1,013)

(870)

(637)

53

48

93

(498)

(67)

(4)

(159)

(142)

AT1

£m

3,875

Tier 2

£m

5,053

Total

£m

33,920

4,394

(491)

(1,259)

(1,013)

(870)

(637)

53

48

93

(498)

(67)

(4)

269

(115)

(159)

(32)

33,632

269

(115)

110

5,317

£m

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

24,440

3,875

 For CET1 movements refer to the key points on page 247. 

 Tier 2 movements of £0.2 billion include an increase of £0.6 billion for a €0.7 billion 

5.763% Fixed to Fixed Reset Tier 2 Notes 2034 issued in February 2023, partially 

offset by the £0.1 billion redemption of the UBIDAC subordinated notes, £0.1 billion 

partial redemption of 5.125% Subordinated Tier 2 Notes 2024, £0.1 billion redemption 

of 6.000% Subordinated Tier 2 Notes 2023, amortisation, foreign exchange 

movements £0.1 billion and maturities with minimum regulatory value.

 Within Tier 2, there was also a £0.1 billion increase in the Tier 2 surplus provisions.

(1)

31 December 2023 includes the transitional arrangements for the capital impact of IFRS 9 expected credit loss (ECL) 

accounting and prior periods also include the transitional relief on grandfathered capital instruments. The impact of the 

IFRS 9 transitional adjustments at 31 December 2023 was £0.2 billion for CET1 capital, £54 million for total capital and 

£17 million RWAs (31 December 2022 - £0.4 billion CET1 capital, £36 million total capital and £71 million RWAs). 

Excluding these adjustments, the CET1 ratio would be 13.2% (31 December 2022 - 14.0%). The transitional relief on 

grandfathered instruments at 31 December 2023 was nil (31 December 2022 - £0.1 billion). Excluding both the 

transitional relief on grandfathered capital instruments and the transitional arrangements for the capital impact of IFRS 9 

expected credit loss (ECL) accounting, the end-point Tier 1 capital ratio would be 15.4% (31 December 2022 – 16.2%) 

and the end-point Total capital ratio would be 18.4% (31 December 2022 – 19.3%).

(2)

The UK leverage exposure and transitional Tier 1 capital are calculated in accordance with current PRA rules. Excluding 

the IFRS 9 transitional adjustment, the UK leverage ratio would be 5.0% (31 December 2022 – 5.3%). 

(3) Based on the daily average of on-balance sheet items and three month-end average of off-balance sheet items and Tier 

1 capital. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

224499

249

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Capital, risk-weighted assets and leverage: Key metrics 
The table below sets out the key capital and leverage ratios. NatWest Group is subject to 
the requirements set out in the PRA Rulebook. The capital and leverage ratios are 
therefore being presented under these frameworks on a transitional basis. 

CCaappiittaall  aaddeeqquuaaccyy  rraattiiooss ((11))
CET1
Tier 1
Total

RRWWAAss 
Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk
Market risk
Operational risk
Total RWAs 

CCaappiittaall
CET1
Tier1
Total

LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiiooss
Tier 1 capital
UK leverage exposure
UK leverage ratio (%) (2)
UK average Tier 1 capital (3)
UK average leverage exposure (3)
UK average leverage ratio (%) (3)

2023

%

13.4
15.5
18.4

£m

147,598
7,830
7,363
20,198
182,989

£m

24,440
28,315
33,632

£m

28,315
562,843
5.0%
28,323
571,225
5.0%

2022

%

14.2
16.4
19.3

£m

141,963
6,723
8,300
19,115
176,101

£m

24,992
28,867
33,920

£m

28,867
534,613
5.4%
29,564
531,429
5.6%

(1)

(2)

31 December 2023 includes the transitional arrangements for the capital impact of IFRS 9 expected credit loss (ECL) 
accounting and prior periods also include the transitional relief on grandfathered capital instruments. The impact of the 
IFRS 9 transitional adjustments at 31 December 2023 was £0.2 billion for CET1 capital, £54 million for total capital and 
£17 million RWAs (31 December 2022 - £0.4 billion CET1 capital, £36 million total capital and £71 million RWAs). 
Excluding these adjustments, the CET1 ratio would be 13.2% (31 December 2022 - 14.0%). The transitional relief on 
grandfathered instruments at 31 December 2023 was nil (31 December 2022 - £0.1 billion). Excluding both the 
transitional relief on grandfathered capital instruments and the transitional arrangements for the capital impact of IFRS 9 
expected credit loss (ECL) accounting, the end-point Tier 1 capital ratio would be 15.4% (31 December 2022 – 16.2%) 
and the end-point Total capital ratio would be 18.4% (31 December 2022 – 19.3%).
The UK leverage exposure and transitional Tier 1 capital are calculated in accordance with current PRA rules. Excluding 
the IFRS 9 transitional adjustment, the UK leverage ratio would be 5.0% (31 December 2022 – 5.3%). 

(3) Based on the daily average of on-balance sheet items and three month-end average of off-balance sheet items and Tier 

1 capital. 

CCaappiittaall  ffllooww  ssttaatteemmeenntt
The table below analyses the movement in CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year 
ended 31 December 2023. It is being presented on a transitional basis based on current 
PRA rules. 

At 31 December 2022
Attributable profit for the period
Ordinary interim dividend paid
Directed buyback
Foreseeable ordinary dividends 
Foreseeable charges 
Foreign exchange reserve
FVOCI reserve
Own credit
Share capital and reserve movements in
   respect of employee share schemes
Goodwill and intangibles deduction
Deferred tax assets
Prudential valuation adjustments
Net dated subordinated debt instruments
Foreign exchange movements
Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional
   arrangements
Other movements
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

CET1

£m
24,992
4,394
(491)
(1,259)
(1,013)
(870)
(637)
53
48

93
(498)
(67)
(4)

(159)
(142)
24,440

AT1

£m
3,875

Tier 2

£m
5,053

269
(115)

110
5,317

3,875

Total

£m
33,920
4,394
(491)
(1,259)
(1,013)
(870)
(637)
53
48

93
(498)
(67)
(4)
269
(115)

(159)
(32)
33,632

 For CET1 movements refer to the key points on page 247. 
 Tier 2 movements of £0.2 billion include an increase of £0.6 billion for a €0.7 billion 
5.763% Fixed to Fixed Reset Tier 2 Notes 2034 issued in February 2023, partially 
offset by the £0.1 billion redemption of the UBIDAC subordinated notes, £0.1 billion 
partial redemption of 5.125% Subordinated Tier 2 Notes 2024, £0.1 billion redemption 
of 6.000% Subordinated Tier 2 Notes 2023, amortisation, foreign exchange 
movements £0.1 billion and maturities with minimum regulatory value.

 Within Tier 2, there was also a £0.1 billion increase in the Tier 2 surplus provisions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225500

250

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225511

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

RRiisskk--wweeiigghhtteedd  aasssseettss  
The table below analyses the movement in RWAs during the year, by key drivers.

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
Foreign exchange movement
Business movement
Risk parameter changes 
Model updates
Other movement
Acquisitions and disposals 
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

Credit

 Counterparty 

Market

 Operational 

risk

£bn

142.0
(0.9)
8.4
(1.9)
3.0
-
(3.0)
147.6

credit risk

£bn

6.7
-
0.2
-
-
0.9
-
7.8

risk

£bn

8.3
-
(0.9)
-
-
-
-
7.4

risk

£bn

19.1
-
1.1
-
-
-
-
20.2

Total 

£bn

176.1
(0.9)
8.8
(1.9)
3.0
0.9
(3.0)
183.0

The table below analyses the movement in RWAs by segment during the year.

Retail

Private

Commercial &  Central items

Total NatWest

Banking

Banking

Institutional

& other (1)

TToottaall  RRWWAAss
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
Foreign exchange movement
Business movement
Risk parameter changes 
Model updates
Other movement
Acquisitions and disposals 
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
Credit risk 
Counterparty credit risk 
Market risk
Operational risk
TToottaall  RRWWAAss

£bn

54.7
-
3.6
-
3.3
-
-
61.6
53.9
0.3
0.2
7.2
61.6

£bn

11.2
-
-
-
-
-
-
11.2
9.8
-
-
1.4
11.2

(1)

£1.4 billion of Central items & other relates to Ulster RoI.

£bn

103.2
(0.8)
6.3
(1.9)
(0.3)
0.9
-
107.4
81.9
7.5
7.2
10.8
107.4

£bn

7.0
(0.1)
(1.1)
-
-
-
(3.0)
2.8
2.0
-
-
0.8
2.8

Group

£bn

176.1
(0.9)
8.8
(1.9)
3.0
0.9
(3.0)
183.0
147.6
7.8
7.4
20.2
183.0

Total RWAs increased by £6.9 billion during the period mainly reflecting:

LLeevveerraaggee  eexxppoossuurree

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  kkeeyy  mmeettrriiccss  

 Business movements totalling £8.8 billion, primarily driven by increased credit risk 

exposures within Commercial & Institutional and Retail Banking. There is an additional 
increase following the annual recalculation of operational risk RWAs. This was 
partially offset by a reduction in market risk RWAs reflecting reduced market volatility  
and tighter risk management in Q4 2023. 

 Model updates totalling £3.0 billion, driven by IRB Temporary Model Adjustment 

related to mortgages within Retail Banking with a partial offset within Commercial & 
Institutional. 

 Other changes of £0.9 billion, driven by the termination of portfolio credit default 

swap resulting in removal of the CRM benefit. 

 Disposals relating to the phased withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland, reducing 

RWAs by £3.0 billion.

 Risk parameters reflecting changes in regulatory treatment for certain structured 

transactions, reducing RWAs by £1.9 billion. 

The leverage metrics for UK entities are calculated in accordance with the Leverage 

The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by NatWest 

ratio (CRR) part of the PRA Rulebook.

Group.

31 December

31 December

2023

2022

NatWest Group

UK DoLSub NatWest Group

UK DoLSub

Liquidity Coverage Ratio 

Stressed Outflow Coverage (1)

Net Stable Funding Ratio 

144%

153%

133%

138%

143%

126%

145%

150%

145%

131%

131%

137%

(1) NatWest Group’s Stressed Outflow Coverage (SOC) is an internal measure calculated by reference to liquid assets as a 

percentage of net stressed contractual and behavioural outflows over three months under the worst of three severe 

stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both as per ILAAP. This 

assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

Cash and balances at central banks

Trading assets

Derivatives

Financial assets

Other assets

Total assets

Derivatives

Assets of disposal groups

   - netting and variation margin

   - potential future exposures

Securities financing transactions gross up

Other off balance sheet items

Regulatory deductions and other adjustments

Claims on central banks

Exclusion of bounce back loans

UK leverage exposure

UK leverage ratio (%)

2023

£m

104,262

45,551

78,904

439,449

23,605

902

692,673

17,212

1,868

50,961

(16,043)

(100,735)

(3,794)

562,843

5.0

2022

£m

144,832

45,577

99,545

404,374

18,864

6,861

720,053

18,327

4,147

46,144

(7,114)

(141,144)

(5,444)

534,613

5.4

(79,299)

(100,356)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225511

251

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

LLeevveerraaggee  eexxppoossuurree
The leverage metrics for UK entities are calculated in accordance with the Leverage 
ratio (CRR) part of the PRA Rulebook.

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  kkeeyy  mmeettrriiccss  
The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by NatWest 
Group.

31 December

31 December

2023

2022

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Financial assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups
Total assets
Derivatives
   - netting and variation margin
   - potential future exposures
Securities financing transactions gross up
Other off balance sheet items
Regulatory deductions and other adjustments
Claims on central banks
Exclusion of bounce back loans
UK leverage exposure
UK leverage ratio (%)

2023

£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
439,449
23,605
902
692,673

(79,299)
17,212
1,868
50,961
(16,043)
(100,735)
(3,794)
562,843
5.0

2022

£m

144,832
45,577
99,545
404,374
18,864
6,861
720,053

(100,356)
18,327
4,147
46,144
(7,114)
(141,144)
(5,444)
534,613
5.4

NatWest Group

UK DoLSub NatWest Group

UK DoLSub

Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
Stressed Outflow Coverage (1)
Net Stable Funding Ratio 

144%
153%
133%

138%
143%
126%

145%
150%
145%

131%
131%
137%

(1) NatWest Group’s Stressed Outflow Coverage (SOC) is an internal measure calculated by reference to liquid assets as a 

percentage of net stressed contractual and behavioural outflows over three months under the worst of three severe 
stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both as per ILAAP. This 
assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225522

252

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225533

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

MMiinniimmuumm  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  ooff  oowwnn  ffuunnddss  aanndd  eelliiggiibbllee  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  ((MMRREELL))  
The following table illustrates the components of estimated Minimum requirements of own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) in NatWest Group and operating subsidiaries and includes 
external issuances only. The roll-off profile relating to senior debt and subordinated debt instruments is set out on page 254.

MMiinniimmuumm  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  ooff  oowwnn  ffuunnddss  aanndd  eelliiggiibbllee  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  ((MMRREELL))  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  

The following table illustrates the components of the stock of outstanding issuance in NatWest Group and its operating subsidiaries including external and internal issuances.

Par value (1)

Balance sheet value

Regulatory value MREL value (3)  

Par value

Balance sheet value Regulatory value (2)

MREL value

2023

2022

NWB Plc

RBS plc

UBIDAC

NWM Plc

Markets N.V.

Limited (7)

NatWest

Securities

International

CET1 capital (4)
TTiieerr  11  ccaappiittaall::  eenndd--ppooiinntt  CCRRRR  ccoommpplliiaanntt  AATT11
   of which: NatWest Group plc (holdco)
   of which: NatWest Group plc operating subsidiaries (opcos)

TTiieerr  11  ccaappiittaall::  eenndd--ppooiinntt  CCRRRR  nnoonn--ccoommpplliiaanntt ((55))
   of which: holdco
   of which: opcos

TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall::  eenndd--ppooiinntt  CCRRRR  ccoommpplliiaanntt
   of which: holdco
   of which: opcos

TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall::  eenndd--ppooiinntt  CCRRRR  nnoonn  ccoommpplliiaanntt ((55))
   of which: holdco
   of which: opcos

SSeenniioorr  uunnsseeccuurreedd  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess
   of which: holdco
   of which: opcos

TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall
   Other regulatory adjustments

Total
RWAs
UK leverage exposure
MREL as a ratio of RWAs
MREL as a ratio of UK leverage exposure

£bn
24.4

3.9
-
3.9

-
0.1
0.1

5.6
-
5.6

-
0.2
0.2

22.2
33.4
55.6

-

89.8

£bn
24.4

3.9
-
3.9

-
0.1
0.1

5.3
-
5.3

-
0.3
0.3

21.7
29.9
51.6

-

85.6

£bn
24.4

3.9
-
3.9

-
-
-

5.2
-
5.2

-
-
-

-
-
-

0.1

33.6

£bn  
24.4 

£bn
25.0

3.9
-
3.9

-
0.1
0.1

6.0
0.1
6.1

-
0.3
0.3

23.4
26.1
49.5

-

84.9

3.9 
-
3.9 

- 
- 
- 

5.2 
- 
5.2 

- 
- 
- 

22.2 
- 
22.2 

0.1 

55.8 
183.0 
562.9 
30.5% 
9.9% 

£bn
25.0

3.9
-
3.9

-
0.1
0.1

5.5
0.1
5.6

-
0.5
0.5

22.3
22.9
45.2

-

80.3

£bn
25.0

3.9
-
3.9

-
-
-

4.9
-
4.9

-
0.1
0.1

-
-
-

-

33.9

£bn
25.0

3.9
-
3.9

-
-
-

5.4
-
5.4

-
-
-

21.2
—
21.2

-

55.5
176.1
534.6
31.5%
10.4%

Par value reflects the nominal value of securities issued.

(1)
(2) Regulatory amounts as at December 2022 reported for AT1, Tier 1, and Tier 2 instruments from operating companies incudes grandfathered instrument as per the transitional provisions allowed under CRR2 (until 28 June 2025). 3 Tier 2 instruments from 

UBIDAC were classified as grandfathered which were redeemed in November 2023.

(3) MREL value reflects NatWest Group’s interpretation of the Bank of England’s approach to setting a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL), published in December 2021 (Updating June 2018). Liabilities excluded from MREL 

include instruments with less than one year remaining to maturity, structured debt, operating company senior debt, and other instruments that do not meet the MREL criteria. The MREL calculation includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities before the application 
of any regulatory caps or adjustments.
Shareholders’ equity was £37.2 billion (2022 - £36.5 billion).

(4)
(5) CRR2 non-compliant instruments- as at Dec 2022, all Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments were grandfathered under CRR2 compliance (until 28 June 2025) were reported under Tier 1 capital: end-point CRR non-compliant and Tier 2 capital: end-point CRR non-

compliant category. As at December 2023, we have no grandfathered instrument outstanding.

Additional Tier 1

Additional Tier 1

Tier 2

Tier 2

Senior unsecured

Senior unsecured

Externally issued

Internally issued

Externally issued

Internally issued

Externally issued

Internally issued

Total outstanding issuance

NatWest

Group plc

£bn

3.9

3.9

5.3

-

-

-

5.3

21.7

21.7

30.9

NatWest

Holdings

Limited

£bn

3.7

3.7

4.7

4.7

-

-

-

11.4

11.4

19.8

£bn

0.1

2.5

2.6

3.6

3.6

-

-

6.5

6.5

12.7

£bn

0.5

0.5

0.4

0.4

-

-

-

1.4

1.4

2.3

£bn

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.5

0.5

0.5

£bn

0.9

0.9

1.0

1.0

-

-

-

3.1

3.1

5.0

£bn

-

0.2

0.2

0.3

0.1

0.4

-

-

-

0.6

NWM

Inc.(6)

£bn

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.3

0.3

0.3

RBS

£bn

0.3

0.3

-

-

-

-

-

0.3

0.3

0.6

(1)

For AT1 & Tier 2, the balances are the IFRS balance sheet carrying amounts, which may differ from the amount which the instrument contributes to regulatory capital. Regulatory balances exclude, for example, issuance costs and fair value movements, 

while dated capital is required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over the final five years of maturity. 

(2) Balance sheet amounts reported for AT1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR. 

Internal issuance for NWB Plc, RBS plc and UBIDAC represents AT1, Tier 2 or Senior unsecured issuance to NatWest Holdings Limited and for NWM N.V. and NWM SI to NWM Plc.

The balances are the IFRS balance sheet carrying amounts for Senior unsecured debt category and it does not include CP, CD and short term/medium notes issued from NatWest Group operating subsidiaries

(3)

(4)

(5)

The above table does not include CET1 numbers. 

(6) NWM Securities Inc - regulated under US broker dealer rules. 

(7) RBS International limited - MREL resolution rules under consultation in Jersey. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225533

253

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

MMiinniimmuumm  rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  ooff  oowwnn  ffuunnddss  aanndd  eelliiggiibbllee  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  ((MMRREELL))  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  
The following table illustrates the components of the stock of outstanding issuance in NatWest Group and its operating subsidiaries including external and internal issuances.

Additional Tier 1
Additional Tier 1

Tier 2
Tier 2

Senior unsecured
Senior unsecured

Externally issued
Internally issued

Externally issued
Internally issued

Externally issued
Internally issued

Total outstanding issuance

NatWest

Group plc

£bn
3.9
-
3.9
5.3
-
5.3
21.7
-
21.7
30.9

NatWest

Holdings

Limited

£bn
-
3.7
3.7
-
4.7
4.7
-
11.4
11.4
19.8

NWB Plc

RBS plc

UBIDAC

NWM Plc

Markets N.V.

Inc.(6)

Limited (7)

NatWest

Securities

International

NWM

RBS

£bn
0.1
2.5
2.6
-
3.6
3.6
-
6.5
6.5
12.7

£bn
-
0.5
0.5
-
0.4
0.4
-
1.4
1.4
2.3

£bn
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.5
0.5
0.5

£bn
-
0.9
0.9
-
1.0
1.0
-
3.1
3.1
5.0

£bn
-
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.1
0.4
-
-
-
0.6

£bn
-
-
-
-
0.3
0.3
-
-
-
0.3

£bn
-
0.3
0.3
-
-
-
-
0.3
0.3
0.6

(1)

For AT1 & Tier 2, the balances are the IFRS balance sheet carrying amounts, which may differ from the amount which the instrument contributes to regulatory capital. Regulatory balances exclude, for example, issuance costs and fair value movements, 
while dated capital is required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over the final five years of maturity. 

Internal issuance for NWB Plc, RBS plc and UBIDAC represents AT1, Tier 2 or Senior unsecured issuance to NatWest Holdings Limited and for NWM N.V. and NWM SI to NWM Plc.
The balances are the IFRS balance sheet carrying amounts for Senior unsecured debt category and it does not include CP, CD and short term/medium notes issued from NatWest Group operating subsidiaries
The above table does not include CET1 numbers. 

(2) Balance sheet amounts reported for AT1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR. 
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6) NWM Securities Inc - regulated under US broker dealer rules. 
(7) RBS International limited - MREL resolution rules under consultation in Jersey. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225544

254

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225555

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

RRoollll--ooffff  pprrooffiillee  
The following table illustrates the roll-off profile and weighted average spreads of NatWest Group’s major wholesale funding programmes.

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  ppoorrttffoolliioo  

The table below shows the composition of the liquidity portfolio with primary liquidity aligned to high-quality liquid assets on a regulatory LCR basis. Secondary liquidity comprises of 

assets which are eligible as collateral for local central bank liquidity facilities and do not form part of the LCR eligible high-quality liquid assets.

Senior debt roll-off profile (1)
NatWest Group plc
   - amount (£m)
   - weighted average rate spread (bps)
NWM Plc
   - amount (£m)
   - weighted average rate spread (bps)
NatWest Bank Plc 
   - amount (£m)
   - weighted average rate spread (bps)
NWM N.V.
   - amount (£m)
   - weighted average rate spread (bps)
Covered bonds
   - amount (£m)
   - weighted average rate spread (bps)
Total notes issued - amount (£m)
Weighted average rate spread (bps)
Subordinated debt instruments roll-off profile (2)
NatWest Group plc (£m)
NWM Plc (£m)
NWM N.V. (£m)
Total (£m)

As at and for year

Roll-off profile

ended 31 December 2023

H1 2024

H2 2024

2025

2026

2027 & 2028

2029 & later

21,660
182

20,338
42

6,008
36

2,193
(69)

2,122
158
52,321
99

5,318
20
255
5,593

-
-

4,014
69

5,042
34

948
(115)

2,122
158
12,126
55

417
-
-
417

-
-

2,362
31

966
46

959
(62)

-
-
4,287
14

574
-
-
574

2,865
176

5,611
49

-
-

65
(49)

-
-
8,541
91

957
-
-
957

4,385
221

3,785
41

-
-

77
106

-
-
8,247
137

919
18
-
937

5,727
167

3,841
(7)

-
-

-
-

-
-
9,568
99

1,909
-
-
1,909

8,683
173

725
122

-
-

144
94

-
-
9,552
168

542
2
255
799

(1) Based on final contractual instrument maturity.
(2) Based on first call date of instrument, however this does not indicate NatWest Group’s strategy on capital and funding management. The table above does not include debt accounted Tier 1 instruments although those instruments form part of the total 

subordinated debt balance.
The weighted average spread reflects the average net funding cost to NatWest Group and is calculated on an indicative basis and are quoted over term SONIA at the time of issuance.
The roll-off table is based on sterling-equivalent balance sheet values.

(3)
(4)

Cash and balances at central banks 

High quality government/MDB/PSE and GSE bonds (4)

Extremely high quality covered bonds

LLCCRR  lleevveell  11  EElliiggiibbllee  AAsssseettss

LLCCRR  lleevveell  22  EElliiggiibbllee  AAsssseettss (5)

PPrriimmaarryy  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  ((HHQQLLAA)) (6)

SSeeccoonnddaarryy  lliiqquuiiddiittyy 

TToottaall  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  vvaalluuee

NatWest 

Group (1)

£m

99,855

36,250

4,164

140,269

7,796

148,065

74,722

222,787

2023

NWH 

Group (2)

£m

68,495

26,510

4,164

99,169

7,320

106,489

74,683

181,172

UK DoL

Sub 

£m

67,954

26,510

4,164

98,628

7,320

105,948

74,683

180,631

NatWest 

Group

£m

142,011

22,141

2,093

166,245

2,401

168,646

63,917

232,563

2022 (7)

NWH

Group

£m

108,047

11,921

2,092

122,060

2,072

124,132

63,849

187,981

UK DoL

Sub

£m

104,606

11,714

1,812

118,132

2,032

120,164

63,849

184,013

(1) NatWest Group includes the UK Domestic Liquidity Sub-Group (NWB Plc, RBS plc and Coutts & Co) NatWest Markets Plc and other significant operating subsidiaries that hold liquidity portfolios.  These include The Royal Bank of Scotland International 

Limited and NWM N.V. who hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.

(2) NWH Group comprises UK DoLSub and NatWest Bank Europe GmbH who hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.

(3) NatWest Markets Plc liquidity portfolio is reported in the NatWest Markets Plc Annual Report and Accounts.

(4) Multilateral development bank abbreviated to MDB, public sector entities abbreviated to PSE and government sponsored entities abbreviated to GSE.

(5)

Includes Level 2A and Level 2B.

(6) High-quality liquid assets abbreviated to HQLA.

(7) Comparative periods have been re-presented on an LCR basis in line with the Liquidity portfolio definition as of 31 December 2023

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225555

255

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  ppoorrttffoolliioo  
The table below shows the composition of the liquidity portfolio with primary liquidity aligned to high-quality liquid assets on a regulatory LCR basis. Secondary liquidity comprises of 
assets which are eligible as collateral for local central bank liquidity facilities and do not form part of the LCR eligible high-quality liquid assets.

Cash and balances at central banks 
High quality government/MDB/PSE and GSE bonds (4)
Extremely high quality covered bonds
LLCCRR  lleevveell  11  EElliiggiibbllee  AAsssseettss
LLCCRR  lleevveell  22  EElliiggiibbllee  AAsssseettss (5)
PPrriimmaarryy  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  ((HHQQLLAA)) (6)
SSeeccoonnddaarryy  lliiqquuiiddiittyy 
TToottaall  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  vvaalluuee

NatWest 
Group (1)
£m

99,855
36,250
4,164
140,269
7,796
148,065
74,722
222,787

2023

NWH 
Group (2)
£m

68,495
26,510
4,164
99,169
7,320
106,489
74,683
181,172

UK DoL
Sub 
£m

67,954
26,510
4,164
98,628
7,320
105,948
74,683
180,631

NatWest 
Group
£m

142,011
22,141
2,093
166,245
2,401
168,646
63,917
232,563

2022 (7)

NWH
Group
£m

108,047
11,921
2,092
122,060
2,072
124,132
63,849
187,981

UK DoL
Sub
£m

104,606
11,714
1,812
118,132
2,032
120,164
63,849
184,013

(1) NatWest Group includes the UK Domestic Liquidity Sub-Group (NWB Plc, RBS plc and Coutts & Co) NatWest Markets Plc and other significant operating subsidiaries that hold liquidity portfolios.  These include The Royal Bank of Scotland International 

Limited and NWM N.V. who hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.

(2) NWH Group comprises UK DoLSub and NatWest Bank Europe GmbH who hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
(3) NatWest Markets Plc liquidity portfolio is reported in the NatWest Markets Plc Annual Report and Accounts.
(4) Multilateral development bank abbreviated to MDB, public sector entities abbreviated to PSE and government sponsored entities abbreviated to GSE.
(5)
(6) High-quality liquid assets abbreviated to HQLA.
(7) Comparative periods have been re-presented on an LCR basis in line with the Liquidity portfolio definition as of 31 December 2023

Includes Level 2A and Level 2B.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225566

256

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225577

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

FFuunnddiinngg  ssoouurrcceess  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows the carrying values of the principal funding sources based on contractual maturity. Balance sheet captions include balances held at all classifications under
 IFRS 9.  

This  table  shows  the  residual  maturity  of  financial  instruments,  based  on  contractual  date  of  maturity  of  NatWest  Group’s  banking  activities,  including  hedging  derivatives.  Trading 

activities, comprising mandatory fair value through profit or loss (MFVTPL) assets and held-for-trading (HFT) liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis and are shown in 

BBaannkk  DDeeppoossiittss
   Repos
   Other bank deposits (1)

CCuussttoommeerr  DDeeppoossiittss
   Repos
   Non-bank financial institutions
   Personal
   Corporate

TTrraaddiinngg  lliiaabbiilliittiieess ((22))
   Repos (3)
   Derivatives collateral
   Other bank and customer deposits
   Debt securities in issue - Medium term notes

OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
   Customer deposits
   Debt securities in issue:
      Commercial paper and certificates of deposit
      Medium term notes
      Covered bonds
      Securitisation

Subordinated liabilities
Total funding
Of which: available in resolution (4)

2023

2022

Short-term less 

Long-term more 

Short-term less 

Long-term more

than 1 year
£m

than 1 year
£m

Total
£m

than 1 year
£m

than 1 year
£m

3,118
5,836
8,954

10,844
46,875
216,456
150,718
424,893

26,634
15,075
768
418
42,895

-
13,236
13,236

-
13
6,436
35
6,484

268
-
382
288
938

3,118
19,072
22,190

10,844
46,888
222,892
150,753
431,377

26,902
15,075
1,150
706
43,833

1,446
6,353
7,799

9,575
50,226
224,706
164,314
448,821

23,740
17,680
413
54
41,887

-
12,642
12,642

254
9
1,209
25
1,497

-
-
654
743
1,397

Total

£m

1,446
18,995
20,441

9,829
50,235
225,915
164,339
450,318

23,740
17,680
1,067
797
43,284

194

1,086

1,280

253

797

1,050

11,116
6,878
2,122
-
20,310
1,047
498,099
-

205
32,625
-
863
34,779
4,667
60,104
-

11,321
39,503
2,122
863
55,089
5,714
558,203
26,561

5,587
6,934
804
-
13,578
974
513,059
-

85
31,750
2,038
859
35,529
5,286
56,351
-

5,672
38,684
2,842
859
49,107
6,260
569,410
24,899

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

CCoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

total in the table below.

2023

Cash and balances at central banks

Trading assets

Derivatives

Settlement balances

Loans to banks - amortised cost

Loans to customers -  amortised cost (1)

   Personal

   Corporate

   Non-bank financial institutions

Other financial assets 

Total financial assets

2022

Total financial assets

1 months

1-3 months

3-6 months

Subtotal

1-3 years 

3-5 years

Less than

104,262

£m

-

(1)

7,231

5,120

34,507

4,643

19,226

10,638

2,278

153,397

£m

-

-

-

(4)

90

20,130

2,337

4,551

13,242

1,835

22,051

Banking activities

6 months- 

1 year

£m

-

-

-

(4)

11

23,299

6,133

7,787

9,379

2,920

£m

-

-

-

(5)

1,429

13,602

3,201

4,569

5,832

2,669

104,262

£m

-

(14)

7,231

6,650

91,538

16,314

36,133

39,091

9,702

More than

5 years

£m

-

-

1

-

-

189,266

162,890

24,679

1,697

18,948

Total

£m

104,262

-

113

7,231

6,914

384,960

223,545

109,493

51,922

50,394

Trading

activities

£m

45,551

78,791

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

708

Total

£m

104,262

45,551

78,904

7,231

6,914

384,960

223,545

109,493

51,922

51,102

£m

-

-

-

42

14

60,679

23,138

28,661

8,880

10,929

71,664

£m

-

-

-

84

250

43,477

21,203

20,020

2,254

10,815

54,626

17,695

26,226

219,369

208,215

553,874

125,050

678,924

(1)

Loans to customers excludes £3.5 billion (2022 - £3.3 billion) of impairment provisions.

187,577

18,259

16,461

25,223

247,520

68,679

50,450

187,808

554,457

145,766

700,223

Includes £12.0 billion (2022 – £12.0 billion) relating to Term Funding Scheme with additional incentives for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises participation. 
Excludes short positions of £9.8 billion (2022 – £9.5 billion).

(1)
(2)
(3) Comprises central & other bank repos of £4.0 billion (2022 – £1.6 billion), other financial institution repos of £20.4 billion (2022 – £19.4 billion) and other corporate repos of £2.5 billion (2022 – £2.7 billion).
(4)

Eligible liabilities (as defined in the Banking Act 2009 as amended from time to time) that meet the eligibility criteria set out in the regulations, rules, policies, guidelines, or statements of the Bank of England including the Statement of Policy published by the 
Bank of England in December 2021 (updating June 2018). The balance consists of £21.7 billion (2022 – £20.0 billion) under debt securities in issue (senior MREL) and £4.9 billion (2022 – £4.9 billion) under subordinated liabilities.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225577

257

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

CCoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))
This  table  shows  the  residual  maturity  of  financial  instruments,  based  on  contractual  date  of  maturity  of  NatWest  Group’s  banking  activities,  including  hedging  derivatives.  Trading 
activities, comprising mandatory fair value through profit or loss (MFVTPL) assets and held-for-trading (HFT) liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis and are shown in 
total in the table below.

2023
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers -  amortised cost (1)
   Personal
   Corporate
   Non-bank financial institutions
Other financial assets 
Total financial assets

2022
Total financial assets

Less than

1 months
£m

104,262
-
(1)
7,231
5,120
34,507
4,643
19,226
10,638
2,278
153,397

1-3 months
£m

3-6 months
£m

-
-
(4)
-
90
20,130
2,337
4,551
13,242
1,835
22,051

-
-
(5)
-
1,429
13,602
3,201
4,569
5,832
2,669
17,695

Banking activities

6 months- 

1 year
£m

-
-
(4)
-
11
23,299
6,133
7,787
9,379
2,920
26,226

Subtotal
£m

104,262
-
(14)
7,231
6,650
91,538
16,314
36,133
39,091
9,702
219,369

1-3 years 
£m

3-5 years
£m

-
-
42
-
14
60,679
23,138
28,661
8,880
10,929
71,664

-
-
84
-
250
43,477
21,203
20,020
2,254
10,815
54,626

More than

5 years
£m

-
-
1
-
-
189,266
162,890
24,679
1,697
18,948
208,215

Total
£m

104,262
-
113
7,231
6,914
384,960
223,545
109,493
51,922
50,394
553,874

Trading

activities
£m

-
45,551
78,791
-
-
-
-
-
-
708
125,050

Total
£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
6,914
384,960
223,545
109,493
51,922
51,102
678,924

187,577

18,259

16,461

25,223

247,520

68,679

50,450

187,808

554,457

145,766

700,223

(1)

Loans to customers excludes £3.5 billion (2022 - £3.3 billion) of impairment provisions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225588

258

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

225599

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

CCoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  ((aauuddiitteedd))

2023
Bank deposits excluding repos
Bank repos
Customer repos
Customer deposits excluding repos
   Personal
   Corporate
   Non-bank financial institutions
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
   CPs and CDs
   Medium term notes
   Covered bonds
   Securitisations
   Customer deposits DFV
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation 
Lease liabilities
Total financial liabilities

2022
Total financial liabilities

Less than

1 months
£m

4,822
2,649
8,287
364,492
193,523
129,939
41,030
6,645
-
14
2,797
1,673
50
1,047
-
27
-
3,237
14
392,957

Banking activities

1-3 months
£m

3-6 months
£m

6 months - 1 
year
£m

217
469
32
20,485
4,574
11,376
4,535
-
-
14
5,918
3,222
2,674
-
-
22
43
-
17
27,195

527
-
2,029
13,501
6,163
6,656
682
-
-
23
6,379
3,860
1,416
1,075
-
28
431
-
24
22,914

270
-
496
15,571
12,196
2,747
628
-
-
63
5,216
2,361
2,738
-
-
117
573
-
47
22,236

Subtotal
£m

5,836
3,118
10,844
414,049
216,456
150,718
46,875
6,645
-
114
20,310
11,116
6,878
2,122
-
194
1,047
3,237
102
465,302

1-3 years 
£m

3-5 years
£m

5,036
-
-
6,456
6,433
13
10
-
-
125
17,496
205
16,188
-
297
806
1,877
-
156
31,146

8,200
-
-
9
3
3
3
-
-
20
12,590
-
11,953
-
377
260
1,874
-
94
22,787

More than

5 years
£m

-
-
-
19
-
19
-
-
-
10
4,693
-
4,484
-
189
20
916
-
318
5,956

Total
£m

19,072
3,118
10,844
420,533
222,892
150,753
46,888
6,645
-
269
55,089
11,321
39,503
2,122
863
1,280
5,714
3,237
670
525,191

Trading

activities
£m

-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
53,636
72,126
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
125,762

Total
£m

19,072
3,118
10,844
420,533
222,892
150,753
46,888
6,645
53,636
72,395
55,089
11,321
39,503
2,122
863
1,280
5,714
3,237
670
650,953

436,251

19,253

12,620

8,483

476,607

26,194

20,782

9,023

532,606

146,723

679,329

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

SSeenniioorr  nnootteess  aanndd  ssuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  --  rreessiidduuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  pprrooffiillee  bbyy  iinnssttrruummeenntt  ttyyppee  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows NatWest Group’s debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by residual maturity.

22002233

Less than 1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

More than 5 years

Total

2022

Less than 1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

More than 5 years

Total

Commercial paper and CDs

Covered bonds

Securitisation

Subordinated liabilities

22002233

MTNs

Total

2022

The table below shows the currency breakdown.

Trading

liabilities

Other financial liabilities

Debt securities in issue

Debt securities

Commercial

in issue MTNs

paper and CDs

bonds

Securitisation

liabilities

Subordinated

Total notes

£m 

418

48

-

240

706

54

475

35

233

797

£m 

11,116

205

-

-

11,321

5,587

73

12

-

5,672

MTNs

£m 

6,878

16,188

11,953

4,484

39,503

6,934

15,161

9,989

6,600

38,684

Covered

£m 

2,122

-

-

-

-

-

2,122

804

2,038

2,842

GBP

£m 

4,599

4,421

1,047

863

2,675

13,605

£m 

-

297

376

190

863

-

296

375

188

859

USD

£m 

3,015

17,214

-

-

1,551

21,780

£m 

1,047

1,877

1,874

916

5,714

974

2,195

1,458

1,633

6,260

EUR

£m 

3,707

15,496

1,075

-

1,488

21,766

Total

£m 

21,163

18,567

14,203

5,590

59,523

14,299

19,763

11,834

8,421

54,317

Other

£m 

3,078

-

-

-

-

3,078

in issue

£m 

21,581

18,615

14,203

5,830

60,229

14,353

20,238

11,869

8,654

55,114

Total

£m 

11,321

40,209

2,122

863

5,714

60,229

10,897

22,399

19,050

2,768

55,114

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

225599

259

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

SSeenniioorr  nnootteess  aanndd  ssuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  --  rreessiidduuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  pprrooffiillee  bbyy  iinnssttrruummeenntt  ttyyppee  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows NatWest Group’s debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by residual maturity.

22002233

Less than 1 year
1-3 years
3-5 years
More than 5 years
Total

2022

Less than 1 year
1-3 years
3-5 years
More than 5 years
Total

The table below shows the currency breakdown.

22002233

Commercial paper and CDs
MTNs
Covered bonds
Securitisation
Subordinated liabilities
Total

2022

Trading

liabilities

Debt securities

Commercial

in issue MTNs

paper and CDs

£m 

418
48
-
240
706

54
475
35
233
797

£m 

11,116
205
-
-
11,321

5,587
73
12
-
5,672

Other financial liabilities

Debt securities in issue

Covered

Subordinated

Total notes

MTNs

£m 

6,878
16,188
11,953
4,484
39,503

6,934
15,161
9,989
6,600
38,684

bonds

Securitisation

liabilities

£m 

2,122
-
-
-
2,122

804
2,038
-
-
2,842

GBP

£m 

4,599
4,421
1,047
863
2,675
13,605

£m 

-
297
376
190
863

-
296
375
188
859

USD

£m 

3,015
17,214
-
-
1,551
21,780

£m 

1,047
1,877
1,874
916
5,714

974
2,195
1,458
1,633
6,260

EUR

£m 

3,707
15,496
1,075
-
1,488
21,766

Total

£m 

21,163
18,567
14,203
5,590
59,523

14,299
19,763
11,834
8,421
54,317

Other

£m 

-
3,078
-
-
-
3,078

in issue

£m 

21,581
18,615
14,203
5,830
60,229

14,353
20,238
11,869
8,654
55,114

Total

£m 

11,321
40,209
2,122
863
5,714
60,229

10,897

22,399

19,050

2,768

55,114

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226600

260

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

226611

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

FFuunnddiinngg  ggaapp::  mmaattuurriittyy  aanndd  sseeggmmeenntt  aannaallyyssiiss  
The contractual maturity of loans to customers and customer deposits are shown 
below. The table demonstrates the maturity transformation role being performed by 
NatWest Group of lending long-term whilst relying largely on short-term funding. This 
is possible as the behavioural profiles of many customer deposits, which tend to be 
repayable on demand, show longer maturity and greater stability than their 
contractual agreements.

NatWest Group forms expectations on customer behaviours through both qualitative 
and quantitative techniques, incorporating observed customer behaviours over historic 
time periods, which includes the more recent periods of interest rate change. 
Customer behaviour assumptions are approved by the Natwest Group Balance Sheet 
Committee and have been used to prepare the funding gap analysis, which reduces 
maturity mismatch across the periods shown.

Loans to customers (1)

Less than

1 year
£bn

12
3
51
-
66

73

1-5

years
£bn

41
6
58
-
105

103

Greater

than

5 years
£bn

152
9
28
-
189

Total
£bn

205
18
137
-
360

180

356

Contractual maturity

Customer deposits

Less than

1 year
£bn

1-5

years
£bn

Greater

than

5 years
£bn

182
38
199
2
421

450

6
-
1
-
7

2

-
-
-
-
-

-

Net surplus/(gap)

Behavioural maturity

Net surplus/(gap)

Less than

1 year
£bn

170
35
148
2
355

1-5

years
£bn

(35)
(6)
(57)
-
(98)

Greater

than

5 years
£bn

(152)
(9)
(28)
-
(189)

Total
£bn

(17)
20
63
2
68

377

(101)

(180)

96

Total
£bn

188
38
200
2
428

452

Less than

1 year
£bn

1-5

years
£bn

(5)
16
15
2
28

12

(6)
6
50
-
50

74

Greater

than

5 years
£bn

(6)
(2)
(2)
-
(10)

Total
£bn

(17)
20
63
2
68

10

96

22002233
Retail Banking
Private Banking
Commercial & Institutional
Central items & other
Total

2022
Total

(1)

Loans to customers and customer deposits include trading assets and trading liabilities respectively and excludes reverse repos and repos.

11.5

33.8

45.3

99.9

1.8

260.1

127.1

185.8

573.0

720.0

 The net customer funding surplus has decreased by £28 billion during 2023 to £68 billion driven by a £24 billion decline in deposits and a £4 billion increase in loans to customers.  
 During 2023 there was a change in the customer deposit mix with a shift from instant access and current account to term products, with additional prudence applied to customer 

account depositor behavioural assumptions.

EEnnccuummbbrraannccee ((aauuddiitteedd))
NatWest Group evaluates the extent to which assets can be financed in a secured form 
(encumbrance), but certain asset types lend themselves more readily to encumbrance. 
The typical characteristics that support encumbrance are an ability to pledge those 
assets to another counterparty or entity through operation of law without necessarily 
requiring prior notification, homogeneity, predictable and measurable cash flows, and a 
consistent and uniform underwriting and collection process. Retail assets including 
residential mortgages, credit card receivables and personal loans display many of these 
features.

NatWest Group categorises its assets into four broad groups, those that are:

 Already encumbered and used to support funding currently in place through own-

asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities repurchase agreements.

 Pre-positioned with central banks as part of funding schemes and those encumbered 

under such schemes.

 Ring-fenced to meet regulatory requirements, where NatWest Group has in place an 
operational continuity in resolution (OCIR) investment mandate wherein the PRA 
requires critical service providers to hold segregated liquidity buffers covering at least 
50% of their annual fixed overheads. 

 Unencumbered. In this category, NatWest Group has in place an enablement 

programme which seeks to identify assets capable of being encumbered and to 
identify the actions to facilitate such encumbrance whilst not affecting customer 
relationships or servicing. Programmes to manage the use of assets to actively 
support funding are established within UK DoLSub and NatWest Markets Plc.

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

BBaallaannccee  sshheeeett  eennccuummbbrraannccee  

The table shows the retained encumbered assets of NatWest Group.  

Encumbered as a result of transactions with 

Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned with central banks

counterparties other than central banks

Pre-positioned

Collateral 

SFT, 

& encumbered 

ring-fenced to 

Covered

derivatives and

Total

assets held at

 meet regulatory

Other

Cannot

other (1,2)

central banks

requirement

available (3)

 be used (4)

Total

Total (5)

£bn

£bn

debts

£bn

-

-

-

-

-

-

£bn

 5.1

 18.9

 0.1

 0.3

 15.3

-

-

£bn

 5.1

 18.9

 0.1

 13.7

 15.3

-

-

Readily

available

£bn

 99.2

 2.5

 5.3

 84.9

 31.9

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

 1.9

-

-

-

-

-

-

£bn

-

 0.5

 0.7

 122.3

 0.3

 2.5

-

 126.3

£bn

-

 23.7

 78.9

 7.2

 0.8

 48.5

 1.7

 7.6

 6.3

 0.9

£bn

 99.2

 26.7

 78.9

 7.2

 6.8

 255.7

 33.9

 7.6

 8.8

 0.9

£bn

 104.3

 45.6

 78.9

 7.2

 6.9

 381.4

 51.1

 7.6

 8.8

 0.9

 13.4

 39.7

 53.1

 112.0

 1.9

 223.8

 175.6

 525.7

 692.7

Loans to customers - amortised cost (6)

 13.4

 112.0

2023

Cash and balances at central banks

Trading assets

Derivatives

Settlement balances

Loans to banks - amortised cost

Other financial assets (7)

Intangible assets

Other assets

Assets of disposal groups (8)

Total assets

2022

Total assets

(1) Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal 

(3) Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form. These assets include loans that could be pre-positioned 

banking operations. Securities financing transactions (SFT) include collateral given to secure derivative liabilities.

(2) Derivative cash collateral of £9.9 billion (2022 - £13 billion) has been included in the encumbered assets.

with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.

(4) Cannot be used includes:

Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.

Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.

a)

b)

c)

d)

(5)

(6)

Loans that are not encumbered and cannot be pre-positioned with central banks on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.

Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.

In accordance with market practice, NatWest Group employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.

The pre-positioned and encumbered assets held at central banks of £112.0 billion includes the encumbered residential mortgages of £21.6 billion. £70.9 billion of residential UK mortgages are included in £84.9 billion readily available loans to customers.

(7) Other financial assets under SFT, derivatives and other include £0.5 billion of debt securities under the continuing control of NWB Plc. This follows the agreement between NWB Plc and the Group Pension Fund to establish a bankruptcy remote reservoir 

(8)

The majority of UBIDAC assets are in contracted loan sale agreements as part of its phased withdrawal strategy and are unavailable for any alternative contingent liquidity arrangements. UBIDAC has in place a committed unsecured liquidity line from 

trust to hold these assets. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.

NatWest Bank to support the withdrawal.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226611

261

Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued

BBaallaannccee  sshheeeett  eennccuummbbrraannccee  
The table shows the retained encumbered assets of NatWest Group.  

2023
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost (6)
Other financial assets (7)
Intangible assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups (8)
Total assets

2022
Total assets

Encumbered as a result of transactions with 

Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned with central banks

counterparties other than central banks

Pre-positioned

Collateral 

SFT, 

& encumbered 

ring-fenced to 

Covered

derivatives and

Total

assets held at

 meet regulatory

debts

other (1,2)

central banks

requirement

£bn
-
-

-
 13.4
-

-
-
 13.4

£bn
 5.1
 18.9

 0.1
 0.3
 15.3

-
-
 39.7

£bn
 5.1
 18.9

 0.1
 13.7
 15.3

-
-
 53.1

£bn
-
-

-
 112.0
-

-
-
 112.0

£bn
-
-

-
-
 1.9

-
-
 1.9

Readily

available

£bn
 99.2
 2.5

 5.3
 84.9
 31.9

-
-
 223.8

Other

Cannot

available (3)

 be used (4)

Total

Total (5)

£bn
-
 0.5

 0.7
 122.3
 0.3

 2.5
-
 126.3

£bn
-
 23.7
 78.9
 7.2
 0.8
 48.5
 1.7
 7.6
 6.3
 0.9
 175.6

£bn
 99.2
 26.7
 78.9
 7.2
 6.8
 255.7
 33.9
 7.6
 8.8
 0.9
 525.7

£bn
 104.3
 45.6
 78.9
 7.2
 6.9
 381.4
 51.1
 7.6
 8.8
 0.9
 692.7

11.5

33.8

45.3

99.9

1.8

260.1

127.1

185.8

573.0

720.0

(1) Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal 

banking operations. Securities financing transactions (SFT) include collateral given to secure derivative liabilities.

(2) Derivative cash collateral of £9.9 billion (2022 - £13 billion) has been included in the encumbered assets.
(3) Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form. These assets include loans that could be pre-positioned 

with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.

(4) Cannot be used includes:

Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
Loans that are not encumbered and cannot be pre-positioned with central banks on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.

a)
b)
c)
d)
In accordance with market practice, NatWest Group employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
The pre-positioned and encumbered assets held at central banks of £112.0 billion includes the encumbered residential mortgages of £21.6 billion. £70.9 billion of residential UK mortgages are included in £84.9 billion readily available loans to customers.

(5)
(6)
(7) Other financial assets under SFT, derivatives and other include £0.5 billion of debt securities under the continuing control of NWB Plc. This follows the agreement between NWB Plc and the Group Pension Fund to establish a bankruptcy remote reservoir 

(8)

trust to hold these assets. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.
The majority of UBIDAC assets are in contracted loan sale agreements as part of its phased withdrawal strategy and are unavailable for any alternative contingent liquidity arrangements. UBIDAC has in place a committed unsecured liquidity line from 
NatWest Bank to support the withdrawal.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226622

262

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

226633

Market risk

NatWest Group is exposed to non-traded market risk through its banking activities and 
to traded market risk through its trading activities. Non-traded and traded market risk 
exposures are managed and discussed separately. The non-traded market risk section 
begins below. The traded market risk section begins on page 269. Pension-related 
activities also give rise to market risk. Refer to page 274 for more information on risk 
related to pensions.

NNoonn--ttrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk

Definition (audited)
Non-traded market risk is the risk to the value of assets or liabilities outside the trading 
book, or the risk to income, that arises from changes in market prices such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, or from changes in managed rates.

Sources of risk (audited)
The key sources of non-traded market risk are interest rate risk, credit spread risk, 
foreign exchange risk, equity risk and accounting volatility risk. For detailed qualitative 
and quantitative information on each of these risk types, refer to the separate sub-
sections following the VaR table below.

Key developments in 2023 
 In the UK, the Bank of England base rate rose from 3.50% at 31 December 2022 to 
5.25% at 31 December 2023 as inflation pressures persisted in the short term. 
However, the five-year sterling overnight index interest rate swap rate rose from 
4.10% at 31 December 2022 to a peak of 5.37% in the third quarter of 2023, but fell 
back to 3.38% at 31 December 2023. The corresponding ten-year rate rose from 
3.75% at 31 December 2022 to a peak of 4.68% in the third quarter of 2023, but fell 
back to 3.29% at 31 December 2023. 

 Overall, non-traded market risk VaR increased in 2023, on both an average and 

period-end basis. This was driven by an increase in credit spread VaR, notably in the 
second half of the year, reflecting increased holdings of bonds in the liquidity portfolio. 
Interest rate VaR fell slightly in H2, driven by a reduction in the interest rate-sensitive 
position, particularly in sterling. By the end of 2023, credit spread risk had replaced 
interest rate risk as the main driver of non-traded market risk VaR.

 NatWest Group’s structural hedge notional reduced to £207 billion at 31 December 
2023 from £231 billion at 31 December 2022 mainly as a result of lower current 
account and instant access savings deposits. This also reflected the impact of 
changes in the deposit mix, whereby customers have moved balances into fixed-
term savings accounts. Higher swap rates were reflected in a higher yield on the 
structural hedge, which rose from 0.98% in 2022 to 1.47% in 2023. 

 The sensitivity of net interest earnings to a 25-basis-point upward shift in the yield 
curve was a cumulative £760 million over three years at 31 December 2023, 
compared to £893 million at 31 December 2022. The main contributors to the 
reduced sensitivity were lower volumes of managed margin deposits and current 
accounts, which included the migration to fixed-term savings accounts.

 Sterling strengthened against the US dollar, to 1.27 at 31 December 2023 compared 
to 1.21 at 31 December 2022. It also strengthened against the euro, to 1.15 at 31 
December 2023 compared to 1.13 at 31 December 2022. Net investments in foreign 
operations decreased by £1.8 billion in sterling equivalent terms over the year, mainly 
reflecting the UBIDAC wind-down. However, after hedging, residual structural foreign 
currency exposures were broadly stable, decreasing, in sterling equivalent terms, by 
£0.2 billion.

Governance (audited)
Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling market risk arising 
from non-trading activities lies with the relevant business. Oversight is provided by the 
independent Risk function.

Risk positions are reported regularly to the Executive Risk Committee, the Board Risk 
Committee, and the Board as well as to the Asset & Liability Management Committee. 
Non-traded market risk policy sets out the governance and risk management 
framework.

Risk appetite 
NatWest Group’s qualitative appetite is set out in the non-traded market risk appetite 
statement. 

Its quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of value-at-risk (VaR), stressed value-at-
risk (SVaR), sensitivity and stress limits, and earnings-at-risk limits. 

The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio 
composition and the market and economic environments. To ensure approved limits are 
not breached and that NatWest Group remains within its risk appetite, triggers have 
been set and are actively managed. 

The risk appetite statements and associated measures are reviewed at least annually by 
the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure they remain 
appropriate and aligned to strategy. For further information on risk appetite and risk 
controls, refer to pages 175 and 176.

Market risk continued

RRiisskk  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Non-traded internal VaR (1-day 99%) 

values for each of the 12 month-end reporting dates.

The following table shows one-day internal banking book value-at-risk (VaR) at a 99% confidence level, split by risk type. VaR values for each year are calculated based on one-day 

NatWest Group’s VaR metrics are explained on page 271. Each of the key risk types are discussed in greater detail in their individual sub-sections following this table. 

Structural foreign exchange rate

Interest rate

Credit spread 

Equity

Pipeline risk (1)

Diversification (2)

Total

committed offer.

Average 

Maximum 

Minimum 

Period end  

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

2023

£m 

63.2

54.2

13.6

19.0

7.1

83.4

£m 

38.0

33.1

11.2

14.2

3.3

(34.4)

65.4

£m 

24.6

20.9

8.4

10.4

1.4

52.1

£m   

24.6  

54.2  

12.1  

10.4

7.1  

(29.9)  

78.5  

£m 

30.4

36.3

8.9

18.1

1.5

(36.9)

58.3

2022

£m 

60.7

86.6

11.3

22.2

4.5

91.2

£m 

7.6

19.9

6.1

13.7

0.3

45.5

£m 

37.7

20.3

11.3

14.7

2.4

(34.9)

51.5

(1)

Pipeline risk is the risk of loss arising from personal customers owning an option to draw down a loan – typically a mortgage – at a committed rate, where interest rate changes may result in greater or fewer customers than anticipated taking up the 

(2) NatWest Group benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets. The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time. The 

diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.

 Overall, non-traded market risk VaR increased in 2023, on both an average and period-end basis. This was driven by an increase in credit spread VaR, notably in the second half of 

the year, reflecting increased holdings of bonds in the liquidity portfolio. 

 Interest rate VaR fell slightly in H2, driven by a reduction in the interest-rate-sensitive position, particularly in sterling. 

 By the end of 2023, credit spread risk had replaced interest rate risk as the main driver of non-traded market risk VaR.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226633

263

Market risk continued

RRiisskk  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Non-traded internal VaR (1-day 99%) 
The following table shows one-day internal banking book value-at-risk (VaR) at a 99% confidence level, split by risk type. VaR values for each year are calculated based on one-day 
values for each of the 12 month-end reporting dates.

NatWest Group’s VaR metrics are explained on page 271. Each of the key risk types are discussed in greater detail in their individual sub-sections following this table. 

Interest rate
Credit spread 
Structural foreign exchange rate
Equity
Pipeline risk (1)
Diversification (2)
Total

Average 

Maximum 

Minimum 

Period end  

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

2023

2022

£m 

38.0
33.1
11.2
14.2
3.3
(34.4)
65.4

£m 

63.2
54.2
13.6
19.0
7.1

83.4

£m 

24.6
20.9
8.4
10.4
1.4

52.1

£m   

24.6  
54.2  
12.1  
10.4
7.1  
(29.9)  
78.5  

£m 

30.4
36.3
8.9
18.1
1.5
(36.9)
58.3

£m 

60.7
86.6
11.3
22.2
4.5

91.2

£m 

7.6
19.9
6.1
13.7
0.3

45.5

£m 

37.7
20.3
11.3
14.7
2.4
(34.9)
51.5

(1)

Pipeline risk is the risk of loss arising from personal customers owning an option to draw down a loan – typically a mortgage – at a committed rate, where interest rate changes may result in greater or fewer customers than anticipated taking up the 
committed offer.

(2) NatWest Group benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets. The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time. The 

diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.

 Overall, non-traded market risk VaR increased in 2023, on both an average and period-end basis. This was driven by an increase in credit spread VaR, notably in the second half of 

the year, reflecting increased holdings of bonds in the liquidity portfolio. 

 Interest rate VaR fell slightly in H2, driven by a reduction in the interest-rate-sensitive position, particularly in sterling. 
 By the end of 2023, credit spread risk had replaced interest rate risk as the main driver of non-traded market risk VaR.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226644

264

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

226655

Market risk continued

IInntteerreesstt  rraattee  rriisskk
Non-traded interest rate risk (NTIRR) arises from the provision to customers of a range 
of banking products with differing interest rate characteristics. When aggregated, these 
products form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity to 
changes in market interest rates. Mismatches can give rise to volatility in net interest 
income as interest rates vary. 

NTIRR comprises the following three primary risk types: 

 Gap risk: arises from the timing of rate changes in non-trading book instruments. The 
extent of gap risk depends on whether changes to the term structure of interest 
rates occur consistently across the yield curve (parallel risk) or differentially by period 
(non-parallel risk). 

 Basis risk: captures the impact of relative changes in interest rates for financial 
instruments that have similar tenors but are priced using different interest rate 
indices, or on the same interest rate indices but with different tenors. 

 Option risk: arises from option derivative positions or from optional elements 

embedded in assets, liabilities and/or off-balance sheet items, where NatWest Group 
or its customer can alter the level and timing of their cash flows. Option risk also 
includes pipeline risk. 

To manage exposures within its risk appetite, NatWest Group aggregates interest rate 
positions and hedges its residual exposure, primarily with interest rate swaps. 

Structural hedging aims to reduce gap risk and the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate 
shocks. It also provides some protection against prolonged periods of falling rates. 
Structural hedging is explained in greater detail below, followed by information on how 
NatWest Group measures NTIRR from both an economic value-based and an earnings-
based perspective.

Structural hedging 
NatWest Group has a significant pool of stable, non and low interest-bearing liabilities, 
principally comprising current accounts and savings, in addition to its equity and 
reserves. A proportion of these balances are hedged, either by investing directly in 
longer-term fixed-rate assets (such as fixed-rate mortgages) or by using interest rate 
swaps, which are generally booked as cash flow hedges of floating-rate assets, in order 
to provide a consistent and predictable revenue stream. 

After hedging the net interest rate exposure externally, NatWest Group allocates income 
to equity or products in structural hedges by reference to the relevant interest rate swap 
curve. Over time, this approach has provided a basis for stable income attribution for 
management purposes to products and interest rate returns. The programme aims to 
track a time series of medium-term swap rates, but the yield will be affected by changes 
in product volumes and NatWest Group’s equity capital.

The table below shows hedge income, total yield, incremental income and the period-end 
and average notional balances allocated to equity and products in respect of the 
structural hedges managed by NatWest Group. Hedge income represents the fixed leg of 
the hedge, while incremental income represents the difference between hedge income 
and short-term cash rates. Both years are presented on a revised basis of preparation 
vs. the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts. UBIDAC is no longer included. In addition, the 
‘Other’ category is no longer used: hedges booked in Coutts & Co. have now been 
allocated between product hedges and equity hedges, while hedges booked in RBS 
International have been allocated to product hedges.

Equity 
Product 
Total

IInnccrreemmeennttaall

iinnccoommee  ((11))

££mm

((661111))
((66,,332211))
((66,,993322))

HHeeddggee

iinnccoommee

££mm

441188
22,,882222
33,,224400

2023

PPeerriioodd  eenndd

nnoottiioonnaall

££bbnn

2222
118855
220077

AAvveerraaggee

nnoottiioonnaall

££bbnn

2222
119999
222211

TToottaall  

yyiieelldd  

%%  

11..8877 
11..4422 
11..4477 

Incremental

income (1)

£m

63
(1,074)
(1,011)

Hedge

income

£m

372
1,780
2,152

2022

Period end

notional

£bn

23
208
231

Average

notional

£bn

22
197
219

Total

yield

%

1.72
0.90
0.98

(1)

Incremental income represents the difference between hedge income and an unhedged return that is based on short-term cash rates. For example, the sterling overnight index average (SONIA) is used to estimate incremental income from sterling 
structural hedges.

Equity structural hedges refer to income allocated primarily to equity and reserves. At 31 December 2023, the equity structural hedge notional was allocated between NWH Group and 
NWM Group in a ratio of approximately 78%/22% respectively. 

Product structural hedges refer to income allocated to customer products by NWH Group Treasury, mainly current account and savings balances in Commercial & Institutional, Retail 
Banking and Private Banking. 

At 31 December 2023, approximately 94% by notional of total structural hedges were sterling-denominated. 

The following table presents the incremental income associated with product structural 

hedges at segment level. 

assets and liabilities.

Market risk continued

 The structural hedge period-end notional fell, mainly due to lower volumes of current 

account and managed rate savings deposits. This also reflected the impact of 

changes in the deposit mix, whereby customers have moved balances into fixed-

term savings accounts.

 The five-year sterling swap rate fell to 3.38% at 31 December 2023 from 4.10% at 31 

December 2022. The ten-year sterling swap rate also fell, to 3.29% from 3.75%. The 

structural hedge yield rose to 1.47% in 2023 from 0.98% in 2022.

 Hedge income rose by £1,088 million to £3,240 million from £2,152 million. Despite 

the increase in hedge income, incremental income fell. This illustrates the relative 

stability of hedge income compared to an unhedged portfolio that would earn short-

term cash rates. Compared to the 49-basis-point increase in the structural hedge 

total yield, SONIA increased 176 basis points to 5.19% at 31 December 2023 from 

3.43% at 31 December 2022.

Retail Banking

Commercial & Institutional

Private Banking & Other

Total

2023

£m 

(2,644)

(3,213)

(464)

(6,321)

2022

£m 

(463)

(537)

(74)

(1,074)

NTIRR can be measured using value-based or earnings-based approaches. Value-based 

approaches measure the change in value of the balance sheet assets and liabilities 

including all cash flows. Earnings-based approaches measure the potential impact on the 

income statement of changes in interest rates over a defined horizon, generally one to 

three years.

NatWest Group uses VaR as its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest 

earnings as its earnings-based approach. 

These two approaches provide complementary views of the impact of interest rate risk 

on the balance sheet at a point in time. The scenarios employed in the net interest 

earnings sensitivity approach may incorporate assumptions about how NatWest Group 

and its customers will respond to a change in the level of interest rates. In contrast, the 

VaR approach measures the sensitivity of the balance sheet at a point in time. Capturing 

all cash flows, VaR also highlights the impact of duration and repricing risks beyond the 

one-to-three-year period shown in earnings sensitivity calculations.

Value-at-risk 

confidence level. 

VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio 

(and, thus, the impact on the income statement) over a specified time horizon at a given 

NatWest Group’s standard VaR metrics – which assume a time horizon of one trading 

day and a confidence level of 99% – are based on interest rate repricing gaps at the 

reporting date. Daily rate moves are modelled using observations from the last 500 

business days. These incorporate customer products plus associated funding and 

hedging transactions as well as non-financial assets and liabilities. Behavioural 

assumptions are applied as appropriate.

The non-traded interest rate risk VaR metrics for NatWest Group’s retail and commercial 

banking activities are included in the banking book VaR table presented earlier in this 

section. The VaR captures the risk resulting from mismatches in the repricing dates of 

It also includes any mismatch between the maturity profile of external hedges and 

NatWest Group’s target maturity profile for the hedge.

Sensitivity of net interest earnings 

Net interest earnings are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates, mainly 

because maturing structural hedges are replaced at higher or lower rates and changes 

to coupons on managed rate customer products do not always match changes in 

market rates of interest or central bank policy rates. 

Earnings sensitivity is derived from a market-implied forward rate curve, which will 

incorporate expected changes in central bank policy rates such as the Bank of England 

base rate. A simple scenario is shown that projects forward earnings based on the 31 

December 2023 balance sheet, which is assumed to remain constant. An earnings 

projection is derived from the market-implied curve, which is then subject to interest rate 

shocks. The difference between the market-implied projection and the shock gives an 

indication of underlying sensitivity to interest rate movements. 

Reported sensitivities should not be considered a forecast of future performance in these 

rate scenarios. Actions that could reduce interest earnings sensitivity include changes in 

pricing strategies on customer loans and deposits as well as hedging. Management 

action may also be taken to stabilise total income also taking into account non-interest 

income. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226655

265

Market risk continued

 The structural hedge period-end notional fell, mainly due to lower volumes of current 

account and managed rate savings deposits. This also reflected the impact of 
changes in the deposit mix, whereby customers have moved balances into fixed-
term savings accounts.

 The five-year sterling swap rate fell to 3.38% at 31 December 2023 from 4.10% at 31 
December 2022. The ten-year sterling swap rate also fell, to 3.29% from 3.75%. The 
structural hedge yield rose to 1.47% in 2023 from 0.98% in 2022.

 Hedge income rose by £1,088 million to £3,240 million from £2,152 million. Despite 
the increase in hedge income, incremental income fell. This illustrates the relative 
stability of hedge income compared to an unhedged portfolio that would earn short-
term cash rates. Compared to the 49-basis-point increase in the structural hedge 
total yield, SONIA increased 176 basis points to 5.19% at 31 December 2023 from 
3.43% at 31 December 2022.

The following table presents the incremental income associated with product structural 
hedges at segment level. 

Retail Banking
Commercial & Institutional
Private Banking & Other
Total

2023

£m 

(2,644)
(3,213)
(464)
(6,321)

2022

£m 

(463)
(537)
(74)
(1,074)

NTIRR can be measured using value-based or earnings-based approaches. Value-based 
approaches measure the change in value of the balance sheet assets and liabilities 
including all cash flows. Earnings-based approaches measure the potential impact on the 
income statement of changes in interest rates over a defined horizon, generally one to 
three years.

NatWest Group uses VaR as its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest 
earnings as its earnings-based approach. 

These two approaches provide complementary views of the impact of interest rate risk 
on the balance sheet at a point in time. The scenarios employed in the net interest 
earnings sensitivity approach may incorporate assumptions about how NatWest Group 
and its customers will respond to a change in the level of interest rates. In contrast, the 
VaR approach measures the sensitivity of the balance sheet at a point in time. Capturing 
all cash flows, VaR also highlights the impact of duration and repricing risks beyond the 
one-to-three-year period shown in earnings sensitivity calculations.

Value-at-risk 
VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio 
(and, thus, the impact on the income statement) over a specified time horizon at a given 
confidence level. 

NatWest Group’s standard VaR metrics – which assume a time horizon of one trading 
day and a confidence level of 99% – are based on interest rate repricing gaps at the 
reporting date. Daily rate moves are modelled using observations from the last 500 
business days. These incorporate customer products plus associated funding and 
hedging transactions as well as non-financial assets and liabilities. Behavioural 
assumptions are applied as appropriate.

The non-traded interest rate risk VaR metrics for NatWest Group’s retail and commercial 
banking activities are included in the banking book VaR table presented earlier in this 
section. The VaR captures the risk resulting from mismatches in the repricing dates of 
assets and liabilities.

It also includes any mismatch between the maturity profile of external hedges and 
NatWest Group’s target maturity profile for the hedge.

Sensitivity of net interest earnings 
Net interest earnings are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates, mainly 
because maturing structural hedges are replaced at higher or lower rates and changes 
to coupons on managed rate customer products do not always match changes in 
market rates of interest or central bank policy rates. 

Earnings sensitivity is derived from a market-implied forward rate curve, which will 
incorporate expected changes in central bank policy rates such as the Bank of England 
base rate. A simple scenario is shown that projects forward earnings based on the 31 
December 2023 balance sheet, which is assumed to remain constant. An earnings 
projection is derived from the market-implied curve, which is then subject to interest rate 
shocks. The difference between the market-implied projection and the shock gives an 
indication of underlying sensitivity to interest rate movements. 

Reported sensitivities should not be considered a forecast of future performance in these 
rate scenarios. Actions that could reduce interest earnings sensitivity include changes in 
pricing strategies on customer loans and deposits as well as hedging. Management 
action may also be taken to stabilise total income also taking into account non-interest 
income. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226666

266

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

226677

Market risk continued

Market risk continued

Three-year 25-basis-point sensitivity table
The table below shows the sensitivity of net interest earnings – for both structural hedges and managed rate accounts – on a one, two and three-year forward-looking basis to an 
upward or downward interest rate shift of 25 basis points. 

In all scenarios, yield curves are assumed to move in parallel. For more information and assumptions relating to this and the following table, refer to the previous page.

2023

Structural hedges
Managed margin 
Total

2022

Structural hedges
Managed margin 
Total

+25 basis points upward shift

-25 basis points downward shift

Year 1 

Year 2 

Year 3 

£m 

4444
112200
116644

50
148
198

£m 

113388
111177
225555

158
141
299

£m 

222277
111144
334411

260
136
396

Year 1 

£m 

((4444))
((112255))
((116699))

(50)
(170)
(220)

Year 2 

£m 

((113388))
((112211))
((225599))

(158)
(140)
(298)

Year 3 

£m 

((222277))
((110055))
((333322))

(260)
(129)
(389)

(1)

Earnings sensitivity considers only the main drivers, namely structural hedging and margin management.

 The overall reduction in the sensitivity of net interest income earnings in all scenarios mainly reflects lower managed rate deposit and current account volumes. This includes 

changes in the deposit mix, whereby customers have moved balances into fixed-term savings from managed-rate savings accounts.

One-year 25 and 100-basis-point sensitivity table
The following table presents the one-year sensitivity to upward and downward 25-basis-point and 100-basis-point shifts in the yield curve, analysed by currency.

Euro
Sterling
US dollar
Other
Total

2023

Shifts in yield curve

2022

Shifts in yield curve

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

£m

7
138
14
5
164

£m

(11)
(139)
(14)
(5)
(169)

£m

38
504
54
21
617

£m

(45)
(577)
(56)
(22)
(700)

£m

13
172
10
3
198

£m

(12)
(194)
(11)
(3)
(220)

48
698
42
13
801

£m

(50)
(784)
(53)
(16)
(903)

Sensitivity of fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) portfolios 

and cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements 

NatWest Group holds most of the bonds in its liquidity portfolio at fair value and the 

bonds are generally classified as FVOCI for accounting purposes. Valuation changes 

arising from unexpected movements in market rates are initially recognised in FVOCI 

reserves. 

Interest rate swaps are used to implement the structural hedging programme and also 

hedging of some personal and commercial lending portfolios, primarily fixed-rate 

mortgages. Generally, these swaps are booked in cash flow hedge accounting 

relationships. Changes in the valuation of swaps that are in effective cash flow hedge 

accounting relationships are recognised in cash flow hedge reserves.

The table below shows the sensitivity of bonds initially classified as FVOCI and swaps 

subject to cash flow hedge accounting to a parallel shift in all rates. Valuation changes 

affecting interest rate swaps that hedge bonds in the liquidity portfolio are also included. 

Where FVOCI bonds and swaps are booked in fair value hedge accounting relationships, 

the valuation change affecting both instruments would be recognised in the income 

statement. Cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective. 

Note that the effectiveness of cash flow and fair value hedge relationships is monitored 

and regularly tested in accordance with IFRS requirements. Note also that valuation 

changes affecting the cash flow hedge reserve affect tangible net asset value, but would 

not be expected to affect CET1 capital.

FVOCI reserves

Cash flow hedge reserves

Total

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

£m

(1)

(251)

(252)

2023

£m

1

254

255

£m

(10)

(981)

(991)

£m

(1)

1,041

1,040

£m

(3)

(278)

(281)

2022

£m

2

281

283

£m

(13)

(1,097)

(1,110)

£m

5

1,138

1,143

 The sensitivity of FVOCI and cash flow hedge reserves was broadly stable in 2023 compared to 2022. The movement in cash flow hedge reserves in 2023 is shown in the 

statement of changes in equity on page 301.

CCrreeddiitt  sspprreeaadd  rriisskk

Credit spread risk arises from the potential adverse economic impact of a change in the 

spread between bond yields and swap rates, where the bond portfolios are accounted at 

fair value through other comprehensive income.

NatWest Group’s bond portfolios primarily comprise high-quality securities maintained as 

a liquidity buffer to ensure it can continue to meet its obligations in the event that access 

to wholesale funding markets is restricted. Additionally, other high-quality bond portfolios 

are held for collateral purposes and to support payment systems.

Credit spread risk is monitored daily through sensitivities and VaR measures (refer to the 

non-traded market risk VaR table earlier in this section). Exposures and limit utilisations 

are reported to senior management on a regular basis. Dealing mandates in place for 

the bond portfolios further mitigate the risk by imposing constraints by duration, asset 

class and credit rating.

FFoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rriisskk

Non-traded foreign exchange risk arises from three main sources:

 Structural foreign exchange rate risk – mainly arises from the capital deployed in 

foreign subsidiaries and branches.

 Transactional foreign exchange rate risk – arises from customer transactions and 

profits and losses that are in a currency other than the functional currency.

 Forecast earnings or costs in foreign currencies – NatWest Group assesses its 

potential exposure to forecast foreign currency income and expenses. NatWest 

Group hedges forward some forecast expenses.

The most material non-traded open currency positions are the structural foreign 

exchange exposures arising from investments in foreign subsidiaries and branches. 

These exposures are assessed and managed to predefined risk appetite levels under 

delegated authority agreed by the CFO with support from the Asset & Liability 

Management Committee. NatWest Group seeks to limit the potential volatility impact on 

its CET1 ratio from exchange rate movements by deliberately maintaining a structural 

open currency position. Gains or losses arising from the retranslation of net investments 

in overseas operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and reduce the 

sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from the 

retranslation of non-sterling denominated RWAs. Sensitivity is minimised where, for a 

given currency, the ratio of the structural open position to RWAs equals the CET1 ratio.

The sensitivity of this ratio to exchange rates is monitored monthly and reported to the 

Asset & Liability Management Committee at least quarterly. Foreign exchange exposures 

arising from customer transactions are hedged by businesses on a regular basis in line 

with NatWest Group policy.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226677

267

Market risk continued

Sensitivity of fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) portfolios 
and cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements 
NatWest Group holds most of the bonds in its liquidity portfolio at fair value and the 
bonds are generally classified as FVOCI for accounting purposes. Valuation changes 
arising from unexpected movements in market rates are initially recognised in FVOCI 
reserves. 

Interest rate swaps are used to implement the structural hedging programme and also 
hedging of some personal and commercial lending portfolios, primarily fixed-rate 
mortgages. Generally, these swaps are booked in cash flow hedge accounting 
relationships. Changes in the valuation of swaps that are in effective cash flow hedge 
accounting relationships are recognised in cash flow hedge reserves.

The table below shows the sensitivity of bonds initially classified as FVOCI and swaps 
subject to cash flow hedge accounting to a parallel shift in all rates. Valuation changes 
affecting interest rate swaps that hedge bonds in the liquidity portfolio are also included. 
Where FVOCI bonds and swaps are booked in fair value hedge accounting relationships, 
the valuation change affecting both instruments would be recognised in the income 
statement. Cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective. 

Note that the effectiveness of cash flow and fair value hedge relationships is monitored 
and regularly tested in accordance with IFRS requirements. Note also that valuation 
changes affecting the cash flow hedge reserve affect tangible net asset value, but would 
not be expected to affect CET1 capital.

FVOCI reserves
Cash flow hedge reserves
Total

2023

2022

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

+25 basis points

-25 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

£m

(1)
(251)
(252)

£m

1
254
255

£m

(10)
(981)
(991)

£m

(1)
1,041
1,040

£m

(3)
(278)
(281)

£m

2
281
283

£m

(13)
(1,097)
(1,110)

£m

5
1,138
1,143

 The sensitivity of FVOCI and cash flow hedge reserves was broadly stable in 2023 compared to 2022. The movement in cash flow hedge reserves in 2023 is shown in the 

statement of changes in equity on page 301.

CCrreeddiitt  sspprreeaadd  rriisskk
Credit spread risk arises from the potential adverse economic impact of a change in the 
spread between bond yields and swap rates, where the bond portfolios are accounted at 
fair value through other comprehensive income.

NatWest Group’s bond portfolios primarily comprise high-quality securities maintained as 
a liquidity buffer to ensure it can continue to meet its obligations in the event that access 
to wholesale funding markets is restricted. Additionally, other high-quality bond portfolios 
are held for collateral purposes and to support payment systems.

Credit spread risk is monitored daily through sensitivities and VaR measures (refer to the 
non-traded market risk VaR table earlier in this section). Exposures and limit utilisations 
are reported to senior management on a regular basis. Dealing mandates in place for 
the bond portfolios further mitigate the risk by imposing constraints by duration, asset 
class and credit rating.

FFoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rriisskk
Non-traded foreign exchange risk arises from three main sources:

 Structural foreign exchange rate risk – mainly arises from the capital deployed in 

foreign subsidiaries and branches.

 Transactional foreign exchange rate risk – arises from customer transactions and 

profits and losses that are in a currency other than the functional currency.
 Forecast earnings or costs in foreign currencies – NatWest Group assesses its 
potential exposure to forecast foreign currency income and expenses. NatWest 
Group hedges forward some forecast expenses.

The most material non-traded open currency positions are the structural foreign 
exchange exposures arising from investments in foreign subsidiaries and branches. 
These exposures are assessed and managed to predefined risk appetite levels under 
delegated authority agreed by the CFO with support from the Asset & Liability 
Management Committee. NatWest Group seeks to limit the potential volatility impact on 
its CET1 ratio from exchange rate movements by deliberately maintaining a structural 
open currency position. Gains or losses arising from the retranslation of net investments 
in overseas operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and reduce the 
sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from the 
retranslation of non-sterling denominated RWAs. Sensitivity is minimised where, for a 
given currency, the ratio of the structural open position to RWAs equals the CET1 ratio.

The sensitivity of this ratio to exchange rates is monitored monthly and reported to the 
Asset & Liability Management Committee at least quarterly. Foreign exchange exposures 
arising from customer transactions are hedged by businesses on a regular basis in line 
with NatWest Group policy.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226688

268

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

226699

Market risk continued

FFoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rriisskk  
The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures. 

22002233

US dollar
Euro
Other non-sterling 
Total

2022

US dollar
Euro
Other non-sterling
Total

Net investments

Net investment

Structural foreign currency

Residual structural

in foreign operations

hedges

exposures pre-economic hedges

Economic hedges (1)

 foreign currency exposures

£m

1,185
4,475
963
6,623

1,278
6,189
996
8,463

£m

(228)
(2,585)
(429)
(3,242)

(303)
(4,164)
(431)
(4,898)

£m

957
1,890
534
3,381

975
2,025
565
3,565

£m

(957)
-
-
(957)

(975)
-
-
(975)

£m

-
1,890
534
2,424

-
2,025
565
2,590

(1)

Economic hedges of US dollar net investments in foreign operations represent US dollar AT1 equity securities that do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. They provide an offset to structural foreign exchange exposures to the 

extent that there are net assets in overseas operations available, but they are accounted for at historical cost under IFRS until redemption.

 The reduction in both net investments in foreign operations and net investment hedges mainly reflected the wind-down of UBIDAC. 
 Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in proportion to structural foreign currency exposure pre economic hedges. For example, a 5% strengthening or 

weakening in foreign currencies against sterling would result in a gain or loss of £0.2 billion in equity, respectively. 

the Credit risk section.

Key developments in 2023 

Equity risk (audited)
Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and reserves arising from 
changes in equity valuations. Equity positions are carried on the balance sheet at fair 
value based on market prices where available. Equity positions may take the form of 
shares that are publicly listed on a recognised exchange, such as NatWest Group’s 
investment in Permanent TSB, privately owned investments such as the investment in 
Vodeno and shareholdings in industry participations including SWIFT. Further disclosure 
of NatWest Group’s investments in equity shareholdings, fair value gains and losses and 
valuation techniques may be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are referred to the 
Acquisitions & Disposals Committee. Once approved by the CFO with support from the 
Acquisitions & Disposals Committee for execution, such transactions are referred for 
approval to the Board, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial 
Officer or as otherwise required. Decisions to acquire or hold equity positions in the non-
trading book that are not of a strategic nature are taken by authorised persons with 
delegated authority.

Non-traded equity value at risk is monitored monthly and capital allocation to the risk is 
included in NatWest Group’s annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ICAAP). 

Accounting volatility risk
Accounting volatility risk arises when an exposure is accounted for at amortised cost but 
economically hedged by a derivative that is accounted for at fair value. Although this is 
not an economic risk, the difference in accounting between the exposure and the hedge 
creates volatility in the income statement.

Accounting volatility can be mitigated through hedge accounting. However, residual 
volatility will remain in cases where accounting rules mean that hedge accounting is not 
an option, or where there is some hedge ineffectiveness. Accounting volatility risk is 
reported to the Asset & Liability Management Committee monthly and capitalised as part 
of the ICAAP.

Market risk continued

TTrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk

Definition (audited)

Traded market risk is the risk of losses in trading book positions from fluctuations in 

market variables, such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity 

prices, implied volatilities and asset correlations.

Sources of risk (audited)

Traded market risk mainly arises from NatWest Group’s trading activities. These 

activities provide a range of financing, risk management and investment services to 

clients − including corporations and financial institutions − around the world. From a 

market risk perspective, activities are focused on rates; currencies; and traded credit. 

NatWest Group undertakes transactions in financial instruments including debt securities, 

and tenor. 

as well as securities financing and derivatives.

All material traded market risk resides in NatWest Markets. The key categories are 

interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign currency price risk.

Trading activities may also give rise to counterparty credit risk. For further detail refer to 

Risk appetite

NatWest Group’s qualitative appetite for traded market risk is set out in the traded 

market risk appetite statement. Quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of exposure 

limits. The limits at NatWest Group level comprise value-at-risk (VaR), stressed value-at-

risk (SVaR) and stress-testing. More details on these are provided on the following pages. 

For each trading business, a document known as a dealing authority compiles details of 

all applicable limits and trading restrictions. The desk-level mandates comprise qualitative 

limits related to the product types within the scope of each desk, as well as quantitative 

metrics specific to the desk’s market risk exposures. These additional limits and metrics 

aim to control various risk dimensions such as exposure size, aged inventory, currency 

The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio 

composition and the market and economic environments and recalibrated to ensure that 

they remain aligned to NatWest Group RWA targets. Limit reviews focus on optimising 

the alignment between traded market risk exposure and capital usage.

To ensure approved limits are not breached and that NatWest Group remains within its 

risk appetite, triggers have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, 

action plans are developed by the relevant business and the Market Risk function and 

implemented. The risk appetite statements and associated measures are reviewed at 

least annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure 

 The year was marked by periods of increased market volatility reflecting UK political 

developments, global inflationary concerns, the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and 

they remain appropriate and aligned to strategy. For more detail on risk appetite and 

the Israel–Hamas conflict.

 The significant volatility in Gilts, sterling swaps and inflation entered the rolling 

risk controls, refer to pages 175 and 176.

window for VaR calculation during 2023. However, traded VaR and SVaR remained 

Monitoring and mitigation 

within appetite and, on an average basis, at similar levels compared to 2022, aided 

by NatWest Group’s continued disciplined approach to risk-taking. 

Governance (audited)

Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk management framework. 

assessment of all material market risks. 

Traded market risk is identified and assessed by gathering, analysing, monitoring and 

reporting market risk information at desk, business, business segment and NatWest 

Group-wide levels. Industry expertise, continued system developments and techniques 

such as stress testing are also used to enhance the effectiveness of the identification and 

Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling market risk arising 

from trading activities lies with the relevant trading business. The Market Risk function 

independently advises on, monitors and challenges the risk-taking activities undertaken 

by the trading business ensuring these are within the constraints of the market risk 

framework, policies, and risk appetite statements and measures.

Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily. A daily 

report summarising the position of exposures against limits at desk, business, business 

segment and NatWest Group levels is provided to senior management and market risk 

managers across the function. Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital 

and stress testing information as well as ad-hoc reporting.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

226699

269

Market risk continued

TTrraaddeedd  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk

Definition (audited)
Traded market risk is the risk of losses in trading book positions from fluctuations in 
market variables, such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity 
prices, implied volatilities and asset correlations.

Sources of risk (audited)
Traded market risk mainly arises from NatWest Group’s trading activities. These 
activities provide a range of financing, risk management and investment services to 
clients − including corporations and financial institutions − around the world. From a 
market risk perspective, activities are focused on rates; currencies; and traded credit. 
NatWest Group undertakes transactions in financial instruments including debt securities, 
as well as securities financing and derivatives.

All material traded market risk resides in NatWest Markets. The key categories are 
interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign currency price risk.

Trading activities may also give rise to counterparty credit risk. For further detail refer to 
the Credit risk section.

Key developments in 2023 
 The year was marked by periods of increased market volatility reflecting UK political 
developments, global inflationary concerns, the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and 
the Israel–Hamas conflict.

 The significant volatility in Gilts, sterling swaps and inflation entered the rolling 

window for VaR calculation during 2023. However, traded VaR and SVaR remained 
within appetite and, on an average basis, at similar levels compared to 2022, aided 
by NatWest Group’s continued disciplined approach to risk-taking. 

Governance (audited)
Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk management framework. 
Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling market risk arising 
from trading activities lies with the relevant trading business. The Market Risk function 
independently advises on, monitors and challenges the risk-taking activities undertaken 
by the trading business ensuring these are within the constraints of the market risk 
framework, policies, and risk appetite statements and measures.

Risk appetite
NatWest Group’s qualitative appetite for traded market risk is set out in the traded 
market risk appetite statement. Quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of exposure 
limits. The limits at NatWest Group level comprise value-at-risk (VaR), stressed value-at-
risk (SVaR) and stress-testing. More details on these are provided on the following pages. 

For each trading business, a document known as a dealing authority compiles details of 
all applicable limits and trading restrictions. The desk-level mandates comprise qualitative 
limits related to the product types within the scope of each desk, as well as quantitative 
metrics specific to the desk’s market risk exposures. These additional limits and metrics 
aim to control various risk dimensions such as exposure size, aged inventory, currency 
and tenor. 

The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio 
composition and the market and economic environments and recalibrated to ensure that 
they remain aligned to NatWest Group RWA targets. Limit reviews focus on optimising 
the alignment between traded market risk exposure and capital usage.

To ensure approved limits are not breached and that NatWest Group remains within its 
risk appetite, triggers have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, 
action plans are developed by the relevant business and the Market Risk function and 
implemented. The risk appetite statements and associated measures are reviewed at 
least annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure 
they remain appropriate and aligned to strategy. For more detail on risk appetite and 
risk controls, refer to pages 175 and 176.

Monitoring and mitigation 
Traded market risk is identified and assessed by gathering, analysing, monitoring and 
reporting market risk information at desk, business, business segment and NatWest 
Group-wide levels. Industry expertise, continued system developments and techniques 
such as stress testing are also used to enhance the effectiveness of the identification and 
assessment of all material market risks. 

Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily. A daily 
report summarising the position of exposures against limits at desk, business, business 
segment and NatWest Group levels is provided to senior management and market risk 
managers across the function. Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital 
and stress testing information as well as ad-hoc reporting.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227700

270

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227711

Market risk continued

A risk review of trading businesses is undertaken weekly with senior risk and front office 
staff. This includes a review of profit and loss drivers, notable position concentrations and 
other positions of concern.

Value-at-risk 
For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time horizon of one trading day 
and a confidence level of 99%. 

Market risk continued

OOnnee--ddaayy  9999%%  ttrraaddeedd  iinntteerrnnaall  VVaaRR  

Business profit and loss performance is monitored automatically through loss triggers 
which, if breached, require a remedial action plan to be agreed between the Market Risk 
function and the business. The loss triggers are set using both a fall-from-peak approach 
and an absolute loss level. In addition, regular updates on traded market risk positions 
are provided to the Executive Risk Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.

Measurement 
NatWest Group uses VaR, SVaR and the incremental risk charge (IRC) to capitalise 
traded market risk. Risks that are not adequately captured by VaR or SVaR are captured 
by the Risks Not In VaR (RNIV) framework to ensure that NatWest Group is adequately 
capitalised for market risk. In addition, stress testing is used to identify any vulnerabilities 
and potential losses. 

The key inputs into these measurement methods are market data and risk factor 
sensitivities. Sensitivities refer to the changes in trade or portfolio value that result from 
small changes in market parameters that are subject to the market risk limit framework. 
Revaluation ladders are used in place of sensitivities to capture the impact of large 
moves in risk factors or the joint impact of two risk factors.

These methods have been designed to capture correlation effects and allow NatWest 
Group to form an aggregated view of its traded market risk across risk types, markets 
and business lines while also taking into account the characteristics of each risk type.

The internal VaR model – which captures all trading book positions including those 
products approved by the regulator – is based on a historical simulation, utilising market 
data from the previous 500 days. During 2023, an update was made to the VaR model 
to make it more sensitive to recent market conditions, following approval from the PRA.

The model also captures the potential impact of interest rate risk; credit spread risk; 
foreign currency price risk; equity price risk; and commodity price risk. 

When simulating potential movements in such risk factors, a combination of absolute, 
relative and rescaled returns is used.

m

£

The performance and adequacy of the VaR model are tested regularly through the 
following processes:

 Back-testing: Internal and regulatory back-testing is conducted on a daily basis. 
Information on internal back-testing is provided in this section. Information on 
regulatory back-testing appears in the Pillar 3 Report.

 Ongoing model validation: VaR model performance is assessed both regularly, and on 

an ad-hoc basis, if market conditions or portfolio profile change significantly.
 Model Risk Management review: As part of the model lifecycle, all risk models 

(including the VaR model) are independently reviewed to ensure the model is still fit 
for purpose given current market conditions and portfolio profile. For further detail on 
the independent model validation carried out by Model Risk Management refer to 
page 281. More information relating to pricing and market risk models is presented in 
the Pillar 3 Report.

25

20

15

10

5

0

Interest rate

Credit spread

Currency

Equity

Diversification (1)

Total

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Total Trading VaR

Interest Rate VaR

Credit VaR

FX VaR

Equity VaR

TTrraaddeedd  VVaaRR  ((11--ddaayy  9999%%))  ((aauuddiitteedd))

The table below shows one-day 99% internal VaR for NatWest Group’s trading portfolios, split by exposure type. 

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

2023

£m

19.3

7.1

7.0

0.1

20.0

£m

9.8

6.2

2.3

-

(7.0)

11.3

£m

4.3

4.9

0.9

-

6.6

£m

7.4  

6.8  

1.8  

0.1  

(7.2)  

8.9  

£m

7.3

7.8

3.1

-

(7.5)

10.7

2022

£m

12.6

12.0

8.0

0.3

15.1

£m

4.1

6.0

1.2

-

7.2

£m

9.0

6.4

1.5

-

(6.8)

10.1

(1) NatWest Group benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets. The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time. The 

diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR. 

 On an average basis, traded VaR remained at similar levels in 2023 compared to 2022. 

 The increase in average interest rate VaR, compared to 2022, reflected an increase in curve risk in sterling and euro flow trading.

 The decrease in average credit spread VaR mostly reflected a tightening of credit spreads on the net longer credit profile over the period.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227711

271

Market risk continued

OOnnee--ddaayy  9999%%  ttrraaddeedd  iinntteerrnnaall  VVaaRR  

m
£

25

20

15

10

5

0

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Total Trading VaR

Interest Rate VaR

Credit VaR

FX VaR

Equity VaR

TTrraaddeedd  VVaaRR  ((11--ddaayy  9999%%))  ((aauuddiitteedd))
The table below shows one-day 99% internal VaR for NatWest Group’s trading portfolios, split by exposure type. 

Interest rate
Credit spread
Currency
Equity
Diversification (1)
Total

2023

2022

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

Average

Maximum

Minimum

Period end

£m

9.8
6.2
2.3
-
(7.0)
11.3

£m

19.3
7.1
7.0
0.1

20.0

£m

4.3
4.9
0.9
-

6.6

£m

7.4  
6.8  
1.8  
0.1  
(7.2)  
8.9  

£m

7.3
7.8
3.1
-
(7.5)
10.7

£m

12.6
12.0
8.0
0.3

15.1

£m

4.1
6.0
1.2
-

7.2

£m

9.0
6.4
1.5
-
(6.8)
10.1

(1) NatWest Group benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets. The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time. The 

diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR. 

 On an average basis, traded VaR remained at similar levels in 2023 compared to 2022. 
 The increase in average interest rate VaR, compared to 2022, reflected an increase in curve risk in sterling and euro flow trading.
 The decrease in average credit spread VaR mostly reflected a tightening of credit spreads on the net longer credit profile over the period.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227722

272

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227733

Market risk continued

Market risk continued

VaR back-testing 
The main approach employed to assess the VaR model’s ongoing performance is back-
testing, which counts the number of days when a loss exceeds the corresponding daily 
VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level. 

Two types of profit and loss (P&L) are used in back-testing comparisons: Actual P&L and 
Hypothetical P&L. For more details on the back-testing approach, refer to the Pillar 3 
Report.

Total internal
   traded SVaR

The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book positions. 

MMaarrkkeett  rriisskk  ––  lliinnkkaaggee  ttoo  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  

2023

2022

Average Maximum Minimum

£m

56

£m

140

£m

28

Period

end

£m

36

Average Maximum Minimum

£m

70

£m

206

£m

34

Period

end

£m

40

The table below analyses NatWest Group’s balance sheet by non-trading and trading business.

The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions in the major NatWest Markets 
businesses for the 250-business-day period to 31 December 2023. Internal back-testing 
compares one-day 99% traded internal VaR with Actual and Hypothetical (Hypo) P&L. 

 Traded SVaR was, on an average basis, lower in 2023 than in 2022, following the 
reduction in tenor basis risk in sterling flow trading resulting from the VaR model 
update in Q3 2022. 

Cash and balances at central banks

Rates
Currencies
Credit
xVA

       Back-testing exceptions

Actual
-
-
1
-

Hypo
-
-
1
-

 The back-testing exception was driven by losses in Financials in March 2023 due to 

increased credit market volatility following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.

Stressed VaR (SVaR)
As with VaR, the SVaR methodology produces estimates of the potential change in the 
market value of a portfolio, over a specified time horizon, at a given confidence level. 
SVaR is a VaR-based measure using historical data from a one-year period of stressed 
market conditions.

A simulation of 99% VaR is run on the current portfolio for each 250-day period from 
2005 to the current VaR date, moving forward one day at a time. The SVaR is the worst 
VaR outcome of the simulated results.

This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day historical data set. A 
time horizon of ten trading days is assumed with a confidence level of 99%.

Risks Not In VaR (RNIVs) 
The RNIV framework is used to identify and quantify market risks that are not fully 
captured by the internal VaR and SVaR models.

RNIV calculations form an integral part of ongoing model and data improvement efforts 
to capture all market risks in scope for model approval in VaR and SVaR. 

For further qualitative and quantitative disclosures on RNIVs, refer to the Market risk 
section of the Pillar 3 Report.

SSttrreessss  tteessttiinngg  
For information on stress testing, refer to page 177. 

IInnccrreemmeennttaall  rriisskk  cchhaarrggee  ((IIRRCC))  
The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and default events on the 
market value of instruments with embedded credit risk (in particular, bonds and credit 
default swaps) held in the trading book. It further captures basis risk between different 
instruments, maturities and reference entities. For further qualitative and quantitative 
disclosures on the IRC, refer to the Market risk section of the Pillar 3 Report.

AAsssseettss

TTrraaddiinngg  aasssseettss

  Reverse repos

  Securities

  Other

Derivatives

Settlement balances

Loans to banks

Loans to customers

Other financial assets

Intangible assets

Other assets

Assets of disposal groups

TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess

Bank deposits

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

TTrraaddiinngg  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

  Repos

  Short positions

  Other

Derivatives

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

Notes in circulation

Other liabilities

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

2023

Non-trading

Trading

business (1)

business (2)

2022

Non-trading

business (1)

£bn 

Trading

business (2)  

£bn 

 Total 

£bn 

104.3

45.6

23.7

12.0

9.9

78.9

7.2

6.9

381.4

51.1

7.6

8.8

0.9

22.2

431.4

6.6

53.6

26.9

9.8

16.9

72.4

55.1

5.7

3.2

5.3

655.5

£bn 

104.3

0.8

-

-

0.8

1.0

0.9

6.8

7.6

8.8

0.9

381.4

51.1

22.2

431.4

-

-

-

-

-

1.2

55.0

5.7

3.2

5.3

524.0

£bn 

-

44.8

23.7

12.0

9.1

77.9

6.3

0.1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6.6

53.6

26.9

9.8

16.9

71.2

0.1

 Total 

£bn 

144.8

45.6

21.5

9.9

14.2

99.5

2.6

7.1

366.3

30.9

7.1

9.3

6.9

20.4

450.3

2.0

52.8

23.7

9.5

19.6

94.0

49.1

6.3

3.2

5.5

144.8

1.2

-

-

1.2

1.3

0.2

7.0

7.1

9.3

6.9

366.2

30.9

20.4

450.3

-

-

-

-

-

1.5

49.0

6.3

3.2

5.5

536.2

692.7

563.6

129.1

720.1

574.9

145.2

 Primary market risk factor

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate

Settlement

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate, credit spreads, equity

Interest rate, credit spreads, equity

Interest rate, credit spreads, equity

Interest rate, credit spreads, equity

Interest rate

Interest rate

Settlement 

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate

Interest rate, credit spreads

Interest rate, credit spreads

-

44.4

21.5

9.9

13.0

98.2

2.4

0.1

0.1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2.0

52.8

23.7

9.5

19.6

92.5

0.1

(1) Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book. For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, 

internal non-traded market risk VaR and fair value calculations. For more information refer to the non-traded market risk section. 

(2)

(3)

Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules. For these exposures, the main methods used by NatWest Group to measure market risk are detailed in the traded market risk section.

Foreign exchange risk affects all non-sterling denominated exposures on the balance sheet across trading and non-trading businesses, and therefore has not been listed in the above tables.

131.5

683.6

147.4

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227733

273

Market risk continued

MMaarrkkeett  rriisskk  ––  lliinnkkaaggee  ttoo  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  
The table below analyses NatWest Group’s balance sheet by non-trading and trading business.

AAsssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
TTrraaddiinngg  aasssseettss
  Reverse repos
  Securities
  Other
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks
Loans to customers
Other financial assets
Intangible assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups
TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
TTrraaddiinngg  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
  Repos
  Short positions
  Other
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Other liabilities
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

2023

Non-trading

Trading

business (1)

business (2)

£bn 

£bn 

104.3
0.8
-
-
0.8
1.0
0.9
6.8
381.4
51.1
7.6
8.8
0.9
563.6

22.2
431.4
-
-
-
-
-
1.2
55.0
5.7
3.2
5.3
524.0

-
44.8
23.7
12.0
9.1
77.9
6.3
0.1
-
-
-
-
-
129.1

-
-
6.6
53.6
26.9
9.8
16.9
71.2
0.1
-
-
-
131.5

 Total 

£bn 

104.3
45.6
23.7
12.0
9.9
78.9
7.2
6.9
381.4
51.1
7.6
8.8
0.9
692.7

22.2
431.4
6.6
53.6
26.9
9.8
16.9
72.4
55.1
5.7
3.2
5.3
655.5

2022

Non-trading

business (1)

£bn 

Trading

business (2)  

£bn 

144.8
1.2
-
-
1.2
1.3
0.2
7.0
366.2
30.9
7.1
9.3
6.9
574.9

20.4
450.3
-
-
-
-
-
1.5
49.0
6.3
3.2
5.5
536.2

-
44.4
21.5
9.9
13.0
98.2
2.4
0.1
0.1
-
-
-
-
145.2

-
-
2.0
52.8
23.7
9.5
19.6
92.5
0.1
-
-
-
147.4

 Total 

£bn 

144.8
45.6
21.5
9.9
14.2
99.5
2.6
7.1
366.3
30.9
7.1
9.3
6.9
720.1

20.4
450.3
2.0
52.8
23.7
9.5
19.6
94.0
49.1
6.3
3.2
5.5
683.6

 Primary market risk factor

Interest rate

Interest rate
Interest rate, credit spreads, equity
Interest rate
Interest rate, credit spreads, equity
Settlement
Interest rate
Interest rate
Interest rate, credit spreads, equity
Interest rate, credit spreads, equity

Interest rate
Interest rate
Settlement 

Interest rate
Interest rate, credit spreads
Interest rate
Interest rate, credit spreads
Interest rate
Interest rate
Interest rate

(1) Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book. For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, 

internal non-traded market risk VaR and fair value calculations. For more information refer to the non-traded market risk section. 
Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules. For these exposures, the main methods used by NatWest Group to measure market risk are detailed in the traded market risk section.
Foreign exchange risk affects all non-sterling denominated exposures on the balance sheet across trading and non-trading businesses, and therefore has not been listed in the above tables.

(2)
(3)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227744

274

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227755

Pension risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Pension risk is defined as the inability to meet contractual 
obligations and other liabilities to the established employee 
or related company pension scheme.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk
NatWest Group has exposure to pension risk through its 
defined benefit schemes worldwide. The Main section of 
The NatWest Group Pension Fund (the Main section) is the 
largest source of pension risk with £33.6 billion of assets 
and £26.5 billion of liabilities at 31 December 2023 (2022 – 
£34.0 billion of assets and £24.7 billion of liabilities). Refer to 
Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, for further 
details on NatWest Group’s pension obligations, including 
sensitivities to the main risk factors.

Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term 
interest rates and inflation as well as with pensionable 
salaries, the longevity of scheme members and legislation. 
Pension scheme assets vary with changes in interest rates, 
inflation expectations, credit spreads, exchange rates, and 
equity and property prices. NatWest Group is exposed to 
the risk that the schemes’ assets, together with future 
returns and additional future contributions, are estimated to 
be insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due. In such 
circumstances, NatWest Group could be obliged (or might 
choose) to make additional contributions to the schemes or 
be required to hold additional capital to mitigate this risk.

On 16 June 2023, the High Court issued a ruling in respect 
of Virgin Media v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited (and 
others) calling into question the validity of rule amendments 
made to defined benefit pension schemes contracted-out 
on a Reference Scheme Test basis between 6 April 1997 
and 5 April 2016. Amendments to these pension schemes 
over this time required confirmation from the Scheme 
Actuary that the Reference Scheme Test would continue to 
be met. In the absence of such a confirmation, the Rule 
amendment would be void. Following the review of a 
selection of amendments judged as material, the liabilities 
disclosed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements 
include no adjustments for the potential impact of this 
ruling. Future developments will be kept under review.

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 A new contractual agreement was reached with the 

Trustee of the Main section that assets to the value of 
the remaining contributions previously due to the Main 
section in 2023 under the Memorandum of 
Understanding signed with the Trustee in April 2018, 
would instead be paid to a Reservoir Trust. During the 
year, it was agreed with the Trustee to establish a 
bankruptcy remote Reservoir Trust to hold assets with 
a value equivalent to £471 million.  For further details, 
refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

 During the year, the Trustee of NWM Group’s largest 

scheme, the AA section of the NatWest Group Pension 
Fund (£551 million of liabilities at 31 December 2023), 
completed a buy-in transaction, passing all material 
longevity and investment risk for the section to an 
insurer. For further details, refer to Note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements.  

 Notwithstanding the above developments, NatWest 

Group’s exposure to pension risk remained generally 
stable over the year.

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
Chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Asset & 
Liability Management Committee is a key component of 
NatWest Group’s approach to managing pension risk. It 
considers the pension impact of the capital plan for 
NatWest Group and reviews the performance of NatWest 
Group’s material pension funds and other issues material to 
NatWest Group’s pension strategy. It also considers 
investment strategy proposals from the Trustee of the Main 
section. The Board reviews and as appropriate approves 
any material pension strategy proposals. For further 
information on governance, refer to page 173. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  
NatWest Group maintains an independent view of the risk 
inherent in its pension funds. NatWest Group has a pension 
risk appetite statement incorporating defined metrics 
against which risk is measured that is reviewed at least 
annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s 
recommendation to ensure they remain appropriate and 
aligned to strategy. Policies and standards are in place to 
provide formal controls for pension risk reporting, 
modelling, governance and stress testing. A pension risk 
policy, which sits within the enterprise-wide risk 
management framework, is also in place and is subject to 
associated framework controls.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Pension risk is monitored by the Executive Risk Committee 
and the Board Risk Committee, whilst the Asset & Liability 
Management Committee receives updates on the 
performance of NatWest Group’s material pension funds. 
Relevant pension risk matters are escalated to the Board 
as applicable. NatWest Group also undertakes stress tests 
on its material defined benefit pension schemes each year. 
These tests are also used to satisfy the requests of 
regulatory bodies such as the Bank of England. 

The stress testing framework includes pension risk capital 
calculations for the purposes of the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process as well as additional stress 
tests for a number of internal management purposes. The 
results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on 
NatWest Group’s balance sheet, income statement and 
capital position are incorporated into the overall NatWest 
Group stress test results. NatWest Bank Plc (a subsidiary of 
NatWest Group) is the principal employer of the Main 
section and could be required to fund any deficit that 
arises. 

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
Following risk mitigation measures taken by the Trustee in 
recent years, the Main section is now well protected 
against interest rate and inflation risks and is being run on 
a low investment risk basis with relatively small equity risk 
exposure. The Main section also uses derivatives to 
manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset 
classes and to manage risk within asset classes.

The potential impact of climate change is one of the factors 
considered in managing the assets of the Main section. The 
Trustee monitors the risk to its investments from changes 
in the global economy and invests, where return justifies 
the risk, in sectors that reduce the world’s reliance on fossil 
fuels, or that may otherwise promote environmental 
benefits. Further details regarding the Main section 
Trustee’s approach to managing climate change risk can 
be found in its Responsible Ownership Policy, its net zero 
commitment and its climate disclosures produced on an 
annual basis, as required by The Occupational Pension 
Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) 
Regulations 2021.

especially given the ongoing cost-of-living challenges 

Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that 

and their impact on customers in vulnerable situations. 

legal entities, businesses and functions work within when 

For example, NatWest was the first high street bank to 

pursuing their strategic objectives and business plans.

Compliance and conduct risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn

Compliance risk is the risk that NatWest Group fails to 

observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, 

rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.  

Conduct risk is the risk of inappropriate behaviour towards 

customers, or in the markets in which NatWest Group 

operates, which leads to poor or inappropriate customer 

outcomes. 

The consequences of failing to meet compliance and/or 

conduct responsibilities can be significant and could result, 

for example, in legal action, regulatory enforcement, 

material financial loss and/or reputational damage.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk

Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of 

NatWest Group’s relationships with its customers and arise 

from a variety of activities including product design, 

marketing and sales, complaint handling, staff training, and 

handling of confidential inside information. 

offer customers additional support through the 

Mortgage Charter from July 2023. Vulnerable customer 

outcomes are also an integral part of our enhanced 

‘Good Customer Outcome’ reporting which was 

introduced through the Consumer Duty programme.

 In line with a plea agreement with the US Department 

of Justice regarding historical spoofing conduct by 

former employees, an independent monitor was 

appointed in 2022. Throughout 2023, the monitor had 

extensive engagement with our teams through a range 

of interviews and detailed information requests. The 

first report issued by the Monitor included 29 

recommendations, with 120 days from receipt to 

implement them. The second review period is scheduled 

to commence in March 2024, with the work expected 

to last at least three years. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

As set out in Note 26 to the consolidated financial 

NatWest Group defines appropriate standards of 

statements, members of NatWest Group are party to legal 

compliance and conduct and ensures adherence to those 

proceedings and are subject to investigation and other 

standards through its risk management framework. To 

regulatory action in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions. 

support ongoing oversight of the management of the 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233

 Further progress was made on the compliance agenda 

during 2023. Significant enhancements were made to 

the compliance and conduct framework with the 

introduction of numerous new tools to manage the risk 

profile. These include a compliance and conduct risk 

directory, new risk standards and toolkits which 

support NatWest Group to measure and manage 

compliance and conduct risk profile, there are a number of 

committees in place. These include a Consumer Duty 

Executive Steering Group and conflicts of interest fora 

across both the first and second line of defence. Relevant 

compliance and conduct matters are escalated through the 

Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee and 

to the Board as applicable. 

compliance accurately and efficiently, and a regulatory 

The risk appetite statement and associated measures for 

compliance operational policy framework to ensure key 

compliance and conduct risks are approved at least 

regulatory requirements are captured. These new tools 

annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s 

align with the existing enterprise-wide risk management 

recommendation to ensure they remain appropriate and 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  

aligned to strategy. 

framework. 

 From a conduct risk perspective, the NatWest Group-

wide programme made significant progress on 

implementation of the Consumer Duty requirements by 

the first regulatory milestone of 31 July 2023. The focus 

is now on closed book products and services, which is 

expected to conclude before the end of July 2024. 

 The focus on consumer protection and supporting 

customers with their financial needs continues, 

A range of controls are operated to ensure the business 

delivers good customer outcomes and are conducted in 

accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. A suite 

of risk policies, risk standards and regulatory compliance 

operational policies addressing compliance and conduct 

risks set appropriate standards across NatWest Group. 

Examples of these include those relating to product mis-

selling, customers in vulnerable situations, complaints 

management, cross-border activities and market abuse. 

Continuous monitoring and targeted assurance are carried 

out as appropriate. 

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed 

through continuous assessment and regular reporting to 

NatWest Group’s senior risk committees and at Board level. 

The compliance and conduct risk framework facilitates the 

consistent monitoring and measurement of compliance with 

laws and regulations and the delivery of consistently good 

customer outcomes. The first line of defence is responsible 

for effective risk identification, reporting and monitoring, 

with oversight, challenge and review by the second line. 

Compliance and conduct risk management is also 

integrated into NatWest Group’s strategic planning cycle.          

MMiittiiggaattiioonn

Activity to mitigate the most material compliance and 

conduct risks is carried out across NatWest Group with 

specific areas of focus in the customer-facing businesses 

and legal entities. Examples of mitigation include 

consideration of customer needs in business and product 

planning, targeted training, conflicts of interest 

management, market conduct surveillance, complaints 

management, mapping of priority regulatory requirements 

and independent monitoring activity. Internal policies help 

support a strong customer focus across NatWest Group. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227755

275

Compliance and conduct risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Compliance risk is the risk that NatWest Group fails to 
observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, 
rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.  

Conduct risk is the risk of inappropriate behaviour towards 
customers, or in the markets in which NatWest Group 
operates, which leads to poor or inappropriate customer 
outcomes. 

The consequences of failing to meet compliance and/or 
conduct responsibilities can be significant and could result, 
for example, in legal action, regulatory enforcement, 
material financial loss and/or reputational damage.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk
Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of 
NatWest Group’s relationships with its customers and arise 
from a variety of activities including product design, 
marketing and sales, complaint handling, staff training, and 
handling of confidential inside information. 

As set out in Note 26 to the consolidated financial 
statements, members of NatWest Group are party to legal 
proceedings and are subject to investigation and other 
regulatory action in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions. 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 Further progress was made on the compliance agenda 
during 2023. Significant enhancements were made to 
the compliance and conduct framework with the 
introduction of numerous new tools to manage the risk 
profile. These include a compliance and conduct risk 
directory, new risk standards and toolkits which 
support NatWest Group to measure and manage 
compliance accurately and efficiently, and a regulatory 
compliance operational policy framework to ensure key 
regulatory requirements are captured. These new tools 
align with the existing enterprise-wide risk management 
framework. 

 From a conduct risk perspective, the NatWest Group-

wide programme made significant progress on 
implementation of the Consumer Duty requirements by 
the first regulatory milestone of 31 July 2023. The focus 
is now on closed book products and services, which is 
expected to conclude before the end of July 2024. 
 The focus on consumer protection and supporting 
customers with their financial needs continues, 

especially given the ongoing cost-of-living challenges 
and their impact on customers in vulnerable situations. 
For example, NatWest was the first high street bank to 
offer customers additional support through the 
Mortgage Charter from July 2023. Vulnerable customer 
outcomes are also an integral part of our enhanced 
‘Good Customer Outcome’ reporting which was 
introduced through the Consumer Duty programme.
 In line with a plea agreement with the US Department 
of Justice regarding historical spoofing conduct by 
former employees, an independent monitor was 
appointed in 2022. Throughout 2023, the monitor had 
extensive engagement with our teams through a range 
of interviews and detailed information requests. The 
first report issued by the Monitor included 29 
recommendations, with 120 days from receipt to 
implement them. The second review period is scheduled 
to commence in March 2024, with the work expected 
to last at least three years. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
NatWest Group defines appropriate standards of 
compliance and conduct and ensures adherence to those 
standards through its risk management framework. To 
support ongoing oversight of the management of the 
compliance and conduct risk profile, there are a number of 
committees in place. These include a Consumer Duty 
Executive Steering Group and conflicts of interest fora 
across both the first and second line of defence. Relevant 
compliance and conduct matters are escalated through the 
Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee and 
to the Board as applicable. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee  
The risk appetite statement and associated measures for 
compliance and conduct risks are approved at least 
annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s 
recommendation to ensure they remain appropriate and 
aligned to strategy. 

Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that 
legal entities, businesses and functions work within when 
pursuing their strategic objectives and business plans.

A range of controls are operated to ensure the business 
delivers good customer outcomes and are conducted in 
accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. A suite 
of risk policies, risk standards and regulatory compliance 
operational policies addressing compliance and conduct 
risks set appropriate standards across NatWest Group. 
Examples of these include those relating to product mis-
selling, customers in vulnerable situations, complaints 
management, cross-border activities and market abuse. 
Continuous monitoring and targeted assurance are carried 
out as appropriate. 

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed 
through continuous assessment and regular reporting to 
NatWest Group’s senior risk committees and at Board level. 
The compliance and conduct risk framework facilitates the 
consistent monitoring and measurement of compliance with 
laws and regulations and the delivery of consistently good 
customer outcomes. The first line of defence is responsible 
for effective risk identification, reporting and monitoring, 
with oversight, challenge and review by the second line. 
Compliance and conduct risk management is also 
integrated into NatWest Group’s strategic planning cycle.          

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
Activity to mitigate the most material compliance and 
conduct risks is carried out across NatWest Group with 
specific areas of focus in the customer-facing businesses 
and legal entities. Examples of mitigation include 
consideration of customer needs in business and product 
planning, targeted training, conflicts of interest 
management, market conduct surveillance, complaints 
management, mapping of priority regulatory requirements 
and independent monitoring activity. Internal policies help 
support a strong customer focus across NatWest Group. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227766

276

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227777

Financial crime risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Financial crime risk is the risk that NatWest Group's 
products, services, employees and/or third parties are 
intentionally or unintentionally used to facilitate financial 
crime in the form of money laundering, terrorist financing, 
bribery and corruption, sanctions and tax evasion, as well 
as external or internal fraud. 

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk
Financial crime risk may be present if NatWest Group’s 
customers, employees or third parties undertake or 
facilitate financial crime, or if NatWest Group’s products or 
services are used intentionally or unintentionally to facilitate 
such crime. Financial crime risk is an inherent risk across all 
lines of business. 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233  
 Significant investment continued to be made to support 
delivery of the multi-year transformation plan across 
financial crime risk management.

 Enhancements were made to technology, data quality, 
and data analytics to improve the effectiveness of 
systems used to monitor customers and transactions.

 Financial crime roadshows and events were held 

throughout the year to further embed financial crime 
risk management culture and behaviours.

 A centralised hub model and One Bank approach to 

financial crime risk management was embedded, with 
hub capabilities further deployed across NatWest 
Group. This has led to better outcomes, including a 
consistent understanding of controls and oversight 
across NatWest Group.

 Active participation in public-private partnerships, 
including the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence 
Taskforce.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Financial crime risks are identified and reported through 
continuous risk management and regular reporting to 
senior risk committees and the NatWest Group Board. 
Quantitative and qualitative data is reviewed and assessed 
to measure whether financial crime risk is within risk 
appetite. 

MMiittiiggaattiioonn 
Through the financial crime framework, relevant policies, 
systems, processes and controls are used to mitigate and 
manage financial crime risk. This includes the use of 
dedicated screening and monitoring systems and controls 
to identify people, organisations, transactions and 
behaviours that may require further investigation or other 
actions. Centralised expertise is available to detect and 
disrupt threats to NatWest Group and its customers. 

Intelligence is shared with law enforcement, regulators and 
government bodies to strengthen national and international 
defences against those who would misuse the financial 
system for criminal motives.

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
The Financial Crime Executive Steering Group, which is 
jointly chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief 
Information Officer is the core governance committee for 
financial crime risk (excluding fraud). It oversees financial 
crime risk management, operational performance, and 
transformation matters including decision-making and 
escalations to the Executive Risk Committee, Board Risk 
Committee and NatWest Group Executive Committee. 

The Fraud Executive Steering Group, which is chaired by 
the Chief Information Officer, is the core governance 
committee for fraud. It oversees fraud risk management, 
operational performance, and investment matters including 
decision-making and escalations to relevant senior 
committees.

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee
There is no appetite to operate in an environment where 
systems and controls do not enable the effective 
identification, assessment, monitoring, management and 
mitigation of financial crime risk. NatWest Group’s systems 
and controls must be comprehensive and proportionate to 
the nature, scale and complexity of its businesses. 

NatWest Group operates a framework with preventative 
and detective controls designed to mitigate the risk that it 
could facilitate financial crime. These controls are 
supported by a suite of policies, procedures and guidance 
to ensure they operate effectively. 

Climate risk is the threat of financial loss or adverse non-

 NatWest Group continued to enhance its in-house 

The Board is responsible for monitoring and overseeing 

financial impacts associated with climate change and the 

climate risk modelling capabilities, supporting the 

climate-related risk within NatWest Group’s overall 

political, economic and environmental responses to it.

integration of climate risk within its capital adequacy 

business strategy and risk appetite. The potential impact, 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

Climate risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk

Physical risks may arise from climate and weather-related 

events such as heatwaves, droughts, floods, storms and 

sea level rises. They can potentially result in financial losses, 

impairing asset values and the creditworthiness of 

borrowers. NatWest Group could be exposed to physical 

risks directly by the effects on its property portfolio and, 

indirectly, by the impacts on the wider economy as well as 

on the property and business interests of its customers.

Transition risks may arise from the process of adjustment 

towards a low-carbon economy. Changes in policy, 

technology and sentiment could prompt reassessment of 

customers’ financial risk and may lead to falls in the value 

of a large range of assets. NatWest Group could be 

exposed to transition risks directly through the costs of 

adaptation within economic sectors and markets as well as 

supply chain disruption leading to financial impacts on it 

and its customers. Potential indirect effects include the 

erosion of NatWest Group’s competitiveness, profitability, 

reputational damage and liability risk.

(ICAAP); impairment (IFRS 9); and risk management 

likelihood and preparedness of climate-related risk are 

reported regularly to the Board Risk Committee and the 

 An end-to-end test of NatWest Group’s in-house first-

Board. 

generation corporate transition risk model was 

processes.

completed.

 In parallel with the full roll-out of first-generation 

qualitative climate risk scorecards for the Commercial & 

Institutional segment, NatWest Group began 

development of the second-generation of climate risk 

scorecards. This involved the expansion of the 

scorecard methodology to capture quantitative 

considerations, with initial roll-out scheduled for 2024 

on a test-and-learn basis. These scorecards do not 

drive credit risk decision making as yet.

 NatWest Group improved the oversight of climate-

related risk through regular reporting and review of 

climate risk appetite and associated operational 

measures, and improved calibration of existing limits to 

inform monthly risk committee updates.

 An assessment of potential greenwashing risks was 

undertaken, driven by a hypothetical risk scenario 

where increased competition in the green finance 

market led to less efficient product designs and 

diminished robustness of governance.

 Recognising the inextricable link between climate risk 

and nature degradation, NatWest Group added nature 

risk to its climate risk considerations within the risk 

directory and policy, for consideration from 2024.

The Chief Risk Officer shares accountability with the Chief 

Executive Officer under the Senior Managers and 

Certification Regime for identifying and managing the 

financial risks arising from climate change. This includes 

ensuring that the financial risks from climate change are 

adequately reflected in risk management frameworks, and 

that NatWest Group can identify, measure, monitor, 

manage and report on its exposure to these risks. 

The Climate Change Executive Steering Group is 

responsible for overseeing the direction of and progress 

against NatWest Group’s climate-related commitments. 

During 2023, the Executive Steering Group provided 

oversight of the second iteration of NatWest Group’s 

Climate transition plan, progression in establishing 

partnerships and opportunities including oversight of 

progress against the NatWest Group climate and 

sustainable funding and financing target and ensuring the 

effective management of climate-related risks. The 

Executive Steering Group will continue to supervise 

strategic implementation and delivery, supported by the 

Climate Centre of Excellence. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227777

277

Climate risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Climate risk is the threat of financial loss or adverse non-
financial impacts associated with climate change and the 
political, economic and environmental responses to it.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk
Physical risks may arise from climate and weather-related 
events such as heatwaves, droughts, floods, storms and 
sea level rises. They can potentially result in financial losses, 
impairing asset values and the creditworthiness of 
borrowers. NatWest Group could be exposed to physical 
risks directly by the effects on its property portfolio and, 
indirectly, by the impacts on the wider economy as well as 
on the property and business interests of its customers.

Transition risks may arise from the process of adjustment 
towards a low-carbon economy. Changes in policy, 
technology and sentiment could prompt reassessment of 
customers’ financial risk and may lead to falls in the value 
of a large range of assets. NatWest Group could be 
exposed to transition risks directly through the costs of 
adaptation within economic sectors and markets as well as 
supply chain disruption leading to financial impacts on it 
and its customers. Potential indirect effects include the 
erosion of NatWest Group’s competitiveness, profitability, 
reputational damage and liability risk.

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 NatWest Group continued to enhance its in-house 
climate risk modelling capabilities, supporting the 
integration of climate risk within its capital adequacy 
(ICAAP); impairment (IFRS 9); and risk management 
processes.

 An end-to-end test of NatWest Group’s in-house first-

generation corporate transition risk model was 
completed.

 In parallel with the full roll-out of first-generation 

qualitative climate risk scorecards for the Commercial & 
Institutional segment, NatWest Group began 
development of the second-generation of climate risk 
scorecards. This involved the expansion of the 
scorecard methodology to capture quantitative 
considerations, with initial roll-out scheduled for 2024 
on a test-and-learn basis. These scorecards do not 
drive credit risk decision making as yet.

 NatWest Group improved the oversight of climate-

related risk through regular reporting and review of 
climate risk appetite and associated operational 
measures, and improved calibration of existing limits to 
inform monthly risk committee updates.

 An assessment of potential greenwashing risks was 
undertaken, driven by a hypothetical risk scenario 
where increased competition in the green finance 
market led to less efficient product designs and 
diminished robustness of governance.

 Recognising the inextricable link between climate risk 

and nature degradation, NatWest Group added nature 
risk to its climate risk considerations within the risk 
directory and policy, for consideration from 2024.

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
The Board is responsible for monitoring and overseeing 
climate-related risk within NatWest Group’s overall 
business strategy and risk appetite. The potential impact, 
likelihood and preparedness of climate-related risk are 
reported regularly to the Board Risk Committee and the 
Board. 

The Chief Risk Officer shares accountability with the Chief 
Executive Officer under the Senior Managers and 
Certification Regime for identifying and managing the 
financial risks arising from climate change. This includes 
ensuring that the financial risks from climate change are 
adequately reflected in risk management frameworks, and 
that NatWest Group can identify, measure, monitor, 
manage and report on its exposure to these risks. 

The Climate Change Executive Steering Group is 
responsible for overseeing the direction of and progress 
against NatWest Group’s climate-related commitments. 
During 2023, the Executive Steering Group provided 
oversight of the second iteration of NatWest Group’s 
Climate transition plan, progression in establishing 
partnerships and opportunities including oversight of 
progress against the NatWest Group climate and 
sustainable funding and financing target and ensuring the 
effective management of climate-related risks. The 
Executive Steering Group will continue to supervise 
strategic implementation and delivery, supported by the 
Climate Centre of Excellence. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227788

278

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

227799

Climate risk continued

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee
NatWest Group’s ambition is to be a leading bank in the 
UK, helping to address the climate challenge. This ambition 
is underpinned by activity to at least halve the climate 
impact of NatWest Group’s financing activity by 2030 
(against a 2019 baseline) and to achieve net zero by 2050.

Work continued in 2023 to mature NatWest Group’s 
climate-related risk capabilities. Throughout 2023, the 
Board Risk Committee monitored Board approved 
quantitative climate risk appetite measures in line with the 
enterprise-wide risk management framework. These 
measures provided a heightened focus on balance sheet 
exposure to financed emissions. 

These risk appetite measures were further supplemented 
during 2023 with additional segment-specific risk measures. 
The overall suite of metrics is used to inform climate risk 
reporting to senior risk management forums, linking risk 
management to NatWest Group’s strategic priorities.

Climate risks are identified and reported through 
continuous risk management and regular reporting to 
senior risk committees and the Board. Quantitative and 
qualitative data is reviewed and assessed to measure 
whether climate risk is within risk appetite.

Risk appetite statements and associated measures are 
reviewed at least annually by the Board on the Board Risk 
Committee’s recommendation to ensure they remain 
appropriate and aligned to strategy.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
NatWest Group focused on continuing to develop the 
capabilities to use scenario analysis to identify the most 
material climate risks and opportunities for its customers, 
seeking to harness insights to inform risk management 
practices, maximise the opportunities arising from a 
transition to a low-carbon economy and support decision 
making. 

Scenario analysis allows NatWest Group to test a range of 
possible future climate pathways and understand the 
nature and magnitude of the risks they present. The 
purpose of scenario analysis is not to forecast the future 
but to understand and prepare to manage risks that could 
arise. 

NatWest Group recognises a number of potential key use 
cases for climate scenario analysis, including, but not 
restricted to, the following: 

 Regulatory stress testing requirements.
 Heightened climate risk sector classifications.
 Sector/sub-sector risk appetite.
 Portfolio management. 
 Strategic decision-making, capital adequacy and 

provisioning.

There are a number of challenges with climate scenario 
analysis, for example, in relation to the immaturity of 
modelling techniques and data on climate-related risks, as 
well as the significant uncertainty as to how the climate will 
evolve over time, how and when governments, regulators, 
businesses, investors and customers respond and how 
those responses impact the economy, asset valuations, 
economic systems, policy and wider society. These risks 
and uncertainties, coupled with significantly long 
timeframes, make the outputs of climate-related risk 
modelling with respect to the potential use cases identified 
inherently more uncertain than outputs modelled for 
traditional financial planning cycles based on historical 
financial information. NatWest Group continued to develop 
its specialist climate data capabilities, including bringing in 
new datasets to increase the granularity for which climate 
risks are assessed, such as enhanced UK flood risk data 
and a more comprehensive set of EPC data for residential 
properties.

NatWest Group continues to participate in a number of 
industry forums to help shape the financial service 
industry’s response to the challenges posed by climate risk, 
including scenario analysis. An example is the Climate 
Financial Risk Forum, established by the PRA and FCA. 

NatWest Group also continues to engage actively with 
academia to ensure best practice and the latest thinking on 
climate risks is considered within NatWest Group’s work. 
For example, around the appropriate assessment of 
physical risks, both short and longer term, are a particular 
focus for 2024.

Operational risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 

or failed internal processes, people and systems, or 

external events. It arises from day-to-day operations and is 

relevant to every aspect of the business. 

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk  

Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage 

operations, systems, processes, transactions and assets 

appropriately. This can take the form of human error, an 

inability to deliver change adequately or on time, the non-

availability of technology services, or the loss of customer 

data. Systems failure, theft of NatWest Group property, 

information loss and the impact of natural, or man-made, 

disasters – as well as the threat of cyberattacks – are 

sources of operational risk. Operational risk can also arise 

from a failure to account for changes in law or regulations 

or to take appropriate measures to protect assets.

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233  

 A review of the NatWest Group Risk Directory was 

completed and benchmarked against industry standard, 

to ensure comprehensive coverage of all operational 

risks.

 The operational risk policy was reviewed and refreshed 

and supported by the development of a suite of new 

risk standards, operational guidance and risk toolkits to 

enable effective policy application.

 The enhanced risk and control self-assessment 

approach continued to be rolled out and embedded 

with a focus on material operational risks across key 

end-to-end processes. 

 Given the risk associated with the processing of 

payments, a NatWest Group-wide programme on the 

movement of funds was mobilised, which focused on 

enhancing payment related controls. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

are aligned to the requirements set out in the Board 

approved enterprise-wide risk management framework 

and are consistent with achieving safety, soundness and 

sustainable risk outcomes. 

Aligned to this, a strong operational risk management 

The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a 

oversight function is vital to support NatWest Group’s 

half-yearly self-assessment by the CEOs of NatWest 

ambitions to serve its customers better. Improved 

Group’s customer-facing business areas, as well as the 

management of operational risk against defined risk 

heads of its support functions. NatWest Group uses this 

appetite is vital for stability and reputational integrity.

process as an effective means to provide a consistent and 

To support ongoing oversight of the management of the 

operational risk profile an Operational Risk Executive 

comparable view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the 

internal control environment.

Steering Committee is in place. This forum ensures all 

CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, 

material operational risks are monitored and managed 

including financial, operational and compliance controls, as 

within appetite. The Board Risk Committee and Board 

well as their supporting risk management frameworks. The 

receives regular updates on the outputs of the Operational 

CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for 

Risk Executive Steering Committee. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee

Operational risk appetite supports effective management of 

all operational risks. It expresses the level and types of 

operational risk NatWest Group is willing to accept to 

achieve its strategic objectives and business plans. NatWest 

Group’s operational risk appetite quantitative and 

qualitative statements encompass the full range of 

operational risks faced by its legal entities, businesses, and 

functions. The risk appetite statement and associated 

measures for operational risk are approved at least 

annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s 

recommendation to ensure they remain appropriate and 

aligned to strategy.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn

Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and 

detective controls. This is an integral step in the risk self-

assessment methodology which determines residual risk 

exposure. Control owners are accountable for the design, 

execution, performance, and maintenance of key controls. 

Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and 

tested for effectiveness. The results are monitored and, 

where a material change in performance is identified, the 

associated risk is re-evaluated. 

the next two half-yearly cycles and progress on control 

environment improvements, are reported to the Group 

Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee. They are also 

shared with external auditors.

The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the 

NatWest Group Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 

requirements concerning internal control over financial 

reporting and certain requirements of the UK Corporate 

Governance Code.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Operational risk is measured and managed through 

continuous assessment and regular reporting to NatWest 

Group’s senior risk committees and at Board-level. Risk and 

control self-assessments are used across business areas 

and support functions to identify and assess material non-

financial risks (including operational risks, conduct risks) 

and key controls. All risks and controls are mapped to 

NatWest Group’s Risk Directory. Risk assessments are 

refreshed at least annually and in response to internal and 

external events to ensure they remain relevant and that 

they capture any emerging risks. The process is designed 

to confirm that risks are effectively managed in line with 

risk appetite. Key controls are tested at the appropriate 

frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and 

operate effectively to reduce the identified risks. 

NatWest Group uses the standardised approach to 

calculate its Pillar 1 operational risk capital requirement. 

This is based on multiplying three years’ average historical 

gross income by coefficients set by the regulator based on 

business line.

The governance arrangements in place for operational risk 

All residual risks that exceed the target appetite position 

are subject to action plans to bring them within appetite.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

227799

279

Operational risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people and systems, or 
external events. It arises from day-to-day operations and is 
relevant to every aspect of the business. 

Aligned to this, a strong operational risk management 
oversight function is vital to support NatWest Group’s 
ambitions to serve its customers better. Improved 
management of operational risk against defined risk 
appetite is vital for stability and reputational integrity.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk  
Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage 
operations, systems, processes, transactions and assets 
appropriately. This can take the form of human error, an 
inability to deliver change adequately or on time, the non-
availability of technology services, or the loss of customer 
data. Systems failure, theft of NatWest Group property, 
information loss and the impact of natural, or man-made, 
disasters – as well as the threat of cyberattacks – are 
sources of operational risk. Operational risk can also arise 
from a failure to account for changes in law or regulations 
or to take appropriate measures to protect assets.

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233  
 A review of the NatWest Group Risk Directory was 

completed and benchmarked against industry standard, 
to ensure comprehensive coverage of all operational 
risks.

 The operational risk policy was reviewed and refreshed 
and supported by the development of a suite of new 
risk standards, operational guidance and risk toolkits to 
enable effective policy application.

 The enhanced risk and control self-assessment 

approach continued to be rolled out and embedded 
with a focus on material operational risks across key 
end-to-end processes. 

 Given the risk associated with the processing of 

payments, a NatWest Group-wide programme on the 
movement of funds was mobilised, which focused on 
enhancing payment related controls. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
The governance arrangements in place for operational risk 
are aligned to the requirements set out in the Board 
approved enterprise-wide risk management framework 
and are consistent with achieving safety, soundness and 
sustainable risk outcomes. 

To support ongoing oversight of the management of the 
operational risk profile an Operational Risk Executive 
Steering Committee is in place. This forum ensures all 
material operational risks are monitored and managed 
within appetite. The Board Risk Committee and Board 
receives regular updates on the outputs of the Operational 
Risk Executive Steering Committee. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee
Operational risk appetite supports effective management of 
all operational risks. It expresses the level and types of 
operational risk NatWest Group is willing to accept to 
achieve its strategic objectives and business plans. NatWest 
Group’s operational risk appetite quantitative and 
qualitative statements encompass the full range of 
operational risks faced by its legal entities, businesses, and 
functions. The risk appetite statement and associated 
measures for operational risk are approved at least 
annually by the Board on the Board Risk Committee’s 
recommendation to ensure they remain appropriate and 
aligned to strategy.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and 
detective controls. This is an integral step in the risk self-
assessment methodology which determines residual risk 
exposure. Control owners are accountable for the design, 
execution, performance, and maintenance of key controls. 
Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and 
tested for effectiveness. The results are monitored and, 
where a material change in performance is identified, the 
associated risk is re-evaluated. 

All residual risks that exceed the target appetite position 
are subject to action plans to bring them within appetite.

The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a 
half-yearly self-assessment by the CEOs of NatWest 
Group’s customer-facing business areas, as well as the 
heads of its support functions. NatWest Group uses this 
process as an effective means to provide a consistent and 
comparable view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
internal control environment.

CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls, as 
well as their supporting risk management frameworks. The 
CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for 
the next two half-yearly cycles and progress on control 
environment improvements, are reported to the Group 
Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee. They are also 
shared with external auditors.

The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the 
NatWest Group Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 
requirements concerning internal control over financial 
reporting and certain requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Operational risk is measured and managed through 
continuous assessment and regular reporting to NatWest 
Group’s senior risk committees and at Board-level. Risk and 
control self-assessments are used across business areas 
and support functions to identify and assess material non-
financial risks (including operational risks, conduct risks) 
and key controls. All risks and controls are mapped to 
NatWest Group’s Risk Directory. Risk assessments are 
refreshed at least annually and in response to internal and 
external events to ensure they remain relevant and that 
they capture any emerging risks. The process is designed 
to confirm that risks are effectively managed in line with 
risk appetite. Key controls are tested at the appropriate 
frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and 
operate effectively to reduce the identified risks. 

NatWest Group uses the standardised approach to 
calculate its Pillar 1 operational risk capital requirement. 
This is based on multiplying three years’ average historical 
gross income by coefficients set by the regulator based on 
business line.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228800

280

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  

MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

228811

Operational risk continued

As part of the wider Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process an operational risk economic capital model is used 
to assess Pillar 2A, which is a risk-sensitive add-on to Pillar 
1. The model uses historical loss data (internal and 
external) and forward-looking scenario analysis to provide 
a risk-sensitive view of NatWest Group’s Pillar 2A capital 
requirement. 

NatWest Group operates layered security controls and its 
network architecture is designed to provide inherent 
protection against threats. This approach avoids reliance on 
any one type or method of security control. Minimum 
security control requirements are set out in Key Risk 
Policies(1), standards, processes and procedures. Through 
2024 

Scenario analysis is used to assess how severe but 
plausible operational risks will affect NatWest Group. It 
provides a forward-looking basis for evaluating and 
managing operational risk exposures.

Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for 
the operational risk capital requirement figures. 

OOppeerraattiioonnaall  rreessiilliieennccee  aanndd  sseeccuurriittyy
NatWest Group manages and monitors operational 
resilience through its enhanced risk and control self-
assessment methodology. This is underpinned by setting 
and monitoring of forward-looking risk indicators and 
performance metrics for the operational resilience of 
important business services. Progress continues on meeting 
regulatory expectations for operational resilience, with 
involvement in a number of industry-wide operational 
resilience forums. This enables a cross-sector view of the 
operational resilience risk profile and the pace of ongoing 
innovation and change, both internally and externally. 

NatWest Group will monitor and manage the threat 
landscape focusing on: 
 Attack surface vulnerabilities – such as the rising 

number of zero-days and code vulnerabilities impacting 
organisations.

 Initial access brokers and nation states – increasingly 
sophisticated attacks from ransomware gangs and 
ongoing challenges following Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine which has raised international tensions 
increasing the likelihood of disruptive cyberattacks.
 Developments in innovation and technology, assessing 
the inherent risk and developing appropriate response 
to mitigate associated risks, for example large language 
models, artificial intelligence and cloud adoption.

As cyberattacks evolve and become more sophisticated, 
NatWest Group continues to invest in additional capability 
designed to defend against emerging threats.

EEvveenntt  aanndd  lloossss  ddaattaa  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
The operational risk event and loss data management 
process ensures NatWest Group captures and records 
operational risk financial and non-financial events that meet 
defined criteria. Loss data is used for regulatory and 
industry reporting and is included in capital modelling when 
calculating economic capital for operational risk. The most 
serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised 
process to all senior management, by way of an early 
event escalation process. NatWest Group has not 
experienced a cybersecurity breach or associated material 
loss in the last three years. 

All financial impacts and recoveries associated with an 
operational risk event are reported against the date they 
were recorded in NatWest Group’s financial accounts. A 
single event can result in multiple losses (or recoveries) that 
may take time to crystallise. Losses and recoveries with a 
financial accounting date in 2023 may relate to events that 
occurred, or were identified in, prior years. NatWest Group 
purchases insurance, against specific losses, including 
cyberattacks, and to comply with statutory or contractual 
requirements.

(1) Risk policies are in place for each principal risk and define, at a high level, the cascade of qualitative expectations, guidance and standards that stipulate the nature and extent of permissible risk taking. They are consistently applied 

across NatWest Group and subsidiary legal entities and form part of the qualitative expression of risk appetite for each principal risk.

PPeerrcceennttaaggee  aanndd  vvaalluuee  ooff  eevveennttss  
At 31 December 2023, events aligned to the clients, products and business practices event category accounted for 73% of NatWest Group’s operational risk losses (compared to 76% 
in 2022). The decrease reflects that lower conduct-related provisions were recorded during 2023 compared to prior years.

Fraud - External
Clients, products and business practices 
Execution, delivery and process management
Employment practices and workplace safety
Technology and infrastructure failures

££mm

22002233
4488
119955
2211
11
11
226666

VVaalluuee  ooff  eevveennttss

2022  
34  
166  
17  
1  
1
218  

PPrrooppoorrttiioonn
22002233
1188%%
7733%%
88%%
--
11%%
110000%%

2022  
16%  
76%  
8%  
-  
-

100%  

VVoolluummee  ooff  eevveennttss  ((11))
PPrrooppoorrttiioonn
22002233
8899%%
22%%
77%%
11%%
11%%
110000%%

2022
85%
5%
8%
1%
1%
100%

(1)

The calculation in the table is based on the volume and value of events (the proportion and cost of operational risk events to NatWest Group) where the associated loss is more than or equal to £10,000.

Model risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn

Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from 

model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs 

to inform business decisions. NatWest Group defines a 

model as a quantitative method, system, or approach that 

applies statistical, economic, financial, accounting, 

mathematical or data science theories, techniques and 

assumptions to process input data into estimates.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk

NatWest Group uses a variety of models in the course of its 

business activities. Examples include the use of model 

outputs to support customer decisioning, measuring and 

assessing risk exposures (including credit, market, and 

climate risk), calculating regulatory capital and liquidity 

requirements and automation of operational processes. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee

Validation of material models is conducted by an 

A governance framework is in place to ensure policies and 

independent risk function comprising of skilled, well-

processes relating to models are appropriate and effective. 

informed subject matter experts. This is completed for new 

Two roles are key to this – model risk owners and model 

models or material amendments to existing models and as 

validation leads. Model risk owners are responsible for 

part of an ongoing periodic programme to assess model 

model approval and ongoing performance monitoring. 

performance. The frequency of periodic validation is aligned 

Model validation leads, in the second line, are responsible 

to the risk rating of the model. The independent validation 

for oversight, including ensuring that models are 

focuses on a variety of model features, including modelling 

independently validated prior to use and on an ongoing 

approach, the nature of the assumptions used, the model’s 

basis aligned to the model’s risk rating. 

predictive ability and complexity, the data used in the 

model, its implementation and its compliance with 

Business and function model management committees are 

used to escalate model risk matters to senior management 

regulation.

where required.

The NatWest Group Model Risk Oversight Committee 

further enhances model risk governance by providing a 

platform for executive level discussion on emerging model 

risks, identification of systemic risks and the evolution of 

Model applications may give rise to different risks 

depending on the business segment in which they are used. 

model risk management practices. 

Model risk is therefore assessed separately for each 

business segment in addition to the overall assessment 

made for NatWest Group. 

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee

 NatWest Group’s model risk management practices 

outside appetite.

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233

 Following extensive model remediation work, NatWest 

Group returned to model risk appetite in April 2023. 

Ongoing remediation work continues to be a key focus 

to further strengthen the model risk appetite position 

and is closely monitored.

continued to evolve, supported by a dedicated model 

risk management enhancement programme, set up in 

response to the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23. An 

updated model risk policy was approved by the Board 

Risk Committee.

 Implementation of model risk procedures, aligned to the 

delivery and embedding of the enterprise-wide risk 

management framework, continued. This was 

supported by significant model inventory design 

enhancements and a bank-wide model risk data 

remediation exercise. This activity improved the quality 

and completeness of model risk data held within the 

model inventory system and enabled enhanced insights 

and reporting capabilities. 

Model risk appetite is set in order to limit the level of model 

risk that NatWest Group is willing to accept in the course of 

its business activities. The model risk appetite statement 

and associated measures are approved by the Board on 

the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation at least 

annually to ensure they remain appropriate and aligned to 

strategy. Business areas are responsible for monitoring 

performance against appetite and remediating models 

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt

Model risk is measured and managed through continuous 

assessment and regular reporting to NatWest Group’s 

senior risk committees and at Board level.

Policies, toolkits and model standards related to the 

development, validation, approval, implementation, use and 

ongoing monitoring of models are in place to ensure 

adequate control across the lifecycle of an individual model. 

The level of risk relating to an individual model is assessed 

through a model risk rating. A quantitative approach is 

used to determine the risk rating of each model, based on 

the model’s materiality and validation rating. This approach 

provides the basis for model risk appetite measures and 

enables model risk to be robustly monitored and managed 

across NatWest Group.

Ongoing performance monitoring is conducted by model 

owners and overseen by the model validators to ensure 

parameter estimates and model constructs remain fit for 

purpose, model assumptions remain valid and that models 

are being used consistently with their intended purpose. 

This allows timely action to be taken to remediate poor 

model performance and/or any control gaps or 

weaknesses.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn

By their nature – as approximations of reality – model risk 

is inherent in the use of models. It is managed by refining or 

redeveloping models where appropriate – due to changes 

in market conditions, business assumptions or processes – 

and by applying adjustments to model outputs (either 

quantitative or based on expert opinion). Enhancements 

may also be made to the process within which the model 

output is used in order to further limit risk levels.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228811

281

Model risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from 
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs 
to inform business decisions. NatWest Group defines a 
model as a quantitative method, system, or approach that 
applies statistical, economic, financial, accounting, 
mathematical or data science theories, techniques and 
assumptions to process input data into estimates.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk
NatWest Group uses a variety of models in the course of its 
business activities. Examples include the use of model 
outputs to support customer decisioning, measuring and 
assessing risk exposures (including credit, market, and 
climate risk), calculating regulatory capital and liquidity 
requirements and automation of operational processes. 

Model applications may give rise to different risks 
depending on the business segment in which they are used. 
Model risk is therefore assessed separately for each 
business segment in addition to the overall assessment 
made for NatWest Group. 

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 Following extensive model remediation work, NatWest 
Group returned to model risk appetite in April 2023. 
Ongoing remediation work continues to be a key focus 
to further strengthen the model risk appetite position 
and is closely monitored.

 NatWest Group’s model risk management practices 

continued to evolve, supported by a dedicated model 
risk management enhancement programme, set up in 
response to the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23. An 
updated model risk policy was approved by the Board 
Risk Committee.

 Implementation of model risk procedures, aligned to the 
delivery and embedding of the enterprise-wide risk 
management framework, continued. This was 
supported by significant model inventory design 
enhancements and a bank-wide model risk data 
remediation exercise. This activity improved the quality 
and completeness of model risk data held within the 
model inventory system and enabled enhanced insights 
and reporting capabilities. 

GGoovveerrnnaannccee
A governance framework is in place to ensure policies and 
processes relating to models are appropriate and effective. 
Two roles are key to this – model risk owners and model 
validation leads. Model risk owners are responsible for 
model approval and ongoing performance monitoring. 
Model validation leads, in the second line, are responsible 
for oversight, including ensuring that models are 
independently validated prior to use and on an ongoing 
basis aligned to the model’s risk rating. 

Business and function model management committees are 
used to escalate model risk matters to senior management 
where required.

The NatWest Group Model Risk Oversight Committee 
further enhances model risk governance by providing a 
platform for executive level discussion on emerging model 
risks, identification of systemic risks and the evolution of 
model risk management practices. 

Validation of material models is conducted by an 
independent risk function comprising of skilled, well-
informed subject matter experts. This is completed for new 
models or material amendments to existing models and as 
part of an ongoing periodic programme to assess model 
performance. The frequency of periodic validation is aligned 
to the risk rating of the model. The independent validation 
focuses on a variety of model features, including modelling 
approach, the nature of the assumptions used, the model’s 
predictive ability and complexity, the data used in the 
model, its implementation and its compliance with 
regulation.

The level of risk relating to an individual model is assessed 
through a model risk rating. A quantitative approach is 
used to determine the risk rating of each model, based on 
the model’s materiality and validation rating. This approach 
provides the basis for model risk appetite measures and 
enables model risk to be robustly monitored and managed 
across NatWest Group.

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee
Model risk appetite is set in order to limit the level of model 
risk that NatWest Group is willing to accept in the course of 
its business activities. The model risk appetite statement 
and associated measures are approved by the Board on 
the Board Risk Committee’s recommendation at least 
annually to ensure they remain appropriate and aligned to 
strategy. Business areas are responsible for monitoring 
performance against appetite and remediating models 
outside appetite.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Model risk is measured and managed through continuous 
assessment and regular reporting to NatWest Group’s 
senior risk committees and at Board level.

Policies, toolkits and model standards related to the 
development, validation, approval, implementation, use and 
ongoing monitoring of models are in place to ensure 
adequate control across the lifecycle of an individual model. 

Ongoing performance monitoring is conducted by model 
owners and overseen by the model validators to ensure 
parameter estimates and model constructs remain fit for 
purpose, model assumptions remain valid and that models 
are being used consistently with their intended purpose. 
This allows timely action to be taken to remediate poor 
model performance and/or any control gaps or 
weaknesses.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn
By their nature – as approximations of reality – model risk 
is inherent in the use of models. It is managed by refining or 
redeveloping models where appropriate – due to changes 
in market conditions, business assumptions or processes – 
and by applying adjustments to model outputs (either 
quantitative or based on expert opinion). Enhancements 
may also be made to the process within which the model 
output is used in order to further limit risk levels.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RRIISSKK  AANNDD  CCAAPPIITTAALL  
MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228822

282

Reputational risk

DDeeffiinniittiioonn 
Reputational risk is defined as the risk of damage to 
stakeholder trust due to negative consequences arising 
from internal actions or external events.

SSoouurrcceess  ooff  rriisskk  
The three primary drivers of reputational risk are: failure in 
internal risk management systems, processes or culture; 
NatWest Group’s actions materially conflicting with 
stakeholder expectations; and contagion (when NatWest 
Group’s reputation is damaged by failures in key sectors 
including NatWest Group’s supply chain or other 
partnerships).

KKeeyy  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss  iinn  22002233
 Reputational risks were elevated in relation to the 
departure of Alison Rose as NatWest Group Chief 
Executive Officer and issues that had arisen in 
connection with account closure decisions that 
attracted significant public and media attention. 
Relevant updates to the Reputational Risk Framework 
are being implemented following an independent legal 
review of customer account closures and internal 
reviews.

 Reputational risk registers are in place across all 

relevant business areas.

 New environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risk 
acceptance criteria were created to support the 
management of human rights risk and will be 
implemented in 2024.

 All climate focused ESE risk acceptance criteria (mining 

and metals, power generation and oil and gas) 
underwent a review to ensure they reflect the current 
risk landscape.

GGoovveerrnnaannccee 
A reputational risk policy supports reputational risk 
management across NatWest Group. Reputational risk 
registers are used to manage reputational risks identified 
within relevant business areas. These are reported to the 
relevant business executive risk committee. 

Material reputational risks to NatWest Group are escalated 
via the NatWest Group reputational risk register which is 
reported at every meeting of the NatWest Group 
Reputational Risk Committee. The NatWest Group 
Reputational Risk Committee also opines on matters that 
represent material reputational risks. The Executive and 
Board Risk Committees oversee the identification and 
reporting of reputational risk via the NatWest Group risk 
report.

RRiisskk  aappppeettiittee 
NatWest Group manages and articulates its appetite for 
reputational risk through a qualitative reputational risk 
appetite statement and associated quantitative measures 
which are approved at least annually by the Board on the 
Board Risk Committee’s recommendation to ensure they 
remain appropriate and aligned to strategy.

NatWest Group seeks to identify, measure and manage risk 
aligned to stakeholder trust. However, reputational risk is 
inherent in NatWest Group’s operating environment and 
public trust is a specific factor in setting reputational risk 
appetite.

MMoonniittoorriinngg  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt
Relevant internal and external factors are monitored 
through regular reporting via reputational risk registers at 
business or legal entity level. They are escalated, where 
appropriate, to the relevant business risk committee and 
where material, to the NatWest Group Reputational Risk 
Committee. 

Additional principal risk indicators for material risks being 
monitored are also reported to Group Reputational Risk 
Committee and to the Executive and Board Risk 
Committees via the NatWest Group risk report.

MMiittiiggaattiioonn  
Standards of conduct are in place across NatWest Group 
requiring strict adherence to policies, procedures and ways 
of working to ensure business is transacted in a way that 
meets – or exceeds – stakeholder expectations. 

External events that could cause reputational damage are 
identified and mitigated through NatWest Group’s top and 
emerging threats process (where sufficiently material) as 
well as through the NatWest Group and business level 
reputational risk registers. 

NatWest Group has in recent years been the subject of 
investigations and reviews by a number of regulators and 
governmental authorities, some of which have resulted in 
past fines, settlements and public censure. Refer to the 
Litigation and regulatory matters section of Note 26 to the 
consolidated financial statements for details of material 
matters currently affecting NatWest Group. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts283

Serving our

customers

every day

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFinancial statements

285 Independent auditors’ report

298 Consolidated income statement

367 Other financial liabilities

368 Subordinated liabilities

299 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

369 Other liabilities

300 Consolidated balance sheet

371 Share capital and other equity

301 Consolidated statement of changes in equity

304 Consolidated cash flow statement

305 Accounting policies

313 Notes to the financial statements

313 Net interest income

314 Non-interest income 

315 Operating expenses

318 Segmental analysis

322 Pensions 

329 Auditor’s remuneration

330 Tax

373 Structured entities

374 Asset transfers

375 Capital resources

376 Memorandum items

382 Non-cash and other items

383 Analysis of the net investment in business interests 

and intangible assets

384 Analysis of changes in financing during the year

385 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

386 Directors’ and key management remuneration

386 Transactions with directors and key management

334 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of 

disposal groups

336 Earnings per share

387 Related parties

388 Post balance sheet events

389 Parent company financial statements and notes

337 Financial instruments – classification

407 Non-IFRS financial measures

341 Financial instruments – valuation

350 Financial instruments – maturity analysis

353 Trading assets and liabilities

354 Derivatives

363 Loan impairment provisions

365 Other financial assets

366 Intangible assets

367 Other assets

284

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

228855

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group

 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 

Parent Company in conducting the audit.

IASB; and

the Companies Act 2006.

Opinion 

In our opinion:

 the financial statements of NatWest Group plc (the ‘Parent Company’) and its 

subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 

Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the 

Group’s profit for the year then ended;

 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK 

adopted international accounting standards (‘IAS’), and international financial 

reporting standards (‘IFRS’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 

Board (‘IASB’);

 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 

accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards as applied in 

accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and IFRS as issued by the 

We have audited the financial statements (see below) of the Parent Company and the 

Group for the year ended 31 December 2023 which comprise:

Group:

 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;

 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;

 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;

 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;

 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;

 Accounting policies;

 Related Notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements;

 Annual remuneration report identified as ‘audited’;

 Risk and capital management section identified as ‘audited’; and

 The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations report 

identified as ‘audited’.

Parent Company

 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;

 Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;

 Cash flow statement for the year then ended; and

 Related Notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements including a summary of critical 

accounting policies.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 

law and UK adopted international accounting standards, IFRS as issued by the IASB, and 

as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 

section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

BBaassiiss  ffoorr  ooppiinniioonn  

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) 

(ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further 

described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section 

of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 

appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

IInnddeeppeennddeennccee

We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical 

requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, 

including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we 

have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to 

the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the 

CCoonncclluussiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  ggooiinngg  ccoonncceerrnn

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the 

going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 

appropriate. Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group and Parent 

Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

 In conjunction with our walkthrough of the Group’s financial close process, we 

confirmed our understanding of management’s going concern assessment process 

and engaged with management early to ensure all key factors were considered in 

their assessment;

 We evaluated management’s going concern assessment which included assessing 

their evaluation of long-term business and strategic plans, capital adequacy, liquidity 

and funding positions. Management also assessed these positions considering internal 

stress tests which included consideration of principal and emerging risks. The Group’s 

risk profile and risk management practices were considered including credit risk, 

market risk, compliance and conduct risk, climate risk and operational risk; 

 With the involvement of specialists, we evaluated management’s assessment by 

considering the Group’s ability to continue in operation and meets its liabilities under 

different scenarios including the impact of the Group’s strategic plans, and the 

current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook;

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228855

285

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group

Opinion 
In our opinion:

 the financial statements of NatWest Group plc (the ‘Parent Company’) and its 
subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended;

 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK 

adopted international accounting standards (‘IAS’), and international financial 
reporting standards (‘IFRS’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (‘IASB’);

 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 

accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards as applied in 
accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and IFRS as issued by the 
IASB; and

 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 

the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements (see below) of the Parent Company and the 
Group for the year ended 31 December 2023 which comprise:

Group:
 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;
 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
 Accounting policies;
 Related Notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements;
 Annual remuneration report identified as ‘audited’;
 Risk and capital management section identified as ‘audited’; and
 The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations report 

identified as ‘audited’.

Parent Company
 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;
 Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
 Cash flow statement for the year then ended; and
 Related Notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements including a summary of critical 

accounting policies.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and UK adopted international accounting standards, IFRS as issued by the IASB, and 
as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

BBaassiiss  ffoorr  ooppiinniioonn  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) 
(ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section 
of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

IInnddeeppeennddeennccee
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, 
including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to 
the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the 
Parent Company in conducting the audit.

CCoonncclluussiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  ggooiinngg  ccoonncceerrnn
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the 
going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 
appropriate. Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group and Parent 
Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

 In conjunction with our walkthrough of the Group’s financial close process, we 

confirmed our understanding of management’s going concern assessment process 
and engaged with management early to ensure all key factors were considered in 
their assessment;

 We evaluated management’s going concern assessment which included assessing 

their evaluation of long-term business and strategic plans, capital adequacy, liquidity 
and funding positions. Management also assessed these positions considering internal 
stress tests which included consideration of principal and emerging risks. The Group’s 
risk profile and risk management practices were considered including credit risk, 
market risk, compliance and conduct risk, climate risk and operational risk; 
 With the involvement of specialists, we evaluated management’s assessment by 

considering the Group’s ability to continue in operation and meets its liabilities under 
different scenarios including the impact of the Group’s strategic plans, and the 
current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook;

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228866

286

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

228877

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

 Considered the results of the Group’s stress testing; and
 We reviewed the Group’s going concern disclosures included in the annual report 

for conformity with the reporting standards.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material 
uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast 
significant doubt on the Group and Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern over the twelve months from the date when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue.

In relation to the Group and Parent Company’s reporting on how they have applied 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw 
attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about 
whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going 
concern are described in the relevant sections of this report. However, because not all 
future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to 
the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

The scoping for the current year is as follows:

Component

NatWest Holdings (NWH)
NatWest Markets (NWM)
RBS International
RBS AA Holdings

AAnn  oovveerrvviieeww  ooff  tthhee  ssccooppee  ooff  tthhee  PPaarreenntt  CCoommppaannyy  aanndd  GGrroouupp  aauuddiittss  
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of 
performance materiality determine our audit scope for each company within the 
Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements. We take into account the size and risk profile of the component and its 
activities, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, 
changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit 
results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.

In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and 
to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the 
financial statements, of the four reporting components of the Group, we selected all 
four components based on size and risk, which represent the principal reporting legal 
entities within the Group.

Scope

Full
Full
Specific
Specific

Key locations

United Kingdom
United Kingdom, United States, and Netherlands
Channel Islands
United Kingdom

The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams. We considered total assets, total equity and total income to verify we had appropriate 
overall coverage.

Total assets
Total equity
Total income 

Full scope: audit procedures on all significant accounts.
(1)
(2)
Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts.
(3) Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures.

Full scope (1)

Specific scope (2)

Other procedures (3)

94%
92%
93%

6%
8%
7%

0%
0%
0%

Total

100%
100%
100%

The audit scope of the specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts within the components. However, the testing will have contributed to the 
total coverage of significant accounts tested for the overall Group.

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

IInnvvoollvveemmeenntt  wwiitthh  ccoommppoonneenntt  tteeaammss  

In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work 

that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit 

engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms 

operating under our instruction. 

The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit 

teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit, which included holding 

planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, 

reviewing key working papers and taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the 

audit process. The primary audit team continued to follow a programme of oversight 

visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or another 

Group audit partner, has ongoing interactions with all in scope locations, including those 

outside the United Kingdom. The primary team interacted regularly with the component 

teams and maintained a continuous and open dialogue with component teams, as well as 

holding formal closing meetings quarterly, to ensure that the primary team were fully 

aware of their progress and results of their procedures. The primary team also reviewed 

key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit 

process. This, together with the additional procedures at Group level, gave us 

appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements. 

CClliimmaattee  cchhaannggee  

Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate change will impact the Group. 

The Group has determined that the most significant future impacts from climate change 

on its operations will be from credit risk, operational risk, reputational risk, conduct risk 

and regulatory compliance risk. These are explained in the required Task Force on 

Climate-related Financial Disclosures in the Strategic report, and in the Climate Risk 

section within the Risk and capital management section. The Group has also explained 

their climate commitments in the Strategic report. All of these disclosures form part of 

the ‘Other information’, rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures on 

these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of considering whether they are 

materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the 

course of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated, in line with our 

responsibilities on ‘Other information’.  

In planning and performing our audit we assessed the potential impacts of climate 

change on the Group’s business and any consequential material impact on its financial 

statements.

The Group has explained in the Accounting Policy note how they have reflected the 

impact of climate change in their financial statements, and the significant judgements 

and estimates relating to climate change. The Group notes that many of the impacts will 

be longer term in nature, with an inherent level of uncertainty, and have limited effect on 

accounting judgements and estimates for the current period under the requirements of 

UK adopted international accounting standards and IFRS as issued by the IASB. The 

Group has also explained within the Credit Risk section within the Risk and capital 

management section, their approach to quantifying the impact of climate transition policy 

within macroeconomic factors used in the calculation of Expected Credit Losses. 

Our audit effort in considering the impact of climate change on the financial statements 

was focused on evaluating the Group’s assessment of the impact of climate risk, their 

climate commitments and the significant judgements and estimates disclosed in the 

Accounting Policies, and whether these have been appropriately reflected in the asset 

values where these are impacted by future cash flows, and in the timing and nature of 

liabilities recognised following the requirements of UK adopted international accounting 

standards and IFRS as issued by the IASB. As part of this evaluation, we performed our 

own risk assessment, supported by our climate change and economic specialists, to 

determine the risk of material misstatement in the financial statements from climate 

change which needed to be considered in our audit. We also evaluated the Directors’ 

considerations of climate change risks in their assessment of going concern and viability 

and associated disclosures. 

Based on our work, whilst we have not identified the impact of climate change on the 

financial statements to be a standalone key audit matter, we have considered the impact 

within the key audit matter for Expected Credit Loss provisions, Valuation of financial 

instruments with higher risk characteristics and Recognition of deferred tax assets, 

impairment of goodwill and, in the Parent Company’s accounts, investments in group 

undertakings. Details of our procedures and findings are included in our explanation of 

key audit matters below. 

KKeeyy  aauuddiitt  mmaatttteerrss  

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most 

significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the 

most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 

that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the 

overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of 

the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 

financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 

separate opinion on these matters.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228877

287

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

IInnvvoollvveemmeenntt  wwiitthh  ccoommppoonneenntt  tteeaammss  
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work 
that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit 
engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms 
operating under our instruction. 

The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit 
teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit, which included holding 
planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, 
reviewing key working papers and taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the 
audit process. The primary audit team continued to follow a programme of oversight 
visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or another 
Group audit partner, has ongoing interactions with all in scope locations, including those 
outside the United Kingdom. The primary team interacted regularly with the component 
teams and maintained a continuous and open dialogue with component teams, as well as 
holding formal closing meetings quarterly, to ensure that the primary team were fully 
aware of their progress and results of their procedures. The primary team also reviewed 
key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit 
process. This, together with the additional procedures at Group level, gave us 
appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements. 

CClliimmaattee  cchhaannggee  
Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate change will impact the Group. 
The Group has determined that the most significant future impacts from climate change 
on its operations will be from credit risk, operational risk, reputational risk, conduct risk 
and regulatory compliance risk. These are explained in the required Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures in the Strategic report, and in the Climate Risk 
section within the Risk and capital management section. The Group has also explained 
their climate commitments in the Strategic report. All of these disclosures form part of 
the ‘Other information’, rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures on 
these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of considering whether they are 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the 
course of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated, in line with our 
responsibilities on ‘Other information’.  

In planning and performing our audit we assessed the potential impacts of climate 
change on the Group’s business and any consequential material impact on its financial 
statements.

The Group has explained in the Accounting Policy note how they have reflected the 
impact of climate change in their financial statements, and the significant judgements 
and estimates relating to climate change. The Group notes that many of the impacts will 
be longer term in nature, with an inherent level of uncertainty, and have limited effect on 
accounting judgements and estimates for the current period under the requirements of 
UK adopted international accounting standards and IFRS as issued by the IASB. The 
Group has also explained within the Credit Risk section within the Risk and capital 
management section, their approach to quantifying the impact of climate transition policy 
within macroeconomic factors used in the calculation of Expected Credit Losses. 

Our audit effort in considering the impact of climate change on the financial statements 
was focused on evaluating the Group’s assessment of the impact of climate risk, their 
climate commitments and the significant judgements and estimates disclosed in the 
Accounting Policies, and whether these have been appropriately reflected in the asset 
values where these are impacted by future cash flows, and in the timing and nature of 
liabilities recognised following the requirements of UK adopted international accounting 
standards and IFRS as issued by the IASB. As part of this evaluation, we performed our 
own risk assessment, supported by our climate change and economic specialists, to 
determine the risk of material misstatement in the financial statements from climate 
change which needed to be considered in our audit. We also evaluated the Directors’ 
considerations of climate change risks in their assessment of going concern and viability 
and associated disclosures. 

Based on our work, whilst we have not identified the impact of climate change on the 
financial statements to be a standalone key audit matter, we have considered the impact 
within the key audit matter for Expected Credit Loss provisions, Valuation of financial 
instruments with higher risk characteristics and Recognition of deferred tax assets, 
impairment of goodwill and, in the Parent Company’s accounts, investments in group 
undertakings. Details of our procedures and findings are included in our explanation of 
key audit matters below. 

KKeeyy  aauuddiitt  mmaatttteerrss  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most 
significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the 
most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 
that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the 
overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of 
the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT
STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW
FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT
RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS
FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228888
228888

288

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

228899

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued
Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
Risk
Expected credit loss provisions 
Expected credit loss provisions 
At 31 December 2023 the Group reported total gross 
At 31 December 2023 the Group reported total gross 
loans – amortised cost and FVOCI of £392.0 billion 
loans – amortised cost and FVOCI of £392.0 billion 
(2022- £377.2 billion) and £3.6 billion of expected credit 
(2022- £377.2 billion) and £3.6 billion of expected credit 
losses (ECL) (2022 - £3.4 billion).
losses (ECL) (2022 - £3.4 billion).
Management’s judgements and estimates are 
Management’s judgements and estimates are 
especially subjective due to significant uncertainty 
especially subjective due to significant uncertainty 
associated with the assumptions used. These include 
associated with the assumptions used. These include 
the impacts of continuing uncertain geopolitical and 
the impacts of continuing uncertain geopolitical and 
economic outlook, higher for longer interest rate 
economic outlook, higher for longer interest rate 
environment, a protracted period of inflation that is 
environment, a protracted period of inflation that is 
above the policy target, refinance risks, stresses on 
above the policy target, refinance risks, stresses on 
recoverable values, and potential impacts of climate 
recoverable values, and potential impacts of climate 
change, which were all considered in our risk 
change, which were all considered in our risk 
assessment.  Aspects with increased complexity and 
assessment.  Aspects with increased complexity and 
judgements in respect of the timing and measurement 
judgements in respect of the timing and measurement 
of ECL include: 
of ECL include: 




SSttaaggiinngg – Timely allocation of assets to stage 
SSttaaggiinngg – Timely allocation of assets to stage 
1, 2, or 3 using criteria in accordance with 
1, 2, or 3 using criteria in accordance with 
IFRS 9;
IFRS 9;
 MMooddeellss  aanndd  mmooddeell  aassssuummppttiioonnss- Accounting 
 MMooddeellss  aanndd  mmooddeell  aassssuummppttiioonnss- Accounting 
interpretations, modelling assumptions and 
interpretations, modelling assumptions and 
data used to build and run the models that 
data used to build and run the models that 
calculate the ECL. There is also increasing 
calculate the ECL. There is also increasing 
complexity in assessing the adequacy of 
complexity in assessing the adequacy of 
model performance in the protracted period 
model performance in the protracted period 
of inflation and elevated interest rates, since 
of inflation and elevated interest rates, since 
the historic data used to build these models is 
the historic data used to build these models is 
not reflective of the economic environment in 
not reflective of the economic environment in 
2023. 
2023. 
EEccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss - Inputs, assumptions and 
EEccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss - Inputs, assumptions and 
weightings used to estimate the impact of 
weightings used to estimate the impact of 
multiple economic scenarios particularly those 
multiple economic scenarios particularly those 
influenced by the continuing uncertain 
influenced by the continuing uncertain 
geopolitical and economic outlook, higher for 
geopolitical and economic outlook, higher for 
longer interest rates and protracted peak of 
longer interest rates and protracted peak of 
inflation, including any changes to scenarios 
inflation, including any changes to scenarios 
required through 31 December 2023.
required through 31 December 2023.




Our response to the risk
Our response to the risk

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg - We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the ECL process, including 
CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg - We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the ECL process, including 
those over management’s judgements and estimates. These controls, among others, covered: 
those over management’s judgements and estimates. These controls, among others, covered: 



 model governance including monitoring and model validation
 model governance including monitoring and model validation




 multiple economic scenarios
 multiple economic scenarios





the staging of assets per management’s criteria, and their monitoring of stage effectiveness
the staging of assets per management’s criteria, and their monitoring of stage effectiveness
data accuracy and completeness
data accuracy and completeness
credit monitoring
credit monitoring
the governance and management review of post-model adjustments; and
the governance and management review of post-model adjustments; and
individual provisions.
individual provisions.

In evaluating the governance process, we observed the executive finance and risk committee meetings where the 
In evaluating the governance process, we observed the executive finance and risk committee meetings where the 
inputs, assumptions, and adjustments to the ECL were discussed and approved, among other procedures.
inputs, assumptions, and adjustments to the ECL were discussed and approved, among other procedures.
OOvveerraallll  aasssseessssmmeenntt - We performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision levels by stage to determine if they 
OOvveerraallll  aasssseessssmmeenntt - We performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision levels by stage to determine if they 
were reasonable by considering the credit quality and composition of the Group’s portfolios, risk profile, impact of the 
were reasonable by considering the credit quality and composition of the Group’s portfolios, risk profile, impact of the 
current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook and climate change on the Group’s customers. We performed peer 
current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook and climate change on the Group’s customers. We performed peer 
benchmarking where available to assess overall staging and provision coverage levels. We also performed sensitivity 
benchmarking where available to assess overall staging and provision coverage levels. We also performed sensitivity 
analysis to assess the impact of changing selected key assumptions on the ECL provision. 
analysis to assess the impact of changing selected key assumptions on the ECL provision. 
SSttaaggiinngg - We evaluated the criteria used to allocate a financial asset to stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance with IFRS 9. We 
SSttaaggiinngg - We evaluated the criteria used to allocate a financial asset to stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance with IFRS 9. We 
recalculated the staging of the complete population of assets based on management’s criteria, and performed 
recalculated the staging of the complete population of assets based on management’s criteria, and performed 
sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of different criteria on the ECL and considered the impact of performing 
sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of different criteria on the ECL and considered the impact of performing 
collective staging downgrades to industries, geographic regions and high risk populations particularly impacted by 
collective staging downgrades to industries, geographic regions and high risk populations particularly impacted by 
recent economic conditions and climate change.
recent economic conditions and climate change.
To test credit monitoring which drives the probability of default estimates used in the staging calculation, we 
To test credit monitoring which drives the probability of default estimates used in the staging calculation, we 
recalculated the risk ratings for a sample of performing loans and focused our testing on high-risk industries, such as 
recalculated the risk ratings for a sample of performing loans and focused our testing on high-risk industries, such as 
commercial real estate, automotive, retail and leisure. 
commercial real estate, automotive, retail and leisure. 
MMooddeellss  aanndd  mmooddeell  aassssuummppttiioonnss- We selected a sample of models based on both quantitative and qualitative factors. We 
MMooddeellss  aanndd  mmooddeell  aassssuummppttiioonnss- We selected a sample of models based on both quantitative and qualitative factors. We 
involved EY modelling specialists to test the assumptions, inputs, methodology and model build. This included a 
involved EY modelling specialists to test the assumptions, inputs, methodology and model build. This included a 
combination of assessing model design and formulae, alternative modelling techniques, recalculating the PD, LGD and 
combination of assessing model design and formulae, alternative modelling techniques, recalculating the PD, LGD and 
EAD, and implementation of new models during the year. We also considered the results of the Group’s internal model 
EAD, and implementation of new models during the year. We also considered the results of the Group’s internal model 
monitoring and validation results. We performed an assessment of the extent to which model methodologies developed 
monitoring and validation results. We performed an assessment of the extent to which model methodologies developed 
using historic experience were able to respond to the current economic conditions, and where we identified model 
using historic experience were able to respond to the current economic conditions, and where we identified model 
limitations, we tested the extent to which these effects have been appropriately captured in Post Model Adjustments.  
limitations, we tested the extent to which these effects have been appropriately captured in Post Model Adjustments.  
To evaluate data quality, we agreed a sample of data points to source systems, including data used to run the models 
To evaluate data quality, we agreed a sample of data points to source systems, including data used to run the models 
and historic loss data to monitor models. We also tested the ECL data points from the calculation engine through to the 
and historic loss data to monitor models. We also tested the ECL data points from the calculation engine through to the 
general ledger and disclosures.
general ledger and disclosures.

Risk

Our response to the risk

Expected credit loss provisions continued

 PPoosstt--mmooddeell  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss - Appropriateness, 

completeness and valuation of post-model 

economic scenarios, including evaluating probability weights. This assessment included the impacts of the current 

adjustments which represent approximately 13% 

geopolitical and economic environment, as well as the impacts of climate change on the economic variables.  We 

of total ECL (2022 - 12%), including adjustments 

assessed whether forecasted macroeconomic variables such as GDP, unemployment rate, Consumer Price Index, UK 

required to address the limitation of models to 

Stock Price Index, Bank of England base rates and the House Price Index were appropriate. With the support of our 

adequately incorporate the risks of inflation, 

credit modelling specialists, we evaluated the correlation and translation of the macroeconomic factors, including the 

EEccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss - We involved EY economic specialists to assist us in evaluating the base case and alternative 

elevated interest rates, and other geopolitical and 

impacts of alternative paths or weights to ECL.

economic uncertainties, and the identification of 

vulnerable customers with higher risks of defaults 

PPoosstt--MMooddeell  AAddjjuussttmmeennttss - We have evaluated and tested the appropriateness, adequacy and completeness of the Post 

than currently reflected; and

 IInnddiivviidduuaall  pprroovviissiioonnss  --  Measurement of individual 

Model Adjustments (PMAs) held at year end. This included challenging management’s identification of retail customers 

vulnerable to price and rate increases, commercial sub-sectors susceptible to inflation and liquidity challenges, loss given 

provisions including the assessment of multiple 

default assumptions, and time to collect. We have also challenged the appropriateness of PMAs remaining from previous 

scenarios and probability weights, the impact of 

years related to matters such as COVID-19, by checking the latest default trends in those cohorts. We also assessed all 

the current uncertain geopolitical and economic 

the PMAs against the risk of double counting of either certain portfolios/customers or identified risks. With our modelling 

outlook on exit or recovery strategies, collateral 

and economic specialists, we assessed the risk of bias and the completeness of these adjustments by considering the 

valuations, and time to collect.

data, judgments, methodology, sensitivities, and governance of these adjustments as well as considering model 

shortcomings. 

IInnddiivviidduuaall  pprroovviissiioonnss - We recalculated and challenged the scenarios, assumptions, and cash flows for a sample of 

individual provisions including the alternative scenarios and evaluating probability weights assigned, involving EY valuation 

specialists where appropriate. The samples considered higher risk sectors identified with reference to external sources, 

such as commercial real estate, manufacturing, automotive, health, retail, and leisure. We considered the impact of the 

current geopolitical and economic outlook and climate change had on collateral valuations and time to collect as well as 

whether planned exit strategies remained viable.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee

Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:

We are satisfied that provisions for the impairment of loans were reasonable and recognised in accordance with IFRS 9. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 











Effectiveness of the overall control environment, including the compensating controls identified by management, where deficiencies were identified.

Results of our testing of models and model assumptions, including the reasonableness of the macroeconomic variables used.

The accuracy of staging, including considering management override, and our independent sensitivity analysis on the staging criteria to assess appropriateness.

Reasonableness and adequacy of the post-model adjustments recorded to reflect risk in the portfolios.

For individually assessed impairments, the overall reasonableness of the provisions, including assumptions applied.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts

Report of the Group Audit Committee 

Credit risk section of the Risk and capital management section

Accounting policies 

Note 15 to the financial statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

228899

289

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
Expected credit loss provisions continued
 PPoosstt--mmooddeell  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss - Appropriateness, 
completeness and valuation of post-model 
adjustments which represent approximately 13% 
of total ECL (2022 - 12%), including adjustments 
required to address the limitation of models to 
adequately incorporate the risks of inflation, 
elevated interest rates, and other geopolitical and 
economic uncertainties, and the identification of 
vulnerable customers with higher risks of defaults 
than currently reflected; and

 IInnddiivviidduuaall  pprroovviissiioonnss  --  Measurement of individual 
provisions including the assessment of multiple 
scenarios and probability weights, the impact of 
the current uncertain geopolitical and economic 
outlook on exit or recovery strategies, collateral 
valuations, and time to collect.

Our response to the risk

EEccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss - We involved EY economic specialists to assist us in evaluating the base case and alternative 
economic scenarios, including evaluating probability weights. This assessment included the impacts of the current 
geopolitical and economic environment, as well as the impacts of climate change on the economic variables.  We 
assessed whether forecasted macroeconomic variables such as GDP, unemployment rate, Consumer Price Index, UK 
Stock Price Index, Bank of England base rates and the House Price Index were appropriate. With the support of our 
credit modelling specialists, we evaluated the correlation and translation of the macroeconomic factors, including the 
impacts of alternative paths or weights to ECL.

PPoosstt--MMooddeell  AAddjjuussttmmeennttss - We have evaluated and tested the appropriateness, adequacy and completeness of the Post 
Model Adjustments (PMAs) held at year end. This included challenging management’s identification of retail customers 
vulnerable to price and rate increases, commercial sub-sectors susceptible to inflation and liquidity challenges, loss given 
default assumptions, and time to collect. We have also challenged the appropriateness of PMAs remaining from previous 
years related to matters such as COVID-19, by checking the latest default trends in those cohorts. We also assessed all 
the PMAs against the risk of double counting of either certain portfolios/customers or identified risks. With our modelling 
and economic specialists, we assessed the risk of bias and the completeness of these adjustments by considering the 
data, judgments, methodology, sensitivities, and governance of these adjustments as well as considering model 
shortcomings. 

IInnddiivviidduuaall  pprroovviissiioonnss - We recalculated and challenged the scenarios, assumptions, and cash flows for a sample of 
individual provisions including the alternative scenarios and evaluating probability weights assigned, involving EY valuation 
specialists where appropriate. The samples considered higher risk sectors identified with reference to external sources, 
such as commercial real estate, manufacturing, automotive, health, retail, and leisure. We considered the impact of the 
current geopolitical and economic outlook and climate change had on collateral valuations and time to collect as well as 
whether planned exit strategies remained viable.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that provisions for the impairment of loans were reasonable and recognised in accordance with IFRS 9. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 
Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:

Effectiveness of the overall control environment, including the compensating controls identified by management, where deficiencies were identified.
Results of our testing of models and model assumptions, including the reasonableness of the macroeconomic variables used.
The accuracy of staging, including considering management override, and our independent sensitivity analysis on the staging criteria to assess appropriateness.
Reasonableness and adequacy of the post-model adjustments recorded to reflect risk in the portfolios.
For individually assessed impairments, the overall reasonableness of the provisions, including assumptions applied.






Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Report of the Group Audit Committee 
Credit risk section of the Risk and capital management section
Accounting policies 
Note 15 to the financial statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT
STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW
FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT
RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS
FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229900
229900

290

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229911

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued
Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
Risk
Provisions for customer redress, litigation and other regulatory matters
Provisions for customer redress, litigation and other regulatory matters
At 31 December 2023, the Group has reported £1.0 billion (2022 - £1.1 
At 31 December 2023, the Group has reported £1.0 billion (2022 - £1.1 
billion) of provisions for liabilities and charges, including £0.6 billion (2022 
billion) of provisions for liabilities and charges, including £0.6 billion (2022 
- £0.7 billion) for customer redress, litigation and other regulatory 
- £0.7 billion) for customer redress, litigation and other regulatory 
matters as detailed in Note 21 of the financial statements.
matters as detailed in Note 21 of the financial statements.
The Group operates in an industry where it is subject to regulatory 
The Group operates in an industry where it is subject to regulatory 
scrutiny and investigations, litigation and customer remediation. 
scrutiny and investigations, litigation and customer remediation. 
Significant management judgement is required when accounting for 
Significant management judgement is required when accounting for 
provisions and contingent liabilities, including;
provisions and contingent liabilities, including;
 Determining whether a present obligation exists and therefore 
 Determining whether a present obligation exists and therefore 
whether a provision should be recorded and subsequently measured 
in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
whether a provision should be recorded and subsequently measured 
Contingent Assets, as at 31 December 2023. 
in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
 Estimating the probability and amount of any outflow of resources 
Contingent Assets, as at 31 December 2023. 
 Estimating the probability and amount of any outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits, including through the selection and 
use of assumptions in the provision. 
embodying economic benefits, including through the selection and 
 Assessing the adequacy of disclosures.  
use of assumptions in the provision. 
 Assessing the adequacy of disclosures.  

Our response to the risk
Our response to the risk

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg  - We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s controls over the 
CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg  - We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s controls over the 
identification, completeness, estimation and monitoring of provisions and disclosures. Our procedures 
identification, completeness, estimation and monitoring of provisions and disclosures. Our procedures 
included testing management’s controls to determine whether a provision is required and the 
included testing management’s controls to determine whether a provision is required and the 
completeness and accuracy of data used in the process. 
completeness and accuracy of data used in the process. 
PPrroovviissiioonn  aasssseessssmmeenntt  - We assessed the risks facing the Group, including the status of any 
PPrroovviissiioonn  aasssseessssmmeenntt  - We assessed the risks facing the Group, including the status of any 
investigations and implications of these on the Group’s provisions. We tested management’s 
investigations and implications of these on the Group’s provisions. We tested management’s 
assessment of the potential outcomes, including the evaluation of assumptions and completeness of 
assessment of the potential outcomes, including the evaluation of assumptions and completeness of 
the data considered in making these assessments.  Where no provision was booked by management, 
the data considered in making these assessments.  Where no provision was booked by management, 
we critically challenged this conclusion with reference to the requirements of IAS 37. Where relevant 
we critically challenged this conclusion with reference to the requirements of IAS 37. Where relevant 
we undertook this assessment with the input of our specialists, including conduct specialists. 
we undertook this assessment with the input of our specialists, including conduct specialists. 
IInnqquuiirryy  ooff  lleeggaall  ccoouunnsseell  - We conducted inquires with internal legal counsel and where relevant, 
IInnqquuiirryy  ooff  lleeggaall  ccoouunnsseell  - We conducted inquires with internal legal counsel and where relevant, 
obtained, and reviewed reports from external counsel to evaluate the existence of the obligation and / 
obtained, and reviewed reports from external counsel to evaluate the existence of the obligation and / 
or management’s estimate of the outflow at year-end.
or management’s estimate of the outflow at year-end.
EExxaammiinnaattiioonn  ooff  rreegguullaattoorryy  aanndd  lleeggaall  ccoorrrreessppoonnddeennccee  - We examined the relevant regulatory and legal 
EExxaammiinnaattiioonn  ooff  rreegguullaattoorryy  aanndd  lleeggaall  ccoorrrreessppoonnddeennccee  - We examined the relevant regulatory and legal 
correspondence to assess factual developments. We also considered regulatory developments to 
correspondence to assess factual developments. We also considered regulatory developments to 
identify actual or possible non-compliance with laws and regulations that might have a material effect 
identify actual or possible non-compliance with laws and regulations that might have a material effect 
on the financial statements. 
on the financial statements. 
DDiisscclloossuurree  - We evaluated whether the disclosures provided in the financial statements fairly reflect the 
DDiisscclloossuurree  - We evaluated whether the disclosures provided in the financial statements fairly reflect the 
facts and key sources of uncertainty. 
facts and key sources of uncertainty. 

measured. 
measured. 

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that provisions for liabilities and charges were reasonable and recognised in accordance with IAS 37. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 
We are satisfied that provisions for liabilities and charges were reasonable and recognised in accordance with IAS 37. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 
Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:
Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:
 Effectiveness of the overall control environment over the Group’s process for concluding whether a provision or disclosure should be recorded and how such matters are 
 Effectiveness of the overall control environment over the Group’s process for concluding whether a provision or disclosure should be recorded and how such matters are 
 Reasonableness of the methodologies, judgements and assumptions used by management to conclude upon the recognition of the provisions. 
 Reasonableness of the methodologies, judgements and assumptions used by management to conclude upon the recognition of the provisions. 
 The fact that we did not identify any material unrecorded provisions or disclosures. 
 The fact that we did not identify any material unrecorded provisions or disclosures. 
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Report of the Group Audit Committee 
Report of the Group Audit Committee 
Accounting policies  
Accounting policies  
Note 21 and 26 to the financial statements 
Note 21 and 26 to the financial statements 

Risk

inputs.













Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics 

Our response to the risk

As reported in Note 11 to the financial statements, as at 31 December 

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg  - We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls relating to financial 

2023 the Group held financial instruments with higher risk 

instrument valuation including independent price verification, valuation models governance, collateral 

characteristics. This included (but is not limited to) reported level 3 

management, income statement analysis, and the associated controls over relevant information 

assets of £2.0 billion (2022 - £2.3 billion) and level 3 liabilities of £0.7 

technology systems. We also observed the Valuation Committees where valuation inputs, assumptions 

billion (2022 - £1.0 billion) whose value is dependent upon unobservable 

and adjustments were discussed and approved.

The valuation of those financial instruments with higher risk 

characteristics can include significant judgement as outlined below. The 

fair value of these instruments can involve complex valuation models 

and significant fair value adjustments, both of which may be reliant on 

inputs where there is limited market observability.

Management’s estimates which required significant judgement include:

CCoommpplleexx  mmooddeellss - Complex model-dependent valuations of 

financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps linked 

to pre-payment behaviour and interest rate options with 

exotic features;

IIlllliiqquuiidd  iinnppuuttss - Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid 

instrument, including fair value loan exposures for which there 

is no active market. Additionally derivative instruments whose 

valuation is dependent on discount rates associated with 

complex collateral arrangements; and

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  -- The appropriateness of fair value 

adjustments made to derivative valuations including Funding 

Valuation Adjustments (FVA), Credit Valuation Adjustments 

(CVA), relating to derivative counterparties whose credit 

spread may not be observable, and material product and deal 

specific adjustments on long-dated derivative portfolios.

We involved our financial instrument valuation and modelling specialists to assist us in performing 

procedures including the following:







CCoommpplleexx  mmooddeellss  --  Testing complex model-dependent valuations by performing independent 

revaluation to assess the appropriateness of models and the adequacy of assumptions and 

inputs used by the Group;

IIlllliiqquuiidd  iinnppuuttss  --  Independently re-pricing instruments that had been valued using illiquid pricing 

inputs, using alternative pricing sources where available, to evaluate management's valuation;  

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  --  Comparing fair value adjustment methodologies to current market 

practice and assessing the appropriateness and adequacy of the valuation adjustment 

framework in light of emerging market practice and changes in the risk profile of the underlying 

portfolio; and revaluing a sample of counterparty level FVA and CVA, comparing funding 

spreads to third party data, independently challenging illiquid CVA inputs, and testing material 

product and deal specific adjustments on the long-dated derivatives portfolio.

Throughout our audit procedures we considered the current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook, 

including market volatility and the impact of climate change on the valuation of financial instruments, 

particularly in relation to long-dated illiquid positions. In addition, we assessed whether there were any 

indicators of aggregate bias in financial instrument marking and methodology assumptions.  

We performed back-testing analysis of recent trade activity and asset disposals to evaluate the drivers of 

significant differences between book value and trade value to assess the impact on the fair value of 

similar instruments within the portfolio. We performed an analysis of significant collateral discrepancies 

with counterparties to assess the potential impact on the fair value of the underlying (and similar) 

financial instruments.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee

IFRS. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: 

We are satisfied that the assumptions used by management to reflect the fair value of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics are reasonable and in accordance with 

Complex model-dependent valuations were appropriate based on the output of our independent revaluations, analysis of trade activity, assessment of the output of the 

independent price verification process, inspection of collateral disagreements and peer benchmarking;

The fair value estimates of hard-to-price financial instruments appropriately reflected pricing information available at 31 December 2023; and 

Valuation adjustments applied to derivative portfolios for credit, funding and other risks were recorded in accordance with the requirements of IFRS considering trade 

activity for positions with common risk characteristics, analysis of market data and peer benchmarking.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts

Report of the Group Audit Committee 

Accounting policies   

Note 11 to the financial statements 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229911

291

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics 
As reported in Note 11 to the financial statements, as at 31 December 
2023 the Group held financial instruments with higher risk 
characteristics. This included (but is not limited to) reported level 3 
assets of £2.0 billion (2022 - £2.3 billion) and level 3 liabilities of £0.7 
billion (2022 - £1.0 billion) whose value is dependent upon unobservable 
inputs.

The valuation of those financial instruments with higher risk 
characteristics can include significant judgement as outlined below. The 
fair value of these instruments can involve complex valuation models 
and significant fair value adjustments, both of which may be reliant on 
inputs where there is limited market observability.

Management’s estimates which required significant judgement include:







CCoommpplleexx  mmooddeellss - Complex model-dependent valuations of 
financial instruments, which include interest rate swaps linked 
to pre-payment behaviour and interest rate options with 
exotic features;
IIlllliiqquuiidd  iinnppuuttss - Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid 
instrument, including fair value loan exposures for which there 
is no active market. Additionally derivative instruments whose 
valuation is dependent on discount rates associated with 
complex collateral arrangements; and
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  -- The appropriateness of fair value 
adjustments made to derivative valuations including Funding 
Valuation Adjustments (FVA), Credit Valuation Adjustments 
(CVA), relating to derivative counterparties whose credit 
spread may not be observable, and material product and deal 
specific adjustments on long-dated derivative portfolios.

Our response to the risk

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg  - We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls relating to financial 
instrument valuation including independent price verification, valuation models governance, collateral 
management, income statement analysis, and the associated controls over relevant information 
technology systems. We also observed the Valuation Committees where valuation inputs, assumptions 
and adjustments were discussed and approved.

We involved our financial instrument valuation and modelling specialists to assist us in performing 
procedures including the following:







CCoommpplleexx  mmooddeellss  --  Testing complex model-dependent valuations by performing independent 
revaluation to assess the appropriateness of models and the adequacy of assumptions and 
inputs used by the Group;
IIlllliiqquuiidd  iinnppuuttss  --  Independently re-pricing instruments that had been valued using illiquid pricing 
inputs, using alternative pricing sources where available, to evaluate management's valuation;  
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  --  Comparing fair value adjustment methodologies to current market 
practice and assessing the appropriateness and adequacy of the valuation adjustment 
framework in light of emerging market practice and changes in the risk profile of the underlying 
portfolio; and revaluing a sample of counterparty level FVA and CVA, comparing funding 
spreads to third party data, independently challenging illiquid CVA inputs, and testing material 
product and deal specific adjustments on the long-dated derivatives portfolio.

Throughout our audit procedures we considered the current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook, 
including market volatility and the impact of climate change on the valuation of financial instruments, 
particularly in relation to long-dated illiquid positions. In addition, we assessed whether there were any 
indicators of aggregate bias in financial instrument marking and methodology assumptions.  

We performed back-testing analysis of recent trade activity and asset disposals to evaluate the drivers of 
significant differences between book value and trade value to assess the impact on the fair value of 
similar instruments within the portfolio. We performed an analysis of significant collateral discrepancies 
with counterparties to assess the potential impact on the fair value of the underlying (and similar) 
financial instruments.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that the assumptions used by management to reflect the fair value of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics are reasonable and in accordance with 
IFRS. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: 






Complex model-dependent valuations were appropriate based on the output of our independent revaluations, analysis of trade activity, assessment of the output of the 
independent price verification process, inspection of collateral disagreements and peer benchmarking;
The fair value estimates of hard-to-price financial instruments appropriately reflected pricing information available at 31 December 2023; and 
Valuation adjustments applied to derivative portfolios for credit, funding and other risks were recorded in accordance with the requirements of IFRS considering trade 
activity for positions with common risk characteristics, analysis of market data and peer benchmarking.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Report of the Group Audit Committee 
Accounting policies   
Note 11 to the financial statements 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229922

292

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229933

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
Recognition of deferred tax assets, impairment of goodwill and, in the Parent Company’s accounts, investments in group undertakings. 
At 31 December 2023, the Group had reported goodwill of £5.7 
billion (2022 - £5.5 billion) and net deferred tax assets of £1.8 billion 
(2022 - £2.0 billion). The Parent Company reported investments in 
group undertakings of £52.6 billion (2022 - £52.8 billion).

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg:: We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the key judgemental 
inputs (macro-economic assumptions including interest rates, business forecasts and capital). In addition, we 
have assessed the controls over the methodology, models and methods utilised in the value in use and 
deferred tax assets assessment. 

Our response to the risk

Management performed impairment assessments using a value in 
use methodology and concluded that goodwill remains recoverable. 

We have also performed test of details to evaluate the recoverability of DTA, Goodwill and Investments in 
group undertakings through:

Management have assessed whether sufficient taxable profits will 
be generated in future years to recover any deferred tax assets 
recognised and concluded that net deferred tax assets recognised 
on the balance sheet are recoverable. 

Management reviewed investments in subsidiaries of the Parent 
Company, as at 31 December 2023, for indicators of impairment or 
that impairment charges recognised in prior periods should be 
reversed in accordance with IAS 36. Where indicators have been 
identified, management assess any asset impairment based upon 
value in use. As a result of the assessment management concluded 
that in the Parent Company’s accounts the carrying amount 
investments in group undertakings is recoverable. 

These estimates are based on the five-year revenue and cost 
forecasts, which are more susceptible to management override due 
to the following inherent uncertainties involved determining the 
forecast:

 Profitability estimates, including costs, ECL and the impact of 

AAssssuummppttiioonn  aanndd  mmooddeell  tteessttiinngg::
 Tested the mathematical accuracy of the models and calculations utilised in the value in use and DTA 

processes.

 Challenged the reasonableness and achievability of management forecasts from a combination of 

historical performance, benchmarking with external data and evaluating underlying business strategies.

 Engaged specialists to evaluate the appropriateness of significant assumptions (macroeconomic and 

modelling assumptions).

 Engaged taxation specialists to assess the deferred tax model including an assessment of the time 

horizon used for the recoverability of losses and other temporary differences.

 Assessed the sensitivity of the Value In Use (VIU) to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both 

individually and in aggregate.

DDiisscclloossuurree::
 We challenged and verified the adequacy of the information disclosed in the consolidated (and for 

investment in subsidiaries in the Parent Company’s) annual accounts in accordance with applicable 
standards and regulations. 

climate within business planning;
 Macro-economic assumptions; and
 Capital forecasts.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill, deferred tax assets and, in the Parent Company’s accounts, investments in group undertakings, were reasonable and 
recognised in accordance with IFRS. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:

 Effectiveness of the overall control environment, including management’s identification of compensating controls where deficiencies were identified;
 Reasonableness of the methodologies, judgements and assumptions used by management to conclude upon the recognition of the related balances;
 When subjected to reasonable alternative scenarios, the goodwill recognised did not indicate impairment in the next 12 months; and 
 Management's approach to estimating the recoverable amounts for the subsidiaries of the Group is reasonable. Given that the Group’s investment in NatWest Holdings shows 

indicators of impairment we focused on performing reasonable stresses on the VIU assumptions and ensuring these are appropriately disclosed.

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Accounting policies 
Note 7 and Note 17 to the Group financial statements and Note 8 to the Parent Company financial statements

RRiisskk

Pension valuation and net pension asset 

OOuurr  rreessppoonnssee  ttoo  tthhee  rriisskk

The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes which 

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg -  We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the defined benefit 

in aggregate are significant in the context of the overall balance 

obligation process including the setting of actuarial assumptions, the data inputs used in the actuarial calculation 

sheet. At 31 December 2023, the Group reported a net pension 

and the measurement of the fair value of the schemes’ assets.

asset of £102 million (2022 - £220 million) comprising £201 

million of schemes in surplus and £99 million of schemes in 

AAssssuummppttiioonnss -  We involved our actuarial specialists to evaluate the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the 

deficit (2022 - £318 million and £98 million respectively). The net 

defined benefit obligation by comparing them to ranges independently developed from third party sources and 

pension asset is sensitive to changes in the key judgements and 

market practice. We assessed the impact on pension liabilities due to changes in financial, demographic and 

estimates, including the effects of the current uncertain 

longevity assumptions over the year, and whether these were supported by objective external evidence and 

geopolitical and economic outlook and associated market 

rationales, including the effects of current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook, including market volatility.  

volatility, which include:

 AAssssuummppttiioonnss -  Actuarial assumptions and inputs including 

VVaalluuaattiioonnss - We tested the fair value of scheme assets by independently calculating the fair value for a sample of 

the assets held. Our sample included cash, equity and debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, and 

discount rate, inflation, pension payments and longevity to 

illiquid assets. We involved our valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of management’s valuation 

determine the valuation of retirement benefit liabilities;

 VVaalluuaattiioonnss -  Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid or 

methodology including the judgements made in determining significant assumptions used in the valuation of 

complex and illiquid pension assets, including the effects of the current uncertain geopolitical and economic 

complex model-dependent valuations of certain investments 

outlook, including market volatility. We independently re-priced illiquid and complex assets that had been valued 

held by the schemes; 

using unobservable market inputs, using alternative pricing sources where available, to evaluate management’s 

 FFuunnddiinngg – the pension schemes have adequate liquidity to 

valuations. 

cover for any shortfall in derivative asset prices as a result 

of current economic conditions; and

 AAuuggmmeennttaattiioonn  ccaapp -  Quantification of trustees’ rights to 

unilaterally augment benefits (Augmentation cap) to 

determine the recognition of surplus.

FFuunnddiinngg - We assessed whether the pension schemes have adequate funding to cover for any shortfall in 

derivative asset prices given the current economic conditions. 

AAuuggmmeennttaattiioonn  ccaapp  aanndd  eeqquuaalliissaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss - We involved our actuarial specialists to assess the estimation of 

the Augmentation cap including the inputs used in the calculation. We also assessed the methodology and 

judgements made in calculating these estimates and the associated accounting treatment in accordance with IAS 

19 and IFRIC 14.

DDiisscclloossuurree -  We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements, including the 

appropriateness of the assumptions, sensitivities and disclosures over investment strategy and risk management.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee

Committee:

We are satisfied that the valuation and disclosure of the net pension balance are reasonable and in accordance with IFRS. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 

 Our benchmarking of key actuarial assumptions including the discount rate, inflation, longevity and pension payments concluded that assumptions were within a reasonable range;

 No material differences were identified through our independent valuation testing for a sample of pension assets; and

 Management’s estimate of the impact of the augmentation cap was reasonable and the methodology consistent with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14. 

Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts

Accounting policies  

Note 5 to the financial statements 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229933

293

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

RRiisskk
Pension valuation and net pension asset 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes which 
in aggregate are significant in the context of the overall balance 
sheet. At 31 December 2023, the Group reported a net pension 
asset of £102 million (2022 - £220 million) comprising £201 
million of schemes in surplus and £99 million of schemes in 
deficit (2022 - £318 million and £98 million respectively). The net 
pension asset is sensitive to changes in the key judgements and 
estimates, including the effects of the current uncertain 
geopolitical and economic outlook and associated market 
volatility, which include:

 AAssssuummppttiioonnss -  Actuarial assumptions and inputs including 

discount rate, inflation, pension payments and longevity to 
determine the valuation of retirement benefit liabilities;
 VVaalluuaattiioonnss -  Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid or 

complex model-dependent valuations of certain investments 
held by the schemes; 

 FFuunnddiinngg – the pension schemes have adequate liquidity to 
cover for any shortfall in derivative asset prices as a result 
of current economic conditions; and

 AAuuggmmeennttaattiioonn  ccaapp -  Quantification of trustees’ rights to 
unilaterally augment benefits (Augmentation cap) to 
determine the recognition of surplus.

OOuurr  rreessppoonnssee  ttoo  tthhee  rriisskk

CCoonnttrroollss  tteessttiinngg -  We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the defined benefit 
obligation process including the setting of actuarial assumptions, the data inputs used in the actuarial calculation 
and the measurement of the fair value of the schemes’ assets.

AAssssuummppttiioonnss -  We involved our actuarial specialists to evaluate the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the 
defined benefit obligation by comparing them to ranges independently developed from third party sources and 
market practice. We assessed the impact on pension liabilities due to changes in financial, demographic and 
longevity assumptions over the year, and whether these were supported by objective external evidence and 
rationales, including the effects of current uncertain geopolitical and economic outlook, including market volatility.  

VVaalluuaattiioonnss - We tested the fair value of scheme assets by independently calculating the fair value for a sample of 
the assets held. Our sample included cash, equity and debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, and 
illiquid assets. We involved our valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of management’s valuation 
methodology including the judgements made in determining significant assumptions used in the valuation of 
complex and illiquid pension assets, including the effects of the current uncertain geopolitical and economic 
outlook, including market volatility. We independently re-priced illiquid and complex assets that had been valued 
using unobservable market inputs, using alternative pricing sources where available, to evaluate management’s 
valuations. 

FFuunnddiinngg - We assessed whether the pension schemes have adequate funding to cover for any shortfall in 
derivative asset prices given the current economic conditions. 

AAuuggmmeennttaattiioonn  ccaapp  aanndd  eeqquuaalliissaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss - We involved our actuarial specialists to assess the estimation of 
the Augmentation cap including the inputs used in the calculation. We also assessed the methodology and 
judgements made in calculating these estimates and the associated accounting treatment in accordance with IAS 
19 and IFRIC 14.

DDiisscclloossuurree -  We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements, including the 
appropriateness of the assumptions, sensitivities and disclosures over investment strategy and risk management.

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that the valuation and disclosure of the net pension balance are reasonable and in accordance with IFRS. We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit 
Committee:

 Our benchmarking of key actuarial assumptions including the discount rate, inflation, longevity and pension payments concluded that assumptions were within a reasonable range;
 No material differences were identified through our independent valuation testing for a sample of pension assets; and
 Management’s estimate of the impact of the augmentation cap was reasonable and the methodology consistent with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14. 
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Accounting policies  
Note 5 to the financial statements 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229944

294

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229955

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Risk
IT access management 
The IT environment is complex and pervasive to the operations 
of the Group due to the large volume of transactions processed 
in numerous locations daily, with extensive reliance on 
automated controls. Appropriate IT controls are required to 
ensure that applications process data as expected and that 
changes are made in an appropriate manner. This risk is also 
impacted by the growing dependency on third parties, 
increasing use of cloud platforms, decommissioning of legacy 
systems, and migration to new systems. Such controls 
contribute to mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as 
a result of changes to applications and data.

The Group has implemented user access management controls 
across IT applications, databases and operating systems. We 
have identified user access-related deficiencies in the past and 
similar thematic issues have been noted in the current year, and 
thus the risk of inappropriate access remains.

Our response to the risk

We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of IT general controls over the applications, operating 
systems and databases that are relevant to financial reporting.  

We tested user access by assessing the controls in place for in-scope applications, in particular testing the 
addition and periodic recertification of users’ access. We continue to focus on key controls enforced by the 
Group’s user access management tools, including ensuring the completeness of user data, automated 
identification of movers and leavers and the adequacy of the overall control environment in addressing access-
related IT risks to financial reporting. There have been no significant changes in the suite of access management 
controls operated by the Group in the current year. 

For systems outsourced to third party service providers, we tested IT general controls through evaluating the 
relevant Service Organisation Controls (“SOC”) reports (where available). This included assessing the timing of 
the reporting, the controls tested by the service auditor and whether they addressed relevant IT risks. We also 
tested required complementary user entity controls performed by management. Where a SOC report was not 
available, we identified and reviewed compensating business controls to address risks to financial reporting.  
Several systems have been migrated to a cloud-hosted infrastructure model, however access management 
processes and controls remained in-house, and they formed part of our testing. 

Where control deficiencies were identified, we tested remediation activities performed by management and/or 
compensating controls in place and assessed the impact, of any residual risk over financial statement reporting. 
We also performed a further aggregation analysis of access management deficiencies identified by EY, 
management, and Internal Audit to consider the pervasiveness of findings identified, and the impact on our 
overall approach to access management testing. We noted that no further changes to our approach were 
required.  

Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee  
Based on our testing procedures, including validating management’s remediation activities, and testing of compensating controls, we are satisfied that reliance can be placed upon IT 
controls impacting material financial reporting systems. The following matters were reported to the Group Audit Committee:

 IT control deficiencies were identified in relation to privileged access management. These deficiencies in the audit period resulted in an increased risk in relation to data, reports 

and automated system functionality within the impacted systems.

 However,  overall,  in  combination  with  compensating  controls,  we  are  satisfied  that  the  Group’s  overall  IT  control  environment  appropriately  supports  the  financial  reporting 

process.

 While improvements have been made to further standardise IT access management processes and controls, there are still IT applications relevant to financial reporting which 
make use of bespoke tools and/or processes to perform access-related controls. Control deficiencies continued to be observed in these areas, which led to an increase in the 
overall number of reported IT control deficiencies requiring remediation by management.

OOuurr  aapppplliiccaattiioonn  ooff  mmaatteerriiaalliittyy  

Reporting threshold

We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating 

the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.  

Materiality

procedures.

The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could 

reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial 

statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit 

We determined materiality for the Group to be £316 million (2022 - £208 million), which 

is 5% (2022 - 5%) of the profit before tax of the Group of £6,178 million (2022 - £5,132 

forming our opinion.

OOtthheerr  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  

An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit 

differences in excess of £16 million (2022 - £10 million), which is set at 5% of planning 

materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 

reporting on qualitative grounds. 

We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of 

materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in 

million) adjusted for non-recurring conduct and litigation costs. We believe removing 

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and 

these non-recurring charges reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial 

Accounts, including the Strategic report, Financial review, Corporate governance, Report 

statements and is consistent with the prior year. The 5% basis used for Group materiality 

of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, Report of the Group Audit 

is consistent with the wider industry, and is the standard for listed and regulated entities.

Committee, Report of the Group Board Risk Committee, Report of the Group Sustainable 

We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be £316 million (2022 - £208 

million) which is 0.6% (2022 - 0.4%) of equity of the Parent Company. We believe this 

reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements as the Parent 

Company’s primary purpose is to act as a holding company with investments in the 

Banking Committee, Report of the directors, Risk and capital management, Non-IFRS 

financial measures, Risk factors, Material contracts, and Additional information, other 

than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are 

responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. 

Group’s subsidiaries, not to generate operating profits and therefore a profit-based 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except 

measure is not relevant. 

Performance materiality

The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.  It is set at an 

amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of 

uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.

On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s 

overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 

(2022 - 75%) of our planning materiality, namely £237 million (2022 - £156 million). We 

have based the percentage of performance materiality on a number of considerations, 

including the number and amount of identified misstatements, the effectiveness of the 

control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting. 

Audit work at component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over 

significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total 

performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based 

on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our 

assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the 

range of performance materiality allocated to components was £107 million to £207 

million (2022 - £47 million to £136 million).

to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of 

assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the 

other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our 

knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially 

misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material 

misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material 

misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have 

performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, 

we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229955

295

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

OOuurr  aapppplliiccaattiioonn  ooff  mmaatteerriiaalliittyy  
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating 
the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.  

Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial 
statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit 
procedures.

We determined materiality for the Group to be £316 million (2022 - £208 million), which 
is 5% (2022 - 5%) of the profit before tax of the Group of £6,178 million (2022 - £5,132 
million) adjusted for non-recurring conduct and litigation costs. We believe removing 
these non-recurring charges reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial 
statements and is consistent with the prior year. The 5% basis used for Group materiality 
is consistent with the wider industry, and is the standard for listed and regulated entities.

We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be £316 million (2022 - £208 
million) which is 0.6% (2022 - 0.4%) of equity of the Parent Company. We believe this 
reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements as the Parent 
Company’s primary purpose is to act as a holding company with investments in the 
Group’s subsidiaries, not to generate operating profits and therefore a profit-based 
measure is not relevant. 

Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.  It is set at an 
amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of 
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.

On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s 
overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 
(2022 - 75%) of our planning materiality, namely £237 million (2022 - £156 million). We 
have based the percentage of performance materiality on a number of considerations, 
including the number and amount of identified misstatements, the effectiveness of the 
control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting. 

Audit work at component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over 
significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total 
performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based 
on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our 
assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the 
range of performance materiality allocated to components was £107 million to £207 
million (2022 - £47 million to £136 million).

Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit 
differences in excess of £16 million (2022 - £10 million), which is set at 5% of planning 
materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. 

We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of 
materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in 
forming our opinion.

OOtthheerr  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and 
Accounts, including the Strategic report, Financial review, Corporate governance, Report 
of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, Report of the Group Audit 
Committee, Report of the Group Board Risk Committee, Report of the Group Sustainable 
Banking Committee, Report of the directors, Risk and capital management, Non-IFRS 
financial measures, Risk factors, Material contracts, and Additional information, other 
than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are 
responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except 
to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our 
knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material 
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material 
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, 
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229966

296

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229977

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

OOppiinniioonnss  oonn  ootthheerr  mmaatttteerrss  pprreessccrriibbeedd  bbyy  tthhee  CCoommppaanniieess  AAcctt  22000066
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

 the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the directors for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable legal requirements;

 the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to 

financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance 
with rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook 
made by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA Rules), is consistent with the 
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal 
requirements; and

 information about the Group’s corporate governance statement and practices and 
about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees 
complies with rules 7.2.2, 7.2.3 and 7.2.7 of the FCA Rules.

MMaatttteerrss  oonn  wwhhiicchh  wwee  aarree  rreeqquuiirreedd  ttoo  rreeppoorrtt  bbyy  eexxcceeppttiioonn
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company 
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material 
misstatements in the;

 Strategic report or the Report of the directors; or
 the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to 

financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance 
with rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 of the FCA Rules.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 

Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or

 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; 

or

 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Group

CCoorrppoorraattee  GGoovveerrnnaannccee  SSttaatteemmeenntt
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, longer-term 
viability and that part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the group and 
company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the 
following elements of the Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent with 
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:

 Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going 

concern basis of accounting and any material uncertainties identified;

 Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the company’s prospects, the period 

this assessment covers and why the period is appropriate;
 Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable;
 Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable expectation that the group will 

be able to continue in operation and meets its liabilities;

 Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and 

principal risks;

 The section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk 

management and internal control systems; and;

 The section describing the work of the audit committee.

RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ooff  ddiirreeccttoorrss
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the 
Group and Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent 
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

AAuuddiittoorr’’ss  rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ffoorr  tthhee  aauuddiitt  ooff  tthhee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  

EExxppllaannaattiioonn  aass  ttoo  wwhhaatt  eexxtteenntt  tthhee  aauuddiitt  wwaass  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ccaappaabbllee  ooff  ddeetteeccttiinngg  

 The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment. 

iirrrreegguullaarriittiieess,,  iinncclluuddiinngg  ffrraauudd  

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. 

We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined below, to detect 

irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to 

fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may 

involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional 

misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are 

capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the 

engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and 

capabilities, involving specialists where appropriate. 

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is 

located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 

https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s 

report.

However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with 

OOtthheerr  mmaatttteerrss  wwee  aarree  rreeqquuiirreedd  ttoo  aaddddrreessss  

both those charged with governance of the company and management.

 We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are 

applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are the regulations, 

licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation 

Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); Companies Act 2006; 

and the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX). 

 We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making 

inquiries of management, internal audit and those responsible for legal and 

compliance matters. We also reviewed correspondence between the Group and 

banking regulatory bodies in relevant jurisdictions; reviewed minutes of the Board 

and Risk Committees; and gained an understanding of the Group’s governance 

framework.  

 Conducted a review of correspondence with and reports from the banking 

regulators, in relevant jurisdictions, including the PRA and the FCA

 Carried out an assessment of matters reported on the group’s whistleblowing 

programmes where these related to the financial statements. 

 We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial statements to material 

misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the controls 

established to address risks identified to prevent or detect fraud. We also assessed 

the risks of fraud in our key audit matters. Our procedures over our key audit 

matters and other significant accounting estimates included challenging management 

on the assumptions and judgements made in determining these estimates. 

 We designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with laws and 

regulations. Our procedures involved inquiries of legal counsel, executive 

management, internal audit and reading reports of reviews performed by external 

legal counsel. We also tested controls and performed procedures to respond to any 

financial statement impacts of non-compliance with laws and regulations through our 

work in response to the Provisions for customer redress, litigation and other 

regulatory matters, key audit matter. These procedures were performed by both the 

primary team and component teams with oversight from the primary team. 

 Identified and tested journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions 

or unusual characteristics, backdated journals or posted by infrequent and 

unexpected users.

 Following the recommendation from the Group Audit Committee, we were appointed 

by the Group at its annual general meeting on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial 

statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods. 

 The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and 

reappointments is 8 years, covering periods from our appointment through 31 

 The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Group Audit 

December 2023.  

Committee.

UUssee  ooff  oouurr  rreeppoorrtt

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 

Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken 

so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 

state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 

permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 

company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 

for the opinions we have formed.

Micha Missakian (Senior statutory auditor)

for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor

London, United Kingdom

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229977

297

Independent auditors’ report to the members of NatWest Group plc continued

EExxppllaannaattiioonn  aass  ttoo  wwhhaatt  eexxtteenntt  tthhee  aauuddiitt  wwaass  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ccaappaabbllee  ooff  ddeetteeccttiinngg  
iirrrreegguullaarriittiieess,,  iinncclluuddiinngg  ffrraauudd  
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. 
We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined below, to detect 
irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to 
fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional 
misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are 
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

 The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment. 
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the 
engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and 
capabilities, involving specialists where appropriate. 

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is 
located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s 
report.

However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with 
both those charged with governance of the company and management.

 We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are 

applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are the regulations, 
licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); Companies Act 2006; 
and the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX). 

 We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making 
inquiries of management, internal audit and those responsible for legal and 
compliance matters. We also reviewed correspondence between the Group and 
banking regulatory bodies in relevant jurisdictions; reviewed minutes of the Board 
and Risk Committees; and gained an understanding of the Group’s governance 
framework.  

 Conducted a review of correspondence with and reports from the banking 

regulators, in relevant jurisdictions, including the PRA and the FCA

 Carried out an assessment of matters reported on the group’s whistleblowing 

programmes where these related to the financial statements. 

 We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial statements to material 
misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the controls 
established to address risks identified to prevent or detect fraud. We also assessed 
the risks of fraud in our key audit matters. Our procedures over our key audit 
matters and other significant accounting estimates included challenging management 
on the assumptions and judgements made in determining these estimates. 
 We designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with laws and 
regulations. Our procedures involved inquiries of legal counsel, executive 
management, internal audit and reading reports of reviews performed by external 
legal counsel. We also tested controls and performed procedures to respond to any 
financial statement impacts of non-compliance with laws and regulations through our 
work in response to the Provisions for customer redress, litigation and other 
regulatory matters, key audit matter. These procedures were performed by both the 
primary team and component teams with oversight from the primary team. 

 Identified and tested journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions 

or unusual characteristics, backdated journals or posted by infrequent and 
unexpected users.

OOtthheerr  mmaatttteerrss  wwee  aarree  rreeqquuiirreedd  ttoo  aaddddrreessss  
 Following the recommendation from the Group Audit Committee, we were appointed 
by the Group at its annual general meeting on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial 
statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods. 

 The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and 
reappointments is 8 years, covering periods from our appointment through 31 
December 2023.  

 The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Group Audit 

Committee.

UUssee  ooff  oouurr  rreeppoorrtt
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 
for the opinions we have formed.

Micha Missakian (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229988

298

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

229999

Consolidated income statement

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Interest receivable
Interest payable
NNeett  iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee
Fees and commissions receivable
Fees and commissions payable
Trading income
Other operating income
NNoonn--iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee
TToottaall  iinnccoommee
Staff costs
Premises and equipment
Other administrative expenses
Depreciation and amortisation
OOppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess
PPrrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  lloosssseess//rreelleeaasseess
Impairment (losses)/releases
OOppeerraattiinngg  pprrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx
TTaaxx  cchhaarrggee
PPrrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ccoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss,,  nneett  ooff  ttaaxx ((33))

PPrrooffiitt  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Preference shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

Earnings per ordinary share - continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share - discontinued operations
Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders - basic (4)
Earnings per ordinary share - fully diluted continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share - fully diluted discontinued operations
Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders - fully diluted

Note

1

2

3

15

7

8

9

9

9

9

9

9

2023

£m
21,026
(9,977)
11,049
2,983
(653)
794
579
3,703
14,752
(3,901)
(1,153)
(2,008)
(934)
(7,996)
6,756
(578)
6,178
(1,434)
4,744
(112)

4,632

4,394
-
242
(4)

4,632

49.2p
(1.2p)
47.9p
48.9p
(1.2p)
47.7p

2022

£m
12,637
(2,795)
9,842
2,915
(623)
1,133
(111)
3,314
13,156
(3,716)
(1,112)
(2,026)
(833)
(7,687)
5,469
(337)
5,132
(1,275)
3,857
(262)

3,595

3,340
-
249
6

3,595

36.5p
(2.7p)
33.8p
36.2p
(2.6p)
33.6p

2021 (1)

£m
9,234
(1,699)
7,535
2,694
(574)
323
451
2,894
10,429
(3,676)
(1,133)
(2,026)
(923)
(7,758)
2,671
1,173
3,844
(996)
2,848
464

3,312

2,950
19
299
44

3,312

23.0p
4.3p
27.3p
22.9p
4.3p
27.2p

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the 
Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited 
sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital 
management sections on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form 
an integral part of these financial statements.

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the 

Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited 

sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital 

management sections on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form 

an integral part of these financial statements.

Profit for the year

IItteemmss  tthhaatt  ddoo  nnoott  qquuaalliiffyy  ffoorr  rreeccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn

Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes

Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities designated at FVTPL

FVOCI financial assets

Tax 

IItteemmss  tthhaatt  ddoo  qquuaalliiffyy  ffoorr  rreeccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn 

FVOCI financial assets 

Cash flow hedges (1)

Currency translation

Tax 

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee//((lloosssseess))  aafftteerr  ttaaxx

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::

Ordinary shareholders

Preference shareholders

Paid-in equity holders

Non-controlling interests

2023

£m

4,632

(280)

(39)

17

79

(223)

49

1,208

(619)

(361)

277

54

4,686

4,448

-

242

(4)

4,686

2022

£m

3,595

(840)

50

59

187

(544)

(457)

(3,277)

241

1,067

(2,426)

(2,970)

625

370

249

-

6

625

2021

£m

3,312

(669)

(29)

13

164

(521)

(100)

(848)

(382)

213

(1,117)

(1,638)

1,674

1,308

19

299

48

1,674

(1)

Refer to footnotes 6 and 7 of the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.

(1) Comparative results have been re-presented from those previously published to 
reclassify certain items as discontinued operations as described in Note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

(2) At the General Meeting and Class Meeting on 25 August 2022, the shareholders 

approved the proposed special dividend and share consolidation. On 30 August 
2022 the issued ordinary share capital was consolidated in the ratio of 14 existing 
shares for 13 new shares. The average number of shares and earnings per share 
have been adjusted retrospectively.
The results of discontinued operations, comprising the post-tax profit, is shown as 
a single amount on the face of the income statement. An analysis of this amount is 
presented in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
In 2023, the unrounded Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary 
shareholders – basic is 47.948p. The unrounded Earnings per ordinary share – 
continuing operations was 49.170p. The unrounded Earnings per ordinary share – 
discontinued operations was (1.222p).

(3)

(4)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

229999

299

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the year
IItteemmss  tthhaatt  ddoo  nnoott  qquuaalliiffyy  ffoorr  rreeccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn
Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes
Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities designated at FVTPL
FVOCI financial assets
Tax 

IItteemmss  tthhaatt  ddoo  qquuaalliiffyy  ffoorr  rreeccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn 
FVOCI financial assets 
Cash flow hedges (1)
Currency translation
Tax 

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee//((lloosssseess))  aafftteerr  ttaaxx
TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Preference shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

2023

£m
4,632

(280)
(39)
17
79
(223)

49
1,208
(619)
(361)
277
54
4,686

4,448
-
242
(4)
4,686

2022

£m
3,595

(840)
50
59
187
(544)

(457)
(3,277)
241
1,067
(2,426)
(2,970)
625

370
-
249
6
625

2021

£m
3,312

(669)
(29)
13
164
(521)

(100)
(848)
(382)
213
(1,117)
(1,638)
1,674

1,308
19
299
48
1,674

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the 
Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited 
sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital 
management sections on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form 
an integral part of these financial statements.

(1)

Refer to footnotes 6 and 7 of the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330000

300

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

330011

Consolidated balance sheet

As at 31 December 2023

AAsssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Securities subject to repurchase agreements
Other financial assets excluding securities subject to repurchase agreements
Other financial assets
Intangible assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups
TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Other liabilities
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

Ordinary shareholders' interests
Other owners' interests
Owners' equity
Non-controlling interests
TToottaall  eeqquuiittyy

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the 
Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited 
sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital 
management sections on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form 
an integral part of these financial statements.

The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 15 
February 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Howard Davies
Chairman

John-Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial Officer

NatWest Group plc
Registered No. SC45551

Note 

2023

£m

2022

£m

10

13

14

10

10

16

17

18

8

10

10

13

14

19

20

21

22

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
6,914
381,433
8,764
42,338
51,102
7,614
8,760
902
692,673

22,190
431,377
6,645
53,636
72,395
55,089
5,714
3,237
5,202
655,485

33,267
3,890
37,157
31
37,188

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
7,139
366,340
2,901
27,994
30,895
7,116
9,176
6,861
720,053

20,441
450,318
2,012
52,808
94,047
49,107
6,260
3,218
5,346
683,557

32,598
3,890
36,488
8
36,496

692,673

720,053

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

For the year ended 31 December 2023

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders

   and other equity owners  

      - continuing operations

      - discontinued operations

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Realised gains in period on FVOCI equity shares 

Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 

Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities

designated at FVTPL due to own credit risk

Unrealised losses

Amounts recognised in equity

Retranslation of net assets

Gains on hedges of net assets

Amount transferred from equity to earnings (4)

Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid

Paid-in equity dividends paid

Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)

Employee share schemes

Shares vested under employee share schemes

Share-based payments

Own shares acquired (2)

Acquisition of subsidiary

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

Share 

Other

capital and

Paid-in 

statutory 

Retained

Cash flow 

Foreign

Total

Non

owners'

controlling

share premium

equity

reserves (9)

earnings

Fair value hedging (6,7)

exchange

Merger

 interests

£m

11,700

£m

3,890

£m

1,393

£m

10,019

£m

(102)

£m

(2,771)

£m

1,478

£m

equity

£m

10,881

36,488

Other reserves

(1)

22

44

(12)

53

187

1,021

(336)

872

(239)

107

(487)

(18)

(637)

-

4,748

(112)

1

(280)

(39)

84

4,402

(1,456)

(242)

(2,057)

14

(35)

Total 

equity

£m

36,496

4,744

(112)

-

(280)

(39)

22

187

(239)

107

578

(282)

4,686

(1,461)

(242)

(2,057)

14

114

(35)

(359)

32

37,188

£m

8

(4)

(4)

(5)

32

31

4,748

(112)

-

(280)

(39)

22

187

(239)

107

578

(282)

4,690

(1,456)

(242)

(2,057)

14

114

(35)

(359)

(856)

856

114

(359)

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital management sections 

on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.

For the notes to this table refer to page 303. 

10,844

3,890

2,004

10,645

(49)

(1,899)

841

10,881

37,157

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330011

301

Total

Non

owners'

controlling

equity

 interests

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

For the year ended 31 December 2023

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders
   and other equity owners  
      - continuing operations
      - discontinued operations

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Realised gains in period on FVOCI equity shares 
Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 
Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities

designated at FVTPL due to own credit risk

Unrealised losses
Amounts recognised in equity
Retranslation of net assets
Gains on hedges of net assets
Amount transferred from equity to earnings (4)
Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)
Employee share schemes
Shares vested under employee share schemes
Share-based payments
Own shares acquired (2)
Acquisition of subsidiary

Share 

Other

capital and

Paid-in 

statutory 

Retained

Cash flow 

Foreign

share premium

equity

reserves (9)

earnings

Fair value hedging (6,7)

exchange

£m
11,700

£m
3,890

£m
1,393

£m
10,019

£m
(102)

£m
(2,771)

£m
1,478

Merger

£m
10,881

Other reserves

(1)

22

44
(12)
53

187

1,021
(336)
872

(239)
107
(487)
(18)
(637)

-

4,748
(112)

1
(280)

(39)

84
4,402

(1,456)
(242)
(2,057)
14

(35)

(856)

856

114

(359)

£m
36,488

4,748
(112)

-
(280)

(39)
22
187
(239)
107
578
(282)
4,690

(1,456)
(242)
(2,057)
14
114
(35)
(359)

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

10,844

3,890

2,004

10,645

(49)

(1,899)

841

10,881

37,157

Total 

equity

£m
36,496

4,744
(112)

-
(280)

(39)
22
187
(239)
107
578
(282)
4,686

(1,461)
(242)
(2,057)
14
114
(35)
(359)
32
37,188

£m
8

(4)

(4)

(5)

32
31

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital management sections 
on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.

For the notes to this table refer to page 303. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330022

302

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

330033

Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued

Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders
   and other equity owners  
      - continuing operations
      - discontinued operations

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Realised gains in period on FVOCI equity shares 
Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 
Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities

designated at FVTPL due to own credit risk

Unrealised losses
Amounts recognised in equity
Retranslation of net assets
Losses on hedges of net assets
Amount transferred from equity to earnings (4)
Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Special dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)
Redemption of preference shares (5)
Enployee share schemes
Shares vested under employee share schemes
Share-based payments
Tax on redemption of paid-in equity

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

For the notes to this table refer to the following page. 

Share 

Other

capital and

Paid-in

statutory 

share premium

equity

reserves (9)

£m
12,629

£m
3,890

£m
351

(929)

929

113

11,700

-
3,890

1,393

Other reserves

Cash flow

Foreign

Fair value

hedging (6,7)

exchange

£m
269

£m
(395)

£m
1,205

Merger

£m
10,881

(113)

(570)

(2,973)

172
140
(371)

(304)
901
(2,376)

512
(266)
(5)
32
273

-

(102)

(2,771)

1,478

10,881

Total

Non

owners'

controlling

equity

 interests

£m
41,796

3,851
(262)

-
(840)

50
(570)
(2,973)
512
(266)
(137)
1,254
619

(1,205)
(1,746)
(249)
(2,054)
(750)
6
113
(6)
(36)
36,488

£m
7

6

6

(5)
-

8

Total 

equity

£m
41,803

3,857
(262)
-
-
-
(840)
-
50
(570)
(2,973)
512
(266)
(137)
1,254
625

(1,210)
(1,746)
(249)
(2,054)
(750)
6
113
(6)
(36)
36,496

Retained

earnings

£m
12,966

3,851
(262)

113
(840)

50

181
3,093

(1,205)
(1,746)
(249)
(2,054)
(750)
6

(6)
(36)
10,019

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002211

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders

   and other equity owners  

      - continuing operations

      - discontinued operations

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Realised gains in period on FVOCI equity shares 

Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 

Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities

designated at FVTPL due to own credit risk

Unrealised losses

Amounts recognised in equity

Retranslation of net assets

Gains on hedges of net assets

Amount transferred from equity to earnings (4)

Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid

Equity preference dividends paid

Paid-in equity dividends paid

Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)

Redemption of preference shares

Shares and securities issued during the period (8)

Reclassification of paid-in equity (3)

Employee share schemes

Shares vested under employee share schemes

Share-based payments

Own shares acquired (2)

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211 ((1100))

capital and

Paid-in

statutory 

Cash flow

Foreign

share premium

equity

reserves (9)

Fair value

hedging (6,7)

exchange

Merger

Share 

£m

13,240

£m

4,999

Other

£m

(24)

Other reserves

£m

360

£m

229

£m

1,608

Total

Non

owners'

controlling

£m

equity

£m

10,881

43,860

 interests

£m

(36)

Total 

equity

£m

43,824

Retained

earnings

£m

12,567

2,804

464

3

(669)

(29)

171

2,744

(693)

(19)

(299)

(1,423)

(24)

150

8

(45)

(3)

32

(119)

(1)

(91)

(687)

(161)

224

(624)

(484)

88

10

(17)

(403)

-

2,804

464

-

(669)

(29)

32

(687)

(484)

88

(270)

377

1,626

(693)

(19)

(299)

(1,423)

-

1,024

(1,896)

8

36

(45)

(383)

44

2,848

464

4

48

(5)

-

-

(669)

(29)

32

(687)

(480)

88

(270)

377

1,674

(698)

(19)

(299)

(1,423)

-

1,024

(1,896)

8

36

(45)

(383)

(698)

87

937

(2,046)

698

24

36

(383)

351

12,629

3,890

12,966

269

(395)

1,205

10,881

41,796

7

41,803

(1) NatWest Group plc repurchased and cancelled 460.3 million (2022 - 379.3 million, 2021 - 310.8 million) shares, of which 2.3 million were settled in January 2024. The total consideration of these shares excluding fees was £1,151.7 million (2022 - £829.3 

million, 2021 £676.2 million), of which £4.9 million were settled in January 2024, as part of the On Market Share Buyback Programmes. The nominal value of the share cancellations has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.

(2)

In May 2023, there was an agreement to buy 469.2 million (March 2022 - 549.9 million, March 2021 - 591.0 million) ordinary shares of the Company from UK Government Investments Ltd (UKGI) at 268.4 pence per share (March 2022 - 220.5 pence per 

share, March 2021 - 190.5 pence per share) for the total consideration of £1.3 billion (2022 - £1.2 billion, 2021 - £1.1 billion). NatWest Group cancelled 336.2 million of the purchased ordinary shares, amounting to £906.9 million excluding fees and held the 

remaining 133.0 million shares as Own Shares Held, amounting to £358.8 million excluding fees. The nominal value of the share cancellation has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.

In July 2021, paid-in equity was reclassified to liabilities as the result of a call in August 2021 of US$2.65 billion AT1 capital notes.

Includes £460 million foreign exchange recycled to profit or loss upon completion of a capital repayment by UBIDAC.

Following an announcement of a Regulatory Call in February 2022, the Series U preference shares were reclassified to liabilities. A £254 million loss was recognised in retained earnings as a result of foreign exchange unlocking.

The change in the cash flow hedging reserve is driven by realised accrued interest transferred into the income statement and a decrease in swap rates compared to previous periods where they rose. The portfolio of hedging instruments is predominantly 

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

receive fixed swaps. 

(7) As referred in Note 14, the amount transferred from equity to the income statement is mostly recorded within net interest income mainly in loans to customers, balances at central banks and customer deposits as per Note 1.

(8)

There was an issue of shares in 2021. This is split between Ordinary share capital of £37 million and Share premium of £50 million. 

(9) Other statutory reserves consist of Capital redemption reserves of £2,507 million (2022 - £1,651 million, 2021 - £722 million) and Own shares held reserves of £503 million (2022 - £258 million, 2021 - £371 million).

(10)

In 2021, the Total equity balance of £41,803 million includes £494 million attributable to Preference shareholders.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330033

303

Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002211
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
   and other equity owners  
      - continuing operations
      - discontinued operations

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Realised gains in period on FVOCI equity shares 
Remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 
Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities

designated at FVTPL due to own credit risk

Unrealised losses
Amounts recognised in equity
Retranslation of net assets
Gains on hedges of net assets
Amount transferred from equity to earnings (4)
Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Equity preference dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)
Redemption of preference shares
Shares and securities issued during the period (8)
Reclassification of paid-in equity (3)
Employee share schemes
Shares vested under employee share schemes
Share-based payments
Own shares acquired (2)
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211 ((1100))

Share 

Other

capital and

Paid-in

statutory 

share premium

equity

reserves (9)

£m
13,240

£m
4,999

£m
(24)

(698)

87

937
(2,046)

12,629

3,890

698
24

36

(383)
351

Other reserves

Cash flow

Foreign

Fair value

hedging (6,7)

exchange

£m
360

£m
229

£m
1,608

Merger

£m
10,881

(3)

32

(119)
(1)
(91)

(687)

(161)
224
(624)

(484)
88
10
(17)
(403)

-

Retained

earnings

£m
12,567

2,804
464

3
(669)

(29)

171
2,744

(693)
(19)
(299)
(1,423)
(24)

150
8

(45)

12,966

269

(395)

1,205

10,881

Total

Non

owners'

controlling

equity

 interests

£m
43,860

2,804
464

-
(669)

(29)
32
(687)
(484)
88
(270)
377
1,626

(693)
(19)
(299)
(1,423)
-
1,024
(1,896)
8
36
(45)
(383)
41,796

£m
(36)

44

4

48

(5)
-

7

Total 

equity

£m
43,824

2,848
464

-
(669)

(29)
32
(687)
(480)
88
(270)
377
1,674

(698)
(19)
(299)
(1,423)
-
1,024
(1,896)
8
36
(45)
(383)
41,803

(1) NatWest Group plc repurchased and cancelled 460.3 million (2022 - 379.3 million, 2021 - 310.8 million) shares, of which 2.3 million were settled in January 2024. The total consideration of these shares excluding fees was £1,151.7 million (2022 - £829.3 

(2)

(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)

million, 2021 £676.2 million), of which £4.9 million were settled in January 2024, as part of the On Market Share Buyback Programmes. The nominal value of the share cancellations has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
In May 2023, there was an agreement to buy 469.2 million (March 2022 - 549.9 million, March 2021 - 591.0 million) ordinary shares of the Company from UK Government Investments Ltd (UKGI) at 268.4 pence per share (March 2022 - 220.5 pence per 
share, March 2021 - 190.5 pence per share) for the total consideration of £1.3 billion (2022 - £1.2 billion, 2021 - £1.1 billion). NatWest Group cancelled 336.2 million of the purchased ordinary shares, amounting to £906.9 million excluding fees and held the 
remaining 133.0 million shares as Own Shares Held, amounting to £358.8 million excluding fees. The nominal value of the share cancellation has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
In July 2021, paid-in equity was reclassified to liabilities as the result of a call in August 2021 of US$2.65 billion AT1 capital notes.
Includes £460 million foreign exchange recycled to profit or loss upon completion of a capital repayment by UBIDAC.
Following an announcement of a Regulatory Call in February 2022, the Series U preference shares were reclassified to liabilities. A £254 million loss was recognised in retained earnings as a result of foreign exchange unlocking.
The change in the cash flow hedging reserve is driven by realised accrued interest transferred into the income statement and a decrease in swap rates compared to previous periods where they rose. The portfolio of hedging instruments is predominantly 
receive fixed swaps. 

There was an issue of shares in 2021. This is split between Ordinary share capital of £37 million and Share premium of £50 million. 

(7) As referred in Note 14, the amount transferred from equity to the income statement is mostly recorded within net interest income mainly in loans to customers, balances at central banks and customer deposits as per Note 1.
(8)
(9) Other statutory reserves consist of Capital redemption reserves of £2,507 million (2022 - £1,651 million, 2021 - £722 million) and Own shares held reserves of £503 million (2022 - £258 million, 2021 - £371 million).
(10)

In 2021, the Total equity balance of £41,803 million includes £494 million attributable to Preference shareholders.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330044

304

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

330055

Consolidated cash flow statement

For the year ended 31 December 2023

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ooppeerraattiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Operating profit before tax from continuing operations (1)
Operating (loss)/profit before tax from discontinued operations (1)

AAddjjuussttmmeennttss  ffoorr::
Non-cash and other items
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Income taxes paid
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ooppeerraattiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess ((22,,33))

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  iinnvveessttiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Sale and maturity of other financial assets
Purchase of other financial assets
Income received on other financial assets
Net movement in business interests and intangible assets 
Sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  iinnvveessttiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ffiinnaanncciinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Issue of paid-in equity
Issue of subordinated liabilities
Redemption of subordinated liabilities
Interest paid on subordinated liabilities
Issue of MRELs
Maturity and redemption MRELs
Interest paid on MRELs
Shares repurchased
Dividends paid
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ffiinnaanncciinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess 

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

NNeett  ((ddeeccrreeaassee))//iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
CCaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr

Note

27

27

28

29

30

2023

£m 

6,178
(112)

3,208
(25,679)
(1,033)
(17,438)

25,195
(44,906)
1,099
4,601
128
(811)
(14,694)

-
611
(1,250)
(439)
3,973
(4,236)
(844)
(2,416)
(1,703)
(6,304)

2022

£m 

5,132
(262)

1,203
(48,447)
(1,223)
(43,597)

36,975
(23,510)
659
5,420
154
(639)
19,059

-
648
(3,693)
(374)
3,721
(4,992)
(703)
(2,054)
(3,205)
(10,652)

2021

£m 

3,844
467

3,623
46,606
(856)
53,684

16,859
(10,150)
581
(3,489)
165
(901)
3,065

937
1,634
(4,765)
(321)
3,383
-
(647)
(1,806)
(1,016)
(2,601)

(1,189)

2,933

(2,641)

(39,625)
158,449
118,824

(32,257)
190,706
158,449

51,507
139,199
190,706

The accompanying notes on pages 313 to 388, the 
Accounting policies on pages 305 to 312 and the audited 
sections of the Financial review and Risk and capital 
management sections on pages 71 to 82 and 172 to 282 
form an integral part of these financial statements.

(1)

(2)

(3)

Comparative results have been re-presented from those previously published to 
reclassify certain operations as discontinued operations as described in Note 8 to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
Includes interest received of £20,345 million (2022 - £12,638 million, 2021 - 
£9,696 million) and interest paid of £8,871 million (2022 - £2,357 million, 2021 - 
£1,668 million).
The total cash outflow for leases is £122 million (2022 - £170 million; 2021 - £195 
million), including payment of principal amount of £102 million (2022 - £145 
million, 2021 - £164 million) which are included in the operating activities.

Accounting policies

This section includes the basis of preparation, critical and material 

accounting policies used to prepare the financial statements.

Our accounting policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules, 

and practices we apply in preparing and presenting the financial statements. 

Further information is provided where judgement and estimation is applied to 

critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty.

Future accounting developments details new, or amendments to existing, 

accounting standards, when they are effective from and where we are 

assessing their impact on future financial statements.

11..  PPrreesseennttaattiioonn  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  

NatWest Group plc is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland. The financial 

statements are presented in the functional currency, pounds sterling.

The audited financial statements include audited sections of the Risk and capital 

management section. The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going 

concern basis after assessing the principal risks, forecasts, projections and other relevant 

evidence over the twelve months from the date the financial statements are approved 

(refer to the Report of the directors) and in accordance with UK adopted International 

Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 

issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The critical and material 

accounting policies and related judgements are set out below.

The financial statements are presented on a historical cost basis except for certain 

financial instruments which are stated at fair value. 

The effect of the amendments to IFRS effective from 1 January 2023 on our financial 

statements was immaterial.

We have applied the exception issued by the IASB in May 2023 from the accounting 

requirements for deferred taxes in IAS 12 Income taxes in respect of Pillar Two income 

taxes. Accordingly, we have not recognised or disclosed information about deferred tax 

assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

Our consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of NatWest Group plc and 

the entities it controls. Control arises when we have the power to direct the activities of 

an entity so as to affect the return from the entity. Control is assessed by reference to 

our ability to enforce our will on the other entity, typically through voting rights. The 

consolidated financial statements are prepared under consistent accounting policies.

A subsidiary is included in the consolidated financial statements at fair value on 

acquisition from the date it is controlled by us until the date we cease to control it 

through a sale or a significant change in circumstances. Changes in our interest in a 

subsidiary that do not result in us ceasing to control that subsidiary are accounted for as 

equity transactions.

We apply accounting for associates and joint arrangements to entities where we have 

significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies. We assess 

significant influence by reference to a presumption of voting rights of more than 20%, but 

less than 50%, supplemented by a qualitative assessment of substantive rights which 

include representation at the Board of Directors, significant exchange of managerial 

personnel or technology amongst others. 

Investments in associates and joint ventures are recorded upon initial recognition at cost, 

increased or decreased each period by the share of the subsequent levels of profit or 

loss, and other changes in equity are considered in line with their nature.

The judgements and assumptions involved in our accounting policies that are considered 

by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are 

noted below. The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted 

by us would affect our reported results. 

How Climate risk affects our accounting judgements and estimates

BBuussiinneessss  ppllaannnniinngg  

Key financial estimates are based on management's latest five-year revenue and cost 

forecasts. The outputs from this forecast affect forward-looking accounting estimates. 

Measurement of deferred tax and expected credit losses are highly sensitive to 

reasonably possible changes in those anticipated conditions. In 2023, our scenario 

planning was enhanced by the further integration of NatWest Group’s climate transition 

plan, including the assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities.







 Our Climate transition plan includes an assessment of:

changes in products, services and business operations to support customer 

transition towards net zero;

financial impacts of supporting customer transition, including investment 

required. The linkage between our financial plan and our Climate transition plan 

will continue to be developed and refreshed annually as part of the financial 

planning cycle;

the climate impact of policies, using the UK Climate Change Committee (UK 

CCC) Balanced Net Zero (BNZ) pathway scenario, aligned with the UK’s Sixth 

Carbon Budget. In addition, we have used the credibility ratings for sectoral 

policies provided by the UK CCC 2023 Progress Report, published in June, to 

the Parliament to develop a BNZ adjusted pathway to reflect estimated time 

delays of these policies. 

 There remains considerable uncertainty regarding this policy response, including the 

effect of wider geo-political uncertainty on governmental ambitions regarding climate 

transition and the effect of decarbonisation on wider economic growth, technology 

development and customer behaviours.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330055

305

Accounting policies

This section includes the basis of preparation, critical and material 
accounting policies used to prepare the financial statements.

Our accounting policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules, 
and practices we apply in preparing and presenting the financial statements. 
Further information is provided where judgement and estimation is applied to 
critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty.

Future accounting developments details new, or amendments to existing, 
accounting standards, when they are effective from and where we are 
assessing their impact on future financial statements.

11..  PPrreesseennttaattiioonn  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  
NatWest Group plc is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland. The financial 
statements are presented in the functional currency, pounds sterling.

The audited financial statements include audited sections of the Risk and capital 
management section. The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going 
concern basis after assessing the principal risks, forecasts, projections and other relevant 
evidence over the twelve months from the date the financial statements are approved 
(refer to the Report of the directors) and in accordance with UK adopted International 
Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The critical and material 
accounting policies and related judgements are set out below.

The financial statements are presented on a historical cost basis except for certain 
financial instruments which are stated at fair value. 

The effect of the amendments to IFRS effective from 1 January 2023 on our financial 
statements was immaterial.

We have applied the exception issued by the IASB in May 2023 from the accounting 
requirements for deferred taxes in IAS 12 Income taxes in respect of Pillar Two income 
taxes. Accordingly, we have not recognised or disclosed information about deferred tax 
assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

Our consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of NatWest Group plc and 
the entities it controls. Control arises when we have the power to direct the activities of 
an entity so as to affect the return from the entity. Control is assessed by reference to 
our ability to enforce our will on the other entity, typically through voting rights. The 
consolidated financial statements are prepared under consistent accounting policies.

A subsidiary is included in the consolidated financial statements at fair value on 
acquisition from the date it is controlled by us until the date we cease to control it 
through a sale or a significant change in circumstances. Changes in our interest in a 
subsidiary that do not result in us ceasing to control that subsidiary are accounted for as 
equity transactions.

We apply accounting for associates and joint arrangements to entities where we have 
significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies. We assess 
significant influence by reference to a presumption of voting rights of more than 20%, but 
less than 50%, supplemented by a qualitative assessment of substantive rights which 
include representation at the Board of Directors, significant exchange of managerial 
personnel or technology amongst others. 

Investments in associates and joint ventures are recorded upon initial recognition at cost, 
increased or decreased each period by the share of the subsequent levels of profit or 
loss, and other changes in equity are considered in line with their nature.

The judgements and assumptions involved in our accounting policies that are considered 
by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are 
noted below. The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted 
by us would affect our reported results. 

How Climate risk affects our accounting judgements and estimates
BBuussiinneessss  ppllaannnniinngg  
Key financial estimates are based on management's latest five-year revenue and cost 
forecasts. The outputs from this forecast affect forward-looking accounting estimates. 
Measurement of deferred tax and expected credit losses are highly sensitive to 
reasonably possible changes in those anticipated conditions. In 2023, our scenario 
planning was enhanced by the further integration of NatWest Group’s climate transition 
plan, including the assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities.

 Our Climate transition plan includes an assessment of:







changes in products, services and business operations to support customer 
transition towards net zero;
financial impacts of supporting customer transition, including investment 
required. The linkage between our financial plan and our Climate transition plan 
will continue to be developed and refreshed annually as part of the financial 
planning cycle;
the climate impact of policies, using the UK Climate Change Committee (UK 
CCC) Balanced Net Zero (BNZ) pathway scenario, aligned with the UK’s Sixth 
Carbon Budget. In addition, we have used the credibility ratings for sectoral 
policies provided by the UK CCC 2023 Progress Report, published in June, to 
the Parliament to develop a BNZ adjusted pathway to reflect estimated time 
delays of these policies. 

 There remains considerable uncertainty regarding this policy response, including the 
effect of wider geo-political uncertainty on governmental ambitions regarding climate 
transition and the effect of decarbonisation on wider economic growth, technology 
development and customer behaviours.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330066

306

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

330077

Accounting policies continued

IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  uusseedd  iinn  ootthheerr  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  eessttiimmaatteess
We make use of reasonable and supportable information to make accounting judgements 
and estimates. This includes information about the observable effects of the physical and 
transition risks of climate change on the current creditworthiness of borrowers, asset 
values and market indicators. It also includes the effect on our competitiveness and 
profitability. Many of the effects arising from climate change will be longer term in 
nature, with an inherent level of uncertainty, and have limited effect on accounting 
judgements and estimates for the current period. Some physical and transition risks can 
manifest in the shorter term. The following items represent the most significant effects:





The classification of financial instruments linked to climate, or other sustainability 
indicators: consideration is given to whether the effect of climate related terms 
prevent the instrument cashflows being solely payments of principal and interest.
The use of market indicators as inputs to fair value is assumed to include current 
information and knowledge regarding the effect of climate risk.

EEffffeecctt  ooff  cclliimmaattee  cchhaannggee  iinn  tthhee  eessttiimmaattiioonn  ooff  eexxppeecctteedd  ccrreeddiitt  lloossss
We are monitoring the effect of the physical and transition consequences of climate 
change on our experience of loan loss. We use available information regarding the effect 
of climate transition policy largely driven by carbon prices as an adjustment to 
macroeconomic factors that are used as inputs to the models that generate PD and LGD 
outcomes, which are key inputs to the ECL calculation. The determination of whether 
specific loss drivers and climate events generate specific losses is ongoing and is 
necessary to determine how sensitive changes in ECL could be to climate inputs. 

Future cashflows are discounted, so long dated cashflows are less likely to affect current 
expectations on credit loss. Our assessment of sector specific risks, and whether 
additional adjustments are required, include expectations of the ability of those sectors to 
meet their financing needs in the market. Changes in credit stewardship and credit risk 
appetite that stem from climate considerations, such as oil and gas, will directly affect 
our positions.

22..  CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliicciieess
The judgements and assumptions involved in our accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition are noted 
below. The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by us would affect our reported results. Management’s consideration of uncertainty is outlined in the 
relevant sections, including the ECL estimate in the Risk and capital management section.

Information used for significant estimate

Policy 

DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx

Judgement 

Estimate 

Further information 

Determination of whether sufficient sustainable taxable profits will 
be generated in future years to recover the deferred tax asset. 

Our estimates are based on the five year revenue and cost 
forecasts (which include inherent uncertainties). 

Note 7

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ––  ffiinnaanncciiaall  
iinnssttrruummeennttss

Classification of a fair value instrument as level 3, where the 
valuation is driven by unobservable inputs. 

Estimation of the fair value, where it is reasonably possible 
to have alternative assumptions in determining the FV. 

Note 11

LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  
pprroovviissiioonnss

PPrroovviissiioonnss  ffoorr  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  
aanndd  cchhaarrggeess

Definition of default against which to apply PD, LGD and EAD 
models.
Selection of multiple economic scenarios.
Criteria for a significant increase in credit risk. 
Identification of risks not captured by the models.

Determination of whether a present obligation exists in respect of 
customer redress, litigation and other regulatory, property and 
other provisions. Legal proceedings often require a high degree of 
judgement and these are likely to change as the matter 
progresses.

ECL estimates contain a number of measurement 
uncertainties (such as the weighting of multiple economic 
scenarios) and disclosures include sensitivities to show 
impact on other reasonably possible scenarios.

Note 15

Provisions remain sensitive to the assumptions used in the 
estimate. We consider a wide range of possible outcomes. It 
is often not practical to meaningfully quantify ranges of 
possible outcomes, given the uncertainties involved.

Note 21

Changes in judgements and assumptions could result in a material adjustment to those estimates in future reporting periods.

Accounting policies continued

2.1. Deferred tax

Deferred tax is the estimated tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of 

At each balance sheet date each financial asset or portfolio of financial assets measured 

temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting 

at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, issued financial 

purposes and the carrying amount for tax purposes in the future. Deferred tax liabilities 

guarantee and loan commitment (other than those classified as held for trading) is 

are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 

assessed for impairment. Any change in impairment is reported in the income statement.

are recognised to the extent their recovery is probable.

2.3. Loan impairment provisions: expected credit losses (ECL)

Loss allowances are forward-looking, based on 12-month ECL where there has not been 

a significant increase in credit risk rating, otherwise allowances are based on lifetime 

Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates expected to apply in the periods when the 

assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or 

expected losses.

substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date. 

Deferred tax asset recoverability is based on the level of supporting offsetable deferred 

tax liabilities we have and of our future taxable profits. These future taxable profits are 

based on our five-year revenue and cost forecasts and the expectation of long term 

economic growth beyond this period. The five-year forecast takes account of 

management’s current expectations on competitiveness and profitability. The long term 

growth rate reflects external indicators which will include market expectations on climate 

risk. We do not consider any additional adjustments to this indicator.

2.2. Fair value – financial instruments

We measure financial instruments at fair value when they are classified as mandatory 

fair value through profit or loss; held-for-trading; designated fair value through profit or 

loss and fair value through other comprehensive income and they are recognised in the 

financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value.

We manage some portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities based on our net 

exposure to either market or credit risk. In these cases, the fair value is derived from the 

net risk exposure of that portfolio with portfolio level adjustments applied to incorporate 

bid-offer spreads, counterparty credit risk, and funding costs (refer to ‘Valuation 

for IFRS 9.

Adjustments’).

Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a 

valuation technique. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the 

extent of which depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of market-

based data. The complexity and uncertainty in the financial instrument’s fair value is 

categorised using the fair value hierarchy.

The use of market indicators as inputs to fair value is assumed to include current 

information and knowledge regarding the effect of climate risk.

ECL are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. The probability is determined by 

the risk of default which is applied to the cash flow estimates. In the absence of a change 

in credit rating, allowances are recognised when there is a reduction in the net present 

value of expected cash flows. Following a significant increase in credit risk, ECL are 

adjusted from 12 months to lifetime. This will lead to a higher impairment charge.

The measurement of expected credit loss considers the ability of borrowers to make 

payments as they fall due. Future cashflows are discounted, so long-dated cashflows are 

less likely to affect current expectations on credit loss. Our assessment of sector specific 

risks, and whether additional adjustments are required, include expectations of the ability 

of those sectors to meet their financing needs in the market. Changes in credit risk 

appetite and how we manage credit positions that stem from climate considerations, 

such as oil and gas, will directly affect our positions.

Judgement is exercised as follows:

 MMooddeellss  – in certain low default portfolios, Basel parameter estimates are also applied 

 NNoonn--mmooddeelllleedd  ppoorrttffoolliiooss – use a standardised capital requirement under Basel II. 

Under IFRS 9, they have bespoke treatments for the identification of significant 

increase in credit risk. Benchmark PDs, EADs and LGDs are reviewed annually for 

appropriateness. The ECL calculation is based on expected future cash flows, which 

is typically applied at a portfolio level.

 MMuullttiippllee  eeccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss  ((MMEESS)) – the central, or base, scenario is most critical to 

the ECL calculation, independent of the method used to generate a range of 

alternative outcomes and their probabilities.

 SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk – IFRS 9 requires that at each reporting date, an 

entity shall assess whether the credit risk on an account has increased significantly 

since initial recognition. Part of this assessment requires a comparison to be made 

between the current lifetime PD (i.e. the current probability of default over the 

remaining lifetime) with the equivalent lifetime PD as determined at the date of initial 

recognition.

.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330077

307

Accounting policies continued

2.1. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the estimated tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of 
temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting 
purposes and the carrying amount for tax purposes in the future. Deferred tax liabilities 
are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent their recovery is probable.

Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates expected to apply in the periods when the 
assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or 
substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date. 

Deferred tax asset recoverability is based on the level of supporting offsetable deferred 
tax liabilities we have and of our future taxable profits. These future taxable profits are 
based on our five-year revenue and cost forecasts and the expectation of long term 
economic growth beyond this period. The five-year forecast takes account of 
management’s current expectations on competitiveness and profitability. The long term 
growth rate reflects external indicators which will include market expectations on climate 
risk. We do not consider any additional adjustments to this indicator.

2.2. Fair value – financial instruments
We measure financial instruments at fair value when they are classified as mandatory 
fair value through profit or loss; held-for-trading; designated fair value through profit or 
loss and fair value through other comprehensive income and they are recognised in the 
financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value.

We manage some portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities based on our net 
exposure to either market or credit risk. In these cases, the fair value is derived from the 
net risk exposure of that portfolio with portfolio level adjustments applied to incorporate 
bid-offer spreads, counterparty credit risk, and funding costs (refer to ‘Valuation 
Adjustments’).

Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a 
valuation technique. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the 
extent of which depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of market-
based data. The complexity and uncertainty in the financial instrument’s fair value is 
categorised using the fair value hierarchy.

The use of market indicators as inputs to fair value is assumed to include current 
information and knowledge regarding the effect of climate risk.

2.3. Loan impairment provisions: expected credit losses (ECL)
At each balance sheet date each financial asset or portfolio of financial assets measured 
at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, issued financial 
guarantee and loan commitment (other than those classified as held for trading) is 
assessed for impairment. Any change in impairment is reported in the income statement.

Loss allowances are forward-looking, based on 12-month ECL where there has not been 
a significant increase in credit risk rating, otherwise allowances are based on lifetime 
expected losses.

ECL are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. The probability is determined by 
the risk of default which is applied to the cash flow estimates. In the absence of a change 
in credit rating, allowances are recognised when there is a reduction in the net present 
value of expected cash flows. Following a significant increase in credit risk, ECL are 
adjusted from 12 months to lifetime. This will lead to a higher impairment charge.

The measurement of expected credit loss considers the ability of borrowers to make 
payments as they fall due. Future cashflows are discounted, so long-dated cashflows are 
less likely to affect current expectations on credit loss. Our assessment of sector specific 
risks, and whether additional adjustments are required, include expectations of the ability 
of those sectors to meet their financing needs in the market. Changes in credit risk 
appetite and how we manage credit positions that stem from climate considerations, 
such as oil and gas, will directly affect our positions.

Judgement is exercised as follows:

 MMooddeellss  – in certain low default portfolios, Basel parameter estimates are also applied 

for IFRS 9.

 NNoonn--mmooddeelllleedd  ppoorrttffoolliiooss – use a standardised capital requirement under Basel II. 
Under IFRS 9, they have bespoke treatments for the identification of significant 
increase in credit risk. Benchmark PDs, EADs and LGDs are reviewed annually for 
appropriateness. The ECL calculation is based on expected future cash flows, which 
is typically applied at a portfolio level.

 MMuullttiippllee  eeccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss  ((MMEESS)) – the central, or base, scenario is most critical to 

the ECL calculation, independent of the method used to generate a range of 
alternative outcomes and their probabilities.

 SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk – IFRS 9 requires that at each reporting date, an 

entity shall assess whether the credit risk on an account has increased significantly 
since initial recognition. Part of this assessment requires a comparison to be made 
between the current lifetime PD (i.e. the current probability of default over the 
remaining lifetime) with the equivalent lifetime PD as determined at the date of initial 
recognition.

.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330088

308

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

330099

Accounting policies continued

On restructuring where a financial asset is not derecognised, the revised cash flows are 
used in re-estimating the credit loss. Where restructuring causes derecognition of the 
original financial asset, the fair value of the replacement asset is used as the closing cash 
flow of the original asset.

Where in the course of the orderly realisation of a loan, it is exchanged for equity shares 
or property, the exchange is accounted for as the sale of the loan and the acquisition of 
equity securities or investment property. Where our acquired interest is in equity shares, 
relevant policies for control, associates and joint ventures apply. 

Impaired financial assets are written off and therefore derecognised from the balance 
sheet when we conclude that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of 
part, or all, of the loan. For financial assets that are individually assessed for impairment, 
the timing of the write-off is determined on a case-by-case basis. Such financial assets 
are reviewed regularly and write-off will be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, re-
negotiation, and similar events

The typical time frames from initial impairment to write-off for our collectively assessed 
portfolios are:

 Retail mortgages: write-off usually occurs within five years, or earlier, when an 

account is closed, but can be longer where the customer engages constructively; 
 Credit cards: the irrecoverable amount is typically written off after twelve arrears 

cycles or at four years post default any remaining amounts outstanding are written 
off;

 Overdrafts and other unsecured loans: write-off occurs within six years;
 Commercial loans: write-offs are determined in the light of individual circumstances; 

and Business loans are generally written off within five years.

2.4. Provisions 
We recognise a provision for a present obligation resulting from a past event when it is 
more likely than not that we will be required to pay to settle the obligation and the 
amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of redundancy, when we 
have a constructive obligation. An obligation exists when we have a detailed formal plan 
for the restructuring and have raised a valid expectation in those affected either by 
starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features.

We recognise any onerous cost of the present obligation under a contract as a provision. 
An onerous cost is the unavoidable cost of meeting our contractual obligations that 
exceed the expected economic benefits. When we intend to vacate a leasehold property 
or right of use asset, the asset would be tested for impairment and a provision may be 
recognised for the ancillary contractual occupancy costs.

33..  MMaatteerriiaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliicciieess
3.1. Revenue recognition
Interest receivable and payable are recognised in the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method for: all financial instruments measured at amortised cost; 
debt instruments measured as fair value through other comprehensive income; and the 
effective part of any related accounting hedging instruments. Finance lease income is 
recognised at a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment on the 
lease.

Other interest relating to financial instruments measured at fair value is recognised as 
part of the movement in fair value and is reported in income from trading activities or 
other operating income as relevant. Fees in respect of services are recognised as the 
right to consideration accrues through the performance of each distinct service 
obligation to the customer. The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of 
providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and 
always determinable.

3.2. Discontinued operations, Held for sale and Disposal group 
The results of discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing 
operations and are presented as a single amount as profit/(loss) from discontinued 
operations, net of tax in the income statement. Comparatives are represented for the 
income statement, cash flow statement, statement of changes in equity and related 
notes.

An asset or disposal group (assets and liabilities) is classified as held for sale if we will 
recover its carrying amount principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. These are measured at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less 
cost to sell unless the existing measurement provisions of IFRS apply. These are 
presented as single amounts; comparatives are not represented.

3.3. Staff costs
Employee costs, such as salaries, paid absences, and other benefits are recognised over 
the period in which the employees provide the related services to us. Employees may 
receive variable compensation in cash, in deferred cash or debt instruments of NatWest 
Group or in ordinary shares of NatWest Group plc subject to deferral, clawback and 
forfeiture criteria. We operate a number of share-based compensation schemes under 
which we grant awards of NatWest Group plc shares and share options to our 
employees. Such awards are subject to vesting conditions.

Variable compensation that is settled in cash or debt instruments is charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period during which services are 
provided, taking account of forfeiture and clawback criteria. The value of employee 
services received in exchange for NatWest Group plc shares and share options is 
recognised as an expense over the vesting period, subject to deferral, clawback, 
cancelation and forfeiture criteria with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value 
of shares granted is the market price adjusted for the expected effect of dividends as 
employees are not entitled to dividends until shares are vested. 

Accounting policies continued

The fair value of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate 

In instances where Trustees have the ability to declare augmented benefits to 

the numbers of shares likely to vest. These consider the exercise price of the option, the 

participants, we do not recognise a defined benefit pension asset and write-off the 

current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price 

surplus immediately in other comprehensive income. 

over the life of the option and other relevant factors such as the dividend yield.

3.4. Intangible assets and goodwill

DDeeffiinneedd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiioonn  ppeennssiioonn  sscchheemmee

Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance 

A scheme where we pay fixed contributions and there is no legal or constructive 

acquired or developed by us, and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 

obligation to pay further contributions or benefits. Contributions are recognised in the 

impairment losses. Amortisation is a method to spread the cost of such assets over time 

income statement as employee service costs accrue.

in the income statement. 

DDeeffiinneedd  bbeenneeffiitt  ppeennssiioonn  sscchheemmee

This is charged to the income statement over the assets' estimated useful economic lives 

A scheme that defines the benefit an employee will receive on retirement and is 

using methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits. 

dependent on one or more factors such as age, salary, and years of service. The net of 

the recognisable scheme assets and obligations is reported on the balance sheet in other 

The estimated useful economic lives are:

assets or other liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial basis. 

The charge to the income statement for pension costs (mainly the service cost and the 

net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability) is recognised in operating 

expenses. 

Actuarial gains and losses (i.e. gains and/or losses on re-measuring the net defined 

benefit asset or liability due to changes in actuarial measurement assumptions) are 

recognised in other comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise, and 

not subject to recycling to the income statement. 

The difference between scheme assets and scheme liabilities, the net defined benefit 

asset or liability, is recognised on the balance sheet if the criteria of the asset ceiling test 

are met. This requires the net defined benefit surplus to be limited to the present value of 

any economic benefits available to us in the form of refunds from the plan or reduced 

contributions to it. 

We will recognise a liability where a minimum funding requirement exists for any of our 

defined benefit pension schemes. This reflects agreed minimum funding and the 

availability of a net surplus as determined as described above. When estimating the 

liability for minimum funding requirements we only include contributions that are 

substantively or contractually agreed and do not include contingent and discretionary 

features, including dividend-linked contributions or contributions subject to contingent 

events requiring future verification.

We will recognise a net defined benefit asset when the net defined benefit surplus can 

generate a benefit in the form of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan. 

The net benefit pension asset is recognised at the present value of the benefits that will 

be available to us excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding 

interest). Changes in the present value of the net benefit pension asset are recognised 

immediately in other comprehensive income. 

Computer software 

3 to 10 years

Other acquired intangibles

3 to 5 years

Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use computer software are reported 

on the balance sheet after technical feasibility and economic viability have been 

These direct costs include payroll, the costs of materials and services, and directly 

attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the software can operate as 

established.

intended. 

During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment against 

the benefits that the software is expected to generate. Costs incurred prior to the 

establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are expensed to the income 

statement as incurred, as are all training costs and general overheads. The costs of 

licences to use computer software that are expected to generate economic benefits 

beyond three years are also reported on the balance sheet. 

Goodwill on the acquisition of a subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the 

consideration paid, the fair value of any existing interest in the subsidiary and the 

amount of any non-controlling interest measured either at fair value or at its share of the 

subsidiary’s net assets over the net fair value of the subsidiary’s identifiable assets, 

liabilities, and contingent liabilities. 

Goodwill is measured at initial cost less any subsequent impairment losses. The gain or 

loss on the disposal of a subsidiary includes the carrying value of any related goodwill 

when such transactions occur.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

330099

309

Accounting policies continued

The fair value of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate 
the numbers of shares likely to vest. These consider the exercise price of the option, the 
current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price 
over the life of the option and other relevant factors such as the dividend yield.

DDeeffiinneedd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiioonn  ppeennssiioonn  sscchheemmee
A scheme where we pay fixed contributions and there is no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further contributions or benefits. Contributions are recognised in the 
income statement as employee service costs accrue.

DDeeffiinneedd  bbeenneeffiitt  ppeennssiioonn  sscchheemmee
A scheme that defines the benefit an employee will receive on retirement and is 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, salary, and years of service. The net of 
the recognisable scheme assets and obligations is reported on the balance sheet in other 
assets or other liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial basis. 

The charge to the income statement for pension costs (mainly the service cost and the 
net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability) is recognised in operating 
expenses. 

Actuarial gains and losses (i.e. gains and/or losses on re-measuring the net defined 
benefit asset or liability due to changes in actuarial measurement assumptions) are 
recognised in other comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise, and 
not subject to recycling to the income statement. 

The difference between scheme assets and scheme liabilities, the net defined benefit 
asset or liability, is recognised on the balance sheet if the criteria of the asset ceiling test 
are met. This requires the net defined benefit surplus to be limited to the present value of 
any economic benefits available to us in the form of refunds from the plan or reduced 
contributions to it. 

We will recognise a liability where a minimum funding requirement exists for any of our 
defined benefit pension schemes. This reflects agreed minimum funding and the 
availability of a net surplus as determined as described above. When estimating the 
liability for minimum funding requirements we only include contributions that are 
substantively or contractually agreed and do not include contingent and discretionary 
features, including dividend-linked contributions or contributions subject to contingent 
events requiring future verification.

We will recognise a net defined benefit asset when the net defined benefit surplus can 
generate a benefit in the form of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan. 
The net benefit pension asset is recognised at the present value of the benefits that will 
be available to us excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding 
interest). Changes in the present value of the net benefit pension asset are recognised 
immediately in other comprehensive income. 

In instances where Trustees have the ability to declare augmented benefits to 
participants, we do not recognise a defined benefit pension asset and write-off the 
surplus immediately in other comprehensive income. 

3.4. Intangible assets and goodwill
Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance 
acquired or developed by us, and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. Amortisation is a method to spread the cost of such assets over time 
in the income statement. 

This is charged to the income statement over the assets' estimated useful economic lives 
using methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits. 

The estimated useful economic lives are:

Computer software 

3 to 10 years

Other acquired intangibles

3 to 5 years

Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use computer software are reported 
on the balance sheet after technical feasibility and economic viability have been 
established.

These direct costs include payroll, the costs of materials and services, and directly 
attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the software can operate as 
intended. 

During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment against 
the benefits that the software is expected to generate. Costs incurred prior to the 
establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are expensed to the income 
statement as incurred, as are all training costs and general overheads. The costs of 
licences to use computer software that are expected to generate economic benefits 
beyond three years are also reported on the balance sheet. 

Goodwill on the acquisition of a subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the 
consideration paid, the fair value of any existing interest in the subsidiary and the 
amount of any non-controlling interest measured either at fair value or at its share of the 
subsidiary’s net assets over the net fair value of the subsidiary’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities, and contingent liabilities. 

Goodwill is measured at initial cost less any subsequent impairment losses. The gain or 
loss on the disposal of a subsidiary includes the carrying value of any related goodwill 
when such transactions occur.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331100

310

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

331111

Accounting policies continued

3.5. Impairment of non-financial assets 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. 

At each balance sheet date, we assess whether there is any indication that other 
intangible assets or property, plant and equipment are impaired. If any such indication 
exists, we estimate the recoverable amount of the asset and compare it to its balance 
sheet value to calculate if an impairment loss should be recognised in the income 
statement. A reversal of an impairment loss on other intangible assets or property, plant 
and equipment is recognised in the income statement provided the increased carrying 
value is not greater than it would have been had no impairment loss been recognised.

The recoverable amount of an asset that does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from those of other assets or groups of assets, is determined as part of the 
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest 
identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of 
the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. For the purposes of impairment 
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to our cash-generating 
units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination. 

The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value 
less cost to sell or its value in use. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows 
from the asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects market interest 
rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit that have not been 
considered in estimating future cash flows. 

The assessment of asset impairment is based upon value in use. This represents the 
value of future cashflows and uses our five-year revenue and cost forecasts and the 
expectation of long term economic growth beyond this period. The five-year forecast 
takes account of management’s current expectations on competitiveness and 
profitability, including near term effects of climate transition risk. The long term growth 
rate reflects external indicators which will include market expectations on climate risk. 
We do not consider any additional adjustments to this indicator.

3.6. Foreign currencies
Foreign exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions 
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are reported in income from 
trading activities except for differences arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations.

Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are 
translated into the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates 
the values are determined. Translation differences are recognised in the income 
statement except for differences arising on non-monetary financial assets classified as 
fair value through other comprehensive income. 

Income and expenses of foreign subsidiaries and branches are translated into sterling at 
average exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the 
translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income. The 
amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the income statement on 
disposal of a foreign operation.

3.7. Tax
Tax encompassing current tax and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement 
except when taxable items are recognised in other comprehensive income or equity. Tax 
consequences arising from servicing financial instruments classified as equity are 
recognised in the income statement.

Accounting for taxes is judgemental and carries a degree of uncertainty because tax law 
is subject to interpretation, which might be questioned by the relevant tax authority. We 
recognise the most likely current and deferred tax liability or asset, assessed for 
uncertainty using consistent judgements and estimates. Current and deferred tax assets 
are only recognised where their recovery is deemed probable, and current and deferred 
tax liabilities are recognised at the amount that represents the best estimate of the 
probable outcome having regard to their acceptance by the tax authorities. 

3.8. Financial instruments
Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition on the balance 
sheet.

Monetary financial assets are classified into one of the following subsequent 
measurement categories (subject to business model assessment and review of 
contractual cash flow for the purposes of sole payments of principal and interest where 
applicable):

 aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt measured at cost using the effective interest rate method, less any 

impairment allowance;

 ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee  ((FFVVOOCCII)) measured at fair value, using 

the effective interest rate method and changes in fair value through other 
comprehensive income;  

 mmaannddaattoorryy  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss  ((MMFFVVTTPPLL)) measured at fair value and 

changes in fair value reported in the income statement; or 

 ddeessiiggnnaatteedd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss  ((DDFFVV)) measured at fair value and 

changes in fair value reported in the income statement.

Classification by business model reflects how we manage our financial assets to generate 
cash flows. A business model assessment helps to ascertain the measurement approach 
depending on whether cash flows result from holding financial assets to collect the 
contractual cash flows, from selling those financial assets, or both. 

Accounting policies continued

Business model assessment of assets is made at portfolio level, being the level at which 

3.9. Netting

they are managed to achieve a predefined business objective. This is expected to result 

in the most consistent classification of assets because it aligns with the stated objectives 

for the portfolio, its risk management, manager’s remuneration and the ability to monitor 

sales of assets from a portfolio. When a significant change to our business is 

communicated to external parties, we reassess our business model for managing those 

financial assets. We reclassify financial assets if we have a significant change to the 

business model. A reclassification is applied prospectively from the reclassification date.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset, and the net amount presented on the 

balance sheet when, and only when, we currently have a legally enforceable right to set 

off the recognised amounts and we intend either to settle on a net basis or to realise the 

asset and settle the liability simultaneously. We are party to a number of arrangements, 

including master netting agreements, that give us the right to offset financial assets and 

financial liabilities, but where we do not intend to settle the amounts net or 

simultaneously, the assets and liabilities concerned are presented separately on the 

The contractual terms of a financial asset; any leverage features; prepayment and 

extension terms; and discounts or penalties to interest rates that are part of meeting 

3.10. Capital instruments

balance sheet.

environmental, social and governance targets as well as other contingent and leverage 

features, non-recourse arrangements and features that could modify the timing and/or 

amount of the contractual cash flows that might reset the effective rate of interest; are 

considered in determining whether cash flows are solely payments of principal and 

interest.

mismatch. 

Certain financial assets may be designated at fair value through profit or loss (DFV) upon 

initial recognition if such designation eliminates, or significantly reduces, accounting 

Equity shares are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless specifically elected 

as at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI).  

Companies Act 2006. 

Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in fair value through other comprehensive 

income reserve are recycled to the income statement for monetary assets and for non-

monetary assets (equity shares) the cumulative gains or losses are transferred directly to 

retained earnings.

Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets classified as amortised cost are 

recognised on the settlement date; all other regular way transactions in financial assets 

are recognised on the trade date. 

 amortised cost measured at cost using the effective interest rate method; 

 held for trading measured at fair value and changes in fair value reported in income 

statement; or  

 designated at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value and changes in 

fair value reported in the income statement except changes in fair value attributable 

to the credit risk component recognised in other comprehensive income when no 

accounting mismatch occurs.

Financial liabilities are classified into one of following measurement categories:

in the income statement). 

We classify a financial instrument that we issue as a liability if it is a contractual obligation 

to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial 

liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms and as equity if we evidence a residual 

interest in our assets after the deduction of liabilities. Incremental costs and related tax 

that are directly attributable to an equity transaction are deducted from equity.

The consideration for any ordinary shares of NatWest Group plc purchased by us (known 

as treasury shares or own shares held) is deducted from retained earnings. On the 

cancellation of treasury shares their nominal value is removed from retained earnings 

and a consequential amount recognised in capital redemption in compliance with the 

On the sale or re-issue of treasury shares the consideration received and related tax are 

credited to equity, net of any directly attributable incremental costs.

3.11. Derivatives and hedging

Derivatives are reported on the balance sheet at fair value.

We use derivatives as part of our trading activities, to manage our own risk such as 

interest rate, foreign exchange, or credit risk or in certain customer transactions. Not all 

derivatives used to manage risk are in hedge accounting relationships (an IFRS method 

to reduce accounting mismatch from changes in the fair value of the derivatives reported 

Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not in 

hedge relationships are recognised in Income from trading activities unless those 

derivatives are managed together with financial instruments designated at fair value; 

these gains and losses are included in Other operating income.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331111

311

Accounting policies continued

Business model assessment of assets is made at portfolio level, being the level at which 
they are managed to achieve a predefined business objective. This is expected to result 
in the most consistent classification of assets because it aligns with the stated objectives 
for the portfolio, its risk management, manager’s remuneration and the ability to monitor 
sales of assets from a portfolio. When a significant change to our business is 
communicated to external parties, we reassess our business model for managing those 
financial assets. We reclassify financial assets if we have a significant change to the 
business model. A reclassification is applied prospectively from the reclassification date.

The contractual terms of a financial asset; any leverage features; prepayment and 
extension terms; and discounts or penalties to interest rates that are part of meeting 
environmental, social and governance targets as well as other contingent and leverage 
features, non-recourse arrangements and features that could modify the timing and/or 
amount of the contractual cash flows that might reset the effective rate of interest; are 
considered in determining whether cash flows are solely payments of principal and 
interest.

Certain financial assets may be designated at fair value through profit or loss (DFV) upon 
initial recognition if such designation eliminates, or significantly reduces, accounting 
mismatch. 

Equity shares are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless specifically elected 
as at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI).  

Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in fair value through other comprehensive 
income reserve are recycled to the income statement for monetary assets and for non-
monetary assets (equity shares) the cumulative gains or losses are transferred directly to 
retained earnings.

Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets classified as amortised cost are 
recognised on the settlement date; all other regular way transactions in financial assets 
are recognised on the trade date. 

Financial liabilities are classified into one of following measurement categories:

 amortised cost measured at cost using the effective interest rate method; 
 held for trading measured at fair value and changes in fair value reported in income 

statement; or  

 designated at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value and changes in 
fair value reported in the income statement except changes in fair value attributable 
to the credit risk component recognised in other comprehensive income when no 
accounting mismatch occurs.

3.9. Netting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset, and the net amount presented on the 
balance sheet when, and only when, we currently have a legally enforceable right to set 
off the recognised amounts and we intend either to settle on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. We are party to a number of arrangements, 
including master netting agreements, that give us the right to offset financial assets and 
financial liabilities, but where we do not intend to settle the amounts net or 
simultaneously, the assets and liabilities concerned are presented separately on the 
balance sheet.

3.10. Capital instruments
We classify a financial instrument that we issue as a liability if it is a contractual obligation 
to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms and as equity if we evidence a residual 
interest in our assets after the deduction of liabilities. Incremental costs and related tax 
that are directly attributable to an equity transaction are deducted from equity.

The consideration for any ordinary shares of NatWest Group plc purchased by us (known 
as treasury shares or own shares held) is deducted from retained earnings. On the 
cancellation of treasury shares their nominal value is removed from retained earnings 
and a consequential amount recognised in capital redemption in compliance with the 
Companies Act 2006. 

On the sale or re-issue of treasury shares the consideration received and related tax are 
credited to equity, net of any directly attributable incremental costs.

3.11. Derivatives and hedging
Derivatives are reported on the balance sheet at fair value.

We use derivatives as part of our trading activities, to manage our own risk such as 
interest rate, foreign exchange, or credit risk or in certain customer transactions. Not all 
derivatives used to manage risk are in hedge accounting relationships (an IFRS method 
to reduce accounting mismatch from changes in the fair value of the derivatives reported 
in the income statement). 

Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not in 
hedge relationships are recognised in Income from trading activities unless those 
derivatives are managed together with financial instruments designated at fair value; 
these gains and losses are included in Other operating income.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331122

312

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

331133

Accounting policies continued

HHeeddggee  aaccccoouunnttiinngg
Hedge accounting relationships are designated and documented at inception in line with 
the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments – Recognition and Measurement.

The documentation identifies the hedged item, the hedging instrument and details of the 
risk that is being hedged and the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception 
and during the period of the hedge. When designating a hedging relationship, we 
consider: the economic relationship between the hedged item (including the risk being 
hedged) and the hedging instrument; the nature of the risk; the risk management 
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge; and the appropriateness of the 
method that will be used to assess hedge effectiveness. 

Designated hedging relationships must be expected to be highly effective both on a 
prospective and retrospective basis. This is assessed using regression techniques which 
model the degree of offsetting between the changes in fair value or cash flows 
attributable to the hedged risk and the changes in fair value of the designated hedging 
derivatives. Ineffectiveness is measured based on actual levels of offsetting and 
recognised in the income statement.

We enter into three types of hedge accounting relationships.

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggee - the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the income statement. Where the hedged 
item is measured at amortised cost, the balance sheet amount of the hedged item is also 
adjusted. 

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggee - the effective portion of the designated hedge relationship is 
recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion in the income 
statement. When the hedged item (forecasted cash flows) results in the recognition of a 
financial asset or financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity to 
the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged forecasted cash flows 
affect the income statement.

HHeeddggee  ooff  nneett  iinnvveessttmmeenntt  iinn  aa  ffoorreeiiggnn  ooppeerraattiioonn - in the hedge of a net investment in a 
foreign operation, the effective portion of the designated hedge relationship is recognised 
in other comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. 
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may be designated as a hedging 
instrument in a net investment hedge.

DDiissccoonnttiinnuuaattiioonn  ooff  hheeddggee  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting i.e. the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash 
flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk management 
strategy; the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised; or if hedge 
designation is revoked.

For fair value hedging any cumulative adjustment is amortised to the income statement 
over the life of the hedged item. Where the hedged item is no longer on the balance 
sheet the adjustment to the hedged item is reported in the income statement. For cash 
flow hedging the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is reclassified from equity to the 
income statement when the hedged cash flows occur or, if the forecast transaction 
results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, when the hedged 
forecast cash flows affect the income statement. Where a forecast transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is reclassified from 
equity to the income statement immediately.

For net investment hedging on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation, the 
amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the income statement.

44..  FFuuttuurree  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ddeevveellooppmmeennttss

International Financial Reporting Standards
Effective 1 January 2024 

 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current (Amendments to IAS 1); 
 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants (Amendments to IAS 1)
 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback (Amendments to IFRS 16)
 Supplier Finance Arrangements (Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7)

Effective 1 January 2025

 Lack of Exchangeability (Amendments to IAS 21)

We are assessing the effect of adopting these amendments on our financial statements 
but do not expect the effect to be material.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

1 Net interest income 

Net interest income is the difference between the interest NatWest Group earns from its interest-bearing assets, such as loans, balances with central banks and other 

financial assets, and the interest paid on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and subordinated liabilities.

Interest receivable on financial instruments classified as amortised cost, debt instruments classified as FVOCI and the interest element of the effective portion of any designated hedging 

relationships are measured using the effective interest rate, which allocates the interest receivable or interest payable over the expected life of the financial instrument at the rate that 

exactly discounts all estimated future cash flows to equal the financial instrument's initial carrying amount. Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or 

receivable that are an integral part of the financial instrument’s yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs. All contractual terms 

of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows. Negative interest on financial assets is presented in interest payable and negative interest on financial 

liabilities is presented in interest receivable. Included in interest receivable is finance lease income of £484 million (2022 - £314 million; 2021 - £298 million) which is recognised at a 

constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.1.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Balances at central banks and loans to banks - amortised cost

Loans to customers - amortised cost

Other financial assets

Interest receivable

Balances with banks

Customer deposits

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

Interest payable

Net interest income

Internal funding of trading businesses

2023

£m

3,737

15,553

1,736

21,026

1,039

5,276

2,977

464

221

9,977

11,049

2022

£m

1,987

10,085

565

12,637

379

785

1,196

370

65

2,795

9,842

2021 (1)

£m

445

8,536

253

9,234

204

556

670

267

2

1,699

7,535

(1)

Comparative results have been re-presented from those previously published to reclassify certain items as discontinued operations as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331133

313

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

1 Net interest income 

Net interest income is the difference between the interest NatWest Group earns from its interest-bearing assets, such as loans, balances with central banks and other 
financial assets, and the interest paid on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and subordinated liabilities.

Interest receivable on financial instruments classified as amortised cost, debt instruments classified as FVOCI and the interest element of the effective portion of any designated hedging 
relationships are measured using the effective interest rate, which allocates the interest receivable or interest payable over the expected life of the financial instrument at the rate that 
exactly discounts all estimated future cash flows to equal the financial instrument's initial carrying amount. Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or 
receivable that are an integral part of the financial instrument’s yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs. All contractual terms 
of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows. Negative interest on financial assets is presented in interest payable and negative interest on financial 
liabilities is presented in interest receivable. Included in interest receivable is finance lease income of £484 million (2022 - £314 million; 2021 - £298 million) which is recognised at a 
constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.1.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Balances at central banks and loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Interest receivable

Balances with banks
Customer deposits
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Internal funding of trading businesses
Interest payable
Net interest income

2023

£m

3,737
15,553
1,736
21,026

1,039
5,276
2,977
464
221
9,977
11,049

2022

£m

1,987
10,085
565
12,637

379
785
1,196
370
65
2,795
9,842

2021 (1)

£m

445
8,536
253
9,234

204
556
670
267
2
1,699
7,535

(1)

Comparative results have been re-presented from those previously published to reclassify certain items as discontinued operations as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331144

314

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

331155

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2 Non-interest income

There are three main categories of non-interest income: net fees and commissions, trading income, and other operating income.  

Net fees and commissions is the difference between fees received from customers for services provided by NatWest Group, such as credit card annual fees, underwriting 
fees, payment services, brokerage fees, trade finance, investment management fees, trustee and fiduciary services, and fees incurred in the provision of those services, 
such as credit card interchange fees, customer incentives, loan administration, foreign currency transaction charges, and brokerage fees. 

Trading income is earned from short-term financial assets and financial liabilities to either make a spread between purchase and sale price or held to take advantage of 
movements in prices and yields. 

Other operating income includes revenue from other operating activities which are not related to the principal activities of the company, such as: share of profit or loss 
from associates; operating lease income; the profit or loss on the sale of a subsidiary; or property, plant and equipment; profit or loss on own debt; and changes in the fair 
value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.1 and 3.6

.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net fees and commissions (2)
TTrraaddiinngg  iinnccoommee
Foreign exchange
Interest rate (3)
Credit
Changes in fair value of own debt and derivative liabilities 
   attributable to own credit risk - debt securities in issue
Equities, commodities and other

OOtthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  iinnccoommee
Gain/(loss) on redemption of own debt
Rental income on operating lease assets and investment property
Changes in fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value
   through profit or loss (4)
Changes in fair value of other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (5)
Hedge ineffectiveness
Loss on disposal of amortised cost assets and liabilities
(Loss)/profit on disposal of fair value through other comprehensive income assets
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
Share of (losses)/profits of associated entities
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries and associates
Foreign exchange recycling gains/(losses)
Other income (6)

2023

£m

2022

£m

2,330

2,292

2021 (1)

£m

2,120

270
595
(72)

(2)
3
794

3
234

(150)
50
52
(5)
(43)
(21)
(9)
-
484
(16)
579
3,703

305
752
17

42
17
1,133

(161)
230

17
(45)
(20)
(15)
(168)
(5)
(30)
-
5
81
(111)
3,314

364
(130)
83

6
-
323

(145)
225

(8)
5
25
(15)
117
(30)
216
48
(10)
23
451
2,894

(1) Comparative results have been re-presented from those previously published 

to reclassify certain items as discontinued operations as described in Note 8 to 
the consolidated financial statements.

The average number of persons employed, rounded to the nearest hundred, during the 

year, excluding temporary staff, was 61,500 (2022 - 60,000; 2021 – 59,200). The 

average number of temporary employees during 2023 was 2,100 (2022 – 2,500; 2021 – 

(2) Refer to Note 4 for further analysis.
(3)

Includes fair value changes on derivatives which have not been designated in 
a hedge accounting relationship and gains and losses from the management 
of the NatWest Group’s funding requirements involving the use of derivatives 
including foreign exchange. These are aimed at managing the interest rate 
and foreign exchange risk that NatWest Group is exposed to.
Includes related derivatives.
Includes instruments that have failed solely payments of principal and interest 
testing under IFRS 9.
2022 includes £92 million profit from insurance liabilities.

(4)
(5)

(6)

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Operating expenses are expenses NatWest Group incurs in the running of its business such as all staff costs (for example salaries, bonus awards, pension costs and 

social security costs), premises and equipment costs that arise from the occupation of premises and the use of equipment, depreciation and amortisation and other 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5.

The number of persons employed at 31 December, excluding temporary staff, by 

reportable segment, was as follows: 

2023

£m

2,483

353

199

352

313

122

191

201

3,901

1,153

109

934

1,899

4,095

7,996

2022

£m

2,250

334

234

328

363

205

158

207

3,716

1,112

101

833

1,925

3,971

7,687

2021

£m

2,295

267

240

300

354

215

139

220

3,676

1,133

99

923

1,927

4,082

7,758

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Commercial & Institutional

Central items & other (2)

Total

UK

USA

India

Poland

Republic of Ireland

Rest of the World

Total

reorganisation.

2023

14,300

2,400

12,400

32,500

61,600

41,500

300

16,900

1,500

400

1,000

61,600

2022 (1)

15,100

2,300

12,200

31,400

61,000

41,200

300

15,700

1,500

1,400

900

61,000

2021 (1)

16,000

2,000

11,700

28,100

57,800

40,600

300

13,500

1,400

1,200

800

57,800

Includes depreciation of right of use assets of £104 million (2022 - £119 million; 2021 - £167 million).

(2) Central items & other includes Ulster Bank RoI. The total number of persons employed in Ulster Bank RoI of 500 (2022 – 

2021 includes impairment of goodwill of £85 million.

2,200; 2021 – 2,400) includes nil people employed in discontinued operations at 31 December 2023 (2022 – 400; 2021 – 

Includes litigation and conduct costs, net of amounts recovered. Refer to Note 21 for further details.

700).

(1) Comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the movement of headcount across segments due to segment 

3 Operating expenses

administrative expenses.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Salaries

Bonus awards

Temporary and contract costs

Social security costs

Pension costs

 - defined benefit schemes (Note 5)

 - defined contribution schemes

Other

Staff costs

Premises and equipment

UK bank levy

Depreciation and amortisation (1,2)

Other administrative expenses (3)

Administrative expenses

(1)

(2)

(3)

2,500). 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331155

315

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3 Operating expenses

Operating expenses are expenses NatWest Group incurs in the running of its business such as all staff costs (for example salaries, bonus awards, pension costs and 
social security costs), premises and equipment costs that arise from the occupation of premises and the use of equipment, depreciation and amortisation and other 
administrative expenses.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Salaries
Bonus awards
Temporary and contract costs
Social security costs
Pension costs
 - defined benefit schemes (Note 5)
 - defined contribution schemes
Other
Staff costs

Premises and equipment
UK bank levy
Depreciation and amortisation (1,2)
Other administrative expenses (3)
Administrative expenses

2023

£m

2,483
353
199
352
313
122
191
201
3,901

1,153
109
934
1,899
4,095
7,996

2022

£m

2,250
334
234
328
363
205
158
207
3,716

1,112
101
833
1,925
3,971
7,687

2021

£m

2,295
267
240
300
354
215
139
220
3,676

1,133
99
923
1,927
4,082
7,758

The number of persons employed at 31 December, excluding temporary staff, by 
reportable segment, was as follows: 

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Retail Banking
Private Banking
Commercial & Institutional
Central items & other (2)
Total

UK
USA
India
Poland
Republic of Ireland
Rest of the World
Total

2023

14,300
2,400
12,400
32,500
61,600

41,500
300
16,900
1,500
400
1,000
61,600

2022 (1)

15,100
2,300
12,200
31,400
61,000

41,200
300
15,700
1,500
1,400
900
61,000

2021 (1)

16,000
2,000
11,700
28,100
57,800

40,600
300
13,500
1,400
1,200
800
57,800

(1) Comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the movement of headcount across segments due to segment 

reorganisation.

(1)
(2)
(3)

Includes depreciation of right of use assets of £104 million (2022 - £119 million; 2021 - £167 million).
2021 includes impairment of goodwill of £85 million.
Includes litigation and conduct costs, net of amounts recovered. Refer to Note 21 for further details.

(2) Central items & other includes Ulster Bank RoI. The total number of persons employed in Ulster Bank RoI of 500 (2022 – 
2,200; 2021 – 2,400) includes nil people employed in discontinued operations at 31 December 2023 (2022 – 400; 2021 – 
700).

The average number of persons employed, rounded to the nearest hundred, during the 
year, excluding temporary staff, was 61,500 (2022 - 60,000; 2021 – 59,200). The 
average number of temporary employees during 2023 was 2,100 (2022 – 2,500; 2021 – 
2,500). 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331166

316

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

331177

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3 Operating expenses continued
SShhaarree--bbaasseedd  ppaayymmeennttss

Award plan
Sharesave

Eligible employees 
UK, Channel Islands, Gibraltar, Isle 
of Man, Poland and India.

Nature of award 
Option to buy shares under 
employee savings plan

Vesting conditions (1)
Continuing employment or leavers in certain circumstances

Settlement
2024 to 2028

Deferred performance 
awards

All

Long-term incentives (2,3) Senior employees

Awards of ordinary shares 
and conditional shares

Continuing employment or leavers in certain circumstances

2024 to 2031

Awards of ordinary shares 
and conditional shares 

Continuing employment or leavers in certain circumstances and/or 
satisfaction of the pre-vesting assessment and underpins

2024 to 2030

(1) All awards have vesting conditions which may not be met.
(2)
(3)

Long-term incentives include buy-out awards offered to compensate certain new hires for the loss of forfeited awards from their previous employment.  All awards are granted under the Employee Share Plan.
The existing Long-term incentive scheme has been closed for new awards and members as at 31 December 2022. The scheme has been replaced by a new Restricted share plan scheme with similar granting and vesting conditions. 

SShhaarreessaavvee

At 1 January
Granted
Exercised
Cancelled
At 31 December

2023

Average

exercise

price

 £
1.63
1.42
1.44
1.72
1.59

Shares

under

option

(million)  
99  
43  
(23)  
(5)  
114  

2022

Average

exercise

price

 £
1.61
1.86
1.88
1.60
1.63

Shares

under

option

(million)  
95  
25  
(15)  
(6)  
99  

2021

Average

exercise

price

 £
1.64
1.80
1.76
2.02
1.61

Shares

under

option

(million)
96
24
(10)
(15)
95

The fair value of Sharesave options granted in 2023 was determined using a pricing 
model that included: expected volatility of share price determined at the grant date 
based on historical share price volatility over a period of up to five years; expected option 
lives that equal the vesting period; estimated dividend yield on equity shares; and risk-
free interest rates determined from UK gilts with terms matching the expected lives of 
the options.

The exercise price of options and the fair value on granting awards of fully paid shares is 
the average market price over the five trading days (three trading days for Sharesave) 
preceding grant date. When estimating the fair value of the award, the number of shares 
granted and the prevailing market price as defined on page 148 are used.  The fair value 
of the award is recognised as services are provided by employees over the vesting 
period.

Options are exercisable within six months of vesting; 19.0 million options were 
exercisable at 31 December 2023 (2022 – 5.1 million; 2021 – 6.0 million). The weighted 
average share price at the date of exercise of options was £2.20 (2022 - £2.59; 2021 - 
£2.19). At 31 December 2023, exercise prices ranged from £1.12 to £1.89 (2022 - £1.12 
to £2.27; 2021 - £1.12 to £2.27) and the remaining average contractual life was 2.25 
years (2022 – 2 years; 2021 – 2.1 years). The fair value of options granted in 2023 was 
£27.3 million (2022 - £22.1 million; 2021 - £17 million).

DDeeffeerrrreedd  ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee  aawwaarrddss

2023

2022

2021

Value at

Shares

Value at

Shares

Value at

Shares

grant

awarded

grant

awarded

grant

awarded

£m
93
52
(2)
(67)
76

(million)
46  
20  
(1)  
(30)  
35  

£m
132
46
(4)
(81)
93

(million)  
65  
20  
(2)  
(37)  
46  

£m
169
61
(10)
(88)
132

(million)
77
32
(5)
(39)
65

At 1 January
Granted
Forfeited
Vested
At 31 December

The awards granted in 2023 vest in equal tranches on the anniversary of the award, 
predominantly over three years.

LLoonngg--tteerrmm  iinncceennttiivveess

2023

2022

2021

Value at

Shares

Value at

Shares

Value at

Shares

grant

awarded

grant

awarded

grant

awarded

£m
49
11
(10)
(1)
49

(million)
23  
5  
(4)  
(1)  
23  

£m
44
16
(10)
(1)
49

(million)  
21  
7  
(4)  
(1)  
23  

£m
50
6
(12)
-
44

(million)
24
3
(6)
-
21

At 1 January
Granted
Vested/exercised
Lapsed
At 31 December

The market value of awards vested/exercised in 2023 was £9.5 million (2022 - £11.7 
million; 2021 - £13 million).

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3 Operating expenses continued

BBoonnuuss  aawwaarrddss

NNoonn--ddeeffeerrrreedd  ccaasshh  aawwaarrddss ((11))

Deferred cash awards

Deferred share awards

TToottaall  ddeeffeerrrreedd  bboonnuuss  aawwaarrddss

Total bonus awards (2)

Bonus awards as a % of operating profit before tax (3)

Proportion of bonus awards that are deferred

  - deferred cash awards

  - deferred share awards

(1) Non-deferred cash awards are limited to £2,000 for all employees.

(2)

Excludes other performance-related compensation.

(3) Operating profit before tax and income statement charge for bonus awards. 

Reconciliation of bonus awards to income statement charge

Bonus awarded

Less: deferral of charge for amounts awarded for current year

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  aammoouunnttss  aawwaarrddeedd  iinn  ccuurrrreenntt  yyeeaarr

Add: current year charge for amounts deferred from  prior years

Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years

IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  aammoouunnttss  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ffrroomm  pprriioorr  yyeeaarrss

Income statement charge for bonus awards (2)

Bonus awards deferred from 2021 and earlier

Bonus awards deferred from 2022

Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years

Bonus awards for 2023 deferred

Year in which income statement charge is expected to be taken for deferred bonus awards

2023

£m 

43

262

51

313

356

5%

88%

84%

16%

(114)

2023

£m 

356

242

115

(4)

111

353

2023

£m

16  

99 

(4)

- 

111

2022

£m 

40

270

60

330

370

7%

89%

82%

18%

2022

£m 

370

(127)

243

94

(3)

91

334

£m

7

9

-

98

114

Change 

% 

8%

(3%)

(15%)

(5%)

(4%)

2021

£m 

301

(99)

202

80

(15)

65

267

£m

5

9

-

16

30

Expected

2024

2025 and beyond

Actual

2022

£m 

94

-

-

(3)

91

2021

£m 

80

(15)

-

-

65

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331177

317

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3 Operating expenses continued
BBoonnuuss  aawwaarrddss

NNoonn--ddeeffeerrrreedd  ccaasshh  aawwaarrddss ((11))
Deferred cash awards
Deferred share awards
TToottaall  ddeeffeerrrreedd  bboonnuuss  aawwaarrddss
Total bonus awards (2)
Bonus awards as a % of operating profit before tax (3)
Proportion of bonus awards that are deferred
  - deferred cash awards
  - deferred share awards

(1) Non-deferred cash awards are limited to £2,000 for all employees.
(2)
(3) Operating profit before tax and income statement charge for bonus awards. 

Excludes other performance-related compensation.

Reconciliation of bonus awards to income statement charge

Bonus awarded
Less: deferral of charge for amounts awarded for current year
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  aammoouunnttss  aawwaarrddeedd  iinn  ccuurrrreenntt  yyeeaarr
Add: current year charge for amounts deferred from  prior years
Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  aammoouunnttss  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ffrroomm  pprriioorr  yyeeaarrss
Income statement charge for bonus awards (2)

Year in which income statement charge is expected to be taken for deferred bonus awards

Bonus awards deferred from 2021 and earlier

Bonus awards deferred from 2022

Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years
Bonus awards for 2023 deferred

Actual

2022

£m 

94

-

(3)
-
91

2021

£m 
80

-

(15)
-
65

2023

£m 

43
262
51
313
356
5%
88%
84%
16%

2023

£m 

356
(114)
242
115
(4)
111
353

2023

£m

16  

99 

(4)
- 
111

2022

£m 

40
270
60
330
370
7%
89%
82%
18%

2022

£m 

370
(127)
243
94
(3)
91
334

Change 

% 

8%
(3%)
(15%)
(5%)
(4%)

2021

£m 

301
(99)
202
80
(15)
65
267

Expected

2024

2025 and beyond

£m

7

9

-
98
114

£m

5

9

-
16
30

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331188

318

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

331199

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis

NatWest Group analyses its performance between the different operating segments of the Group as required by IFRS 8, Operating segments. The presentation is 
consistent with internal financial reporting and how senior management assesses the performance of each operating segment

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis continued

TToottaall  rreevveennuuee  ((11))

RReeppoorrttaabbllee  ooppeerraattiinngg  sseeggmmeennttss::  
The business is organised into the following reportable 
segments: Retail Banking, Private Banking, Commercial & 
Institutional, and Central items & other.

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg serves personal customers in the UK, including 
Ulster Bank customers in Northern Ireland.

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg serves UK-connected high-net-worth 
individuals and their business interests. 

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall consists of customer businesses 
reported under Business Banking, Commercial Mid-market 
and Corporate & Institutions, supporting our customers across 
the full non-personal customer lifecycle, both domestically and 
internationally. Our Markets offering helps our customers 
manage financial risks across different geographies, while our 
International offering provides full-service banking operations 
in the Channel Islands, Isle of Man, Gibraltar and Luxembourg.

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr includes corporate functions, such as 
treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, 
communications and human resources. Central functions 
manage NatWest Group capital resources and NatWest 
Group-wide regulatory projects and provide services to the 
reportable segments. Central items & other includes 
businesses and amounts not directly related to any of the 
other reportable segments. Ulster Bank RoI is no longer an 
operating segment and its continuing operations now form 
part of Central items & other.

AAllllooccaattiioonn  ooff  cceennttrraall  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  iitteemmss
NatWest Group allocates all central costs relating to central 
functions to the business using appropriate drivers; these are 
reported as indirect costs in the segmental income 
statements. Assets and risk-weighted assets held centrally, 
mainly relating to NatWest Group Treasury, are allocated to 
the business using appropriate drivers.

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net interest income
Net fees and commissions
Other non-interest income
Total income
Depreciation and amortisation
Other operating expenses
Impairment losses
Operating profit
2022

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net interest income
Net fees and commissions
Other non-interest income
Total income
Depreciation and amortisation
Other operating expenses
Impairment (losses)/releases
Operating profit/(loss)
2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Net interest income
Net fees and commissions
Other non-interest income
Total income
Depreciation and amortisation
Other operating expenses
Impairment releases/(losses)
Operating profit/(loss)

Retail

Banking

£m

5,496
427
8
5,931
(1)
(2,827)
(465)
2,638

5,224
422
-
5,646
-
(2,593)
(229)
2,824

4,074
377
(6)
4,445
(85)
(2,428)
36
1,968

Private

Banking

£m

710
249
31
990
(1)
(684)
(14)
291

777
250
29
1,056
-
(622)
2
436

480
258
78
816
-
(520)
54
350

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

5,044
1,654
723
7,421
(154)
(3,937)
(94)
3,236

4,171
1,580
662
6,413
(161)
(3,583)
(122)
2,547

2,974
1,440
424
4,838
(173)
(3,584)
1,160
2,241

& other

£m

(201)
-
611
410
(778)
386
(5)
13

(330)
40
331
41
(672)
(56)
12
(675)

7
45
278
330
(665)
(303)
(77)
(715)

Total

£m

11,049
2,330
1,373
14,752
(934)
(7,062)
(578)
6,178

9,842
2,292
1,022
13,156
(833)
(6,854)
(337)
5,132

7,535
2,120
774
10,429
(923)
(6,835)
1,173
3,844

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

Total  

2022

Total

2021

Total

TToottaall  iinnccoommee

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

Total  

2022

Total

2021

Total

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

External

Inter-segmental (4)

For the notes to this table refer to page 321.

Retail

Banking

£m

7,366

5

7,371

5,773

-

5,773

5,415

18

5,433

Retail

Banking

£m

4,170

1,761

5,931

4,956

690

5,646

4,933

(488)

4,445

Private

Banking

£m

1,157

1,000

2,157

874

389

1,263

792

127

919

Private

Banking

£m

327

663

990

778

278

1,056

801

15

816

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

12,519

(1,602)

10,917

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

& other

£m

4,340

597

4,937

2,669

6

2,675

1,306

(247)

1,059

& other

£m

2,525

(2,115)

410

1,502

(1,461)

41

61

269

330

7,258

(395)

6,863

5,189

102

5,291

7,730

(309)

7,421

5,920

493

6,413

4,634

204

4,838

Total

£m

25,382

25,382

16,574

16,574

12,702

12,702

Total

£m

14,752

14,752

13,156

13,156

10,429

10,429

-

-

-

-

-

-

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

331199

319

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis continued
TToottaall  rreevveennuuee  ((11))

22002233
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total  
2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total

2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total

TToottaall  iinnccoommee

22002233
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total  

2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total

2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
External
Inter-segmental (4)
Total

For the notes to this table refer to page 321.

Retail

Banking

£m

7,366
5
7,371

5,773
-
5,773

5,415
18
5,433

Retail

Banking

£m

4,170
1,761
5,931

4,956
690
5,646

4,933
(488)
4,445

Private

Banking

£m

1,157
1,000
2,157

874
389
1,263

792
127
919

Private

Banking

£m

327
663
990

778
278
1,056

801
15
816

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

12,519
(1,602)
10,917

7,258
(395)
6,863

5,189
102
5,291

& other

£m

4,340
597
4,937

2,669
6
2,675

1,306
(247)
1,059

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

7,730
(309)
7,421

5,920
493
6,413

4,634
204
4,838

& other

£m

2,525
(2,115)
410

1,502
(1,461)
41

61
269
330

Total

£m

25,382
-
25,382

16,574
-
16,574

12,702
-
12,702

Total

£m

14,752
-
14,752

13,156
-
13,156

10,429
-
10,429

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

332200

320

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

332211

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis continued
AAnnaallyyssiiss  ooff  nneett  ffeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
FFeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss  rreecceeiivvaabbllee
  - Payment services
  - Credit and debit card fees
  - Lending and financing
  - Brokerage
  - Investment management, trustee and fiduciary services (2)
  - Underwriting fees
  - Other
Total
Fees and commissions payable
NNeett  ffeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss

2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
FFeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss  rreecceeiivvaabbllee
  - Payment services
  - Credit and debit card fees
  - Lending and financing
  - Brokerage
  - Investment management, trustee and fiduciary services (2)
  - Underwriting fees
  - Other
Total
Fees and commissions payable
NNeett  ffeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss

2021
FFeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss  rreecceeiivvaabbllee
  - Payment services
  - Credit and debit card fees
  - Lending and financing
  - Brokerage
  - Investment management, trustee and fiduciary services (2)
  - Underwriting fees
  - Other
TToottaall
Fees and commissions payable
NNeett  ffeeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiissssiioonnss

For the notes to this table refer to page 321.

Retail

Banking

£m

Private

Banking

£m

Commercial &

Central items

Institutional

£m

& other

£m

324
400
14
35
2
-
4
779
(352)
427

314
401
17
43
4
-
-
779
(357)
422

306
344
13
48
3
-
-
714
(337)
377

32
13
5
6
209
-
5
270
(21)
249

25
15
8
6
219
-
3
276
(26)
250

35
10
10
6
230
-
35
326
(68)
258

671
260
709
42
45
123
73
1,923
(269)
1,654

642
227
673
44
46
120
88
1,840
(260)
1,580

577
149
643
42
45
127
109
1,692
(252)
1,440

3
3
1
-
10
-
(6)
11
(11)
-

43
18
3
-
-
-
(44)
20
20
40

49
19
4
-
2
-
(112)
(38)
83
45

Total

£m

1,030
676
729
83
266
123
76
2,983
(653)
2,330

1,024
661
701
93
269
120
47
2,915
(623)
2,292

967
522
670
96
280
127
32
2,694
(574)
2,120

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis continued

2023

2022

2021

2022

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

191,936   226,375 192,282   209,973 192,715

37,806   29,867

41,491   29,854

39,388

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Total revenue

Interest receivable

Interest payable

359,766   404,817 383,768 425,718 411,757

Net fees and commissions

65,977   58,994

66,016   116,447

96,329

655,485   720,053 683,557 781,992 740,189

Retail Banking

Private Banking

Commercial & Institutional

Central items & other

Total

228,684

26,894

384,958

52,137

692,673

SSeeggmmeennttaall  aannaallyyssiiss  ooff  ggooooddwwiillll

The total carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2023 was £5,680 million (2022 - 

£5,522 million) comprising: Retail Banking £2,607 million (2022 - £2,607 million); 

Commercial & Institutional £2,905 million (2022 - £2,906 million); Private Banking £9 

million (2022 - £9 million) and Central items & other £159 million (2022 - nil).

GGeeooggrraapphhiiccaall  sseeggmmeennttss

The geographical analysis in the tables below has been compiled on the basis of location 

2021

of office where the transactions are recorded.

22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Total revenue

Interest receivable

Interest payable

Net fees and commissions

Trading income

Other operating income

Total income (3)

Total assets

Total liabilities

Contingent liabilities and

   commitments

Operating profit/(loss) before tax

UK

£m

24,096

20,192

(9,500)

2,052

704

556

14,004

6,196

610,831

594,250

USA

£m

167

39

(1)

49

66

(10)

143

45

Europe

£m

1,016

774

(472)

172

1

30

505

(149)

56,001

37,506

RoW

£m

103

21

(4)

57

23

3

100

86

Total

£m

25,382

21,026

(9,977)

2,330

794

579

14,752

6,178

Trading income

Other operating income

Total income (3)

Operating profit/(loss) before tax

Total assets

Total liabilities

Contingent liabilities and 

   commitments

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Total revenue

Interest receivable

Interest payable

Net fees and commissions

Trading income

Other operating income

Total income (3)

Total assets

Total liabilities

Contingent liabilities and 

   commitments

Operating (loss)/profit before tax

operating income. 

1 January 2021.

current and comparative information.

UK

£m

15,795

12,242

(2,567)

1,983

1,208

(140)

12,726

5,716

589,758

579,476

USA

£m

117

37

(2)

44

1

14

94

(46)

25,979

27,039

Europe

£m

558

344

(221)

207

(104)

12

238

(620)

RoW

£m

104

14

(5)

58

28

3

98

82

Total

£m

16,574

12,637

(2,795)

2,292

1,133

(111)

13,156

5,132

101,164

75,092

3,152 720,053

1,950 683,557

117,915

-

8,649

17 126,581

12,100

8,949

(1,483)

1,820

247

387

9,920

4,143

87

20

(2)

27

53

2

100

48

482

257

(211)

231

(1)

62

338

(387)

64,415

38,835

33

8

(3)

42

24

-

71

40

12,702

9,234

(1,699)

2,120

323

451

10,429

3,844

693,221

676,684

21,776

23,286

2,580 781,992

1,384 740,189

117,225

1

8,114

27 125,367

23,725

22,106

2,116 692,673

1,623 655,485

(1)

Total revenue comprises interest receivable, fees and commissions receivable, income from trading activities and other 

(2) Comparisons with prior periods are affected by the transfer of the Private Client Advice business to Private Banking from 

112,199

-

7,411

21 119,631

(3)

Total income excludes internal service fee income which has been calculated on a cost plus mark-up basis.

(4) Revenue and income from transactions between segments of the group are now reported as inter-segment in both the 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

332211

321

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4 Segmental analysis continued

2023

2022

2021

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

Retail Banking
Private Banking
Commercial & Institutional
Central items & other
Total

228,684
26,894
384,958
52,137
692,673

37,806   29,867

191,936   226,375 192,282   209,973 192,715
39,388
359,766   404,817 383,768 425,718 411,757
96,329
655,485   720,053 683,557 781,992 740,189

66,016   116,447

41,491   29,854

65,977   58,994

SSeeggmmeennttaall  aannaallyyssiiss  ooff  ggooooddwwiillll
The total carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2023 was £5,680 million (2022 - 
£5,522 million) comprising: Retail Banking £2,607 million (2022 - £2,607 million); 
Commercial & Institutional £2,905 million (2022 - £2,906 million); Private Banking £9 
million (2022 - £9 million) and Central items & other £159 million (2022 - nil).

GGeeooggrraapphhiiccaall  sseeggmmeennttss
The geographical analysis in the tables below has been compiled on the basis of location 
of office where the transactions are recorded.

22002233
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total revenue
Interest receivable
Interest payable
Net fees and commissions
Trading income
Other operating income
Total income (3)
Operating profit/(loss) before tax
Total assets
Total liabilities
Contingent liabilities and
   commitments

UK

£m

USA

£m

Europe

£m

RoW

£m

Total

£m

24,096
20,192
(9,500)
2,052
704
556
14,004
6,196
610,831
594,250

167
39
(1)
49
66
(10)
143
45
23,725
22,106

1,016
774
(472)
172
1
30
505
(149)
56,001
37,506

103
21
(4)
57
23
3
100
86

25,382
21,026
(9,977)
2,330
794
579
14,752
6,178
2,116 692,673
1,623 655,485

112,199

-

7,411

21 119,631

2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total revenue
Interest receivable
Interest payable
Net fees and commissions
Trading income
Other operating income
Total income (3)
Operating profit/(loss) before tax
Total assets
Total liabilities
Contingent liabilities and 
   commitments

2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total revenue
Interest receivable
Interest payable
Net fees and commissions
Trading income
Other operating income
Total income (3)
Operating (loss)/profit before tax
Total assets
Total liabilities
Contingent liabilities and 
   commitments

UK

£m

USA

£m

Europe

£m

RoW

£m

Total

£m

15,795
12,242
(2,567)
1,983
1,208
(140)
12,726
5,716
589,758
579,476

117
37
(2)
44
1
14
94
(46)
25,979
27,039

558
344
(221)
207
(104)
12
238
(620)
101,164
75,092

104
14
(5)
58
28
3
98
82

16,574
12,637
(2,795)
2,292
1,133
(111)
13,156
5,132
3,152 720,053
1,950 683,557

117,915

-

8,649

17 126,581

12,100
8,949
(1,483)
1,820
247
387
9,920
4,143
693,221
676,684

87
20
(2)
27
53
2
100
48
21,776
23,286

482
257
(211)
231
(1)
62
338
(387)
64,415
38,835

33
8
(3)
42
24
-
71
40

12,702
9,234
(1,699)
2,120
323
451
10,429
3,844
2,580 781,992
1,384 740,189

117,225

1

8,114

27 125,367

(1)

Total revenue comprises interest receivable, fees and commissions receivable, income from trading activities and other 
operating income. 

(2) Comparisons with prior periods are affected by the transfer of the Private Client Advice business to Private Banking from 

1 January 2021.
Total income excludes internal service fee income which has been calculated on a cost plus mark-up basis.

(3)
(4) Revenue and income from transactions between segments of the group are now reported as inter-segment in both the 

current and comparative information.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

322

322

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

323

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions

NatWest Group operates two types of pension scheme: defined benefit and defined contribution. The defined contribution schemes invest contributions in a choice of 
funds and the accumulated contributions and investment returns are used by the employee to provide benefits on retirement. There is no legal or constructive 
obligation for NatWest Group to pay any further contributions or benefits. The defined benefit schemes provide pensions in retirement based on employees’ 
pensionable salary and service.

NatWest Group’s balance sheet includes any defined benefit pension scheme surplus or 
deficit as a retirement benefit asset or liability reported in other assets and other 
liabilities. The surplus or deficit is the difference between the liabilities to be paid from the 
defined benefit scheme and the assets held by the scheme to meet these liabilities. The 
liabilities are calculated by external actuaries using a number of financial and 
demographic assumptions. 

For some NatWest Group defined benefit schemes where there is a net defined benefit 
surplus in excess of the present value of any economic benefits that can be obtained 
from that surplus, the application of accounting standards means we do not recognise 
that surplus on the balance sheet.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.3.

DDeeffiinneedd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiioonn  sscchheemmeess
NatWest Group sponsors several defined contribution schemes in different territories, 
which new employees are entitled to join. NatWest Group pays specific contributions into 
individual investment funds on employees’ behalf. Once those contributions are paid, 
there is no further liability on the NatWest Group balance sheet relating to the defined 
contribution schemes.

DDeeffiinneedd  bbeenneeffiitt  sscchheemmeess
NatWest Group sponsors a number of pension schemes in the UK and overseas, 
including the Main section of the NatWest Group Pension Fund (the Main section) which 
operates under UK trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of its members 
in accordance with the terms of the trust deed, the scheme rules and UK legislation. 

Pension fund trustees are appointed to operate each fund and ensure benefits are paid 
in accordance with the scheme rules and national law. The trustees are the legal owner 
of a scheme’s assets, and have a duty to act in the best interests of all scheme 
members. 

The schemes generally provide a pension of one-sixtieth of final pensionable salary for 
each year of service prior to retirement up to a maximum of 40 years and are 
contributory for current members. 

These have been closed to new entrants for over ten years, although active members 
continue to build up additional pension benefits, currently subject to 2% maximum annual 
salary inflation, while they remain employed by NatWest Group.

The Main section corporate trustee is NatWest Pension Trustee Limited (the Trustee), a 
wholly owned subsidiary of NWB Plc, Principal Employer of the Main section. The Board 
of the Trustee includes member trustee directors selected from eligible active staff, 
deferred and pensioner members who apply and trustee directors appointed by NatWest 
Group.

Under UK legislation, a defined benefit pension scheme is required to meet the statutory 
funding objective of having sufficient and appropriate assets to cover its liabilities (the 
pensions that have been promised to members). 

Similar governance principles apply to NatWest Group’s other defined benefit pension 
schemes.

IInnvveessttmmeenntt  ssttrraatteeggyy
The assets of the Main section, which is typical of other group schemes (aside from AA 
section), represent 91% of all plan assets at 31 December 2023 (2022 - 91%) and are 
invested as shown below. 

The Main section employs physical, derivative and non-derivative instruments to achieve 
a desired asset class exposure and to reduce the section’s interest rate, inflation, and 
currency risk. This means that the net funding position is considerably less sensitive to 
changes in market conditions than the value of the assets or liabilities in isolation. In 
particular, movements in interest rate and inflation are substantially hedged by the 
Trustee.

During 2023, the Trustee completed a buy-in transaction for the AA section of the Group 
Pension Fund, passing all material longevity and investment risk for the section to an 
insurer. At 31 December 2023, the assets of this section comprised mainly of the buy-in 
asset (a bulk annuity policy valued at £546 million under IAS 19, covering 99% of the 
defined benefit obligation attributable to this section), together with residual assets of c. 
£145 million. In exchange for an upfront premium paid to the insurer, the buy-in asset 
provides a stream of cashflows to the Trustee replicating payments due to members.

The premium was determined by the insurer using its pricing basis. Under IAS 19, the 
value placed on this asset mirrors the valuation of the defined benefit obligations 
covered, incorporating an assessment of credit risk. Since the insurer’s pricing basis is 
more conservative than the best-estimate valuation under IAS 19, an asset loss arises at 
the outset, which is recognised through OCI along with the impact of other movements 
in asset values over the year. In future, the buy-in asset value will move in line with 
movements in the defined benefit obligations covered, meaning that the scheme is 
protected against longevity and market risk.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued

MMaajjoorr  ccllaasssseess  ooff  ppllaann  aasssseettss  aass  aa  ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ooff  ttoottaall  ppllaann  aasssseettss  ooff  tthhee  MMaaiinn  sseeccttiioonn

The Main section’s holdings of derivative instruments are summarised in the table below:

Equities

Index linked bonds

Government bonds

Corporate and other bonds

Real estate

Derivatives

Cash and other assets

Inflation rate swaps

Interest rate swaps

Currency forwards

Equity and bond call options

Equity and bond put options

Other

2023

2022

Quoted

Unquoted

Quoted

Unquoted

%

0.1

36.7

13.3

19.2

-

-

-

69.3

Notional 

amounts

£bn

29

52

13

-

-

1

%

6.7

-

-

6.4

4.5

2.7

10.4

30.7

Assets 

£m 

1,929

3,121

235

-

-

8

Total  

%  

6.8 

36.7 

13.3 

25.6 

4.5 

2.7 

10.4 

100.0 

Liabilities   

£m   

940  

3,394  

34  

-  

4  

20  

2023

Fair value

%

0.1

37.7

18.4

15.3

-

-

-

71.5

Notional 

amounts

£bn

21

103

12

-

-

1

%

7.7

-

-

6.7

6.0

8.2

(0.1)

28.5

Total

%

7.8

37.7

18.4

22.0

6.0

8.2

(0.1)

100.0

2022

Fair value

Assets 

£m 

1,873

14,317

310

-

2

14

Liabilities 

£m 

990

12,546

113

-

70

19

Swaps have been executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads with a number of counterparties, including NWB Plc.

At 31 December 2023, the gross notional value of the swaps was £81 billion (2022 - £124 billion) and had a net positive fair value of £714 million (2022 - £2,642 million) against which 

the counterparties had posted approximately 128% collateral. 

The schemes do not invest directly in NatWest Group but may have exposure to NatWest Group through indirect holdings. The trustees of the respective UK schemes are responsible 

for ensuring that indirect investments in NatWest Group do not exceed the regulatory limit of 5% of plan assets.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

323

323

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
MMaajjoorr  ccllaasssseess  ooff  ppllaann  aasssseettss  aass  aa  ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ooff  ttoottaall  ppllaann  aasssseettss  ooff  tthhee  MMaaiinn  sseeccttiioonn

2023

Quoted

Unquoted

Equities
Index linked bonds
Government bonds
Corporate and other bonds
Real estate
Derivatives
Cash and other assets

The Main section’s holdings of derivative instruments are summarised in the table below:

Inflation rate swaps
Interest rate swaps
Currency forwards
Equity and bond call options
Equity and bond put options
Other

%

0.1
36.7
13.3
19.2
-
-
-
69.3

Notional 
amounts

£bn
29
52
13
-
-
1

Total  

%  

6.8 
36.7 
13.3 
25.6 
4.5 
2.7 
10.4 
100.0 

2022

Quoted

Unquoted

%

0.1
37.7
18.4
15.3
-
-
-
71.5

%

7.7
-
-
6.7
6.0
8.2
(0.1)
28.5

Total

%

7.8
37.7
18.4
22.0
6.0
8.2
(0.1)
100.0

%

6.7
-
-
6.4
4.5
2.7
10.4
30.7

2023

Fair value

Assets 

£m 
1,929
3,121
235
-
-
8

Liabilities   

Notional 
amounts

£m   
940  
3,394  
34  
-  
4  
20  

£bn
21
103
12
-
-
1

2022

Fair value

Assets 

£m 
1,873
14,317
310
-
2
14

Liabilities 

£m 
990
12,546
113
-
70
19

Swaps have been executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads with a number of counterparties, including NWB Plc.

At 31 December 2023, the gross notional value of the swaps was £81 billion (2022 - £124 billion) and had a net positive fair value of £714 million (2022 - £2,642 million) against which 
the counterparties had posted approximately 128% collateral. 

The schemes do not invest directly in NatWest Group but may have exposure to NatWest Group through indirect holdings. The trustees of the respective UK schemes are responsible 
for ensuring that indirect investments in NatWest Group do not exceed the regulatory limit of 5% of plan assets.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

324

324

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

325

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
CChhaannggeess  iinn  vvaalluuee  ooff  nneett  ppeennssiioonn  aasssseettss//((lliiaabbiilliittyy))

At 1 January 2022
Currency translation and other adjustments
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  --  ooppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess
OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee
 Contributions by employer
 Contributions by plan participants and other scheme members
 Assets/liabilities extinguished upon settlement
 Benefits paid
At 1 January 2023
Currency translation and other adjustments
IInnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  --  ooppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess
 Net interest expense
 Current service cost
 Past service cost
 Loss on curtailments and settlements

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee
 Return on plan assets excluding recognised interest income 
 Experience gains and losses
 Effect of changes in actuarial financial assumptions 
 Effect of changes in actuarial demographic assumptions
 Asset ceiling adjustments

Contributions by employer (3)
Contributions by plan participants and other scheme members
Assets/liabilities extinguished upon settlement
Benefits paid
At 31 December 2023 (4)

Fair value

Present value of

Asset ceiling/

Net pension

Fair value

Present value

Asset ceiling/

Net

Main section

All schemes

of plan

assets
£m

52,021
-
932
(18,180)
708
7
-
(1,472)
34,016
-

1,677
-
-
-
1,677

(1,042)
-
-
-
-
(1,042)
209
7
-
(1,229)
33,638

defined benefit

obligation (1)
£m

(42,020)
-
(892)
16,714
-
(7)
-
1,472
(24,733)
-

(1,208)
(76)
(2)
-
(1,286)

-
(1,531)
(585)
379
-
(1,737)
-
(7)
-
1,229
(26,534)

minimum

funding
£m

(10,001)
-
(180)
898
-
-
-
-
(9,283)
-

(464)
-
-
-
(464)

-
-
-
-
2,643
2,643
-
-
-
-
(7,104)

assets/

liability
£m

-
-
(140)
(568)
708
-
-
-
-
-

5
(76)
(2)
-
(73)

(1,042)
(1,531)
(585)
379
2,643
(136)
209
-
-
-
-

of plan

assets
£m

57,787
78
1,041
(20,326)
775
13
(113)
(1,657)
37,598
(21)

1,841
-
-
-
1,841

(1,182)
-
-
-
-
(1,182)
278
12
(50)
(1,365)
37,111

of defined

benefit (2)
£m

(46,808)
(65)
(1,055)
18,570
-
(13)
113
1,657
(27,601)
21

(1,341)
(105)
(8)
(24)
(1,478)

-
(1,599)
(776)
436
-
(1,939)
2
(12)
50
1,365
(29,592)

minimum

pension

funding
£m

(10,491)
(11)
(191)
916
-
-
-
-
(9,777)
4

(485)
-
-
-
(485)

-
-
-
-
2,841
2,841
-
-
-
-
(7,417)

assets (2)
£m

488
2
(205)
(840)
775
-
-
-
220
4

15
(105)
(8)
(24)
(122)

(1,182)
(1,599)
(776)
436
2,841
(280)
280
-
-
-
102

(1) Defined benefit obligations are subject to annual valuation by independent actuaries.
(2) NatWest Group recognises the net pension scheme surplus or deficit as a net asset or liability. In doing so, the funded status is adjusted to reflect any schemes with a surplus that NatWest Group may not be able to access, as well as any minimum funding 
requirement to pay in additional contributions. This is most relevant to the Main section, where the surplus is not recognised as the trustees may have control over the use of the surplus. Other NatWest Group schemes that this applies to include the Ulster 
Bank Pension Scheme (NI) and the NatWest Markets section.

(3) NatWest Group expects to make contributions to the Main section of £207 million in 2024. 
(4) On 16 June 2023 the High Court issued a ruling in respect of Virgin Media v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited (and others), which has the potential to affect the defined benefit obligation (DBO) values. Reasonable due diligence has concluded that DBO 

values above require no adjustment for the impact of this case. Further details included under the Pension Risk section of this report.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued

AAmmoouunnttss  rreeccooggnniisseedd  oonn  tthhee  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

Fund asset at fair value

Present value of fund liabilities

Funded status

Assets ceiling/minimum funding

NNeett  ppeennssiioonn  aasssseett//((lliiaabbiilliittyy))  ccoommpprriisseess

Net assets of schemes in surplus (refer to Note 18)

Net liabilities of schemes in deficit (refer to Note 21)

During 2023, NatWest Bank entered a new contractual agreement with the Trustee, 

such that assets to the value of the remaining contributions falling due under the 

previous agreement would instead be paid to a Reservoir Trust. These assets have been 

restricted and are reserved to ensure they are available should they be needed by the 

Trustee in the future, according to agreed criteria. They are included in the encumbered 

balance sheet in the Risk section of this report. The assets under this arrangement will 

be available to the Group in future, to the extent that they are not needed under the 

defined trigger events.

The key assumptions used to determine the funding liabilities were the discount rate, 

which is determined based on fixed interest swap and gilt yields plus 0.64% per annum, 

and mortality assumptions, which result in life expectancies of 27.7/29.4 years for 

males/females who are currently age 60 and 28.9/30.7 years from age 60 for 

males/females who are currently aged 40.

AAccccoouunnttiinngg  AAssssuummppttiioonnss

Placing a value on NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension schemes’ liabilities requires 

NatWest Group’s management to make a number of assumptions, with the support of 

independent actuaries. The ultimate cost of the defined benefit obligations depends upon 

actual future events and the assumptions made are unlikely to be exactly borne out in 

practice, meaning the final cost may be higher or lower than expected.

All schemes

2023

£m

2022

£m

37,111

37,598

(29,592)

(27,601)

7,519

(7,417)

102

9,997

(9,777)

220

2023

£m

201

(99)

102

2022

£m

318

(98)

220

FFuunnddiinngg  aanndd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiioonnss  bbyy  NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

The most significant assumptions used for the Main section are shown below:

In the UK, the trustees of defined benefit pension schemes are required to perform 

funding valuations every three years. The trustees and the sponsor, with the support of 

the Scheme Actuary, agree the assumptions used to value the liabilities and to determine 

future contribution requirements. The funding assumptions incorporate a margin for 

prudence over and above the expected cost of providing the benefits promised to 

members, taking into account the sponsor’s covenant and the investment strategy of the 

scheme. Similar arrangements apply in the other territories where NatWest Group 

sponsors defined benefit pension schemes.

A full triennial funding valuation of the Main section, effective 31 December 2020, was 

completed during financial year 2021.

This triennial funding valuation determined the funding level to be 104%, pension liabilities 

to be £49 billion and the surplus to be £2 billion, all assessed on the agreed funding basis. 

The average cost of the future service of current members is 49% of salary before 

contributions from those members. In addition, the sponsor has agreed to meet 

administrative expenses.  Following the ring-fencing agreement with the Trustee reached 

in 2018, additional contributions of up to £500 million p.a. were payable to the Main 

section should the Group make distributions to shareholders of an equal amount. These 

contributions were capped at £1.5 billion in total, of which £1.0 billion was paid over 2021 

and 2022.

Discount rate

Inflation assumption (RPI)

Rate of increase in salaries

Rate of increase in deferred pensions

Rate of increase in pensions in payment

Lump sum conversion rate at retirement

LLoonnggeevviittyy  aatt  aaggee  6600::

Current pensioners

   Males

   Females

   Males

   Females

Future pensioners, currently aged 40

Principal IAS 19 actuarial assumptions (1)

2023

%

4.8

3.1

1.8

3.2

2.4

18

years

26.8

28.6

27.7

29.5

2022

%

5.0

3.2

1.8

3.2

2.5

18

years

27.3

29.1

28.3

30.1

(1)

The above financial assumptions are long-term assumptions set with reference to the period over which the obligations 

are expected to be settled.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

325

325

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
AAmmoouunnttss  rreeccooggnniisseedd  oonn  tthhee  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

Fund asset at fair value
Present value of fund liabilities
Funded status
Assets ceiling/minimum funding

NNeett  ppeennssiioonn  aasssseett//((lliiaabbiilliittyy))  ccoommpprriisseess

Net assets of schemes in surplus (refer to Note 18)
Net liabilities of schemes in deficit (refer to Note 21)

All schemes

2023

£m

37,111
(29,592)
7,519
(7,417)
102

2022

£m

37,598
(27,601)
9,997
(9,777)
220

During 2023, NatWest Bank entered a new contractual agreement with the Trustee, 
such that assets to the value of the remaining contributions falling due under the 
previous agreement would instead be paid to a Reservoir Trust. These assets have been 
restricted and are reserved to ensure they are available should they be needed by the 
Trustee in the future, according to agreed criteria. They are included in the encumbered 
balance sheet in the Risk section of this report. The assets under this arrangement will 
be available to the Group in future, to the extent that they are not needed under the 
defined trigger events.

The key assumptions used to determine the funding liabilities were the discount rate, 
which is determined based on fixed interest swap and gilt yields plus 0.64% per annum, 
and mortality assumptions, which result in life expectancies of 27.7/29.4 years for 
males/females who are currently age 60 and 28.9/30.7 years from age 60 for 
males/females who are currently aged 40.

2023

£m

201
(99)
102

2022

£m

318
(98)
220

AAccccoouunnttiinngg  AAssssuummppttiioonnss
Placing a value on NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension schemes’ liabilities requires 
NatWest Group’s management to make a number of assumptions, with the support of 
independent actuaries. The ultimate cost of the defined benefit obligations depends upon 
actual future events and the assumptions made are unlikely to be exactly borne out in 
practice, meaning the final cost may be higher or lower than expected.

FFuunnddiinngg  aanndd  ccoonnttrriibbuuttiioonnss  bbyy  NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
In the UK, the trustees of defined benefit pension schemes are required to perform 
funding valuations every three years. The trustees and the sponsor, with the support of 
the Scheme Actuary, agree the assumptions used to value the liabilities and to determine 
future contribution requirements. The funding assumptions incorporate a margin for 
prudence over and above the expected cost of providing the benefits promised to 
members, taking into account the sponsor’s covenant and the investment strategy of the 
scheme. Similar arrangements apply in the other territories where NatWest Group 
sponsors defined benefit pension schemes.

A full triennial funding valuation of the Main section, effective 31 December 2020, was 
completed during financial year 2021.

This triennial funding valuation determined the funding level to be 104%, pension liabilities 
to be £49 billion and the surplus to be £2 billion, all assessed on the agreed funding basis. 
The average cost of the future service of current members is 49% of salary before 
contributions from those members. In addition, the sponsor has agreed to meet 
administrative expenses.  Following the ring-fencing agreement with the Trustee reached 
in 2018, additional contributions of up to £500 million p.a. were payable to the Main 
section should the Group make distributions to shareholders of an equal amount. These 
contributions were capped at £1.5 billion in total, of which £1.0 billion was paid over 2021 
and 2022.

The most significant assumptions used for the Main section are shown below:

Principal IAS 19 actuarial assumptions (1)

Discount rate
Inflation assumption (RPI)
Rate of increase in salaries
Rate of increase in deferred pensions
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
Lump sum conversion rate at retirement

LLoonnggeevviittyy  aatt  aaggee  6600::
Current pensioners
   Males
   Females
Future pensioners, currently aged 40
   Males
   Females

2023

%

4.8
3.1
1.8
3.2
2.4
18

years

26.8
28.6

27.7
29.5

2022

%

5.0
3.2
1.8
3.2
2.5
18

years

27.3
29.1

28.3
30.1

(1)

The above financial assumptions are long-term assumptions set with reference to the period over which the obligations 
are expected to be settled.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

326

326

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

327

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
DDiissccoouunntt  rraattee
The IAS 19 valuation uses a single discount rate set by reference to the yield on a basket of ‘high quality’ sterling corporate bonds. 

Significant judgement is required when setting the criteria for bonds to be included in the basket of bonds that is used to determine the discount rate used in the IAS 19 valuations. The 
criteria include issue size, quality of pricing and the exclusion of outliers. Judgement is also required in determining the shape of the yield curve at long durations; a constant credit 
spread relative to gilts is assumed. Sensitivity to the main assumptions is presented below.

The weighted average duration of the Main section’s defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2023 is 14.0 years (2022 – 15.3 years). The chart below shows the projected benefit 
payment pattern for the Main section in nominal terms. These cashflows are based on the most recent formal actuarial valuation, effective 31 December 2020.

)

m
£
(

s
w
o
l
f
h
s
a
C
d
e
t
c
e
p
x
E

1,800

1,600

1,400

1,200

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

2024

2026

2028

2030

2032

2034

2036

2038

2040

2042

2044

2046

2048

2050

2052

2054

2056

2058

2060

2062

2064

2066

2068

2070

2072

2074

2076

2078

2080

2082

2084

2086

2088

2090

2092

2094

Year

Pensioner

Non pensioner

The table below shows how the net pension asset of the Main section would change if the key assumptions used were changed independently. In practice the variables have a degree 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued

of correlation and do not move completely in isolation.

0.5% increase in interest rates/discount rate 

0.25% increase in inflation 

0.5% increase in credit spreads

Longevity increase of one year

0.25% additional rate of increase in pensions in payment

Increase in equity values of 10% (1)

0.5% increase in interest rates/discount rate

0.25% increase in inflation 

0.5% increase in credit spreads

Longevity increase of one year

0.25% additional rate of increase in pensions in payment

Increase in equity values of 10% (1)

(1)

Includes both quoted and private equity. 

2023

2022

2023

2022

Change in credit spreads 

Change in credit spreads 

(Decrease)/ 

(Decrease)/ 

Increase in net 

increase in value 

increase in value 

pension 

of liabilities

(obligations)/assets

£m 

(1,746)

578

(1,746)

902

706

-

(1,766)

632

(1,766)

767

679

-

of assets

£m 

(2,292)

811

(12)

229

(2,689)

963

(6)

267

-

-

-

-

£bn

(2.6)

(0.9)

1.0

(2.8)

(1.1)

0.9

£m 

(546)

233

1,734

(902)

(706)

229

(923)

331

1,760

(767)

(679)

267

£bn

(0.1)

1.8

3.9

0.2

2.1

4.3

+50 bps

No change

-50 bps

+50 bps

No change

-50 bps

Change in life expectancies

- 2 years

- 1 year

No change

+ 1 year

+ 2 years

£bn

(3.5)

(1.9)

-

(3.7)

(2.1)

(0.3)

£bn

(1.7)

-

2.0

(1.8)

-

2.0

£bn

(0.9)

0.9

2.9

(0.8)

1.1

3.2

The table below shows the combined change in defined benefit obligation from larger movements in these assumptions, assuming no changes in other assumptions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

327

327

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
The table below shows how the net pension asset of the Main section would change if the key assumptions used were changed independently. In practice the variables have a degree 
of correlation and do not move completely in isolation.

2023

0.5% increase in interest rates/discount rate 
0.25% increase in inflation 
0.5% increase in credit spreads
Longevity increase of one year
0.25% additional rate of increase in pensions in payment
Increase in equity values of 10% (1)

2022

0.5% increase in interest rates/discount rate
0.25% increase in inflation 
0.5% increase in credit spreads
Longevity increase of one year
0.25% additional rate of increase in pensions in payment
Increase in equity values of 10% (1)

(1)

Includes both quoted and private equity. 

(Decrease)/ 
increase in value 
of assets
£m 

(Decrease)/ 
increase in value 
of liabilities
£m 

Increase in net 
pension 
(obligations)/assets
£m 

(2,292)
811
(12)
-
-
229

(2,689)
963
(6)
-
-
267

(1,746)
578
(1,746)
902
706
-

(1,766)
632
(1,766)
767
679
-

(546)
233
1,734
(902)
(706)
229

(923)
331
1,760
(767)
(679)
267

The table below shows the combined change in defined benefit obligation from larger movements in these assumptions, assuming no changes in other assumptions.

2023
Change in credit spreads 

2022
Change in credit spreads 

+50 bps
No change
-50 bps

+50 bps
No change
-50 bps

Change in life expectancies

- 2 years

- 1 year

No change

+ 1 year

+ 2 years

£bn

(3.5)
(1.9)
-

(3.7)
(2.1)
(0.3)

£bn

(2.6)
(0.9)
1.0

(2.8)
(1.1)
0.9

£bn

(1.7)
-
2.0

(1.8)
-
2.0

£bn

(0.9)
0.9
2.9

(0.8)
1.1
3.2

£bn

(0.1)
1.8
3.9

0.2
2.1
4.3

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

328

328

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

332299

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

5 Pensions continued
The defined benefit obligation of the Main section is attributable to the different classes of scheme members in the following proportions:

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

6 Auditor’s remuneration

Amounts payable to NatWest Group's auditors for statutory audit and other services are set out below.

2023

% 

7.5
41.9
50.6
100.0

2022

% 

8.4
41.0
50.6
100.0

All audit-related and other services are approved by the Group Audit Committee and are subject to strict controls to ensure the external auditor’s independence is unaffected by the 

provision of other services. The Group Audit Committee recognises that for certain assignments, the auditors are best placed to perform the work economically; for other work, 

NatWest Group selects the supplier best placed to meet its requirements. NatWest Group’s auditors are permitted to tender for such work in competition with other firms where the 

work is permissible under audit independence rules.

2023

£m

MMaaiinn  sseeccttiioonn

2022

£m

2021

£m

2020

£m

2019

£m

2023

£m

2022

£m

2021

£m

2020

£m

2019

£m

AAllll  sscchheemmeess

33,638
(26,534)
7,104

34,016
(24,733)
9,283

52,021
(42,020)
10,001

51,323
(43,870)
7,453

46,555
(39,669)
6,886

37,111
(29,592)
7,519

37,598
(27,601)
9,997

57,787
(46,808)
10,979

57,249
(48,864)
8,385

51,925
(44,115)
7,810

(1,531)
(1,042)
634
1.9%

(2,053)
(18,180)
(17,248)
(33.2%)

241
841
1,554
3.0%

427
5,486
6,422
13.8%

275
3,021
4,266
9.7%

(1,599)
(1,182)
659
1.8%

(2,137)
(20,326)
(19,285)
(33.4%)

237
872
1,667
2.9%

455
6,027
7,064
13.6%

279
3,556
4,930
10.1%

Fees payable for:

 - the audit of NatWest Group’s annual accounts (1)

 - the audit of NatWest Group plc’s subsidiaries (1)

 - audit-related assurance services (1,2)

Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees

Other assurance services

Corporate finance services (3)

Total other services

2023

£m 

4.9

32.3

4.5

41.7

0.7

0.7

1.4

2022

£m 

4.7

31.9

3.9

40.5

1.2

0.5

1.7

2021

£m 

4.4

29.6

5.3

39.3

0.4

0.5

0.9

(1)

The 2023 audit fee was approved by the Group Audit Committee. At 31 December 2023, £16 million has been billed and paid in respect of the 2023 NatWest Group audit fees.

(2) Comprises fees of £1.4 million (2022 - £1.1 million) for reviews of interim financial information, £2.8 million (2022 - £2.3 million) for reports to NatWest Group’s regulators in the UK and overseas, and £0.3 million (2022 - £0.4 million) for non-statutory audit 

opinions.

(3) Comprises fees of £0.7 million (2022 - £0.5 million) for work performed by the auditors as reporting accountants on debt and equity issuances undertaken by NatWest Group.

MMeemmbbeerrsshhiipp  ccaatteeggoorryy
Active members
Deferred members
Pensioners and dependants

The experience history of NatWest Group schemes is shown below:

HHiissttoorryy  ooff  ddeeffiinneedd  bbeenneeffiitt  sscchheemmeess
Fair value of plan assets
Present value of plan obligations
Net surplus

Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets
Actual return on plan assets
Actual return on plan assets

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

332299

329

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

6 Auditor’s remuneration

Amounts payable to NatWest Group's auditors for statutory audit and other services are set out below.

All audit-related and other services are approved by the Group Audit Committee and are subject to strict controls to ensure the external auditor’s independence is unaffected by the 
provision of other services. The Group Audit Committee recognises that for certain assignments, the auditors are best placed to perform the work economically; for other work, 
NatWest Group selects the supplier best placed to meet its requirements. NatWest Group’s auditors are permitted to tender for such work in competition with other firms where the 
work is permissible under audit independence rules.

Fees payable for:
 - the audit of NatWest Group’s annual accounts (1)
 - the audit of NatWest Group plc’s subsidiaries (1)
 - audit-related assurance services (1,2)
Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees
Other assurance services
Corporate finance services (3)
Total other services

2023

£m 

4.9
32.3
4.5
41.7
0.7
0.7
1.4

2022

£m 

4.7
31.9
3.9
40.5
1.2
0.5
1.7

2021

£m 

4.4
29.6
5.3
39.3
0.4
0.5
0.9

The 2023 audit fee was approved by the Group Audit Committee. At 31 December 2023, £16 million has been billed and paid in respect of the 2023 NatWest Group audit fees.

(1)
(2) Comprises fees of £1.4 million (2022 - £1.1 million) for reviews of interim financial information, £2.8 million (2022 - £2.3 million) for reports to NatWest Group’s regulators in the UK and overseas, and £0.3 million (2022 - £0.4 million) for non-statutory audit 

opinions.

(3) Comprises fees of £0.7 million (2022 - £0.5 million) for work performed by the auditors as reporting accountants on debt and equity issuances undertaken by NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333300

330

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

333311

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7 Tax
NatWest Group’s corporate income tax charge for the period is set out below, together with a reconciliation to the expected tax charge calculated using the UK standard corporation 
tax rate and details of the NatWest Group’s deferred tax balances.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 2.1 and 3.7.

AAnnaallyyssiiss  ooff  tthhee  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

The tax charge comprises current and deferred tax in respect of profits and losses recognised or originating in the income statement. Tax on items originating 
outside the income statement is charged to other comprehensive income or direct to equity (as appropriate) and is therefore not reflected in the table below.

Current tax is tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the year and any adjustments to tax payable in prior years. Deferred tax is 
explained on page 333.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
CCuurrrreenntt  ttaaxx
Charge for the year
(Under)/over provision in respect of prior years

DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx
(Charge)/credit for the year
UK tax rate change impact
Net increase in the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of UK, RoI and Netherlands losses
(Under)/over provision in respect of prior years
TTaaxx  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr

2023

£m

(1,373)
(123)
(1,496)

(281)
-
385
(42)
(1,434)

2022

£m

(1,611)
100
(1,511)

47
(10)
267
(68)
(1,275)

2021

£m

(1,036)
31
(1,005)

(185)
165
12
17
(996)

FFaaccttoorrss  aaffffeeccttiinngg  tthhee  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee  ffoorr  tthhee  yyeeaarr
Taxable profits differ from profits reported in the income statement as certain amounts of income and expense may not be taxable or deductible. In addition, taxable profits may reflect 
items that have been included outside the income statement (for instance, in other comprehensive income) or adjustments that are made for tax purposes only. 

Current tax for the year ended 31 December 2023 is based on blended rates of 23.5% for the standard rate of UK corporation tax and 4.25% for the UK banking surcharge.

The expected tax charge for the year is calculated by applying the standard UK corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022 and 2021 – 19%) to the Operating profit or loss before tax in the 
income statement. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7 Tax continued

The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge as follows:

Losses and temporary differences in year where no deferred tax asset recognised

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

EExxppeecctteedd  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee

Foreign profits taxed at other rates

Non deductible goodwill impairment

Items not allowed for tax:

 - losses on disposals and write-downs

 - UK bank levy

 - regulatory and legal actions

 - other disallowable items

Non-taxable items:

 - UK losses (2)

 - RoI losses

 - Netherlands losses

Banking surcharge

Tax on paid-in equity dividends

UK tax rate change impact

Adjustments in respect of prior years (1, 2)

AAccttuuaall  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee

 - Foreign exchange recycling on UBIDAC capital reduction

 - RPI-related uplift on index linked gilts

 - other non-taxable items

Taxable foreign exchange movements

Unrecognised losses brought forward and utilised

Net increase/(decrease) in the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of:  

(1,452)

2023

£m 

(56)

10

-

(63)

(27)

(1)

(57)

114

6

20

9

27

371

(1)

15

(236)

52

-

(165)

(1,434)

2022

£m 

(975)

(118)

(62)

-

(10)

(20)

(7)

(51)

-

67

29

(19)

6

272

(5)

-

(447)

43

(10)

32

(1,275)

2021

£m 

(766)

(51)

(11)

(16)

(55)

(18)

(74)

(28)

-

-

73

8

10

(9)

(27)

48

(341)

48

165

48

(996)

(1)

(2)

Prior year tax adjustments incorporate refinements to tax computations made on submission and agreement with the tax authorities and adjustments to provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions.

Includes a net £69 million benefit from UK group relief and loss relief claims at higher tax rates (refer to the Deferred Tax section below for details of the recent changes in UK tax rates).

On 11 July 2023, the UK government enacted the Pillar 2 income taxes legislation effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2024. Under the legislation, NatWest Group plc 

will be required to pay, in the UK, top-up tax on profits of its subsidiaries and permanent establishments that are taxed at a Pillar 2 effective tax rate of less than 15%. The assessment 

of the potential exposure to Pillar 2 income taxes is based on the most recent tax filings, country-by-country reporting, and financial statements for the constituent entities in the 

NatWest Group. The main jurisdictions in which exposure to this top-up tax may exist include Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar. This legislation is expected to have no 

In future periods, part of this top-up tax may be payable instead in the relevant jurisdiction, if that jurisdiction implements a Qualifying Domestic Minimum Top Up Tax (QDMTT). This is 

material impact for NatWest Group plc. 

expected in most jurisdictions in which we operate.

JJuuddggeemmeenntt::  ttaaxx  ccoonnttiinnggeenncciieess

NatWest Group’s corporate income tax charge and its provisions for corporate income taxes necessarily involve a degree of estimation and judgement. The tax treatment of some 

transactions is uncertain and tax computations are yet to be agreed with the relevant tax authorities. NatWest Group recognises anticipated tax liabilities based on all available 

evidence and, where appropriate, in the light of external advice. Any difference between the final outcome and the amounts provided will affect current and deferred income tax 

charges in the period when the matter is resolved. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333311

331

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7 Tax continued
The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge as follows:

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
EExxppeecctteedd  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee
Losses and temporary differences in year where no deferred tax asset recognised
Foreign profits taxed at other rates
Non deductible goodwill impairment
Items not allowed for tax:
 - losses on disposals and write-downs
 - UK bank levy
 - regulatory and legal actions
 - other disallowable items
Non-taxable items:
 - Foreign exchange recycling on UBIDAC capital reduction
 - RPI-related uplift on index linked gilts
 - other non-taxable items
Taxable foreign exchange movements
Unrecognised losses brought forward and utilised
Net increase/(decrease) in the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of:  
 - UK losses (2)
 - RoI losses
 - Netherlands losses
Banking surcharge
Tax on paid-in equity dividends
UK tax rate change impact
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1, 2)
AAccttuuaall  ttaaxx  cchhaarrggee

2023

£m 

(1,452)
(56)
10
-

(63)
(27)
(1)
(57)

114
6
20
9
27

371
(1)
15
(236)
52
-
(165)
(1,434)

2022

£m 

(975)
(118)
(62)
-

(10)
(20)
(7)
(51)

-
67
29
(19)
6

272
(5)
-
(447)
43
(10)
32
(1,275)

2021

£m 

(766)
(51)
(11)
(16)

(55)
(18)
(74)
(28)

-
-
73
8
10

(9)
(27)
48
(341)
48
165
48
(996)

(1)
(2)

Prior year tax adjustments incorporate refinements to tax computations made on submission and agreement with the tax authorities and adjustments to provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions.
Includes a net £69 million benefit from UK group relief and loss relief claims at higher tax rates (refer to the Deferred Tax section below for details of the recent changes in UK tax rates).

On 11 July 2023, the UK government enacted the Pillar 2 income taxes legislation effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2024. Under the legislation, NatWest Group plc 
will be required to pay, in the UK, top-up tax on profits of its subsidiaries and permanent establishments that are taxed at a Pillar 2 effective tax rate of less than 15%. The assessment 
of the potential exposure to Pillar 2 income taxes is based on the most recent tax filings, country-by-country reporting, and financial statements for the constituent entities in the 
NatWest Group. The main jurisdictions in which exposure to this top-up tax may exist include Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar. This legislation is expected to have no 
material impact for NatWest Group plc. 

In future periods, part of this top-up tax may be payable instead in the relevant jurisdiction, if that jurisdiction implements a Qualifying Domestic Minimum Top Up Tax (QDMTT). This is 
expected in most jurisdictions in which we operate.

JJuuddggeemmeenntt::  ttaaxx  ccoonnttiinnggeenncciieess
NatWest Group’s corporate income tax charge and its provisions for corporate income taxes necessarily involve a degree of estimation and judgement. The tax treatment of some 
transactions is uncertain and tax computations are yet to be agreed with the relevant tax authorities. NatWest Group recognises anticipated tax liabilities based on all available 
evidence and, where appropriate, in the light of external advice. Any difference between the final outcome and the amounts provided will affect current and deferred income tax 
charges in the period when the matter is resolved. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333322

332

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

333333

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7 Tax continued
DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of temporary differences where the carrying amount of an asset or liability differs for 
accounting and tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities reflect the expected amount of tax payable in the future on these temporary differences. Deferred tax assets 
reflect the expected amount of tax recoverable in the future on these differences. 

The net deferred tax asset recognised by the NatWest Group is shown below, together with details of the accounting judgements and tax rates that have been used 
to calculate the deferred tax. Details are also provided of any deferred tax assets or liabilities that have not been recognised on the balance sheet.  

UK tax losses carried forward

Analysis of deferred tax 

Deferred tax asset
Deferred tax liability
Net deferred tax asset

At 1 January 2022
Charge/(credit) to income statement:
- continuing operations
- discontinued operations
(Credit)/charge to other comprehensive income
Currency translation and other adjustments
At 1 January 2023
Charge/(credit) to income statement:
- continuing operations
- discontinued operations
(Credit)/charge to other comprehensive income
Currency translation and other adjustments
At 31 December 2023

(1)

The in-year movement predominantly relates to cash flow hedges.

Accelerated 
capital 
allowances

Pension

Expense 
provisions

Financial 
instruments (1)

Tax losses 
carried forward

£m

24

1
-
(2)
-
23

1
-
(8)
-
16

£m
(42)

(43)
-
-
10
(75)

(1)
-
-
-
(76)

£m
(97)

14
-
1
-
(82)

21
-
-
-
(61)

£m
248

(171)
-
(913)
31
(805)

16
-
249
2
(538)

£m
(899)

(51)
-
-
(2)
(952)

(67)
-
-
-
(1,019)

2023

£m
(1,894)
141
(1,753)

Other

£m
(70)

14
-
(2)
(2)
(60)

(32)
-
17
-
(75)

2022

£m
(2,178)
227
(1,951)

Total

£m
(836)

(236)
-
(916)
37
(1,951)
-
(62)
-
258
2
(1,753)

7 Tax continued

Deferred tax assets in respect of carried forward tax losses are recognised if the losses 

can be used to offset probable future taxable profits after taking into account the 

expected reversal of other temporary differences. Recognised deferred tax assets in 

respect of tax losses are analysed further below.

2023

£m 

-

362

597

959

5

55

1,019

2022

£m 

3

445

452

900

6

46

952

 - NWM Plc

 - NWB Plc

 - RBS plc

Total

 - UBIDAC

 - NWM N.V.

Overseas tax losses carried forward

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx

NatWest Group has recognised a deferred tax asset of £1,894 million (2022 - £2,178 

million) and a deferred tax liability of £141 million (2022 - £227 million). These include 

amounts recognised in respect of UK and overseas tax losses of £1,019 million (2022 - 

£952 million).

assets and liabilities are therefore recognised based on these rates.

JJuuddggeemmeenntt – NatWest Group has considered the carrying value of deferred tax assets 

and concluded that, based on management’s estimates, sufficient sustainable taxable 

profits will be generated in future years to recover recognised deferred tax assets. 

EEssttiimmaatteess  – These estimates are partly based on forecast performance beyond the 

horizon for management’s detailed plans. They have regard to inherent uncertainties. 

The deferred tax assets in NWM Plc and UBIDAC are supported by future reversing 

taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 

December 2023.

UK tax losses 

Under UK tax rules, tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely. As the recognised tax 

losses in NatWest Group arose prior to 1 April 2015, credit in future periods is given 

against 25% of profits at the main rate of UK corporation tax, excluding the Banking 

Surcharge rate introduced by The Finance (No. 2) Act 2015. 

NNWWMM  PPllcc – A deferred tax asset of nil (2022 - £3 million) has been recognised at 31 

December 2023. The basis of recognition in NWM plc is by way of future reversing 

taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 

December 2023. Losses of £5,558 million have not been recognised in the deferred tax 

balance at 31 December 2023.

NNWWBB  PPllcc  – A deferred tax asset of £362 million (2022 - £445 million) has been 

recognised in respect of losses of £1,448 million of total losses of £2,308 million carried 

forward at 31 December 2023. The losses arose principally as a result of significant 

impairment and conduct charges between 2009 and 2012 during challenging economic 

conditions in the UK banking sector. NWB Plc returned to tax profitability during 2015, 

and based on a 5 year recovery period, expects the deferred tax asset to be utilised 

against future taxable profits by the end of 2028.

RRBBSS  ppllcc – A deferred tax asset of £597 million (2022 - £452 million) has been recognised 

in respect of losses of £2,388 million of total losses of £3,297 million carried forward at 

31 December 2023. The losses were transferred from NatWest Markets Plc as a 

consequence of the ring fencing regulations. Based on a 7 year recovery period, RBS plc 

expects the deferred tax asset to be utilised against future taxable profits by the end of 

2030.

OOvveerrsseeaass  ttaaxx  lloosssseess

UUBBIIDDAACC – A deferred tax asset of £5 million (2022 - £6 million) has been recognised in 

respect of losses of £40 million, and is now entirely supported by way of future reversing 

taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 

December 2023.

NNaattWWeesstt  MMaarrkkeettss  NN..VV..  ((NNWWMM  NN..VV..)) – A deferred tax asset of £55 million (2022 - £46 

million) has been recognised in respect of losses of £213 million of total losses of £2,496 

million carried forward at 31 December 2023. NWM N.V. Group considers it to be 

probable, based on its 5-year budget forecast, that future taxable profits will be available 

UUnnrreeccooggnniisseedd  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx

Deferred tax assets of £5,168 million (2022 - £5,534 million; 2021 - £5,437 million) have 

not been recognised in respect of tax losses and other deductible temporary differences 

carried forward of £24,438 million (2022 - £25,742 million; 2021 - £24,699 million) in 

jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future taxable profits. Of these 

losses and other deductible temporary differences, £34 million expire within five years 

and £4,488 million thereafter. The balance of tax losses and other deductible temporary 

differences carried forward has no expiry date. 

Deferred tax liabilities of £256 million (2022 - £257 million; 2021 - £302 million) on 

aggregate underlying temporary differences of £1,005 million (2022 - £1,010 million; 

2021 - £1,032 million) have not been recognised in respect of retained earnings of 

overseas subsidiaries and held-over gains on the incorporation of certain overseas 

branches. Retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries are expected to be reinvested 

indefinitely or remitted to the UK free from further taxation. No taxation is expected to 

arise in the foreseeable future in respect of held-over gains on which deferred tax is not 

recognised. Changes to UK tax legislation largely exempts from UK tax overseas 

dividends received on or after 1 July 2009. 

The main UK corporation tax increased from 19% to 25%, and the UK banking surcharge 

against which the tax losses and tax credits can be partially utilised. The tax losses and 

decreased from 8% to 3%, from 1 April 2023. NatWest Group’s closing deferred tax 

the tax credits have no expiry date.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333333

333

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7 Tax continued
Deferred tax assets in respect of carried forward tax losses are recognised if the losses 
can be used to offset probable future taxable profits after taking into account the 
expected reversal of other temporary differences. Recognised deferred tax assets in 
respect of tax losses are analysed further below.

UK tax losses carried forward
 - NWM Plc
 - NWB Plc
 - RBS plc
Total
Overseas tax losses carried forward
 - UBIDAC
 - NWM N.V.

2023

£m 

-
362
597
959

5
55
1,019

2022

£m 

3
445
452
900

6
46
952

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx
NatWest Group has recognised a deferred tax asset of £1,894 million (2022 - £2,178 
million) and a deferred tax liability of £141 million (2022 - £227 million). These include 
amounts recognised in respect of UK and overseas tax losses of £1,019 million (2022 - 
£952 million).

The main UK corporation tax increased from 19% to 25%, and the UK banking surcharge 
decreased from 8% to 3%, from 1 April 2023. NatWest Group’s closing deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are therefore recognised based on these rates.

JJuuddggeemmeenntt – NatWest Group has considered the carrying value of deferred tax assets 
and concluded that, based on management’s estimates, sufficient sustainable taxable 
profits will be generated in future years to recover recognised deferred tax assets. 

EEssttiimmaatteess  – These estimates are partly based on forecast performance beyond the 
horizon for management’s detailed plans. They have regard to inherent uncertainties. 
The deferred tax assets in NWM Plc and UBIDAC are supported by future reversing 
taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 
December 2023.

UK tax losses 
Under UK tax rules, tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely. As the recognised tax 
losses in NatWest Group arose prior to 1 April 2015, credit in future periods is given 
against 25% of profits at the main rate of UK corporation tax, excluding the Banking 
Surcharge rate introduced by The Finance (No. 2) Act 2015. 

NNWWMM  PPllcc – A deferred tax asset of nil (2022 - £3 million) has been recognised at 31 
December 2023. The basis of recognition in NWM plc is by way of future reversing 
taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 
December 2023. Losses of £5,558 million have not been recognised in the deferred tax 
balance at 31 December 2023.

NNWWBB  PPllcc  – A deferred tax asset of £362 million (2022 - £445 million) has been 
recognised in respect of losses of £1,448 million of total losses of £2,308 million carried 
forward at 31 December 2023. The losses arose principally as a result of significant 
impairment and conduct charges between 2009 and 2012 during challenging economic 
conditions in the UK banking sector. NWB Plc returned to tax profitability during 2015, 
and based on a 5 year recovery period, expects the deferred tax asset to be utilised 
against future taxable profits by the end of 2028.

RRBBSS  ppllcc – A deferred tax asset of £597 million (2022 - £452 million) has been recognised 
in respect of losses of £2,388 million of total losses of £3,297 million carried forward at 
31 December 2023. The losses were transferred from NatWest Markets Plc as a 
consequence of the ring fencing regulations. Based on a 7 year recovery period, RBS plc 
expects the deferred tax asset to be utilised against future taxable profits by the end of 
2030.

OOvveerrsseeaass  ttaaxx  lloosssseess

UUBBIIDDAACC – A deferred tax asset of £5 million (2022 - £6 million) has been recognised in 
respect of losses of £40 million, and is now entirely supported by way of future reversing 
taxable temporary differences on which deferred tax liabilities are recognised at 31 
December 2023.

NNaattWWeesstt  MMaarrkkeettss  NN..VV..  ((NNWWMM  NN..VV..)) – A deferred tax asset of £55 million (2022 - £46 
million) has been recognised in respect of losses of £213 million of total losses of £2,496 
million carried forward at 31 December 2023. NWM N.V. Group considers it to be 
probable, based on its 5-year budget forecast, that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the tax losses and tax credits can be partially utilised. The tax losses and 
the tax credits have no expiry date.

UUnnrreeccooggnniisseedd  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx
Deferred tax assets of £5,168 million (2022 - £5,534 million; 2021 - £5,437 million) have 
not been recognised in respect of tax losses and other deductible temporary differences 
carried forward of £24,438 million (2022 - £25,742 million; 2021 - £24,699 million) in 
jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future taxable profits. Of these 
losses and other deductible temporary differences, £34 million expire within five years 
and £4,488 million thereafter. The balance of tax losses and other deductible temporary 
differences carried forward has no expiry date. 

Deferred tax liabilities of £256 million (2022 - £257 million; 2021 - £302 million) on 
aggregate underlying temporary differences of £1,005 million (2022 - £1,010 million; 
2021 - £1,032 million) have not been recognised in respect of retained earnings of 
overseas subsidiaries and held-over gains on the incorporation of certain overseas 
branches. Retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries are expected to be reinvested 
indefinitely or remitted to the UK free from further taxation. No taxation is expected to 
arise in the foreseeable future in respect of held-over gains on which deferred tax is not 
recognised. Changes to UK tax legislation largely exempts from UK tax overseas 
dividends received on or after 1 July 2009. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333344

334

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

333355

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

8 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of disposal groups

Discontinued operations are reported separately on the income statement to allow users to distinguish the profits and cash flows from continuing operations from 
those activities that are subject to disposal. Assets and liabilities which we intend to dispose of in a single transaction are also presented separately on the balance 
sheet.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.2.

This note sets out the profit/(loss) from the discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities of the disposal group and the operating cash flows attributable to the 
discontinued operations.

Four legally binding agreements for the sale of the UBIDAC business have been 
announced as part of the phased withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland. Material 
developments since the beginning of 2023 are set out below.

AAggrreeeemmeenntt  wwiitthh  AAlllliieedd  IIrriisshh  BBaannkkss  pp..ll..cc..  ((AAIIBB))  ffoorr  tthhee  ttrraannssffeerr  ooff  ppeerrffoorrmmiinngg  
ccoommmmeerrcciiaall  llooaannss..  
UBIDAC completed the sale of commercial loans to AIB, with a cumulative €3.1 billion of 
gross performing loans being fully migrated. The transfer of the final cohort of colleagues 
to AIB who were wholly or mainly assigned to supporting this part of the business under 
Transfer of Undertakings, Protection of Employment (TUPE) arrangements has also 
completed.

AAggrreeeemmeenntt  wwiitthh  PPeerrmmaanneenntt  TTSSBB  GGrroouupp  HHoollddiinnggss  pp..ll..cc..  ((PPTTSSBB))..  
Agreement for the sale of performing non-tracker mortgages, the performing loans in 
the micro-SME business, the UBIDAC Asset Finance business, including its Lombard 
digital platform, and 25 Ulster Bank branch locations in the Republic of Ireland. The 
remaining performing non-tracker mortgages, all micro-SME loans and the Lombard 
Asset Finance business migrated to PTSB during the year, totalling c. €6.3 billion of gross 
loan balances. All remaining colleagues eligible under TUPE regulations also migrated to 
PTSB, as well as 25 former Ulster Bank branches.

AAggrreeeemmeenntt  wwiitthh  AAIIBB  ffoorr  tthhee  ssaallee  ooff  ppeerrffoorrmmiinngg  ttrraacckkeerr  aanndd  lliinnkkeedd  
mmoorrttggaaggeess..
UBIDAC completed the migration of €4.0 billion of performing tracker and linked 
mortgages to AIB. The remaining migrations are expected to complete in 2024.

AAggrreeeemmeenntt  wwiitthh  EEllmmssccootttt  PPrrooppeerrttyy  FFiinnaannccee  DDAACC  //  AABB  CCaarrVVaall  ((CCaarrVVaall))  
Agreement for the sale of a portfolio which consists mostly of non-performing 
mortgages, unsecured personal loans, and commercial facilities with a gross value of     
c. €690 million. Pepper Finance Corporation (Ireland) DAC will become the legal owner 
and servicer of the facilities. In November 2023, c.€400 million of exposures transferred 
to Pepper Finance Corporation (Ireland) DAC, with the remainder of the portfolio 
expected to transfer in 2024.  

The business activities relating to these sales that meet the requirements of IFRS 5 are 
presented as a discontinued operation and as a disposal group. Ulster Bank RoI 
continuing operations are reported within Central items & other.

8 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of disposal groups continued

((aa))  ((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss,,  nneett  ooff  ttaaxx

(1)

Excludes gain of £20 million (€24 million) recognised by NatWest Group as a result of acquisition of PTSB shares in relation to disposal of UBIDAC assets to PTSB in 2022.

Interest receivable

NNeett  iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee

Non-interest income (1)

TToottaall  iinnccoommee

Operating expenses

((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rreelleeaasseess

Impairment releases

OOppeerraattiinngg  ((lloossss))//pprrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx

Tax charge

((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss,,  nneett  ooff  ttaaxx

((bb))  AAsssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss

AAsssseettss  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss

Loans to customers - amortised cost

Other financial assets - loans to customers

Other assets

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss

Other liabilities

Net assets of disposal groups

Net cash flows from operating activities

Net cash flows from investing activities

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

((cc))  OOppeerraattiinngg  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  aattttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss

2023

£m 

22

22

(16)

6

6

-

(124)

(118)

(112)

(112)

2022

£m 

177

177

(472)

(295)

(38)

(333)

71

(262)

-

(262)

2023

£m 

32

841

29

902

3

3

2021

£m 

339

339

13

352

(47)

305

162

467

(3)

464

2022

£m 

1,458

5,397

6

6,861

15

15

899

6,846

2023

£m 

362

5,473

5,835

2022

£m 

1,090

6,164

7,254

2021

£m 

2,212

-

2,212

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333355

335

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

8 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of disposal groups continued
((aa))  ((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss,,  nneett  ooff  ttaaxx

Interest receivable
NNeett  iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee
Non-interest income (1)
TToottaall  iinnccoommee
Operating expenses
((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rreelleeaasseess
Impairment releases
OOppeerraattiinngg  ((lloossss))//pprrooffiitt  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx
Tax charge
((LLoossss))//pprrooffiitt  ffrroomm  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss,,  nneett  ooff  ttaaxx

(1)

Excludes gain of £20 million (€24 million) recognised by NatWest Group as a result of acquisition of PTSB shares in relation to disposal of UBIDAC assets to PTSB in 2022.

((bb))  AAsssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss

AAsssseettss  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets - loans to customers
Other assets

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  ooff  ddiissppoossaall  ggrroouuppss
Other liabilities

Net assets of disposal groups

((cc))  OOppeerraattiinngg  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  aattttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Net cash flows from operating activities
Net cash flows from investing activities
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

2023

£m 

22
22
(16)
6
(124)
(118)
6
(112)
-
(112)

2022

£m 

177
177
(472)
(295)
(38)
(333)
71
(262)
-
(262)

2023

£m 

32
841
29
902

3
3

2021

£m 

339
339
13
352
(47)
305
162
467
(3)
464

2022

£m 

1,458
5,397
6
6,861

15
15

899

6,846

2023

£m 

362
5,473
5,835

2022

£m 

1,090
6,164
7,254

2021

£m 

2,212
-
2,212

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333366

336

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

333377

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

9 Earnings per share

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments - classification

Earnings per share measures how much profit NatWest Group makes for each share in issue during the year.  Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by 
dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per ordinary share is 
calculated by dividing the basic earnings by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that 
would be issued on conversion of dilutive share options and convertible securities. The assessment of whether the effect of share options and convertible securities is 
dilutive or not, is based on the earnings from continuing operations.

Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a corresponding financial liability or equity instrument of a counterparty entity, 

such as cash, derivatives, loans, deposits and settlement balances. This note presents financial instruments classified in accordance with IFRS 9 – Financial 

Instruments. 

EEaarrnniinnggss
Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations attributable to ordinary shareholders
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders

WWeeiigghhtteedd  aavveerraaggee  nnuummbbeerr  ooff  sshhaarreess  ((mmiilllliioonnss))
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year
Effect of dilutive share options and convertible securities (1)
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year

Earnings per ordinary share - continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share - discontinued operations
Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders - basic (2)
Earnings per ordinary share - fully diluted continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share - fully diluted discontinued operations
Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders - fully diluted

2023

£m

4,506
(112)
4,394

9,164
55
9,219

49.2p
(1.2p)
47.9p
48.9p
(1.2p)
47.7p

2022

£m

3,602
(262)
3,340

9,872
57
9,929

36.5p
(2.7p)
33.8p
36.2p
(2.6p)
33.6p

2021

£m

2,486
464
2,950

10,792
45
10,837

23.0p
4.3p
27.3p
22.9p
4.3p
27.2p

(1)

(2)

At the General Meeting and Class Meeting on 25 August 2022, the shareholders approved the proposed special dividend and share consolidation. On 30 August 2022 the issued ordinary share capital was consolidated in the ratio of 14 existing shares for 
13 new shares. The average number of shares and earnings per share have been adjusted retrospectively. 
In 2023, the unrounded Total earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders – basic is 47.948p. The unrounded Earnings per ordinary share – continuing operations was 49.170p. The unrounded Earnings per ordinary share – discontinued 
operations was (1.222p).

3.8, 3.9 and 3.11.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 

Other financial assets

787

16,973

JJuuddggeemmeenntt::  ccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

Classification of financial assets between amortised cost and 

fair value through other comprehensive income requires a 

degree of judgement in respect of business models and 

contractual cashflows.

in IFRS 9.

AAsssseettss

 The business model criteria is assessed at a portfolio level 

Cash and balances at central banks

to determine whether assets are classified as held to 

collect or held to collect and sell. Information that is 

considered in determining the applicable business model 

includes: the portfolio’s policies and objectives; how the 

performance and risks of the portfolio are managed, 

evaluated and reported to management; and the 

frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, 

sales expectation for future periods, and the reasons for 

sales.

 The contractual cash flow characteristics of financial 

assets are assessed with reference to whether the cash 

flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 

(SPPI). A level of judgement is made in assessing terms 

that could change the contractual cash flows so that it 

would not meet the condition for SPPI, including contingent 

and leverage features, non-recourse arrangements and 

features that could modify the time value of money.

The following tables analyse financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments 

Trading assets

Derivatives (1)

Settlement balances

Loans to bank - amortised cost (2)

Loans to customers - amortised cost (3)

Other financial assets

Intangible assets

Other assets

Assets of disposal groups (4)

31 December 2023

Cash and balances at central banks

Trading assets

Derivatives (1)

Settlement balances

Loans to bank - amortised cost (2)

Loans to customers - amortised cost (3)

Intangible assets

Other assets

Assets of disposal groups (4)

31 December 2022

DFV

£m

FVOCI

£m

703

28,699

MFVTPL

£m

45,551

78,904

45,577

99,545

5

5

-

-

Amortised

cost

£m

104,262

7,231

6,914

381,433

21,695

144,832

2,572

7,139

366,340

13,135

Other

assets

£m

7,614

8,760

902

7,116

9,176

6,861

Total

£m

104,262

45,551

78,904

7,231

6,914

381,433

51,102

7,614

8,760

902

144,832

45,577

99,545

2,572

7,139

366,340

30,895

7,116

9,176

6,861

125,158

28,699

521,535

17,276

692,673

145,909

16,973

534,018

23,153

720,053

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333377

337

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments - classification

Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a corresponding financial liability or equity instrument of a counterparty entity, 
such as cash, derivatives, loans, deposits and settlement balances. This note presents financial instruments classified in accordance with IFRS 9 – Financial 
Instruments. 

JJuuddggeemmeenntt::  ccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Classification of financial assets between amortised cost and 
fair value through other comprehensive income requires a 
degree of judgement in respect of business models and 
contractual cashflows.

 The business model criteria is assessed at a portfolio level 
to determine whether assets are classified as held to 
collect or held to collect and sell. Information that is 
considered in determining the applicable business model 
includes: the portfolio’s policies and objectives; how the 
performance and risks of the portfolio are managed, 
evaluated and reported to management; and the 
frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, 
sales expectation for future periods, and the reasons for 
sales.

 The contractual cash flow characteristics of financial 

assets are assessed with reference to whether the cash 
flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 
(SPPI). A level of judgement is made in assessing terms 
that could change the contractual cash flows so that it 
would not meet the condition for SPPI, including contingent 
and leverage features, non-recourse arrangements and 
features that could modify the time value of money.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 
3.8, 3.9 and 3.11.

The following tables analyse financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments 
in IFRS 9.

AAsssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives (1)
Settlement balances
Loans to bank - amortised cost (2)
Loans to customers - amortised cost (3)
Other financial assets
Intangible assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups (4)
31 December 2023

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives (1)
Settlement balances
Loans to bank - amortised cost (2)
Loans to customers - amortised cost (3)
Other financial assets
Intangible assets
Other assets
Assets of disposal groups (4)
31 December 2022

MFVTPL

£m

45,551
78,904

703

125,158

45,577
99,545

787

145,909

DFV

£m

FVOCI

£m

Amortised
cost

£m
104,262

7,231
6,914
381,433
21,695

28,699

28,699

521,535

144,832

2,572
7,139
366,340
13,135

16,973

16,973

534,018

Other
assets

£m

7,614
8,760
902
17,276

7,116
9,176
6,861
23,153

Total

£m
104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
6,914
381,433
51,102
7,614
8,760
902
692,673

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
7,139
366,340
30,895
7,116
9,176
6,861
720,053

5

5

-

-

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333388

338

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

333399

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments – classification continued

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits (5)
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives (1)
Other financial liabilities (6)
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Other liabilities (7)
31 December 2023

Bank deposits (5)
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives (1)
Other financial liabilities (6)
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Other liabilities (7)
31 December 2022

Held-for-trading

£m

DFV

£m

53,636
72,395

2,888
237

126,031

3,125

52,808
94,047

2,377
345

146,855

2,722

Amortised
cost

£m
22,190
431,377
6,645

52,201
5,477
3,237
748
521,875

20,441
450,318
2,012

46,730
5,915
3,218
1,205
529,839

Other
liabilities

£m

4,454
4,454

4,141
4,141

Total

£m
22,190
431,377
6,645
53,636
72,395
55,089
5,714
3,237
5,202
655,485

20,441
450,318
2,012
52,808
94,047
49,107
6,260
3,218
5,346
683,557

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments – classification continued

We originate loans that include features that change the contractual cash flows based on the borrower meeting certain contractually specified environmental, social and governance 

(ESG) targets. These are known as ESG-linked (or sustainability-linked) loans. As part of the terms of these loans, the contractual interest rate is reduced or increased if the borrower 

meets (or fails to meet) specific targets linked to the activity of the borrower, for example reducing carbon emissions, increasing the level of diversity at Board level, or achieving a 

sustainable supply chain. ESG features are first assessed to ascertain whether the adjustment to the contractual cash flows results in a de minimis exposure to risks or volatility in 

those contractual cash flows. If this is the case the classification of the loan is not affected. If the effect of the ESG feature is assessed as being more than de minimis, we apply 

judgement to ensure that the ESG features do not generate compensation for risks that are not in line with a basic lending arrangement. This includes, amongst other aspects, a 

review of the consistency of the ESG targets with the asset or activity of the borrower, and consideration of the targets within our risk appetite. Some of these loans are an integral 

part of our climate and sustainable funding and financing target disclosed on page 16.

The table below analyses financial assets forming a component of ESG-linked loans and other products with contractual terms that could change the timing or amount of cash flows.

Positive impact on

Negative impact on

Carrying value

product margin

product margin

Carrying value

2022

2023

bps

3.2

-

bps

3.9

-

Reduction in

cash flows

£m

2.5

-

2.5

£bn

6.5

16.1

22.6

The following table shows the reconciliation of undiscounted finance lease receivables to net investment in finance leases which are presented under Loans to customers-amortised 

(1)

(2)

(3)
(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

Includes net hedging derivatives assets of £114 million (2022 - £143 million) and net 
hedging derivatives liabilities of £270 million (2022 - £132 million).
Includes items in the course of collection from other banks of £255 million (2022 - 
£229 million).
Includes finance lease receivables of £8,731 million (2022 - £8,402 million).
Includes assets of disposal groups held at FVTPL of £841 million (2022 - £5,397 
million). The portfolio is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Includes items in the course of transmission to other banks of £92 million (2022 - 
£242 million). 
The carrying amount of customer deposits designated at fair value through profit 
or loss is the same as the principal amount for both periods. No amounts have 
been recognised in the profit or loss for changes in credit risk associated with these 
liabilities as the changes are immaterial both during the period and cumulatively.
Includes lease liabilities of £670 million (2022 - £1,118 million), held at amortised 
cost.

Sustainability-linked loans

Other products

Lending subject to performance triggers

AAddddiittiioonnaall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaassee  rreecceeiivvaabblleess

cost on the balance sheet.

RReeccllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn  ooff  mmoorrttggaaggeess  ffrroomm  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  ttoo  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss
In June 2022 UBIDAC announced the cessation of new mortgage business to its customers. On 1 July 2022 UBIDAC mortgages in both its continuing and discontinued businesses were 
reclassified from amortised cost to fair value through profit or loss, reflecting the change in business model. We fair value these assets using a discounted cash flow method. Key inputs 
include assumptions about cash flows from legally binding sales agreements for those mortgage assets that form part of the assets of disposal groups. For details on material 
developments in assets and liabilities of disposals groups during the year, refer to Note 8. 

The effect of the reclassification as at 1 July 2022 is shown below.

AAmmoouunnttss  rreeccllaassssiiffiieedd  oonn  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Loans to customers (1)
Assets of disposal groups (2)

(1) Change in value recognised in continuing operations.
(2) Change in value recognised in discontinued operations.

Amortised cost

MFVTPL

Change in value

£m

£m

587
10,676
11,263

606
10,383
10,989

£m

19
(293)
(274)

AAmmoouunntt  rreecceeiivvaabbllee  uunnddeerr  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaasseess

Within 1 year

1 to 2 years

2 to 3 years

3 to 4 years

4 to 5 years

After 5 years

Total lease payments  

Unguaranteed residual values

Future drawdowns

Unearned income

Present value of lease payments

Impairments

Net investment in finance leases

£bn

5.0

8.9

13.9

2022

£m

3,235

2,254

1,388

833

411

1,130

9,251

171

(13)

(889)

8,520

(118)

8,402

2023

£m

3,340

2,358

1,625

900

388

1,079

9,690

169

(12)

(1,025)

8,822

(91)

8,731

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

333399

339

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments – classification continued
We originate loans that include features that change the contractual cash flows based on the borrower meeting certain contractually specified environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) targets. These are known as ESG-linked (or sustainability-linked) loans. As part of the terms of these loans, the contractual interest rate is reduced or increased if the borrower 
meets (or fails to meet) specific targets linked to the activity of the borrower, for example reducing carbon emissions, increasing the level of diversity at Board level, or achieving a 
sustainable supply chain. ESG features are first assessed to ascertain whether the adjustment to the contractual cash flows results in a de minimis exposure to risks or volatility in 
those contractual cash flows. If this is the case the classification of the loan is not affected. If the effect of the ESG feature is assessed as being more than de minimis, we apply 
judgement to ensure that the ESG features do not generate compensation for risks that are not in line with a basic lending arrangement. This includes, amongst other aspects, a 
review of the consistency of the ESG targets with the asset or activity of the borrower, and consideration of the targets within our risk appetite. Some of these loans are an integral 
part of our climate and sustainable funding and financing target disclosed on page 16.

The table below analyses financial assets forming a component of ESG-linked loans and other products with contractual terms that could change the timing or amount of cash flows.

Sustainability-linked loans
Other products
Lending subject to performance triggers

Positive impact on

Negative impact on

Carrying value

product margin

product margin

2023

£bn
6.5
16.1
22.6

bps
3.2
-

bps
3.9
-

Reduction in

cash flows

£m
2.5
-
2.5

2022

Carrying value

£bn
5.0
8.9
13.9

AAddddiittiioonnaall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaassee  rreecceeiivvaabblleess
The following table shows the reconciliation of undiscounted finance lease receivables to net investment in finance leases which are presented under Loans to customers-amortised 
cost on the balance sheet.

AAmmoouunntt  rreecceeiivvaabbllee  uunnddeerr  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaasseess
Within 1 year
1 to 2 years
2 to 3 years
3 to 4 years
4 to 5 years
After 5 years
Total lease payments  
Unguaranteed residual values
Future drawdowns
Unearned income
Present value of lease payments
Impairments
Net investment in finance leases

2023

£m

3,340
2,358
1,625
900
388
1,079
9,690
169
(12)
(1,025)
8,822
(91)
8,731

2022

£m

3,235
2,254
1,388
833
411
1,130
9,251
171
(13)
(889)
8,520
(118)
8,402

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

334400

340

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

334411

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10 Financial instruments – classification continued
FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ––  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  tthhaatt  ccaann  bbee  ooffffsseett
The tables below present information on financial assets and financial liabilities that are offset on the balance sheet under IFRS or subject to enforceable master netting agreements 
together with financial collateral received or given.

Instruments which can be offset

Potential for offset not recognised by IFRS

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments - valuation

Financial instruments recognised at fair value are revalued using techniques that can include observable inputs (pricing information that is readily available in the 

market, for example UK Government securities), and unobservable inputs (pricing information that is not readily available, for example unlisted securities). Gains and 

losses are recognised in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income as appropriate.  This note presents information on the valuation of financial 

22002233
Derivative assets
Derivative liabilities
Net position (1)

Trading reverse repos
Trading repos
Net position

Non trading reverse repos
Non trading repos
Net position

2022
Derivative assets
Derivative liabilities
Net position (1)

Trading reverse repos
Trading repos
Net position

Non trading reverse repos
Non trading repos
Net position

Gross

IFRS offset

Balance sheet

agreements

Effect of master

netting and similar 

£m
99,023
95,734
3,289

39,573
42,442
(2,869)

37,477
23,605
13,872

117,606
115,177
2,429

35,612
33,767
1,845

25,630
16,977
8,653

£m
(20,597)
(23,869)
3,272

(16,257)
(16,257)
-

(9,646)
(9,646)
-

(18,730)
(22,111)
3,381

(14,510)
(14,510)
-

(5,702)
(5,702)
-

£m
78,426
71,865
6,561

23,316
26,185
(2,869)

27,831
13,959
13,872

98,876
93,066
5,810

21,102
19,257
1,845

19,928
11,275
8,653

£m
(60,355)
(60,355)
-

(664)
(664)
-

(5)
(5)
-

(77,365)
(77,365)
-

(2,445)
(2,445)
-

-
-
-

Cash
collateral

£m
(12,284)
(6,788)
(5,496)

-
-
-

-
-
-

(14,079)
(9,761)
(4,318)

-
-
-

-
-
-

Securities 
collateral

£m
(3,408)
(1,663)
(1,745)

(22,461)
(25,520)
3,059

(27,826)
(13,954)
(13,872)

(4,571)
(1,185)
(3,386)

(18,458)
(16,812)
(1,646)

(19,928)
(11,275)
(8,653)

(1) Net IFRS offset balance of £3,272 million (2022 - £3,381 million) relates to variation margin netting reflected on other balance sheet lines. 

Net amount after 

Instruments

netting agreements and 

outside netting

effect of related collateral

agreements

Balance sheet 
total

The table below provides an overview of the various sections contained within the note.

£m
2,379
3,059
(680)

191
1
190

-
-
-

2,861
4,755
(1,894)

199
-
199

-
-
-

£m
478
530
(52)

378
717
(339)

80
3
77

669
981
(312)

435
4,483
(4,048)

98
-
98

£m
78,904
72,395
6,509

23,694
26,902
(3,208)

27,911
13,962
13,949

99,545
94,047
5,498

21,537
23,740
(2,203)

20,026
11,275
8,751

instruments.

iinnssttrruummeennttss

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ––  ffiinnaanncciiaall  

VVaalluuaattiioonn

Financial instruments classified as mandatory fair value through 

profit or loss; held-for-trading; designated fair value through profit 

or loss; and fair value through other comprehensive income are 

recognised in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives 

are measured at fair value.

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss

Critical accounting policy: Fair value

VVaalluuaattiioonn

   Fair value hierarchy (D)

   Valuation techniques (D)

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or 

   Inputs to valuation models (D)

paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 

   Valuation control (D)

participants at the measurement date. A fair value measurement 

considers the characteristics of the asset or liability and the 

assumptions that a market participant would consider when pricing 

the asset or liability. 

   Key areas of judgement (D)

   Assets and liabilities split by fair value hierarchy level (T)

VVaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss

   Fair value adjustments made (T)

NatWest Group manages some portfolios of financial assets and 

   Funding valuation adjustments (FVA) (D)

financial liabilities based on its net exposure to either market or 

   Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) (D)

credit risk. In these cases, the fair value is derived from the net risk 

exposure of that portfolio with portfolio level adjustments applied to 

incorporate bid-offer spreads, counterparty credit risk, and funding 

costs (refer to ‘Valuation Adjustments’).

   Bid-offer (D)

   Product and deal specific (D)

   Own credit (D)

LLeevveell  33  aaddddiittiioonnaall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn

Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value 

is established using a valuation technique. These valuation 

techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which 

depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of 

market-based data. The complexity and uncertainty in the financial 

instrument’s fair value is categorised using the fair value hierarchy. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 2.2, 

3.8 and 3.11.

   Level 3 ranges of unobservable inputs (D)

   Level 3 instruments, valuation techniques and inputs (T)

   Level 3 sensitivities (D)

   Alternative assumptions (D)

   Other considerations (D)

   High and low range of fair value of level 3 assets and liabilities (T)

   Movement in level 3 assets and liabilities over the reporting period (D)

   Movement in level 3 assets and liabilities (T)

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt

   Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet

balance sheet (T)

       balance sheet

(D) = Descriptive; (T) = Table

Page

341

342

342

342

343

343

344

345

345

345

345

345

345

346

346

347

347

347

347

348

348

349

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

334411

341

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments - valuation

Financial instruments recognised at fair value are revalued using techniques that can include observable inputs (pricing information that is readily available in the 
market, for example UK Government securities), and unobservable inputs (pricing information that is not readily available, for example unlisted securities). Gains and 
losses are recognised in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income as appropriate.  This note presents information on the valuation of financial 
instruments.

The table below provides an overview of the various sections contained within the note.

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ––  ffiinnaanncciiaall  
iinnssttrruummeennttss
Financial instruments classified as mandatory fair value through 
profit or loss; held-for-trading; designated fair value through profit 
or loss; and fair value through other comprehensive income are 
recognised in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives 
are measured at fair value.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. A fair value measurement 
considers the characteristics of the asset or liability and the 
assumptions that a market participant would consider when pricing 
the asset or liability. 

NatWest Group manages some portfolios of financial assets and 
financial liabilities based on its net exposure to either market or 
credit risk. In these cases, the fair value is derived from the net risk 
exposure of that portfolio with portfolio level adjustments applied to 
incorporate bid-offer spreads, counterparty credit risk, and funding 
costs (refer to ‘Valuation Adjustments’).

Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value 
is established using a valuation technique. These valuation 
techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which 
depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of 
market-based data. The complexity and uncertainty in the financial 
instrument’s fair value is categorised using the fair value hierarchy. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 2.2, 
3.8 and 3.11.

VVaalluuaattiioonn

FFiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss
Critical accounting policy: Fair value
VVaalluuaattiioonn
   Fair value hierarchy (D)
   Valuation techniques (D)
   Inputs to valuation models (D)
   Valuation control (D)
   Key areas of judgement (D)
   Assets and liabilities split by fair value hierarchy level (T)
VVaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss
   Fair value adjustments made (T)
   Funding valuation adjustments (FVA) (D)
   Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) (D)
   Bid-offer (D)
   Product and deal specific (D)
   Own credit (D)
LLeevveell  33  aaddddiittiioonnaall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
   Level 3 ranges of unobservable inputs (D)
   Level 3 instruments, valuation techniques and inputs (T)
   Level 3 sensitivities (D)
   Alternative assumptions (D)
   Other considerations (D)
   High and low range of fair value of level 3 assets and liabilities (T)
   Movement in level 3 assets and liabilities over the reporting period (D)
   Movement in level 3 assets and liabilities (T)
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt
   Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet
balance sheet (T)
       balance sheet
(D) = Descriptive; (T) = Table

Page

341

342
342
342
343
343
344

345
345
345
345
345
345

346
346
347
347
347
347
348
348

349

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

342

342

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

343

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hhiieerraarrcchhyy
Financial instruments carried at fair value have been classified under the fair value 
hierarchy. The classification ranges from level 1 to level 3, with more expert judgement 
and price uncertainty for those classified at level 3. 

The determination of an instrument’s level cannot be made at a global product level as a 
single product type can be in more than one level. For example, a single name corporate 
credit default swap could be in level 2 or level 3 depending on the level of market activity 
for the referenced entity.

LLeevveell  11 – instruments valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active and liquid markets, 
for identical financial instruments. Examples include government bonds, listed equity 
shares and certain exchange-traded derivatives.

LLeevveell  22 - instruments valued using valuation techniques that have observable inputs. 
Observable inputs are those that are readily available with limited adjustments required. 
Examples include most government agency securities, investment-grade corporate 
bonds, certain mortgage products - including collateralised loan obligations (CLOs), most 
bank loans, repos and reverse repos, state and municipal obligations, most notes issued, 
certain money market securities, loan commitments and most over the counter (OTC) 
derivatives.

LLeevveell  33 - instruments valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which 
could have a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation, is not based on observable 
market data. Examples include non-derivative instrument’s which trade infrequently, 
certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, private equity, and derivatives with 
unobservable model inputs. 

VVaalluuaattiioonn  tteecchhnniiqquueess
NatWest Group derives the fair value of its instruments differently depending on whether 
the instrument is a non-modelled or a modelled product. 

NNoonn--mmooddeelllleedd  pprroodduuccttss are valued directly from a price input, typically on a position-by-
position basis. Examples include equities and most debt securities.

Non-modelled products can fall into any fair value levelling hierarchy depending on the 
observable market activity, liquidity, and assessment of valuation uncertainty of the 
instruments. The assessment of fair value and the classification of the instrument to a fair 
value level is subject to the valuation controls discussed in the Valuation control section. 

MMooddeelllleedd  pprroodduuccttss valued using a pricing model range in complexity from comparatively 
vanilla products such as interest rate swaps and options (e.g., interest rate caps and 
floors) through to more complex derivatives (e.g., balance guarantee swaps). 

For modelled products the fair value is derived using the model and the appropriate 
model inputs or parameters, as opposed to a cash price equivalent. Model inputs are 
taken either directly or indirectly from available data, where some inputs are also 
modelled.

Fair value classification of modelled instruments is either level 2 or level 3, depending on 
the product/model combination, the observability and quality of input parameters and 
other factors. All these must be assessed to classify a position. The modelled product is 
assigned to the lowest fair value hierarchy level of any significant input used in that 
valuation.  

Most derivative instruments, for example vanilla interest rate swaps, foreign exchange 
swaps and liquid single name credit derivatives, are classified as level 2. This is because 
they are vanilla products valued using standard market models and with observable 
inputs. Level 2 products range from vanilla to more complex products, where more 
complex products remain classified as level 2 due to the low materiality of any 
unobservable inputs.

IInnppuuttss  ttoo  vvaalluuaattiioonn  mmooddeellss
When using valuation techniques, the fair value can be significantly affected by the 
choice of valuation model and underlying assumptions. Factors considered include the 
cashflow amounts and timing of those cash flows, and application of appropriate discount 
rates, incorporating both funding and credit risk. Values between and beyond available 
data points are obtained by interpolation and extrapolation. The principal inputs to these 
valuation techniques are as follows:

BBoonndd  pprriicceess - quoted prices are generally available for government bonds, certain 
corporate securities, and some mortgage-related products. 

CCrreeddiitt  sspprreeaaddss//mmaarrggiinnss - these reflect credit default swap levels or the return required 
over a benchmark rate or index to compensate for the referenced credit risk. Where 
available, these are derived from the price of credit default swaps or other credit-based 
instruments, such as debt securities. When direct prices are not available; credit 
spreads/margins are determined with reference to available prices of entities with similar 
characteristics. 

IInntteerreesstt  rraatteess - these are principally based on interest rate swap prices referencing 
benchmark interest rates. Interest rates, include SONIA (Sterling Overnight Interbank 
Average Rate) and other overnight rates. Other quoted interest rates may also be used 
from both the bond, and futures markets.

FFoorreeiiggnn  ccuurrrreennccyy  eexxcchhaannggee  rraatteess - there are observable prices both for spot and 
forward contracts and futures in the world's major currencies. 

EEqquuiittyy  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy  iinnddeexx  pprriicceess - quoted prices are generally readily available for equity 
shares listed on the world's major stock exchanges and for major indices on such shares. 

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued

PPrriiccee  vvoollaattiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoorrrreellaattiioonnss - volatility is a measure of the tendency of a price to 

change with time. Correlation measures the degree which two or more prices or 

variables are observed to move together. Variables that move in the same direction 

show positive correlation; those that move in opposite directions are negatively 

correlated.

PPrreeppaayymmeenntt  rraatteess - are used to reflect how fast a pool of assets prepay. The fair value of 

a financial instrument that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of 

an instrument that cannot be prepaid. When valuing prepayable instruments, the value of 

this prepayment option is considered. 

Initial fair value level classification of a financial instrument is carried out by the IPV team. 

These initial classifications are subject to senior management review. Particular attention 

is paid to instruments transferring from one level to another, new instrument classes or 

products, instruments where the transaction price is significantly different from the fair 

value and instruments where valuation uncertainty is high.

Valuation Committees are made up of valuation specialists and senior business 

representatives from various functions and oversees pricing, reserving and valuations 

issues. These committees meet monthly to review and ratify any methodology changes. 

The Executive Valuation Committee meets quarterly to address key material and 

subjective valuation issues, to review items escalated by Valuation Committees and to 

discuss other relevant industry matters.

RReeccoovveerryy  rraatteess//lloossss  ggiivveenn  ddeeffaauulltt - are used as an input to valuation models and 

reserves for asset-backed securities and other credit products as an indicator of severity 

of losses on default. Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers, 

the value of the underlying collateral or inferred from observable credit spreads. 

The Group model risk policy sets the policy for model documentation, testing and review. 

Governance of the model risk policy is carried out by the Group model risk oversight 

committee, which comprises model risk owners and independent model experts. All 

models are required to be independently validated in accordance with the Model Risk 

VVaalluuaattiioonn  ccoonnttrrooll

(IPV) team

NatWest Group's control environment for the determination of the fair value of financial 

instruments includes formalised procedures for the review and validation of fair values. 

The review of market prices and inputs is performed by an independent price verification 

IPV is a key element of the control environment. Valuations are first performed by the 

business which entered into the transaction. These valuations are then reviewed by the 

IPV team, independent of those trading the financial instruments, in light of available 

pricing evidence. 

Policy.

KKeeyy  aarreeaass  ooff  jjuuddggeemmeenntt  

Over the years the business has simplified, with most products classified as level 1 or 2 of 

the fair value hierarchy. However, the diverse range of products historically traded by 

NatWest Group means some products remain classified as level 3. Level 3 indicates a 

significant level of pricing uncertainty, where expert judgement is used. As such, extra 

disclosures are required in respect of level 3 instruments.

In general, the degree of expert judgement used and hence valuation uncertainty 

depends on the degree of liquidity of an instrument or input.

Independent pricing data is collated from a range of sources. Each source is reviewed for 

quality and the independent data applied in the IPV processes using a formalised input 

quality hierarchy. Consensus services are one source of independent data and 

encompass interest rate, currency, credit, and bond markets, providing comprehensive 

coverage of vanilla products and a wide selection of exotic products.

Where markets are liquid, little judgement is required. However, when the information 

regarding the liquidity in a particular market is not clear, a judgement may need to be 

made. For example, for an equity traded on an exchange, daily volumes of trading can 

be seen, but for an OTC derivative, assessing the liquidity of the market with no central 

exchange is more challenging.

Where measurement differences are identified through the IPV process these are 

grouped by the quality hierarchy of the independent data. If the size of the difference 

exceeds defined thresholds, an adjustment is made to bring the valuation to within the 

independently calculated fair value range.

IPV takes place at least monthly, for all fair value financial instruments. The IPV control 

includes formalised reporting and escalation of any valuation differences in breach of 

established thresholds. 

The quality and completeness of the information gathered in the IPV process gives an 

indication as to the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of an instrument and forms part of 

the information considered when determining fair value hierarchy classifications. 

A key related matter is where a market moves from liquid to illiquid or vice versa. Where 

this movement is considered temporary, the fair value level is not changed. For example, 

if there is little market trading in a product on a reporting date but at the previous 

reporting date and during the intervening period the market has been liquid. In this case, 

the instrument will continue to be classified at the same level in the hierarchy. This is to 

provide consistency so that transfers between levels are driven by genuine changes in 

market liquidity and do not reflect short term or seasonal effects. Material movements 

between levels are reviewed quarterly by the business and IPV.

The breadth and depth of the IPV data allows for a rules-based quality assessment to be 

made of market activity, liquidity, and pricing uncertainty, which assists with the process 

of allocation to an appropriate level. Where suitable independent pricing information is 

not readily available, the quality assessment will result in the instrument being assessed 

as level 3.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

343

343

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
PPrriiccee  vvoollaattiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoorrrreellaattiioonnss - volatility is a measure of the tendency of a price to 
change with time. Correlation measures the degree which two or more prices or 
variables are observed to move together. Variables that move in the same direction 
show positive correlation; those that move in opposite directions are negatively 
correlated.

PPrreeppaayymmeenntt  rraatteess - are used to reflect how fast a pool of assets prepay. The fair value of 
a financial instrument that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of 
an instrument that cannot be prepaid. When valuing prepayable instruments, the value of 
this prepayment option is considered. 

RReeccoovveerryy  rraatteess//lloossss  ggiivveenn  ddeeffaauulltt - are used as an input to valuation models and 
reserves for asset-backed securities and other credit products as an indicator of severity 
of losses on default. Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers, 
the value of the underlying collateral or inferred from observable credit spreads. 

VVaalluuaattiioonn  ccoonnttrrooll
NatWest Group's control environment for the determination of the fair value of financial 
instruments includes formalised procedures for the review and validation of fair values. 
The review of market prices and inputs is performed by an independent price verification 
(IPV) team

IPV is a key element of the control environment. Valuations are first performed by the 
business which entered into the transaction. These valuations are then reviewed by the 
IPV team, independent of those trading the financial instruments, in light of available 
pricing evidence. 

Initial fair value level classification of a financial instrument is carried out by the IPV team. 
These initial classifications are subject to senior management review. Particular attention 
is paid to instruments transferring from one level to another, new instrument classes or 
products, instruments where the transaction price is significantly different from the fair 
value and instruments where valuation uncertainty is high.

Valuation Committees are made up of valuation specialists and senior business 
representatives from various functions and oversees pricing, reserving and valuations 
issues. These committees meet monthly to review and ratify any methodology changes. 
The Executive Valuation Committee meets quarterly to address key material and 
subjective valuation issues, to review items escalated by Valuation Committees and to 
discuss other relevant industry matters.

The Group model risk policy sets the policy for model documentation, testing and review. 
Governance of the model risk policy is carried out by the Group model risk oversight 
committee, which comprises model risk owners and independent model experts. All 
models are required to be independently validated in accordance with the Model Risk 
Policy.

KKeeyy  aarreeaass  ooff  jjuuddggeemmeenntt  
Over the years the business has simplified, with most products classified as level 1 or 2 of 
the fair value hierarchy. However, the diverse range of products historically traded by 
NatWest Group means some products remain classified as level 3. Level 3 indicates a 
significant level of pricing uncertainty, where expert judgement is used. As such, extra 
disclosures are required in respect of level 3 instruments.

In general, the degree of expert judgement used and hence valuation uncertainty 
depends on the degree of liquidity of an instrument or input.

Independent pricing data is collated from a range of sources. Each source is reviewed for 
quality and the independent data applied in the IPV processes using a formalised input 
quality hierarchy. Consensus services are one source of independent data and 
encompass interest rate, currency, credit, and bond markets, providing comprehensive 
coverage of vanilla products and a wide selection of exotic products.

Where markets are liquid, little judgement is required. However, when the information 
regarding the liquidity in a particular market is not clear, a judgement may need to be 
made. For example, for an equity traded on an exchange, daily volumes of trading can 
be seen, but for an OTC derivative, assessing the liquidity of the market with no central 
exchange is more challenging.

Where measurement differences are identified through the IPV process these are 
grouped by the quality hierarchy of the independent data. If the size of the difference 
exceeds defined thresholds, an adjustment is made to bring the valuation to within the 
independently calculated fair value range.

IPV takes place at least monthly, for all fair value financial instruments. The IPV control 
includes formalised reporting and escalation of any valuation differences in breach of 
established thresholds. 

The quality and completeness of the information gathered in the IPV process gives an 
indication as to the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of an instrument and forms part of 
the information considered when determining fair value hierarchy classifications. 

A key related matter is where a market moves from liquid to illiquid or vice versa. Where 
this movement is considered temporary, the fair value level is not changed. For example, 
if there is little market trading in a product on a reporting date but at the previous 
reporting date and during the intervening period the market has been liquid. In this case, 
the instrument will continue to be classified at the same level in the hierarchy. This is to 
provide consistency so that transfers between levels are driven by genuine changes in 
market liquidity and do not reflect short term or seasonal effects. Material movements 
between levels are reviewed quarterly by the business and IPV.

The breadth and depth of the IPV data allows for a rules-based quality assessment to be 
made of market activity, liquidity, and pricing uncertainty, which assists with the process 
of allocation to an appropriate level. Where suitable independent pricing information is 
not readily available, the quality assessment will result in the instrument being assessed 
as level 3.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

344

344

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

345

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
The table below shows the assets and liabilities held by NatWest Group split by fair value hierarchy level. Level 1 are considered the most liquid instruments, and level 3 the most 
illiquid, valued using expert judgement and so carry the most significant price uncertainty.

AAsssseettss
Trading assets
  Loans
  Securities
Derivatives
  Interest rate
  Foreign exchange
  Other
Other financial assets
  Loans
  Securities
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee
AAss  aa  %%  ooff  ttoottaall  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Trading liabilities
  Deposits
  Debt securities in issue
  Short positions
Derivatives
  Interest rate
  Foreign exchange
  Other
Other financial liabilities
  Debt securities in issue
  Other deposits
  Subordinated liabilities
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee
AAss  aa  %%  ooff  ttoottaall  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  lliiaabbiilliittiieess 

2023

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

£m

£m

£m

Total

£m

Level 1

£m

2022

Level 2

£m

Level 3

£m

Total

£m

-
8,447

1
-
-

-
17,848
26,296
17%

-
-
7,936

-
-
-

-
-
-
7,936
6%

33,388
3,493

43,912
34,096
72

108
10,536
125,605
82%

43,126
706
1,865

38,044
33,528
138

1,605
1,280
237
120,529
93%

209
14

650
65
108

657
258
1,961
1%

1
-
2

439
58
188

3
-
-
691
1%

33,597
11,954

44,563
34,161
180

765
28,642
153,862

43,127
706
9,803

38,483
33,586
326

1,608
1,280
237
129,156

-
7,463

5
-
-

-
10,380
17,848
11%

-
-
7,462

2
-
-

-
-
-
7,464
5%

35,260
2,458

52,764
45,715
54

172
6,278
142,701
88%

42,486
797
2,062

47,855
45,139
76

1,327
1,050
345
141,137
94%

395
1

711
114
182

727
203
2,333
1%

1
-
-

678
98
199

-
-
-
976
1%

35,655
9,922

53,480
45,829
236

899
16,861
162,882

42,487
797
9,524

48,535
45,237
275

1,327
1,050
345
149,577

(1)
(2)

Transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred at the beginning of the quarter in which the instrument was transferred. 
For an analysis of debt securities held at mandatory fair value through profit or loss by issuer as well as ratings and derivatives, by type and contract, refer to Risk and capital management – Credit risk.

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued

VVaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss

When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-

market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, funding and credit risk. These adjustments 

are presented in the table below:

Collateral held under a credit support agreement is factored into the CVA calculation. In 

such cases where NatWest Group holds collateral against counterparty exposures, CVA 

is held to the extent that residual risk remains.

FVA and CVA are actively managed by a credit and market risk hedging process, and 

therefore movements in CVA and FVA are partially offset by trading revenue on the 

AAddjjuussttmmeenntt

Funding valuation adjustments

Credit valuation adjustments

Product and deal specific

Bid-offer

Total

22002233

££mm

113322

223366

8866

110033

555577

hedges.

BBiidd--ooffffeerr

2022

£m

173

300

130

141

744

Funding valuation adjustments decreased during the year, primarily driven by changes in 

GBP interest rates and funding spreads tightening.

The decrease in credit value adjustments was driven by credit spreads tightening and a 

reduction in exposures, primarily due to portfolio ageing, partially offset by new trade 

activity. Interest rates tightening, trade restructuring and trade specific valuation 

adjustments were the drivers of the decrease in product and deal specific. The decrease 

in bid-offer was driven by risk reduction.

FFuunnddiinngg  vvaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  ((FFVVAA))

FVA represents an estimate of the adjustment that a market participant would make to 

incorporate funding costs and benefits that arise in relation to derivative exposures. FVA 

is calculated as a portfolio level adjustment and can result in either a funding charge 

(positive) or funding benefit (negative).

Funding levels are applied to estimated potential future exposures. For uncollateralised 

derivatives, the exposure reflects the future valuation of the derivative. For collateralised 

derivatives, the exposure reflects the difference between the future valuation of the 

derivative and the level of collateral posted.

CCrreeddiitt  vvaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  ((CCVVAA))

CVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that is made to incorporate 

the counterparty credit risk inherent in derivative exposures. CVA is calculated on a 

portfolio basis reflecting an estimate of the amount a third party would charge to assume 

the credit risk.

OOwwnn  ccrreeddiitt

Fair value positions are required to be marked to exit levels, represented by bid (long 

positions) or offer (short positions) levels. Non-derivative positions are typically marked 

directly to bid or offer prices. However derivative exposures are adjusted to exit levels by 

taking bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis. The reserving approach is based 

on current market bid-offer spreads and standard market bucketing of risk.

Bid-offer spreads vary by maturity and risk type to reflect different spreads in the 

market. For positions where there is no observable quote, the bid-offer spreads are 

widened in comparison to proxies to reflect reduced liquidity or observability.

Netting is applied on a portfolio basis to reflect the value at which NatWest Group 

believes it could exit the net risk of the portfolio, rather than the sum of exit costs for 

each of the portfolio’s individual trades. This is applied where the asset and liability 

positions are managed as a portfolio for risk and reporting purposes. 

PPrroodduucctt  aanndd  ddeeaall  ssppeecciiffiicc

On initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques 

which have a significant dependence on information other than observable market data, 

any difference between the transaction price and that derived from the valuation 

technique is deferred. Such amounts are recognised in the income statement over the 

life of the transaction, when market data becomes observable, or when the transaction 

matures or is closed out as appropriate. On 31 December 2023, net gains of £78 million 

(2022 - £74 million) were carried forward. During the year, net gains of £119 million 

(2022 - £97 million) were deferred and £115 million (2022 - £94 million) were recognised 

in the income statement.

Where system-generated valuations do not accurately reflect market prices, manual 

valuation adjustments are applied either at a position or portfolio level. Manual 

adjustments are subject to the scrutiny of independent control teams and are subject to 

monthly review by senior management. 

NatWest Group considers the effect of its own credit standing when valuing financial 

liabilities recorded at fair value. Own credit spread adjustments are made when valuing 

issued debt held at fair value, including issued structured notes. An own credit 

adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties would consider 

NatWest Group’s creditworthiness when pricing trades.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

345

345

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
VVaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss
When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-
market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, funding and credit risk. These adjustments 
are presented in the table below:

Collateral held under a credit support agreement is factored into the CVA calculation. In 
such cases where NatWest Group holds collateral against counterparty exposures, CVA 
is held to the extent that residual risk remains.

FVA and CVA are actively managed by a credit and market risk hedging process, and 
therefore movements in CVA and FVA are partially offset by trading revenue on the 
hedges.

AAddjjuussttmmeenntt
Funding valuation adjustments
Credit valuation adjustments
Bid-offer
Product and deal specific
Total

22002233

££mm
113322
223366
8866
110033
555577

2022

£m
173
300
130
141
744

BBiidd--ooffffeerr
Fair value positions are required to be marked to exit levels, represented by bid (long 
positions) or offer (short positions) levels. Non-derivative positions are typically marked 
directly to bid or offer prices. However derivative exposures are adjusted to exit levels by 
taking bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis. The reserving approach is based 
on current market bid-offer spreads and standard market bucketing of risk.

Funding valuation adjustments decreased during the year, primarily driven by changes in 
GBP interest rates and funding spreads tightening.

The decrease in credit value adjustments was driven by credit spreads tightening and a 
reduction in exposures, primarily due to portfolio ageing, partially offset by new trade 
activity. Interest rates tightening, trade restructuring and trade specific valuation 
adjustments were the drivers of the decrease in product and deal specific. The decrease 
in bid-offer was driven by risk reduction.

FFuunnddiinngg  vvaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  ((FFVVAA))
FVA represents an estimate of the adjustment that a market participant would make to 
incorporate funding costs and benefits that arise in relation to derivative exposures. FVA 
is calculated as a portfolio level adjustment and can result in either a funding charge 
(positive) or funding benefit (negative).

Funding levels are applied to estimated potential future exposures. For uncollateralised 
derivatives, the exposure reflects the future valuation of the derivative. For collateralised 
derivatives, the exposure reflects the difference between the future valuation of the 
derivative and the level of collateral posted.

CCrreeddiitt  vvaalluuaattiioonn  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  ((CCVVAA))
CVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that is made to incorporate 
the counterparty credit risk inherent in derivative exposures. CVA is calculated on a 
portfolio basis reflecting an estimate of the amount a third party would charge to assume 
the credit risk.

Bid-offer spreads vary by maturity and risk type to reflect different spreads in the 
market. For positions where there is no observable quote, the bid-offer spreads are 
widened in comparison to proxies to reflect reduced liquidity or observability.

Netting is applied on a portfolio basis to reflect the value at which NatWest Group 
believes it could exit the net risk of the portfolio, rather than the sum of exit costs for 
each of the portfolio’s individual trades. This is applied where the asset and liability 
positions are managed as a portfolio for risk and reporting purposes. 

PPrroodduucctt  aanndd  ddeeaall  ssppeecciiffiicc
On initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques 
which have a significant dependence on information other than observable market data, 
any difference between the transaction price and that derived from the valuation 
technique is deferred. Such amounts are recognised in the income statement over the 
life of the transaction, when market data becomes observable, or when the transaction 
matures or is closed out as appropriate. On 31 December 2023, net gains of £78 million 
(2022 - £74 million) were carried forward. During the year, net gains of £119 million 
(2022 - £97 million) were deferred and £115 million (2022 - £94 million) were recognised 
in the income statement.

Where system-generated valuations do not accurately reflect market prices, manual 
valuation adjustments are applied either at a position or portfolio level. Manual 
adjustments are subject to the scrutiny of independent control teams and are subject to 
monthly review by senior management. 

OOwwnn  ccrreeddiitt
NatWest Group considers the effect of its own credit standing when valuing financial 
liabilities recorded at fair value. Own credit spread adjustments are made when valuing 
issued debt held at fair value, including issued structured notes. An own credit 
adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties would consider 
NatWest Group’s creditworthiness when pricing trades.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

346

346

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

347

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
LLeevveell  33  aaddddiittiioonnaall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
For illiquid assets and liabilities, classified as level 3, additional information is provided on the valuation techniques used and price sensitivity of the products to those inputs. This is to 
enable the reader to gauge the level of uncertainty that arises from positions with significant unobservable inputs or modelling parameters.

Level 3 ranges of unobservable inputs 
The table below provides additional information on level 3 instruments and inputs. This shows the valuation technique used for the fair value calculation, the unobservable input and 
input range.

Financial instrument
Trading assets and Other financial assets
Loans

Valuation technique

Price-based
Discount cash flow
Discount cash flow

Unobservable inputs

Price
Credit spreads
Discount margin

Debt securities

Price-based

Price

Equity Shares

Derivative assets and liabilities
Credit derivatives

Price-based
Price-based
Discount cash flow
Net asset valuation

Credit derivative pricing
Option pricing

Interest rate & FX
derivatives

Option pricing

Price
Price
Discount margin
Fund NAV

Credit spreads
Correlation
Volatility
Upfront points
Recovery rate

Correlation
Volatility
Constant Prepayment Rate
Mean Reversion
Inflation volatility 
Inflation rate

Units

%
bps
bps

%

GBP 
%
%
%

bps
%
%
%
%

%
%
%
%
%
%

22002233

2022

LLooww

--
4499
117744

--

--
--
77
8800

1133
((1155))
3300
--
--

((5500))
3300
22
--
22
22

HHiigghh

112233
111199
222288

111199

3322,,114422
3300
99
112200

660000
9955
8800
9999
6600

9999
111111
2222
2200
22
33

Low

-
56
174

-

-
-
6
80

7
(15)
30
-
-

(50)
30
2
-
1
2

High

113
114
222

255

34,027
30
8
120

530
95
80
99
60

100
127
21
92
2
3

(1) Valuation for private equity investments may be estimated by looking at past prices of similar stocks and from valuation statements where valuations are usually derived from earnings measures such as EBITDA or net asset value (NAV). Similarly, for 

equity or bond fund investments, prices may be estimated from valuation or credit statements using NAV or similar measures.

(2) NatWest Group does not have any material liabilities measured at fair value that are issued with an inseparable third-party credit enhancement.

The level 3 sensitivities presented below are calculated at a trade or low-level portfolio 

otherwise of available quotes; consensus service dispersion ranges; volume of trading 

basis rather than an overall portfolio basis. As individual sensitivities are aggregated with 

activity and market bias (e.g. one-way inventory); day 1 profit or loss arising on new 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued

Level 3 sensitivities 

no reflection of the correlated nature between instruments, the overall portfolio 

sensitivity may not be accurately reflected. For example, some portfolios may be 

negatively correlated to others, where a downwards movement in one asset would 

produce an upwards movement in another. However, due to the additive presentation of 

the above figures this correlation impact cannot be displayed. As such, the actual 

potential downside sensitivity of the total portfolio may be less than the non-correlated 

sum of the additive figures as shown in the below table.

AAlltteerrnnaattiivvee  aassssuummppttiioonnss

Reasonably plausible alternative assumptions of unobservable inputs are determined 

based on a specified target level of certainty of 90%. 

The table below shows the high and low range of fair value of the level 3 assets and liabilities. This range incorporates the range of fair value inputs as described in the previous table.

Alternative assumptions are determined with reference to all available evidence including 

consideration of the following: quality of independent pricing information considering 

consistency between different sources, variation over time, perceived tradability or 

trades; number and nature of market participants; market conditions; modelling 

consistency in the market; size and nature of risk; length of holding of position; and 

market intelligence.

OOtthheerr  ccoonnssiiddeerraattiioonnss

Whilst certain inputs used to calculate CVA, FVA and own credit adjustments are not 

based on observable market data, the uncertainty of these inputs is not considered to 

have a significant effect on the net valuation of the related derivative portfolios and 

issued debt. 

As such, the fair value levelling of the derivative portfolios and issued debt is not 

determined by CVA, FVA or own credit inputs. In addition, any fair value sensitivity 

driven by these inputs is not included in the level 3 sensitivities presented.

2023

2022

Favourable

Unfavourable

Favourable

Unfavourable

Level 3

£m

1,961

209

14

650

65

108

657

258

1

2

439

58

188

3

691

£m

-

-

20

-

10

-

20

50

-

-

-

-

10

10

20

£m

-

-

-

(20)

(10)

(40)

(50)

(120)

-

-

-

-

(10)

(10)

(20)

Level 3

£m

2,333

395

1

711

114

182

727

203

1

-

678

98

199

-

976

£m

10

-

30

10

10

-

20

80

-

-

-

-

-

30

30

£m

(10)

-

(30)

(10)

(10)

(10)

(30)

(100)

-

-

-

-

-

(30)

(30)

AAsssseettss

Trading assets

  Loans

  Securities

Derivatives

  Interest rate

  Foreign exchange

  Other

Other financial assets

  Loans

  Securities

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess

Trading liabilities

  Deposits

  Short positions

Derivatives

  Interest rate

  Foreign exchange

  Other

TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue

TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

347

347

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
Level 3 sensitivities 
The level 3 sensitivities presented below are calculated at a trade or low-level portfolio 
basis rather than an overall portfolio basis. As individual sensitivities are aggregated with 
no reflection of the correlated nature between instruments, the overall portfolio 
sensitivity may not be accurately reflected. For example, some portfolios may be 
negatively correlated to others, where a downwards movement in one asset would 
produce an upwards movement in another. However, due to the additive presentation of 
the above figures this correlation impact cannot be displayed. As such, the actual 
potential downside sensitivity of the total portfolio may be less than the non-correlated 
sum of the additive figures as shown in the below table.

AAlltteerrnnaattiivvee  aassssuummppttiioonnss
Reasonably plausible alternative assumptions of unobservable inputs are determined 
based on a specified target level of certainty of 90%. 

Alternative assumptions are determined with reference to all available evidence including 
consideration of the following: quality of independent pricing information considering 
consistency between different sources, variation over time, perceived tradability or 
otherwise of available quotes; consensus service dispersion ranges; volume of trading 
activity and market bias (e.g. one-way inventory); day 1 profit or loss arising on new 
trades; number and nature of market participants; market conditions; modelling 
consistency in the market; size and nature of risk; length of holding of position; and 
market intelligence.

OOtthheerr  ccoonnssiiddeerraattiioonnss
Whilst certain inputs used to calculate CVA, FVA and own credit adjustments are not 
based on observable market data, the uncertainty of these inputs is not considered to 
have a significant effect on the net valuation of the related derivative portfolios and 
issued debt. 

As such, the fair value levelling of the derivative portfolios and issued debt is not 
determined by CVA, FVA or own credit inputs. In addition, any fair value sensitivity 
driven by these inputs is not included in the level 3 sensitivities presented.

The table below shows the high and low range of fair value of the level 3 assets and liabilities. This range incorporates the range of fair value inputs as described in the previous table.

AAsssseettss
Trading assets
  Loans
  Securities
Derivatives
  Interest rate
  Foreign exchange
  Other
Other financial assets
  Loans
  Securities
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Trading liabilities
  Deposits
  Short positions
Derivatives
  Interest rate
  Foreign exchange
  Other
Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
TToottaall  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  hheelldd  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee

Level 3

£m

209
14

650
65
108

657
258
1,961

1
2

439
58
188
3
691

2023

Favourable

Unfavourable

£m

-
-

20
-
10

-
20
50

-
-

10
-
10
-
20

£m

-
-

(20)
-
(10)

(40)
(50)
(120)

-
-

(10)
-
(10)
-
(20)

Level 3

£m

395
1

711
114
182

727
203
2,333

1
-

678
98
199
-
976

2022

Favourable

Unfavourable

£m

10
-

30
10
10

-
20
80

-
-

30
-
-
-
30

£m

(10)
-

(30)
(10)
(10)

(10)
(30)
(100)

-
-

(30)
-
-
-
(30)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

348

348

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

349

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
MMoovveemmeenntt  iinn  lleevveell  33  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
The following table shows the movement in level 3 assets and liabilities in the year.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  oonn  tthhee  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet.

22002233
AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy
Amounts recorded in the income statement (1)
Amount recorded in the statement of 
  comprehensive income
Level 3 transfers in
Level 3 transfers out
Purchases/originations
Settlements/other decreases
Sales
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr

Amounts recorded in the income statement
  in respect of balances held at period end
  - unrealised

2022

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy
Amounts recorded in the income statement (1)
Amount recorded in the statement of 
  comprehensive income
Level 3 transfers in
Level 3 transfers out
Purchases/originations
Settlements/other decreases
Sales
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr

Amounts recorded in the income statement
  in respect of balances held at period end
  - unrealised

Derivatives

Other

trading

liabilities

liabilities (2)

Derivatives

assets

£m

1,007
(156)

-
6
(5)
180
(70)
(137)
(2)
823

Other

trading

assets (2)

Other

financial

assets (3)

£m

396
(88)

-
15
(32)
8
(8)
(65)
(3)
223

£m

930
1

32
16
(190)
275
(86)
(52)
(11)
915

Total

assets

£m

2,333
(243)

32
37
(227)
463
(164)
(254)
(16)
1,961

£m

975
(313)

-
7
(9)
195
(51)
(116)
(3)
685

67

(39)

1

29

(121)

918
126

-
193
(122)
355
(40)
(423)
-
1,007

740
31

-
1
(147)
274
(75)
(434)
6
396

394
(14)

(20)
532
(68)
185
-
(101)
22
930

2,052
143

(20)
726
(337)
814
(115)
(958)
28
2,333

606
382

-
78
(61)
382
(41)
(376)
5
975

£m

1
-

-
2
(2)
2
-
-
-
3

-

3
(1)

-
3
(3)
-
-
(2)
1
1

Other

financial

liabilities

£m

-
-

-
-
-
3
-
-
-
3

-

-
-

-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-

Total

liabilities

£m

976
(313)

-
9
(11)
200
(51)
(116)
(3)
691

(121)

609
381

-
81
(64)
382
(41)
(378)
6
976

381

Other financial assets - securities

22002233

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

Settlement balances

Loans to banks

Loans to customers

2022

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss

Settlement balances

Loans to banks

Loans to customers

22002233

FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

Bank deposits

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Other financial liabilities

   - debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities

Notes in circulation

2022

FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

Bank deposits

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Other financial liabilities

   - debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities

Notes in circulation

Cash and balances at central banks

104.3

104.3

Other financial assets - securities

7.2

6.9

381.4

21.7

7.2

7.0

373.2

21.6

2.2

27.5

6.6

0.6

345.7

11.0

Cash and balances at central banks

144.8

144.8

Carrying

Fair value hierarchy level

value

Fair value

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

carrying value

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

Items where

fair value

approximates

The assumptions and methodologies underlying the 

calculation of fair values of financial instruments at the 

balance sheet date are as follows:

4.0

3.6

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4.2

20.3

3.2

15.4

30.7

41.7

5.4

13.1

12.7

40.7

5.5

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2.8

334.2

6.0

2.7

48.8

10.5

2.2

30.6

-

5.4

0.1

-

104.3

7.2

4.2

-

-

144.8

2.6

0.1

-

-

4.2

351.5

6.6

-

-

3.2

4.7

407.0

2.0

-

-

3.2

2.6

7.1

366.3

13.1

22.2

431.4

6.6

52.2

5.5

3.2

20.4

450.3

2.0

46.7

5.9

3.2

2.6

7.1

354.5

12.8

22.3

431.0

6.6

52.2

5.4

3.2

20.0

450.3

2.0

46.1

5.6

3.2

Short-term financial instruments

For certain short-term financial instruments, including but 

not limited to, cash and balances at central banks, 

settlement balances, loans with short-term maturities, notes 

in circulation and customer demand deposits, carrying 

value is deemed a reasonable approximation of fair value.

Loans to banks and customers

In estimating the fair value of net loans to customers and 

banks measured at amortised cost, NatWest Group’s loans 

are segregated into appropriate portfolios reflecting the 

characteristics of the constituent loans. Two principal 

methods are used to estimate fair value: 

(a) Contractual cashflows that are discounted using a 

market discount rate that incorporates the current 

spread for the borrower or where this is not observable, 

the spread for borrowers of a similar credit standing.

(b) Expected cash flows (unadjusted for credit losses) are 

discounted at the current offer rate for the same or 

similar products. The current methodology caps all loan 

values at par rather than modelling clients’ option to 

repay loans early. This approach is adopted for lending 

portfolios in Retail Banking, Ulster Bank RoI, Commercial 

& Institutional (SME loans) and Private Banking in order 

to reflect the homogeneous nature of these portfolios. 

Debt securities and subordinated liabilities

Most debt securities are valued using quoted prices in 

active markets or from quoted prices of similar financial 

instruments. The remaining population is valued using 

discounted cashflows at current offer rates.

Bank and customer deposits

Fair values of deposits are estimated using discounted cash 

flow valuation techniques. Where required, methodologies 

can be revised as additional information and valuation 

inputs become available.

(1)

There were £69 million net gains on trading assets and liabilities (2022 – £224 million net losses) recorded in income from trading activities. Net gains on other instruments of £1 million (2022 – £14 million net losses) were recorded in other operating 
income and interest income as appropriate.

(2) Other trading assets and other trading liabilities comprise assets and liabilities held at fair value in trading portfolios.
(3) Other financial assets comprise fair value through other comprehensive income, designated as at fair value through profit or loss and other fair value through profit or loss.

126

31

(16)

141

382

(1)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

349

349

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11 Financial instruments – valuation continued
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  oonn  tthhee  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet.

22002233
FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Settlement balances
Loans to banks
Loans to customers
Other financial assets - securities

2022
FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Settlement balances
Loans to banks
Loans to customers
Other financial assets - securities

22002233
FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Other financial liabilities
   - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation

2022
FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Other financial liabilities
   - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation

Carrying

Fair value hierarchy level

Items where

fair value

approximates

The assumptions and methodologies underlying the 
calculation of fair values of financial instruments at the 
balance sheet date are as follows:

value

Fair value

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

carrying value

£bn

£bn

104.3
7.2
6.9
381.4
21.7

144.8
2.6
7.1
366.3
13.1

22.2
431.4
6.6

52.2
5.5
3.2

20.4
450.3
2.0

46.7
5.9
3.2

104.3
7.2
7.0
373.2
21.6

144.8
2.6
7.1
354.5
12.8

22.3
431.0
6.6

52.2
5.4
3.2

20.0
450.3
2.0

46.1
5.6
3.2

£bn

-
-
-
-
4.0

-
-
-
-
3.6

-
-
-

-
-
-

-
-
-

-
-
-

£bn

£bn

£bn

-
-
2.2
27.5
6.6

-
-
4.2
20.3
3.2

15.4
30.7
-

41.7
5.4
-

13.1
12.7
-

40.7
5.5
-

-
-
0.6
345.7
11.0

-
-
2.8
334.2
6.0

2.7
48.8
-

10.5
-
-

2.2
30.6
-

5.4
0.1
-

104.3
7.2
4.2
-
-

144.8
2.6
0.1
-
-

4.2
351.5
6.6

-
-
3.2

4.7
407.0
2.0

-
-
3.2

Short-term financial instruments
For certain short-term financial instruments, including but 
not limited to, cash and balances at central banks, 
settlement balances, loans with short-term maturities, notes 
in circulation and customer demand deposits, carrying 
value is deemed a reasonable approximation of fair value.

Loans to banks and customers
In estimating the fair value of net loans to customers and 
banks measured at amortised cost, NatWest Group’s loans 
are segregated into appropriate portfolios reflecting the 
characteristics of the constituent loans. Two principal 
methods are used to estimate fair value: 

(a) Contractual cashflows that are discounted using a 
market discount rate that incorporates the current 
spread for the borrower or where this is not observable, 
the spread for borrowers of a similar credit standing.
(b) Expected cash flows (unadjusted for credit losses) are 
discounted at the current offer rate for the same or 
similar products. The current methodology caps all loan 
values at par rather than modelling clients’ option to 
repay loans early. This approach is adopted for lending 
portfolios in Retail Banking, Ulster Bank RoI, Commercial 
& Institutional (SME loans) and Private Banking in order 
to reflect the homogeneous nature of these portfolios. 

Debt securities and subordinated liabilities
Most debt securities are valued using quoted prices in 
active markets or from quoted prices of similar financial 
instruments. The remaining population is valued using 
discounted cashflows at current offer rates.

Bank and customer deposits
Fair values of deposits are estimated using discounted cash 
flow valuation techniques. Where required, methodologies 
can be revised as additional information and valuation 
inputs become available.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

350

350

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

335511

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

12 Financial instruments – maturity analysis

This note shows the maturity profile of NatWest Group’s financial assets and liabilities by contractual date of maturity and contractual cash flows.

RReemmaaiinniinngg  mmaattuurriittyy
The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.

AAsssseettss
Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Trading liabilities
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Notes in circulation
Lease liabilities

2023

Less than

More than

12 months

12 months

£m

£m

104,262
36,723
29,839
7,231
6,650
87,663
10,192

8,954
424,893
6,645
45,349
30,721
20,310
1,047
3,237
102

-
8,828
49,065
-
264
293,770
40,910

13,236
6,484
-
8,287
41,674
34,779
4,667
-
568

Total

£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
6,914
381,433
51,102

22,190
431,377
6,645
53,636
72,395
55,089
5,714
3,237
670

Less than

12 months

£m

144,832
35,944
38,107
2,572
6,872
84,289
6,128

7,799
448,821
2,012
42,760
39,331
13,796
973
3,218
137

2022

More than

12 months

£m

-
9,633
61,438
-
267
282,051
24,767

12,642
1,497
-
10,048
54,716
35,311
5,287
-
981

Total

£m

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
7,139
366,340
30,895

20,441
450,318
2,012
52,808
94,047
49,107
6,260
3,218
1,118

AAsssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss
The tables on the following page show the contractual undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable, up to a period of 20 years, including future receipts and payments of interest of 
financial assets and liabilities by contractual maturity. The balances in the following tables do not agree directly with the consolidated balance sheet, as the tables include all cash flows 
relating to principal and future coupon payments, presented on an undiscounted basis. The tables have been prepared on the following basis:

Financial assets have been reflected in the time band of the latest date on which they could be repaid, unless earlier repayment can be demanded by NatWest Group. Financial 
liabilities are included at the earliest date on which the counterparty can require repayment, regardless of whether or not such early repayment results in a penalty. If the repayment of 
a financial instrument is triggered by, or is subject to, specific criteria such as market price hurdles being reached, the asset is included in the time band that contains the latest date on 
which it can be repaid, regardless of early repayment. The liability is included in the time band that contains the earliest possible date on which the conditions could be fulfilled, without 
considering the probability of the conditions being met.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

12 Financial instruments – maturity analysis continued

For example, if a structured note is automatically prepaid when an equity index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be included in the less than three months period, whatever 

the level of the index at the year end. The settlement date of debt securities in issue, issued by certain securitisation vehicles consolidated by NatWest Group, depends on when cash 

flows are received from the securitised assets. Where these assets are prepayable, the timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes that each asset will be prepaid at the 

earliest possible date. As the repayments of assets and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in securitisations is shown on the earliest date that the asset can be prepaid, as 

this is the basis used for liabilities.

table, as are interest payments after 20 years.

The principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are repayable after 20 years or where the counterparty has no right to repayment of the principal are excluded from the 

The maturity of guarantees and commitments is based on the earliest possible date they would be drawn in order to evaluate NatWest Group’s liquidity position.

MFVTPL assets of £125.1 billion (2022 - £145.8 billion) and HFT liabilities of £125.8 billion (2022 - £146.7 billion) have been excluded from the following tables.

2023

AAsssseettss  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss

Cash and balances at central banks

Derivatives held for hedging

Settlement balances

Loans to banks - amortised cost

Loans to customers - amortised cost

Other financial assets (1)

Finance lease

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss

Bank deposits

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Derivatives held for hedging

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

Other liabilities - Notes in circulation

Lease liabilities

GGuuaarraanntteeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss  --  nnoottiioonnaall  aammoouunntt

Guarantees (2)

Commitments (3)

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

0-3 months

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

10-20 years

96,577

10,019

656

107,301

114,806

8,063

359

123,277

£m

104,262

31

7,231

5,234

52,175

4,897

61

173,891

8,334

393,363

6,645

9,094

3,237

71

72

30

2,820

112,807

115,627

£m

29

-

-

1,437

46,894

6,756

242

55,358

1,279

31,900

-

175

12,319

1,167

-

79

-

-

-

420,846

46,919

£m

128

-

-

23

81,445

12,304

735

94,635

6,069

6,464

366

18,843

2,301

172

34,215

-

-

-

-

-

£m

104

-

-

302

61,465

11,183

401

73,455

8,307

11

-

192

13,818

1,512

111

23,951

-

-

-

-

£m

49

-

-

-

14

-

-

92

4,769

1,406

175

6,456

-

-

-

-

£m

49

-

-

-

19

-

-

8

346

342

132

847

-

-

-

-

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

335511

351

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

12 Financial instruments – maturity analysis continued
For example, if a structured note is automatically prepaid when an equity index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be included in the less than three months period, whatever 
the level of the index at the year end. The settlement date of debt securities in issue, issued by certain securitisation vehicles consolidated by NatWest Group, depends on when cash 
flows are received from the securitised assets. Where these assets are prepayable, the timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes that each asset will be prepaid at the 
earliest possible date. As the repayments of assets and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in securitisations is shown on the earliest date that the asset can be prepaid, as 
this is the basis used for liabilities.

The principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are repayable after 20 years or where the counterparty has no right to repayment of the principal are excluded from the 
table, as are interest payments after 20 years.

The maturity of guarantees and commitments is based on the earliest possible date they would be drawn in order to evaluate NatWest Group’s liquidity position.

MFVTPL assets of £125.1 billion (2022 - £145.8 billion) and HFT liabilities of £125.8 billion (2022 - £146.7 billion) have been excluded from the following tables.

2023
AAsssseettss  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss
Cash and balances at central banks
Derivatives held for hedging
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets (1)
Finance lease

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Derivatives held for hedging
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities - Notes in circulation
Lease liabilities

GGuuaarraanntteeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss  --  nnoottiioonnaall  aammoouunntt
Guarantees (2)
Commitments (3)

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

0-3 months

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

10-20 years

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

104,262
31
7,231
5,234
52,175
4,897
61
173,891

8,334
393,363
6,645
71
9,094
72
3,237
30
420,846

2,820
112,807
115,627

-
29
-
1,437
46,894
6,756
242
55,358

1,279
31,900
-
175
12,319
1,167
-
79
46,919

-
-
-

-
128
-
23
81,445
12,304
735
94,635

6,069
6,464
-
366
18,843
2,301
-
172
34,215

-
-
-

-
104
-
302
61,465
11,183
401
73,455

8,307
11
-
192
13,818
1,512
-
111
23,951

-
-
-

-
49
-
-
96,577
10,019
656
107,301

-
14
-
92
4,769
1,406
-
175
6,456

-
-
-

-
49
-
-
114,806
8,063
359
123,277

-
19
-
8
346
342
-
132
847

-
-
-

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

335522

352

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

335533

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

12 Financial instruments – maturity analysis continued

2022
AAsssseettss  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss
Cash and balances at central banks
Derivatives held for hedging
Settlement balances
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets (1)
Finance lease

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy  uupp  ttoo  2200  yyeeaarrss
Bank deposits
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Derivatives held for hedging
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities - Notes in circulation
Lease liabilities

GGuuaarraanntteeeess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss  --  nnoottiioonnaall  aammoouunntt
Guarantees (2)
Commitments (3)

0-3 months

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

10-20 years

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

£m

Trading assets and liabilities comprise assets and liabilities held at fair value and classified as held-for-trading. Financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading 

if they are held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing them in the short term, to make a spread between purchase and sale price or held to take advantage of 

144,832
130
2,572
5,254
50,923
2,771
96
206,578

6,690
437,830
2,012
280
6,720
96
3,218
41
456,887

3,150
118,779
121,929

-
345
-
1,621
43,417
4,507
267
50,157

1,445
11,389
-
(371)
6,640
1,073
-
113
20,289

-
-
-

-
28
-
17
76,278
8,391
857
85,571

5,662
1,252
-
586
18,833
2,690
-
260
29,283

-
-
-

-
41
-
288
55,128
7,835
482
63,774

8,503
2
-
306
13,906
1,897
-
203
24,817

-
-
-

-
(44)
-
-
85,038
5,706
549
91,249

89
14
-
116
7,361
1,541
-
318
9,439

-
-
-

-
43
-
-
100,085
2,524
296
102,948

-
20
-
85
294
328
-
254
981

-
-
-

(1) Other financial assets exclude equity shares.
(2) NatWest Group is only called upon to satisfy a guarantee when the guaranteed party fails to meet its obligations. NatWest Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused. 
(3) NatWest Group has given commitments to provide funds to customers under undrawn formal facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty. NatWest Group does not expect all facilities to 

be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

13 Trading assets and liabilities

movements in prices and yields.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.8.

AAsssseettss

Loans

   Reverse repos

   Collateral given

   Other loans

Total loans

Securities

     - UK

     - US

     - Other

Total securities

Total

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess

Deposits

   Repos

   Central and local government

   Financial institutions and corporate

   Collateral received

   Other deposits

Total deposits

Debt securities in issue

Short positions

    Central and local government

      - UK

      - US

      - Other

    Financial institutions and Corporate

Total short positions

Total

2023

£m

23,694

9,141

762

33,597

2,729

2,600

3,062

3,563

11,954

45,551

26,902

15,075

1,150

43,127

706

1,893

2,071

4,049

1,790

9,803

2022

£m

21,537

13,005

1,113

35,655

2,205

2,345

2,799

2,573

9,922

45,577

23,740

17,680

1,067

42,487

797

2,313

1,293

3,936

1,982

9,524

53,636

52,808

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

335533

353

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

13 Trading assets and liabilities

Trading assets and liabilities comprise assets and liabilities held at fair value and classified as held-for-trading. Financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading 
if they are held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing them in the short term, to make a spread between purchase and sale price or held to take advantage of 
movements in prices and yields.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.8.

AAsssseettss
Loans
   Reverse repos
   Collateral given
   Other loans
Total loans
Securities
   Central and local government
     - UK
     - US
     - Other
   Financial institutions and corporate
Total securities
Total

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Deposits
   Repos
   Collateral received
   Other deposits
Total deposits
Debt securities in issue
Short positions
    Central and local government
      - UK
      - US
      - Other
    Financial institutions and Corporate
Total short positions
Total

2023

£m

23,694
9,141
762
33,597

2,729
2,600
3,062
3,563
11,954
45,551

26,902
15,075
1,150
43,127
706

1,893
2,071
4,049
1,790
9,803
53,636

2022

£m

21,537
13,005
1,113
35,655

2,205
2,345
2,799
2,573
9,922
45,577

23,740
17,680
1,067
42,487
797

2,313
1,293
3,936
1,982
9,524
52,808

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

354

354

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

355

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives 

Derivative is a term covering a wide range of financial instruments that derive their fair value from an underlying rate or price, for example interest rates or exchange 
rates (the underlying). NatWest Group uses derivatives as a part of its trading activities, to manage its own risks such as interest rate, foreign exchange, or credit risk 
and in certain customer transactions. This note shows contracted volumes of derivatives, how they are used for hedging purposes and more specifically the effects of 
the application of hedge accounting.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.11.

2023
Interest rate
    - Swaps
    - Options
    - Forwards and futures
Exchange rate
    - Swaps
    - Options
    - Spot, forwards and futures
Credit
Equity and commodity
Total

2022
Interest rate
    - Swaps
    - Options
    - Forwards and futures
Exchange rate
    - Swaps
    - Options
    - Spot, forwards and futures
Credit
Equity and commodity
Total

Notional

Asset

Liability

Traded on

Traded on

Traded on

recognised

Traded over 

recognised

Traded over

recognised 

Traded over

exchanges

the counter

Total

exchanges

the counter

Total

exchanges

the counter

£bn
819
-
510
309
1
-
1
-
-
-
820

707
-
296
411
2
-
2
-
-
-
709

£bn
9,449
6,533
1,674
1,242
3,119
449
674
1,996
15
-
12,583

10,035
7,201
1,418
1,416
3,166
438
835
1,893
15
-
13,216

£bn
10,268
6,533
2,184
1,551
3,120
449
675
1,996
15
-
13,403

10,742
7,201
1,714
1,827
3,168
438
837
1,893
15
-
13,925

£m
48
-
48
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
48

113
-
113
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
113

£m
44,515
33,807
10,708
-
34,161
8,173
4,181
21,807
180
-
78,856

53,367
39,039
14,328
-
45,829
11,840
6,375
27,614
236
-
99,432

£m
44,563
33,807
10,756
-
34,161
8,173
4,181
21,807
180
-
78,904

53,480
39,039
14,441
-
45,829
11,840
6,375
27,614
236
-
99,545

£m
34
-
34
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
34

33
-
33
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
33

£m
38,449
27,424
11,025
-
33,586
7,370
4,197
22,019
326
-
72,361

48,502
32,992
15,510
-
45,237
10,430
6,647
28,160
275
-
94,014

Total

£m
38,483
27,424
11,059
-
33,586
7,370
4,197
22,019
326
-
72,395

48,535
32,992
15,543
-
45,237
10,430
6,647
28,160
275
-
94,047

Included in the table above is the notional amount of £7,280 billion (2022 - £8,065 billion) of interest rate derivatives that are traded over the counter and settled through central 
clearing counterparties. NatWest Group has no other type of derivatives that are settled through central counterparties.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued

HHeeddggee  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  uussiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivveess

NatWest Group applies hedge accounting to reduce the accounting mismatch caused in 

NatWest Group hedges the exchange rate risk of its net investment in foreign currency 

the income statement by using derivatives to hedge the following risks: interest rate, 

denominated operations with currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange 

foreign exchange and the foreign exchange risk associated with net investment in 

contracts.

foreign operations.

NatWest Group’s interest rate hedging relates to the management of NatWest Group’s 

where appropriate to reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate 

non-trading structural interest rate risk, caused by the mismatch between fixed interest 

movement. Hedge accounting relationships will be designated where required.

NatWest Group reviews the value of the investments’ net assets, executing hedges 

rates and floating interest rates on its financial instruments. NatWest Group manages 

this risk within approved limits. Residual risk positions are hedged with derivatives, 

principally interest rate swaps.

Exchange rate risk also arises in NatWest Group where payments are denominated in 

currencies other than the functional currency. Residual risk positions are hedged with 

foreign exchange derivatives, fixing the exchange rate the payments will be settled in. 

Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk relate to exposures to the variability in future 

The derivatives are documented as cash flow hedges.

interest payments and receipts due to the movement of interest rates on forecast 

transactions and on financial assets and financial liabilities. This variability in cash flows is 

hedged by interest rate swaps, which convert variable cash flows into fixed. For these 

cash flow hedge relationships, the hedged items are actual and forecast variable interest 

rate cash flows arising from financial assets and financial liabilities with interest rates 

linked to the relevant interest rates, most notably SOFR, EURIBOR, the European Central 

Bank deposit rate, SONIA and the Bank of England Official Bank Rate. The variability in 

cash flows due to movements in the relevant interest rate is hedged; this risk component 

is identified using the risk management systems of NatWest Group and encompasses the 

majority of cash flow variability risk.

For all cash flow hedging, fair value hedge relationships and net investment hedging, 

NatWest Group determines that there is an economic relationship between the hedged 

item and hedging instrument via assessing the initial and ongoing effectiveness by 

comparing movements in the fair value of the expected highly probable forecast interest 

cash flows/ fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk with movements 

in the fair value of the expected changes in cash flows from the hedging instrument. The 

method used for comparing movements is either regression testing, or the dollar offset 

method. The method for testing effectiveness and the period over which the test is 

performed depends on the applicable risk management strategy and is applied 

consistently to each risk management strategy. Hedge effectiveness is assessed on a 

Suitable larger fixed rate financial instruments are subject to fair value hedging in line 

cumulative basis and the determination of effectiveness is in line with the requirements of 

with documented risk management strategies.

IAS 39.

Fair value hedges of interest rate risk involve interest rate swaps transforming the fixed 

NatWest Group uses either the actual ratio between the hedged item and hedging 

interest rate risk in financial assets and financial liabilities to floating. The hedged risk is 

instrument(s) or one that minimises hedge ineffectiveness to establish the hedge ratio for 

the risk of changes in the hedged item’s fair value attributable to changes in the interest 

hedge accounting. Hedge ineffectiveness is measured in line with the requirements of IAS 

rate risk component of the hedged item. The significant interest rates identified as risk 

39 and recognised in the income statement as it arises.

components are SOFR, EURIBOR, ESTR and SONIA. These risk components are 

identified using the risk management systems of NatWest Group and encompass the 

majority of the hedged item’s fair value risk.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

355

355

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
NatWest Group applies hedge accounting to reduce the accounting mismatch caused in 
the income statement by using derivatives to hedge the following risks: interest rate, 
foreign exchange and the foreign exchange risk associated with net investment in 
foreign operations.

NatWest Group’s interest rate hedging relates to the management of NatWest Group’s 
non-trading structural interest rate risk, caused by the mismatch between fixed interest 
rates and floating interest rates on its financial instruments. NatWest Group manages 
this risk within approved limits. Residual risk positions are hedged with derivatives, 
principally interest rate swaps.

Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk relate to exposures to the variability in future 
interest payments and receipts due to the movement of interest rates on forecast 
transactions and on financial assets and financial liabilities. This variability in cash flows is 
hedged by interest rate swaps, which convert variable cash flows into fixed. For these 
cash flow hedge relationships, the hedged items are actual and forecast variable interest 
rate cash flows arising from financial assets and financial liabilities with interest rates 
linked to the relevant interest rates, most notably SOFR, EURIBOR, the European Central 
Bank deposit rate, SONIA and the Bank of England Official Bank Rate. The variability in 
cash flows due to movements in the relevant interest rate is hedged; this risk component 
is identified using the risk management systems of NatWest Group and encompasses the 
majority of cash flow variability risk.

Suitable larger fixed rate financial instruments are subject to fair value hedging in line 
with documented risk management strategies.

Fair value hedges of interest rate risk involve interest rate swaps transforming the fixed 
interest rate risk in financial assets and financial liabilities to floating. The hedged risk is 
the risk of changes in the hedged item’s fair value attributable to changes in the interest 
rate risk component of the hedged item. The significant interest rates identified as risk 
components are SOFR, EURIBOR, ESTR and SONIA. These risk components are 
identified using the risk management systems of NatWest Group and encompass the 
majority of the hedged item’s fair value risk.

HHeeddggee  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  uussiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivveess

NatWest Group hedges the exchange rate risk of its net investment in foreign currency 
denominated operations with currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange 
contracts.

NatWest Group reviews the value of the investments’ net assets, executing hedges 
where appropriate to reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate 
movement. Hedge accounting relationships will be designated where required.

Exchange rate risk also arises in NatWest Group where payments are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency. Residual risk positions are hedged with 
foreign exchange derivatives, fixing the exchange rate the payments will be settled in. 
The derivatives are documented as cash flow hedges.

For all cash flow hedging, fair value hedge relationships and net investment hedging, 
NatWest Group determines that there is an economic relationship between the hedged 
item and hedging instrument via assessing the initial and ongoing effectiveness by 
comparing movements in the fair value of the expected highly probable forecast interest 
cash flows/ fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk with movements 
in the fair value of the expected changes in cash flows from the hedging instrument. The 
method used for comparing movements is either regression testing, or the dollar offset 
method. The method for testing effectiveness and the period over which the test is 
performed depends on the applicable risk management strategy and is applied 
consistently to each risk management strategy. Hedge effectiveness is assessed on a 
cumulative basis and the determination of effectiveness is in line with the requirements of 
IAS 39.

NatWest Group uses either the actual ratio between the hedged item and hedging 
instrument(s) or one that minimises hedge ineffectiveness to establish the hedge ratio for 
hedge accounting. Hedge ineffectiveness is measured in line with the requirements of IAS 
39 and recognised in the income statement as it arises.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

356

356

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

357

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  iinn  hheeddggee  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  rreellaattiioonnsshhiippss
Included in the table below are derivatives held for hedging purposes as follows.

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate contracts (2)

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate contracts
Exchange rate contracts

NNeett  iinnvveessttmmeenntt  hheeddggiinngg
Exchange rate contracts

IFRS netting and clearing house settlements

2023

Notional

£bn

Assets 

£m

Liabilities 

£m

67.6

1,139

2,607

140.0
16.9

0.3

224.8

1,924
112

4,970
254

2

3,177

(3,063)

114

7

7,838

(7,568)

270

Changes in fair value used for

hedge ineffectiveness (1)

£m

406

1,211
(12)

(3)

1,602

(1)
(2)

The change in fair value used for hedge ineffectiveness includes instruments that were derecognised in the year.
The hedged risk includes inflation risk.

2022

Changes in fair value used for

Liabilities 

hedge ineffectiveness (1)

Notional

£bn

Assets 

£m

£m

58.7

1,554

3,009

167.6
6.3

2,681
142

6,207
112

0.5

233.1

1

4,378

(4,235)

143

9

9,337

(9,205)

132

£m

482

(3,342)
(3)

4

(2,859)

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued

HHeeddggee  iinneeffffeeccttiivveenneessss  

Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in other operating income comprises.

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg

Loss on hedged items attributable to the hedged risk

Gain on the hedging instruments

Fair value hedging ineffectiveness

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg

Interest rate risk

Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness

Total

2023

£m

(364)

406

42

10

10

52

2022

£m

(442)

482

40

(60)

(60)

(20)

2021

£m

(846)

897

51

(26)

(26)

25

The main sources of ineffectiveness for interest rate risk hedge accounting relationships are:

 The effect of the counterparty credit risk on the fair value of the interest rate swap which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in interest 

rate (fair value hedge). 

 Differences in the repricing basis between the hedging instrument and hedged cash flows (cash flow hedge); and 

 Upfront present values on the hedging derivatives where hedge accounting relationships have been designated after the trade date (cash flow hedge and fair value hedge).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

357

357

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
HHeeddggee  iinneeffffeeccttiivveenneessss  
Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in other operating income comprises.

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg
Loss on hedged items attributable to the hedged risk
Gain on the hedging instruments
Fair value hedging ineffectiveness
CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate risk
Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness

Total

2023

£m

(364)
406

42

10

10

52

2022

£m

(442)
482

40

(60)

(60)

(20)

2021

£m

(846)
897

51

(26)

(26)

25

The main sources of ineffectiveness for interest rate risk hedge accounting relationships are:

 The effect of the counterparty credit risk on the fair value of the interest rate swap which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in interest 

rate (fair value hedge). 

 Differences in the repricing basis between the hedging instrument and hedged cash flows (cash flow hedge); and 
 Upfront present values on the hedging derivatives where hedge accounting relationships have been designated after the trade date (cash flow hedge and fair value hedge).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

358

358

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

359

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
MMaattuurriittyy  ooff  nnoottiioonnaall  hheeddggiinngg  ccoonnttrraaccttss
The following table shows the period in which the notional of hedging contract ends.

14 Derivatives continued

AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraatteess

The following table shows average fixed rate for cash flow hedges, interest rate risk.

22002233
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate risk (1)
Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

2022
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate risk (1)
Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

22002233
CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate risk

Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

Exchange rate risk
Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

2022
CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg
Interest rate risk
Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities
Exchange rate risk
Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

(1)

The hedged risk includes inflation risk.

0-3 months 

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

Over 10 years

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

£bn

0.1
2.7

0.5
1.0

3.9
0.8

0.3
8.4

6.6
17.3

0.1
-

1.7
3.3

1.9
2.9

14.5
3.9

0.7
0.8

9.4
26.8

-
1.1

7.1
13.4

4.7
14.6

33.9
39.1

1.6
2.4

46.5
15.7

-
2.8

9.0
11.3

4.9
10.3

22.8
10.1

-
2.5

21.9
5.1

-
2.1

5.9
7.7

4.2
9.6

10.1
0.3

-
0.2

10.1
7.5

-
0.2

4.7
0.7

3.6
0.5

-
0.6

-
-

-
0.7

-
-

Total

£bn

28.5
39.1

19.8
38.9

85.2
54.8

2.6
14.3

94.5
73.1

0.1
6.2

AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Hedging assets

Hedging liabilities

22002233

2022

AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Hedging assets

Hedging liabilities

AAvveerraaggee  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rraatteess

INR/GBP

USD/GBP

CHF/GBP

JPY/GBP

JPY/USD

NOK/USD

0-3 months 

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

Over 10 years

%

%

%

%

%

%

1.16

0.93

1.36

1.27

2.46

2.54

1.98

0.95

1.19

4.36

1.71

2.75

3.30

2.28

2.04

1.03

1.77

2.36

1.02

2.68

3.12

4.50

 3.12

4.55

Total

%

2.04

3.79

1.72

1.63

2022

100.54 

1.29 

1.15 

132.89 

128.29 

9.21 

2023

105.03 

1.28 

1.08 

170.54 

129.75 

9.21 

For cash flow hedging of exchange rate risk, the average foreign exchange rates applicable across the relationships were as below for the main currencies hedged.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

359

359

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraatteess
The following table shows average fixed rate for cash flow hedges, interest rate risk.

22002233
AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

2022
AAvveerraaggee  ffiixxeedd  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Hedging assets
Hedging liabilities

0-3 months 

3-12 months

1-3 years

3-5 years

5-10 years

Over 10 years

%

%

%

%

%

%

1.16
0.93

1.36
1.27

2.46
2.54

1.98
0.95

1.19
4.36

1.71
2.75

3.30
2.28

2.04
1.03

1.77
2.36

1.02
2.68

3.12
4.50

 3.12
4.55

AAvveerraaggee  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rraatteess
For cash flow hedging of exchange rate risk, the average foreign exchange rates applicable across the relationships were as below for the main currencies hedged.

INR/GBP
USD/GBP
CHF/GBP
JPY/GBP
JPY/USD
NOK/USD

2023
105.03 
1.28 
1.08 
170.54 
129.75 
9.21 

Total

%

2.04
3.79

1.72
1.63

2022
100.54 
1.29 
1.15 
132.89 
128.29 
9.21 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

360

360

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

361

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
AAnnaallyyssiiss  ooff  hheeddggeedd  iitteemmss  aanndd  rreellaatteedd  hheeddggiinngg  iinnssttrruummeennttss
The table below analyses assets and liabilities subject to hedging derivatives.

22002233
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee ((22))
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost 
Other financial assets - securities
Total (3)

Bank and customer deposits
Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Total

2022
FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee ((22))
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets - securities
Total (3)

Bank and customer deposits
Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities  
Total 

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

Carrying value of
hedged assets and liabilities
£m

Impact on hedged items
included in carrying value
£m

Changes in fair value
used as a basis to
determine ineffectiveness (1)
£m

 5,663
 22,896
 28,559

 745
 36,305
 5,346
 42,396

 5,764
 12,897
 18,661

 565
 35,856
 5,504
 41,925

(316)
 174
(142)

(3)
(1,151)
(320)
(1,474)

(526)
(922)
(1,448)

(3)
(2,222)
(547)
(2,772)

 167
 636
 803

(6)
(1,023)
(138)
(1,167)

(1,236)
(2,525)
(3,761)

 3
 2,790
 526
 3,319

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)

Other financial assets - securities

Bank and customer deposits

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  eexxcchhaannggee  rraattee

Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)

Other financial assets - securities

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee

Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)

Other financial assets - securities

Bank and customer deposits

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  eexxcchhaannggee  rraattee

Loans to banks and customer - amortised cost (4)

Other financial assets - securities

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities

22002233

Total

Total

Total

Other

Total

2022

Total 

Total 

Total 

Other

Total

(1)

(2)

The change in fair value used for hedge ineffectiveness includes instruments that were derecognised in the year.

The hedged risk includes inflation risk.

(3) Carrying values include £57 million (2022 - £61 million) adjustment for discontinued fair value hedges.

(4)

Includes cash and balances at central banks.

Carrying value of

Changes in fair value

used as a basis to

hedged assets and liabilities

determine ineffectiveness (1)

£m

 84,583

 623

 85,206

 54,675

 156

 54,831

 583

 1,839

 2,422

 11,460

-

 201

 11,661

 93,212

 1,176

 94,388

 72,610

 571

 73,181

-

-

-

-

 4,141

 204

 4,345

£m

(2,796)

(22)

(2,818)

 1,610

 7

 1,617

-

-

-

 9

-

 3

 12

-

-

-

(2)

-

 5

 3

 5,263

 73

 5,336

(2,008)

(46)

(2,054)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

361

361

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued

22002233
CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)
Other financial assets - securities
Total

Bank and customer deposits
Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Total

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  eexxcchhaannggee  rraattee
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)
Other financial assets - securities
Total

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Other
Total

2022
CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  iinntteerreesstt  rraattee
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost (4)
Other financial assets - securities
Total 

Bank and customer deposits
Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Total 

CCaasshh  ffllooww  hheeddggiinngg  --  eexxcchhaannggee  rraattee
Loans to banks and customer - amortised cost (4)
Other financial assets - securities
Total 

Other financial liabilities - debt securities in issue
Subordinated liabilities
Other
Total

Carrying value of
hedged assets and liabilities
£m

Changes in fair value
used as a basis to
determine ineffectiveness (1)
£m

 84,583
 623
 85,206

 54,675
 156
 54,831

 583
 1,839
 2,422

 11,460
-
 201
 11,661

 93,212
 1,176
 94,388

 72,610
 571
 73,181

-
-
-

 4,141
-
 204
 4,345

(2,796)
(22)
(2,818)

 1,610
 7
 1,617

-
-
-

 9
-
 3
 12

 5,263
 73
 5,336

(2,008)
(46)
(2,054)

-
-
-

(2)
-
 5
 3

The change in fair value used for hedge ineffectiveness includes instruments that were derecognised in the year.
The hedged risk includes inflation risk.

(1)
(2)
(3) Carrying values include £57 million (2022 - £61 million) adjustment for discontinued fair value hedges.
(4)

Includes cash and balances at central banks.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

362

362

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

363

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14 Derivatives continued
AAnnaallyyssiiss  ooff  ccaasshh  ffllooww  aanndd  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  hheeddggee  rreesseerrvvee
The following table shows an analysis of the pre-tax cash flow hedge reserve and foreign exchange hedge reserve.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg
Interest rate risk
Foreign exchange risk
DDee--ddeessiiggnnaatteedd
Interest rate risk
Foreign exchange risk
Total

AAmmoouunntt  rreeccooggnniisseedd  iinn  eeqquuiittyy
Interest rate risk
Foreign exchange risk
Total

AAmmoouunntt  ttrraannssffeerrrreedd  ffrroomm  eeqquuiittyy  ttoo  eeaarrnniinnggss
Interest rate risk to net interest income
Interest rate risk to non interest income (1)
Interest rate risk to operating expenses
Foreign exchange risk to net interest income
Foreign exchange risk to non interest income
Foreign exchange risk to operating expenses

Total

(1)

There was £10 million (2022 - £21 million) reclassified with the cash flow reserve to earnings due to forecasted cash flows that are no longer expected to occur.

2023

2022

Cash flow

hedge reserve
£m

Foreign

 exchange

hedge reserve
£m

Cash flow

hedge reserve
£m

Foreign

 exchange

hedge reserve
£m

(2,330)
1

(304)
4

(2,629)

-
(18)

-
(771)

(789)

(3,576)
16

(297)
20

(3,837)

2023

2022

Cash flow
hedge reserve

Foreign

 exchange
hedge reserve

£m

137
50

187

1,112
(10)
-
(74)
(9)
2

1,021

£m

-
107

107

-
-
-
-
69
-

69

Cash flow
hedge reserve

£m

(2,997)
24

(2,973)

(252)
(21)
(14)
(29)
15
(3)

(304)

-
(85)

-
(880)

(965)

Foreign

 exchange
hedge reserve

£m

(64)
(202)

(266)

-
-
-
-
7
-

7

LLooaannss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  aanndd  FFVVOOCCII

framework.

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss ((11))

  - Stage 1

  - Stage 2

  - Stage 3

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonn  ccoovveerraaggee ((22))

  - Stage 1 (%)

  - Stage 2 (%)

  - Stage 3 (%)

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//lloosssseess

ECL (release)/charge (3,4)

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Amounts written off 

Of which: individual

Of which: collective

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

15 Loan impairment provisions

There is a risk that customers and counterparties fail to meet their contractual obligation to settle outstanding amounts, known as expected credit losses (ECL). The 

calculation of ECL considers historic, current and forward-looking information to determine the amount we do not expect to recover. ECL is recognised on current and 

potential exposures, and contingent liabilities.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 2.3. Further disclosures on credit risk and information on ECL methodology are shown from page 186.

LLooaann  eexxppoossuurree  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss

The table below summarises loans and credit impairment measures within the scope of IFRS 9 Expected credit losses 

2023

£m

2022

£m

348,586

37,891

5,563

1,031

4,532

325,224

46,833

5,096

1,121

3,975

392,040

377,153

709

976

1,960

332

1,628

3,645

0.20

2.58

35.23

0.93

578

(397)

645

330

89

241

319

42

277

632

1,043

1,759

287

1,472

3,434

0.19

2.23

34.52

0.91

337

(290)

393

234

54

180

482

168

314

Includes loans to customers and banks.

(1)

(2)

Includes £9 million (2022 - £3 million) related to assets classified as FVOCI and 

£0.1 billion (2022 - £0.1 billion) related to off-balance sheet exposures.

(3)

ECL provisions coverage is calculated as ECL provisions divided by loans – 

amortised cost and FVOCI. It is calculated on loans and total ECL provisions, 

including ECL for other (non-loan) assets and unutilised exposure. Some 

segments with a high proportion of debt securities or unutilised exposure may 

result in a not meaningful coverage ratio.

(4)

Includes a £16 million release (2022 - £3 million charge) related to other 

financial assets, of which £6 million charge (2022 - nil) related to assets 

classified as FVOCI; and £9 million release (2022 - £5 million release) related to 

contingent liabilities.

(5)

The table shows gross loans only and excludes amounts that are outside the 

scope of the ECL framework. Refer to Financial instruments within the scope of 

the IFRS 9 ECL framework for further details. Other financial assets within the 

scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework were cash and balances at central banks 

totalling £103.1 billion (2022 – £143.3 billion) and debt securities of £50.1 billion 

(2022 – £29.9 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

363

363

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

15 Loan impairment provisions

There is a risk that customers and counterparties fail to meet their contractual obligation to settle outstanding amounts, known as expected credit losses (ECL). The 
calculation of ECL considers historic, current and forward-looking information to determine the amount we do not expect to recover. ECL is recognised on current and 
potential exposures, and contingent liabilities.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 2.3. Further disclosures on credit risk and information on ECL methodology are shown from page 186.

LLooaann  eexxppoossuurree  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  mmeettrriiccss
The table below summarises loans and credit impairment measures within the scope of IFRS 9 Expected credit losses 
framework.

LLooaannss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt  aanndd  FFVVOOCCII
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonnss ((11))
  - Stage 1
  - Stage 2
  - Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective

EECCLL  pprroovviissiioonn  ccoovveerraaggee ((22))
  - Stage 1 (%)
  - Stage 2 (%)
  - Stage 3 (%)

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ((rreelleeaasseess))//lloosssseess
ECL (release)/charge (3,4)
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Of which: individual
Of which: collective
Amounts written off 
Of which: individual
Of which: collective

2023

£m

2022

£m

348,586
37,891
5,563
1,031
4,532
392,040

325,224
46,833
5,096
1,121
3,975
377,153

709
976
1,960
332
1,628
3,645

0.20
2.58
35.23
0.93

578
(397)
645
330
89
241
319
42
277

632
1,043
1,759
287
1,472
3,434

0.19
2.23
34.52
0.91

337
(290)
393
234
54
180
482
168
314

(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Includes loans to customers and banks.
Includes £9 million (2022 - £3 million) related to assets classified as FVOCI and 
£0.1 billion (2022 - £0.1 billion) related to off-balance sheet exposures.
ECL provisions coverage is calculated as ECL provisions divided by loans – 
amortised cost and FVOCI. It is calculated on loans and total ECL provisions, 
including ECL for other (non-loan) assets and unutilised exposure. Some 
segments with a high proportion of debt securities or unutilised exposure may 
result in a not meaningful coverage ratio.
Includes a £16 million release (2022 - £3 million charge) related to other 
financial assets, of which £6 million charge (2022 - nil) related to assets 
classified as FVOCI; and £9 million release (2022 - £5 million release) related to 
contingent liabilities.
The table shows gross loans only and excludes amounts that are outside the 
scope of the ECL framework. Refer to Financial instruments within the scope of 
the IFRS 9 ECL framework for further details. Other financial assets within the 
scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework were cash and balances at central banks 
totalling £103.1 billion (2022 – £143.3 billion) and debt securities of £50.1 billion 
(2022 – £29.9 billion).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

364

364

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

365

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

15 Loan impairment provisions continued
CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  eennhhaanncceemmeenntt  aanndd  mmiittiiggaattiioonn
For information on Credit risk enhancement and mitigation held as security, refer to Risk and capital management – Credit risk enhancement and mitigation section.

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  pprroovviissiioonnss  
Accounting policy 2.3 sets out how the expected loss approach is applied. At 31 December 2023, customer loan impairment provisions amounted to £3,645 million (2022 - £3,434 
million). A loan is impaired when there is objective evidence that the cash flows will not occur in the manner expected when the loan was advanced. Such evidence includes, changes in 
the credit rating of a borrower, the failure to make payments in accordance with the loan agreement, significant reduction in the value of any security, breach of limits or covenants, 
and observable data about relevant macroeconomic measures.

The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows at the loan's original effective interest rate.

The measurement of credit impairment under the IFRS expected loss model depends on management’s assessment of any potential deterioration in the creditworthiness of the 
borrower, its modelling of expected performance and the application of economic forecasts. All three elements require judgements that are potentially significant to the estimate of 
impairment losses. For further information and sensitivity analysis, refer to Risk and capital management – Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis section.

IIFFRRSS  99  EECCLL  mmooddeell  ddeessiiggnn  pprriinncciipplleess
Refer to Credit risk – IFRS 9 ECL model design principles section for further details.

AApppprrooaacchh  ffoorr  mmuullttiippllee  eeccoonnoommiicc  sscceennaarriiooss  ((MMEESS))
The base scenario plays a greater part in the calculation of ECL than the approach to MES. Refer to Credit risk – Economic loss drivers - Probability weightings of scenarios section for 
further details.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

16 Other financial assets

component part of NatWest Group’s liquidity portfolio.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.8.

Other financial assets consist of debt securities, equity shares and loans that are not held for trading. Balances consist of local and central government securities, a 

Mandatory fair value through profit or loss 

Designated at fair value

Fair value through other comprehensive income (1)

Amortised cost

2023

Total

2022

Mandatory fair value through profit or loss

Designated at fair value

Fair value through other comprehensive income (1)

Amortised cost

Total

Central and local government

Debt securities

Other

Other debt

Equity shares

UK

£m

-

-

6,441

2,889

9,330

-

-

802

2,562

3,364

US

£m

-

-

5,517

647

6,164

-

-

7,175

937

8,112

£m

-

3

35

5,738

5,776

-

-

1,757

54

1,811

£m

1

2

10,627

18,124

28,754

2

-

6,765

9,582

16,349

Total

£m

1

5

28,323

21,695

50,024

2

-

16,499

13,135

29,636

£m

311

313

2

-

-

3

-

-

357

360

Loans

£m

700

65

-

-

765

782

117

-

-

899

Total

£m

703

5

28,699

21,695

51,102

787

-

16,973

13,135

30,895

(1) Upon initial recognition, NatWest Group occasionally irrevocably designates some of its equity investments as equity instruments at FVOCI when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, are not held for trading or 

they are held for strategic purposes. Such classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Gains and losses on these equity instruments are not recycled to the income statement and dividends are recognised in profit or loss except when 

they represent a recovery of part of the cost of the instrument, in which case such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments at FVOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment.  

There were no significant acquisitions of equity shares in the year. In 2022, NatWest Group acquired £146 million of equity shares in Permanent TSB p.l.c as part consideration on the 

sale of certain assets and £26 million of equity shares in Vodeno Limited.

NatWest Group disposed of equity shares in Permanent TSB p.l.c of £47 million and UBS Equity Funds of £35 million in the year. In 2022, NatWest Group disposed of equity shares in 

Visa Inc. of £99 million and UBS Equity Funds of £69 million. There were no significant dividends on equity shares held at FVOCI in either year.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

365

365

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

16 Other financial assets

Other financial assets consist of debt securities, equity shares and loans that are not held for trading. Balances consist of local and central government securities, a 
component part of NatWest Group’s liquidity portfolio.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.8.

2023
Mandatory fair value through profit or loss 
Designated at fair value
Fair value through other comprehensive income (1)
Amortised cost
Total

2022
Mandatory fair value through profit or loss
Designated at fair value
Fair value through other comprehensive income (1)
Amortised cost
Total

Central and local government

Debt securities

UK

£m
-
-
6,441
2,889
9,330

-
-
802
2,562
3,364

US

£m
-
-
5,517
647
6,164

-
-
7,175
937
8,112

Other

£m
-
3
5,738
35
5,776

-
-
1,757
54
1,811

Other debt

Total

Equity shares

Loans

£m
1
2
10,627
18,124
28,754

2
-
6,765
9,582
16,349

£m
1
5
28,323
21,695
50,024

2
-
16,499
13,135
29,636

£m
2
-
311
-
313

3
-
357
-
360

£m
700
-
65
-
765

782
-
117
-
899

Total

£m
703
5
28,699
21,695
51,102

787
-
16,973
13,135
30,895

(1) Upon initial recognition, NatWest Group occasionally irrevocably designates some of its equity investments as equity instruments at FVOCI when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, are not held for trading or 
they are held for strategic purposes. Such classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Gains and losses on these equity instruments are not recycled to the income statement and dividends are recognised in profit or loss except when 
they represent a recovery of part of the cost of the instrument, in which case such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments at FVOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment.  

There were no significant acquisitions of equity shares in the year. In 2022, NatWest Group acquired £146 million of equity shares in Permanent TSB p.l.c as part consideration on the 
sale of certain assets and £26 million of equity shares in Vodeno Limited.

NatWest Group disposed of equity shares in Permanent TSB p.l.c of £47 million and UBS Equity Funds of £35 million in the year. In 2022, NatWest Group disposed of equity shares in 
Visa Inc. of £99 million and UBS Equity Funds of £69 million. There were no significant dividends on equity shares held at FVOCI in either year.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

366

366

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

367

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

17 Intangible assets

Intangible assets, such as internally generated software and goodwill generated on business combinations, are not physical in nature. This note presents the cost of 
the assets, which is the amount NatWest Group initially paid or incurred, additions and disposals during the year, and any amortisation or impairment. Amortisation is 
a charge that reflects the usage of the asset and impairment is a reduction in value arising from specific events identified during the year.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.4 and 3.5.  

Other assets are not financial assets and reflect a grouping of assets that are not large enough to present separately on the balance sheet..

CCoosstt
At 1 January
Currency translation and other adjustments
Acquisitions of companies and businesses
Additions
Disposals and write-off of fully amortised assets
At 31 December
AAccccuummuullaatteedd  aammoorrttiissaattiioonn  aanndd  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt
At 1 January
Currency translation and other adjustments
Disposals and write-off of fully amortised assets
Impairment of intangible assets
Amortisation charge for the year
At 31 December
Net book value at 31 December

(1) Principally consists of internally generated software. 

2023

Goodwill

Other (1)

£m

9,931
-
159
-
-
10,090

4,409
-
-
1
-
4,410
5,680

£m

3,763
-
37
762
(115)
4,447

2,169
-
(116)
22
438
2,513
1,934

Total

£m

13,694
-
196
762
(115)
14,537

6,578
-
(116)
23
438
6,923
7,614

2022

Goodwill

Other (1)

£m

9,939
(8)
-
-
-
9,931

4,417
(8)
-
-
-
4,409
5,522

£m

3,050
(3)
-
743
(27)
3,763

1,849
(4)
(17)
-
341
2,169
1,594

Total

£m

12,989
(11)
-
743
(27)
13,694

6,266
(12)
(17)
-
341
6,578
7,116

Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for indicators of impairment. Intangible 
assets were impaired by £23 million in 2023 (2022 – nil).

NatWest Group’s goodwill acquired in business combinations is reviewed for impairment 
annually at 31 December by cash-generating unit (CGU): 2023 - Retail Banking £2,607 
million (2022 - £2,607 million), Ring-Fenced Bank Commercial & Institutional £2,605 
million (2022 - £2,606 million), Private Banking £9 million (2022 - £9 million), RBS 
International £300 million (2022 - £300 million), and Cushon £159 million (2022 - nil). Our 
CGUs represent the smallest group of assets to which we have allocated goodwill and 
reflect the lowest level at which we monitor goodwill post acquisition. For Cushon and 
RBS International this is at an entity level which represents the lowest level applicable to 
the business combination and their cash flows are independent of other CGUs. Analysis 
by reportable segment is in Note 4 Segmental analysis. 

Impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of each CGU with its 
recoverable amount. The carrying values of the segments reflect the equity allocations 
made by management, which are consistent with NatWest Group’s capital targets. 

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Fair 
value is the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction 
between market participants. Value in use is the present value of expected future cash 
flows from the CGU. 

The recoverable amounts for all CGUs at 31 December 2023 were based on value in 
use, using management's latest five-year revenue and cost forecasts. These are 
discounted cash flow projections over five years. The forecast is then extrapolated in 
perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to compute a terminal value, which comprises 
the majority of the value in use. The long-term growth rates have been based on 
expected growth of the CGUs (2022 and 2023 – 1.4%). The 2023 pre-tax risk discount 
rates are based on those observed to be applied to businesses regarded as peers of the 
CGUs: Retail Banking – 16% (2022 - 15.3%), Ring-Fenced Bank Commercial & 
Institutional – 16% (2022 - 15.3%), Private Banking – 16% (2022 - 15.3%), Cushon – 
15.3% (2022 – nil), RBS International – 14.6% (2022 – 14%).

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

18 Other assets

Interests in associates (1)

Property, plant and equipment (2)

Pension schemes in net surplus (Note 5)

Prepayments

Accrued income

Tax recoverable

Deferred tax (Note 7)

Acceptances

Other

Other assets

(1)

(2)

Includes interest in Business Growth Fund £658 million (2022 - £677 million).

and other equipment 4 to 15 years.

19 Other financial liabilities

Customer deposits - designated as at fair value through profit or loss

Debt securities in issue

 - MRELs

 - Other medium term notes

 - Commercial paper and certificates of deposit

 - Covered bonds

 - Securitisation

Total

The estimated useful lives of NatWest Group’s property, plant and equipment are: freehold buildings and long leasehold 50 years, short leaseholds for unexpired period of lease, property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years, computer equipment up to 5 years 

Other financial liabilities consist of customer deposits designated at fair value and debt securities in issue.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.10.

4,227

4,240

2023

£m

668

201

350

292

49

575

504

1,894

8,760

2022

£m

688

318

340

327

279

2,178

237

569

9,176

2023

£m

1,280

21,660

17,843

11,321

2,122

863

55,089

2022

£m

1,050

22,265

16,419

5,672

2,842

859

49,107

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

367

367

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

18 Other assets

Other assets are not financial assets and reflect a grouping of assets that are not large enough to present separately on the balance sheet..

Interests in associates (1)
Property, plant and equipment (2)
Pension schemes in net surplus (Note 5)
Prepayments
Accrued income
Tax recoverable
Deferred tax (Note 7)
Acceptances
Other
Other assets

2023

£m
668
4,227
201
350
292
49
1,894
575
504
8,760

2022

£m
688
4,240
318
340
327
279
2,178
237
569
9,176

(1)
(2)

Includes interest in Business Growth Fund £658 million (2022 - £677 million).
The estimated useful lives of NatWest Group’s property, plant and equipment are: freehold buildings and long leasehold 50 years, short leaseholds for unexpired period of lease, property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years, computer equipment up to 5 years 
and other equipment 4 to 15 years.

19 Other financial liabilities

Other financial liabilities consist of customer deposits designated at fair value and debt securities in issue.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.10.

Customer deposits - designated as at fair value through profit or loss
Debt securities in issue
 - MRELs
 - Other medium term notes
 - Commercial paper and certificates of deposit
 - Covered bonds
 - Securitisation
Total

2023

£m

1,280

21,660
17,843
11,321
2,122
863
55,089

2022

£m

1,050

22,265
16,419
5,672
2,842
859
49,107

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

368

368

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

369

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

20 Subordinated liabilities

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

20 Subordinated liabilities continued

Subordinated liabilities are debt securities that, in the event of winding up or bankruptcy, rank below other liabilities for interest payments and repayment.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.10.

Dated loan capital
Undated loan capital
Preference shares

2023

£m

5,573
22
119
5,714

2022

£m

5,968
173
119
6,260

Certain preference shares issued by the company are classified as liabilities; these securities remain subject to the capital maintenance rules of the Companies Act 2006.

DDaatteedd  llooaann  ccaappiittaall
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  ppllcc
$2,250 million
$2,000 million
£1,000 million
£1,000 million
$1,000 million
$850 million
€750 million
$750 million
€700 million
£650 million

OOtthheerr  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess
€170 million
$150 million
€145.6 million
$136 million

FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hheeddggiinngg

5.125% notes
6.000% notes
3.622% notes
2.105% notes
6.100% notes
3.032% notes
1.043% notes
3.754% notes
5.763% notes
7.416% notes

Floating rate notes
7.125% notes
Floating rate notes
7.750% notes

First call

date

-
-
May-25
Aug-26
-
Aug-30
Jun-27
Nov-24
Nov-28
Mar-28

-
-
-
-

Maturity

date

May-24
Dec-23
Aug-30
Nov-31
Jun-23
Nov-35
Sep-32
Nov-29
Feb-34
Jun-33

Feb-41
Oct-93
Apr-23
May-23

Capital

treatment

Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2
Tier 2

Not applicable
Not applicable
Tier 2
Not applicable

2023

£m

418
-
985
1,000
-
541
652
592
636
657
5,481

237
17
-
-
5,735
(162)
5,573

2022

£m

706
536
964
1,001
126
555
665
626

641
5,820

223
18
122
83
6,266
(298)
5,968

11.500%  notes

7.380% notes

11.375% notes

5.630% notes

11.750% notes

2.500% fixed notes

SONIA + 2.827% notes

First call

date

Dec-22

Sep-26

-

-

-

-

-

-

Maturity

date

Capital

treatment

Not applicable

Not applicable

Not applicable

Tier 2

Tier 2

Tier 2

Not applicable

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Non-cumulative preference shares of £1

Not applicable

(1) Notes redeemed before call date as tax and regulatory benefits discontinued.

21 Other liabilities

Other liabilities are amounts due to third parties that are not financial liabilities including lease liabilities, amounts due for goods and services that have been received 

but not invoiced, tax due to HMRC, and retirement benefit liabilities. Liabilities which have a level of uncertainty regarding their timing or the future cost to settle them 

are included in other liabilities as provisions for liabilities and charges.

UUnnddaatteedd  llooaann  ccaappiittaall

OOtthheerr  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

£35 million

£31 million

€31 million

£16 million

£11 million

£4.9 million

£1.1 million

PPrreeffeerreennccee  sshhaarreess

OOtthheerr  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

£140 million

TToottaall

OOtthheerr  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

Lease liabilities

Provisions for liabilities and charges

Retirement benefit liabilities (Note 5)

Accruals

Deferred income

Current tax

Deferred tax (Note 7)

Acceptances

Other liabilities (1)

Total

5,714

6,260

2023

£m

18

-

1

-

-

3

-

22

119

119

1,411

2023

£m

670

990

99

402

332

141

575

582

2022

£m

72

2

48

18

25

6

2

173

119

119

2022

£m

1,118

1,138

98

1,407

355

55

227

237

711

5,202

5,346

(1) Other liabilities include liabilities of disposal groups of £3 million (2022 - £15 million). Refer to Note 8 for further information.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

369

369

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

20 Subordinated liabilities continued

UUnnddaatteedd  llooaann  ccaappiittaall
OOtthheerr  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess
£35 million
£31 million
€31 million
£16 million
£11 million
£4.9 million
£1.1 million

PPrreeffeerreennccee  sshhaarreess
OOtthheerr  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess
£140 million

TToottaall

11.500%  notes
7.380% notes
11.375% notes
5.630% notes
11.750% notes
2.500% fixed notes
SONIA + 2.827% notes

First call

date

Dec-22
-
-
Sep-26
-
-
-

Non-cumulative preference shares of £1

-

Maturity

date

Capital

treatment

-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-

Not applicable
Not applicable
Tier 2
Not applicable
Tier 2
Not applicable
Tier 2

Not applicable

2023

£m

-
1
-
18
-
3
-
22

119
119

2022

£m

72
2
48
18
25
6
2
173

119
119

5,714

6,260

(1) Notes redeemed before call date as tax and regulatory benefits discontinued.

21 Other liabilities

Other liabilities are amounts due to third parties that are not financial liabilities including lease liabilities, amounts due for goods and services that have been received 
but not invoiced, tax due to HMRC, and retirement benefit liabilities. Liabilities which have a level of uncertainty regarding their timing or the future cost to settle them 
are included in other liabilities as provisions for liabilities and charges.

OOtthheerr  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Lease liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Retirement benefit liabilities (Note 5)
Accruals
Deferred income
Current tax
Deferred tax (Note 7)
Acceptances
Other liabilities (1)
Total

(1) Other liabilities include liabilities of disposal groups of £3 million (2022 - £15 million). Refer to Note 8 for further information.

2023

£m

670
990
99
1,411
402
332
141
575
582
5,202

2022

£m

1,118
1,138
98
1,407
355
55
227
237
711
5,346

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

370

370

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

371

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

21 Other liabilities continued

PPrroovviissiioonnss  ffoorr  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  cchhaarrggeess

At 1 January 2023
Expected credit loss impairment release
Currency translation and other movements
Charge to income statement
Release to income statement
Provisions utilised
At 31 December 2023

Customer redress
£m

Litigation and

other regulatory
£m

431
-
(5)
276
(36)
(180)
486

240
-
(9)
21
(33)
(63)
156

Property

£m

154
-
-
41
(64)
(32)
99

Commitments

and guarantees
£m

87
(9)
-
-
-
-
78

 Other (1)

£m

226
-
(6)
136
(28)
(157)
171

Total

£m

1,138
(9)
(20)
474
(161)
(432)
990

(1) Other materially comprises provisions relating to restructuring costs.

Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and are recognised when there is 
a present obligation as a result of a past event, the outflow of economic benefit is 
probable and the outflow can be estimated reliably. Any difference between the final 
outcome and the amounts provided will affect the reported results in the period when 
the matter is resolved.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 2.4.

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  PPrroovviissiioonnss  ffoorr  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
The key judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists. There 
is often a high degree of uncertainty and judgement is based on the specific facts and 
circumstances relating to individual events in determining whether there is a present 
obligation. Judgement is also involved in estimation of the probability, timing and amount 
of any outflows. Where NatWest Group can look to another party such as an insurer to 
pay some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision, any reimbursement is 
recognised when, and only when, it is virtually certain that it will be received.

EEssttiimmaatteess  - Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and are recognised 
when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, the outflow of economic 
benefit is probable and the outflow can be estimated reliably. 

Any difference between the final outcome and the amounts provided will affect the 
reported results in the period when the matter is resolved.

 Customer redress: Provisions reflect the estimated cost of redress attributable to 

claims where it is determined that a present obligation exists.

 Litigation and other regulatory: NatWest Group is engaged in various legal 

proceedings, both in the UK and in overseas jurisdictions, including the US. For 
further information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion of the associated 
uncertainties, refer to Note 26.

 Property: This includes provision for contractual costs associated with vacant 

properties.

 Other provisions: These materially comprise provisions for onerous contracts and 

restructuring costs. Onerous contract provisions comprise an estimate of the costs 
involved in fulfilling the terms and conditions of contracts net of any expected 
benefits to be received. This includes provision for contractual costs associated with 
vacant properties. Redundancy and restructuring provisions comprise the estimated 
cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists.

Background information for all material provisions is given in Note 26.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

22 Share capital and other equity

Share capital consists of ordinary shares and preference shares and is measured as the number of shares allotted and fully paid, multiplied by the nominal value of a 

share. Other equity includes paid-in equity, merger reserve, capital redemption reserve and own shares held. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.10.

AAllllootttteedd,,  ccaalllleedd  uupp  aanndd  ffuullllyy  ppaaiidd 

Ordinary shares of £1.0769 (1)

Cumulative preference shares of £1

(1)

The nominal value of ordinary shares without rounding is £1.076923076923077 per share.

MMoovveemmeenntt  iinn  aallllootttteedd,,  ccaalllleedd  uupp  aanndd  ffuullllyy  ppaaiidd

Number of shares

The company purchased 301,380,053 ordinary shares (nominal value £324,563,134) at 

2023

£m

9,683

0.5

2022

£m

0.5

2023

000s

2022

000s

10,539

8,991,737

9,786,024

483.0

483.0

an average price of 265.4456 pence per ordinary share, for the total consideration of 

£799,999,997.76. All of the purchased ordinary shares were cancelled, representing 

3.16% of the company’s issued ordinary share capital. At the AGM in 2023, shareholders 

renewed the authority for the company to make market purchases of up to 966,778,930 

ordinary shares.  

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2023 AGM (2023 Authority) to carry out 

Number of shares

a Programme of up to £500 million, as announced to the market on 28 July 2023. The 

  000s

maximum number of ordinary shared that can be purchased under the Programme is 

919,858,922. This number reflects the impact on the 2023 Authority of the reduction in 

issued share capital following the off-market buyback announced on 22 May 2023. 

£m

11,468

(929)

-

10,539

(856)

9,683

11,467,982

(929,188)

(752,770)

9,786,024

(794,287)

8,991,737

   oorrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarreess

At 1 January 2022

Share cancellation

Share consolidation

At 31 December 2022

Share cancellation

At 31 December 2023

OOrrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarreess  

existing shareholders. 

On-market purchases

There is no authorised share capital under the company’s constitution. At 31 December 

2023, the directors had authority granted at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) to 

issue up to £520,573,270 nominal of ordinary shares other than by pre-emption to 

At the AGM in 2022, shareholders authorised the company to make market purchases of 

up to 1,122,905,024 ordinary shares. The authority was amended at the General 

Meeting held on 25 August 2022 to preserve the position as if the August 2022 share 

consolidation had not taken place. 

The Programme commenced on 31 July 2023 and will end no later than 14 March 2024. 

As at 31 December 2023 158,956,435 ordinary shares (nominal  value £171,183,853) 

had been purchased by the company at an average price of 217.6375 pence per 

ordinary share for the total consideration of £345,948,738. All of the purchased ordinary 

shares were cancelled, representing 1.75% of the company’s issued ordinary share 

capital.

Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for the company to make market 

purchases of ordinary shares at the AGM in 2024.  

Off-market purchases

At a General Meeting held on 6 February 2019, shareholders approved a special 

resolution authorising the company to make off-market purchases of up to 4.99% of its 

issued ordinary share capital in any 12-month period from HMT (or its nominee). Full 

details are set out in the Circular and Notice of General Meeting available at 

natwestgroup.com. Amendments to the Directed Buyback Contract were approved by 

the shareholders at a General Meeting on 25 August 2022. The authority for the 

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2022 AGM (2022 Authority) to carry out 

company to make off-market purchases of its ordinary shares from HMT (or its nominee) 

a share buyback programme (Programme) of up to £800 million, as announced to the 

under the terms of the Directed Buyback Contract was renewed at the AGM in 2023. 

market on 17 February 2023. The Programme’s purpose is to reduce the ordinary share 

capital of NatWest Group. The maximum number of ordinary shares that could be 

purchased under the Programme was 966,284,391. This number reflects the impact on 

the 2022 Authority of the reduction in issued share capital following the off-market 

buyback announced on 28 March 2022. 

The company used the authority obtained at the 2023 AGM to make an off-market 

purchase of 469,200,081 ordinary shares (nominal value £505,292,395) in the company 

from HMT on 22 May 2023, at a price of 268.4 pence per ordinary share for the total 

consideration of £1,259,333,017, representing 4.95% of the company’s issued ordinary 

share capital. The company cancelled 336,200,081 of the purchased ordinary shares and 

The Programme commenced on 20 February 2023 and completed on 16 June 2023.  

transferred the remaining 133,000,000 ordinary shares to own shares held. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

371

371

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

22 Share capital and other equity

Share capital consists of ordinary shares and preference shares and is measured as the number of shares allotted and fully paid, multiplied by the nominal value of a 
share. Other equity includes paid-in equity, merger reserve, capital redemption reserve and own shares held. 

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 3.10.

AAllllootttteedd,,  ccaalllleedd  uupp  aanndd  ffuullllyy  ppaaiidd 
Ordinary shares of £1.0769 (1)
Cumulative preference shares of £1

2023

£m

9,683
0.5

2022

£m

10,539
0.5

Number of shares

2023

000s

2022

000s

8,991,737
483.0

9,786,024
483.0

The company purchased 301,380,053 ordinary shares (nominal value £324,563,134) at 
an average price of 265.4456 pence per ordinary share, for the total consideration of 
£799,999,997.76. All of the purchased ordinary shares were cancelled, representing 
3.16% of the company’s issued ordinary share capital. At the AGM in 2023, shareholders 
renewed the authority for the company to make market purchases of up to 966,778,930 
ordinary shares.  

(1)

The nominal value of ordinary shares without rounding is £1.076923076923077 per share.

MMoovveemmeenntt  iinn  aallllootttteedd,,  ccaalllleedd  uupp  aanndd  ffuullllyy  ppaaiidd
   oorrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarreess
At 1 January 2022
Share cancellation
Share consolidation
At 31 December 2022
Share cancellation
At 31 December 2023

£m
11,468
(929)
-
10,539
(856)
9,683

Number of shares

  000s
11,467,982
(929,188)
(752,770)
9,786,024
(794,287)
8,991,737

OOrrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarreess  
There is no authorised share capital under the company’s constitution. At 31 December 
2023, the directors had authority granted at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) to 
issue up to £520,573,270 nominal of ordinary shares other than by pre-emption to 
existing shareholders. 

On-market purchases
At the AGM in 2022, shareholders authorised the company to make market purchases of 
up to 1,122,905,024 ordinary shares. The authority was amended at the General 
Meeting held on 25 August 2022 to preserve the position as if the August 2022 share 
consolidation had not taken place. 

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2022 AGM (2022 Authority) to carry out 
a share buyback programme (Programme) of up to £800 million, as announced to the 
market on 17 February 2023. The Programme’s purpose is to reduce the ordinary share 
capital of NatWest Group. The maximum number of ordinary shares that could be 
purchased under the Programme was 966,284,391. This number reflects the impact on 
the 2022 Authority of the reduction in issued share capital following the off-market 
buyback announced on 28 March 2022. 

The Programme commenced on 20 February 2023 and completed on 16 June 2023.  

The directors used the authority obtained at the 2023 AGM (2023 Authority) to carry out 
a Programme of up to £500 million, as announced to the market on 28 July 2023. The 
maximum number of ordinary shared that can be purchased under the Programme is 
919,858,922. This number reflects the impact on the 2023 Authority of the reduction in 
issued share capital following the off-market buyback announced on 22 May 2023. 

The Programme commenced on 31 July 2023 and will end no later than 14 March 2024. 
As at 31 December 2023 158,956,435 ordinary shares (nominal  value £171,183,853) 
had been purchased by the company at an average price of 217.6375 pence per 
ordinary share for the total consideration of £345,948,738. All of the purchased ordinary 
shares were cancelled, representing 1.75% of the company’s issued ordinary share 
capital.

Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for the company to make market 
purchases of ordinary shares at the AGM in 2024.  

Off-market purchases
At a General Meeting held on 6 February 2019, shareholders approved a special 
resolution authorising the company to make off-market purchases of up to 4.99% of its 
issued ordinary share capital in any 12-month period from HMT (or its nominee). Full 
details are set out in the Circular and Notice of General Meeting available at 
natwestgroup.com. Amendments to the Directed Buyback Contract were approved by 
the shareholders at a General Meeting on 25 August 2022. The authority for the 
company to make off-market purchases of its ordinary shares from HMT (or its nominee) 
under the terms of the Directed Buyback Contract was renewed at the AGM in 2023. 

The company used the authority obtained at the 2023 AGM to make an off-market 
purchase of 469,200,081 ordinary shares (nominal value £505,292,395) in the company 
from HMT on 22 May 2023, at a price of 268.4 pence per ordinary share for the total 
consideration of £1,259,333,017, representing 4.95% of the company’s issued ordinary 
share capital. The company cancelled 336,200,081 of the purchased ordinary shares and 
transferred the remaining 133,000,000 ordinary shares to own shares held. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

372

372

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

373

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

22 Share capital and other equity continued
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for the company to make off-market 
purchases of its ordinary shares from HMT (or its nominee) at the AGM in 2024. 

Dividends
In 2023 NatWest Group paid an interim dividend of £491 million, or 5.5 pence per 
ordinary share (2022 – £364 million, or 3.5 pence per ordinary share).

The  company has announced that the directors have recommended a final dividend of 
£1.0 billion, or 11.5 pence per ordinary share  (2022 – £1.0 billion, or 10.0 pence per 
ordinary share). The final dividend recommended by directors is subject to shareholders’ 
approval at the AGM on 23 April 2024. If approved, payment will be made on 29 April 
2024 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 March 2024. The ex-
dividend date will be 14 March 2024. 

CCuummuullaattiivvee  pprreeffeerreennccee  sshhaarreess  
At the AGM in 2023, shareholders renewed the authority for the company to make an 
off-market purchase of its preference shares. Shareholders will be asked to renew the 
authority at the AGM in 2024.  

OOtthheerr  eeqquuiittyy

AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  11  nnootteess
US$1.15 billion 8.000% notes callable August 2025 (1)
US$1.50 billion 6.000% notes callable 
   December 2025 - June 2026 (2)
GBP£1.00 billion 5.125% notes callable May - November 2027 (3)
GBP£0.40 billion – March 2028 callable (4)
US$0.75 billion – June 2031 callable (5)

22002233

££mm 

2022

£m 

2021

£m 

773355

735

735

11,,222200 1,220 1,220
998
998
399
399
538
538
33,,889900 3,890 3,890

999988
339999
553388

(1)
(2)

(3)
(4)
(5)

Issued in August 2015. In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares at a price of $3.314 per share.
Issued in June 2020. In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares at a price of $2.191 (translated at 
applicable exchange rate) per share.
Issued in November 2020. In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares at a price of £1.764 per share.
Issued in March 2021. In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares at a price of £1.764 per share.
Issued in June 2021. In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares at a price of $2.462 (translated at 
applicable exchange rate) per share.

PPaaiidd--iinn  eeqquuiittyy - comprises equity instruments issued by the company other than those 
legally constituted as shares.

Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by NatWest Group plc having the legal form of debt 
are classified as equity under IFRS. The coupons on these instruments are non-
cumulative and payable at the company’s discretion. In the event NatWest Group’s CET1 
ratio falls below 7% any outstanding instruments will be converted into ordinary shares at 
a fixed price.

Capital recognised for regulatory purposes cannot be redeemed without Prudential 
Regulation Authority consent. This includes ordinary shares, preference shares and 
additional Tier 1 instruments.

MMeerrggeerr  rreesseerrvvee - the merger reserve comprises the premium on shares issued to 
acquire NatWest Bank Plc less goodwill amortisation charged under previous GAAP.

CCaappiittaall  rreeddeemmppttiioonn  rreesseerrvvee  -- under UK companies legislation, when shares are 
redeemed or purchased wholly or partly out of the company's profits, the amount by 
which the company's issued share capital is diminished must be transferred to the capital 
redemption reserve. The capital maintenance provisions of UK companies legislation 
apply to the capital redemption reserve as if it were part of the company’s paid up share 
capital. The nominal value of the shares bought back from HMT in March 2023 and via 
the Programme during 2023 have been transferred to the Capital redemption reserve.

OOwwnn  sshhaarreess  hheelldd - at 31 December 2023, 12 million ordinary shares of £1.0769 each of 
the company (2022 - 13 million) were held by employee share trusts in respect of share 
awards and options granted to employees. During 2023, the employee share trusts 
purchased no ordinary shares and delivered 1 million ordinary shares in satisfaction of 
the exercise of options and the vesting of share awards under the employee share plans. 
The company retains the flexibility to use newly issued shares, shares purchased by the 
NatWest Group Employee Share Ownership Trust and any available treasury shares to 
satisfy obligations under its employee share plans. The company does not use 
performance conditions or targets based on earnings per share (EPS), total shareholder 
return (TSR), and net asset value (NAV) in connection with its employee share plans. 

As part of the shares bought back from HMT in March 2021 and May 2023, the 
company transferred 200 million ordinary shares and 133 million ordinary shares, 
respectively, to own shares held. The company has used a total of 146 million treasury 
shares to satisfy the exercise of options and the vesting of share awards under the 
employee share plans. The balance of ordinary shares held in treasury as at 31 
December 2023 was 187 million. 

NatWest Group plc optimises capital efficiency by maintaining reserves in subsidiaries, 
including regulated entities. Certain preference shares and subordinated debt are also 
included within regulatory capital. The remittance of reserves to the company or the 
redemption of shares or subordinated capital by regulated entities may be subject to 
maintaining the capital resources required by the relevant regulator.

UK law prescribes that only the reserves of the company are taken into account for the 
purpose of making distributions and in determining permissible applications of the share 
premium account.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

23 Structured entities

A structured entity (SE) is an entity that has been designed such that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, for 

example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. SEs are usually 

established for a specific, limited purpose. They do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no employees. 

SSeeccuurriittiissaattiioonnss

LLeennddiinngg  ooff  oowwnn  iissssuueedd  sseeccuurriittiieess

In a securitisation, assets, or interests in a pool of assets, are transferred, or the credit 

NatWest Group has issued, retained, and lent debt securities under securities lending 

risk is transferred via a derivative or financial guarantee to a SE which then issues 

arrangements. Under standard terms in the UK and US markets, the recipient has an 

liabilities to third party investors. 

NatWest Group’s involvement in client securitisations takes a number of forms. It may 

provide secured finance to, or purchase asset-backed notes from, client sponsored SEs 

secured on assets transferred by the client entity; purchase asset backed securities 

issued by client sponsored SEs in the primary or secondary markets; or provide liquidity 

facilities to client sponsored SEs. In addition, NatWest Group arranges or acts as lead 

manager or placement agent in client primary markets securitisations. NatWest Group 

provides portfolio structured derivative hedging solutions to clients. NatWest Group 

undertakes own-asset securitisations to transfer the credit risk on portfolios of financial 

assets.

OOtthheerr  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ttrraannssffeerr  sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonnss  

NatWest Group transfers credit risk on originated loans and mortgages without the 

transfer of assets to a SE. As part of this, NatWest Group enters into credit derivative 

and financial guarantee contracts with consolidated SEs. At 31 December 2023, debt 

securities in issue by such SEs (and held by third parties) were £863 million (2022 - £859 

million). The associated loans and mortgages at 31 December 2023 were £2,687 million 

(2022 - £4,361 million). 

At 31 December, ECL in relation to non-defaulted assets was reduced by £11 million 

(2022 - £20 million) as a result of financial guarantee contracts with consolidated SEs.

CCoovveerreedd  ddeebbtt  pprrooggrraammmmee

unrestricted right to sell or repledge collateral, subject to returning equivalent securities 

on maturity of the transaction. NatWest Group retains all of the risks and rewards of own 

issued liabilities lent under such arrangements and does not recognise them. At 31 

December 2023, £2,312 million (2022 - £2,419 million) of secured own issued liabilities 

have been retained and lent under securities lending arrangements. At 31 December 

2023, £2,414 million (2022 - £2,244 million) of loans and other debt instruments provided 

security for secured own issued liabilities that have been retained and lent under 

securities lending arrangements.

UUnnccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  ssttrruuccttuurreedd  eennttiittiieess

The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to structured entities not controlled 

by NatWest Group, and which are established either by NatWest Group or a third party. 

An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual 

involvement which creates variability in returns for NatWest Group arising from the 

performance of the entity. Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, 

derivatives that transfer financial risks from the entity to NatWest Group, provision of 

lending and loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management 

agreements. NatWest Group enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured 

entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions, to provide 

risk management services and for specific investment opportunities. Structured entities 

may take the form of funds, trusts, partnerships, securitisation vehicles, and private 

investment companies. NatWest Group considers itself to be the sponsor of a structured 

entity where it is primarily involved in the set up and design of the entity and where 

NatWest Group transfers assets to the entity, markets products associated with the 

Group companies have assigned loans to customers and debt investments to bankruptcy 

entity in its own name, and/or provides guarantees in relation to the performance of the 

remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of debt securities. 

entity.

NatWest Group retains all of the risks and rewards of these assets and continues to 

recognise them. The partnerships are consolidated by NatWest Group and the related 

covered bonds included within other financial liabilities. At 31 December 2023, £11,067 

million (2022 - £8,156 million) of loans to customers provided security for debt securities 

in issue and other borrowing of £3,619 million (2022 - £4,132 million).

The nature and extent of NatWest Group’s interests in structured entities is summarised 

in the following table.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

373

373

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

23 Structured entities

A structured entity (SE) is an entity that has been designed such that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, for 
example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. SEs are usually 
established for a specific, limited purpose. They do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no employees. 

SSeeccuurriittiissaattiioonnss
In a securitisation, assets, or interests in a pool of assets, are transferred, or the credit 
risk is transferred via a derivative or financial guarantee to a SE which then issues 
liabilities to third party investors. 

NatWest Group’s involvement in client securitisations takes a number of forms. It may 
provide secured finance to, or purchase asset-backed notes from, client sponsored SEs 
secured on assets transferred by the client entity; purchase asset backed securities 
issued by client sponsored SEs in the primary or secondary markets; or provide liquidity 
facilities to client sponsored SEs. In addition, NatWest Group arranges or acts as lead 
manager or placement agent in client primary markets securitisations. NatWest Group 
provides portfolio structured derivative hedging solutions to clients. NatWest Group 
undertakes own-asset securitisations to transfer the credit risk on portfolios of financial 
assets.

OOtthheerr  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ttrraannssffeerr  sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonnss  
NatWest Group transfers credit risk on originated loans and mortgages without the 
transfer of assets to a SE. As part of this, NatWest Group enters into credit derivative 
and financial guarantee contracts with consolidated SEs. At 31 December 2023, debt 
securities in issue by such SEs (and held by third parties) were £863 million (2022 - £859 
million). The associated loans and mortgages at 31 December 2023 were £2,687 million 
(2022 - £4,361 million). 

At 31 December, ECL in relation to non-defaulted assets was reduced by £11 million 
(2022 - £20 million) as a result of financial guarantee contracts with consolidated SEs.

CCoovveerreedd  ddeebbtt  pprrooggrraammmmee
Group companies have assigned loans to customers and debt investments to bankruptcy 
remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of debt securities. 
NatWest Group retains all of the risks and rewards of these assets and continues to 
recognise them. The partnerships are consolidated by NatWest Group and the related 
covered bonds included within other financial liabilities. At 31 December 2023, £11,067 
million (2022 - £8,156 million) of loans to customers provided security for debt securities 
in issue and other borrowing of £3,619 million (2022 - £4,132 million).

LLeennddiinngg  ooff  oowwnn  iissssuueedd  sseeccuurriittiieess
NatWest Group has issued, retained, and lent debt securities under securities lending 
arrangements. Under standard terms in the UK and US markets, the recipient has an 
unrestricted right to sell or repledge collateral, subject to returning equivalent securities 
on maturity of the transaction. NatWest Group retains all of the risks and rewards of own 
issued liabilities lent under such arrangements and does not recognise them. At 31 
December 2023, £2,312 million (2022 - £2,419 million) of secured own issued liabilities 
have been retained and lent under securities lending arrangements. At 31 December 
2023, £2,414 million (2022 - £2,244 million) of loans and other debt instruments provided 
security for secured own issued liabilities that have been retained and lent under 
securities lending arrangements.

UUnnccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  ssttrruuccttuurreedd  eennttiittiieess
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to structured entities not controlled 
by NatWest Group, and which are established either by NatWest Group or a third party. 
An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual 
involvement which creates variability in returns for NatWest Group arising from the 
performance of the entity. Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, 
derivatives that transfer financial risks from the entity to NatWest Group, provision of 
lending and loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management 
agreements. NatWest Group enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured 
entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions, to provide 
risk management services and for specific investment opportunities. Structured entities 
may take the form of funds, trusts, partnerships, securitisation vehicles, and private 
investment companies. NatWest Group considers itself to be the sponsor of a structured 
entity where it is primarily involved in the set up and design of the entity and where 
NatWest Group transfers assets to the entity, markets products associated with the 
entity in its own name, and/or provides guarantees in relation to the performance of the 
entity.

The nature and extent of NatWest Group’s interests in structured entities is summarised 
in the following table.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

374

374

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

375

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

23 Structured entities continued

24 Asset transfers

25 Capital resources

2023

2022

Asset-backed 
securitisation
vehicles

Investment 
funds 
and other

£m

£m

Asset-backed 
securitisation 
vehicles

Investment 
funds
and other

£m

£m

Total  

£m  

Total

£m

This note provides an overview of assets that have been transferred but where 
the NatWest Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
transferred assets and therefore continues to recognize them on its balance 
sheet.

NatWest Group’s regulatory capital is assessed against minimum requirements that are set out under the UK Capital Requirements Regulation to determine the 

strength of its capital base. This note shows a reconciliation of shareholders’ equity to regulatory capital.

AAsssseettss
Trading assets
Derivatives
Loans to customers
Other financial assets
Total

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Derivatives
Total

OOffff  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett
Liquidity facilities/loan
   commitments
Guarantees
Total

303
134
2,701
13,096
16,234

311
-
999
1,062
2,372

614
134
3,700
14,158
18,606

213
213

17
17

230
230

1,873
-
1,873

396
127
523

2,269
127
2,396

616
343
2,431
6,334
9,724

388
388

1,723
-
1,723

137
-
648
849
1,634

753
343
3,079
7,183
11,358

22
22

410
410

320
107
427

2,043
107
2,150

Maximum exposure

17,894

2,878

20,772

11,059

2,039

13,098

TTrraannssffeerrss  tthhaatt  ddoo  nnoott  qquuaalliiffyy  ffoorr  ddeerreeccooggnniittiioonn  
NatWest Group enters into securities repurchase, lending and total return transactions in 
accordance with normal market practice which includes the provision of additional 
collateral if necessary. Under standard terms in the UK and US markets, the recipient 
has an unrestricted right to sell or repledge collateral, subject to returning equivalent 
securities on settlement of the transaction.

Securities sold under repurchase transactions and transactions with the substance of 
securities repurchase agreements are not derecognised if NatWest Group retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The fair value (and carrying value) of 
securities transferred under such transactions included on the balance sheet, are set out 
below. All of these securities could be sold or repledged by the holder.

TThhee  ffoolllloowwiinngg  aasssseettss  hhaavvee  ffaaiilleedd  ddeerreeccooggnniittiioonn ((11))
Trading assets
Loans to bank - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Total

(1) Associated liabilities were £16,522 million (2022 – £9,501 million).

22002233

£m
7,907
10
281
8,764
16,962

2022

£m
6,668
16
398
2,901
9,983

AAsssseettss  pplleeddggeedd  aass  ccoollllaatteerraall
NatWest Group pledges collateral with its counterparties in respect of derivative liabilities, 
bank and stock borrowings and other transactions.

AAsssseettss  pplleeddggeedd  aaggaaiinnsstt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess 
Trading assets
Loans to banks - amortised cost
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets (1)
Total

2023

£m
10,976
63
21,611
6,506
39,156

2022

£m
15,062
66
17,493
3,351
35,972

(1)

Includes assets pledged for pension derivatives and £482 million of debt securities under the continuing control of NWB 
Plc. This follows the agreement between NWB Plc and the Group Pension Fund to establish a bankruptcy remote 
reservoir trust to hold these assets. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.

As part of the covered debt programme £11,067 million of loans to customers and other 
debt instruments (2022 – £8,156 million) have been transferred to bankruptcy remote 
limited liability partnerships within the NatWest Group to provide collateral for issues of 
debt securities and other borrowing by the NatWest Group of £3,619 million (2022 – 
£4,132 million). Refer to Note 23. 

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy  ((eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoonn--ccoonnttrroolllliinngg  iinntteerreessttss))

   Shareholders’ equity 

   Other equity instruments

RReegguullaattoorryy  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  aanndd  ddeedduuccttiioonnss

   Own credit

   Defined benefit pension fund adjustment

   Cash flow hedging reserve 

   Deferred tax assets

   Prudential valuation adjustments

   Goodwill and other intangible assets

   Foreseeable ordinary dividends

   Adjustment for trust assets (1)

   Foreseeable charges

   Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional arrangements 

   Insufficient coverage for non-performing exposures

CCEETT11  ccaappiittaall

AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  11  ((AATT11))  ccaappiittaall

   Qualifying instruments and related share premium

AATT11  ccaappiittaall

TTiieerr  11  ccaappiittaall

QQuuaalliiffyyiinngg  TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall

   Other regulatory adjustments

TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall

TToottaall  rreegguullaattoorryy  ccaappiittaall

   Qualifying instruments and related share premium

   Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties

It is NatWest Group policy to maintain a strong capital base, 

to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently 

throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders 

while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital 

base and the underlying risks of the business. In carrying out 

this policy, NatWest Group has regard to the supervisory 

requirements of the PRA. The PRA uses capital ratios as a 

measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, 

comparing a bank's capital resources with its risk-weighted 

assets (the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are 

weighted to reflect the inherent credit and other risks); by 

international agreement, the Pillar 1 capital ratios should be 

not less than 8% with a Common Equity Tier 1 component of 

A number of subsidiaries and sub-groups within NatWest 

Group, principally banking entities, are subject to various 

individual regulatory capital requirements in the UK and 

overseas. Furthermore, the payment of dividends by 

subsidiaries and the ability of members of NatWest Group to 

lend money to other members of NatWest Group may be 

subject to restrictions such as local regulatory or legal 

requirements, the availability of reserves and financial and 

operating performance.

(7,116)

not less than 4.5%. NatWest Group has complied with the 

PRA’s capital requirements throughout the year.

2023

£m

37,157

(3,890)

33,267

(10)

(143)

1,899

(979)

(279)

(7,614)

(1,013)

(365)

(525)

202

-

(8,827)

24,440

3,875

3,875

28,315

5,189

-

128

5,317

33,632

2022

£m

36,488

(3,890)

32,598

(58)

(227)

2,771

(912)

(275)

(967)

(365)

(800)

361

(18)

(7,606)

24,992

3,875

3,875

28,867

4,953

82

18

5,053

33,920

(1)

Prudent deduction in respect of agreement with the pension fund to establish legal structure to remove dividend linked contribution. Refer Notes 5 and 33.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

375

375

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25 Capital resources

NatWest Group’s regulatory capital is assessed against minimum requirements that are set out under the UK Capital Requirements Regulation to determine the 
strength of its capital base. This note shows a reconciliation of shareholders’ equity to regulatory capital.

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy  ((eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoonn--ccoonnttrroolllliinngg  iinntteerreessttss))
   Shareholders’ equity 
   Other equity instruments

RReegguullaattoorryy  aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  aanndd  ddeedduuccttiioonnss
   Own credit
   Defined benefit pension fund adjustment
   Cash flow hedging reserve 
   Deferred tax assets
   Prudential valuation adjustments
   Goodwill and other intangible assets
   Foreseeable ordinary dividends
   Adjustment for trust assets (1)
   Foreseeable charges
   Adjustment under IFRS 9 transitional arrangements 
   Insufficient coverage for non-performing exposures

CCEETT11  ccaappiittaall
AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  11  ((AATT11))  ccaappiittaall
   Qualifying instruments and related share premium
AATT11  ccaappiittaall
TTiieerr  11  ccaappiittaall
QQuuaalliiffyyiinngg  TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall
   Qualifying instruments and related share premium
   Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties
   Other regulatory adjustments
TTiieerr  22  ccaappiittaall
TToottaall  rreegguullaattoorryy  ccaappiittaall

It is NatWest Group policy to maintain a strong capital base, 
to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently 
throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders 
while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital 
base and the underlying risks of the business. In carrying out 
this policy, NatWest Group has regard to the supervisory 
requirements of the PRA. The PRA uses capital ratios as a 
measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, 
comparing a bank's capital resources with its risk-weighted 
assets (the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are 
weighted to reflect the inherent credit and other risks); by 
international agreement, the Pillar 1 capital ratios should be 
not less than 8% with a Common Equity Tier 1 component of 
not less than 4.5%. NatWest Group has complied with the 
PRA’s capital requirements throughout the year.

A number of subsidiaries and sub-groups within NatWest 
Group, principally banking entities, are subject to various 
individual regulatory capital requirements in the UK and 
overseas. Furthermore, the payment of dividends by 
subsidiaries and the ability of members of NatWest Group to 
lend money to other members of NatWest Group may be 
subject to restrictions such as local regulatory or legal 
requirements, the availability of reserves and financial and 
operating performance.

2023

£m

37,157
(3,890)
33,267

(10)
(143)
1,899
(979)
(279)
(7,614)
(1,013)
(365)
(525)
202
-
(8,827)
24,440

3,875
3,875
28,315

5,189
-
128
5,317
33,632

2022

£m

36,488
(3,890)
32,598

(58)
(227)
2,771
(912)
(275)
(7,116)
(967)
(365)
(800)
361
(18)
(7,606)
24,992

3,875
3,875
28,867

4,953
82
18
5,053
33,920

(1)

Prudent deduction in respect of agreement with the pension fund to establish legal structure to remove dividend linked contribution. Refer Notes 5 and 33.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

376

376

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

377

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

26 Memorandum items
CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss

NatWest Group provides its customers with a variety of services to support 
their businesses, such as guarantees. These are reported as 
commitments.  Contingent liabilities are possible obligations dependent on a 
future event or present obligations which are either not probable or cannot 
be measured reliably.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policy 2.4.

The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the 
volume of business outstanding at 31 December 2023. Although NatWest Group is 
exposed to credit risk in the event of a customer’s failure to meet its obligations, the 
amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of NatWest 
Group's expectation of future losses.

CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss
Guarantees
Other contingent liabilities
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments
Total

2023

£m

2022

£m

2,810
1,380
115,441
119,631

3,150
1,855
121,576
126,581

Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been entered into on 
behalf of customers and for which there are corresponding obligations from customers, 
are not included in assets and liabilities. NatWest Group's maximum exposure to credit 
loss, in the event of its obligation crystallising and all counterclaims, collateral or security 
proving valueless, is represented by the contractual nominal amount of these 
instruments included in the table above. These commitments and contingent obligations 
are subject to NatWest Group's normal credit approval processes.

GGuuaarraanntteeeess – NatWest Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers. A financial 
guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that NatWest Group will meet a 
customer's specified obligations to a third party if the customer fails to do so. The 
maximum amount that NatWest Group could be required to pay under a guarantee is its 
principal amount as disclosed in the table above. NatWest Group expects most 
guarantees it provides to expire unused.

OOtthheerr  ccoonnttiinnggeenntt  lliiaabbiilliittiieess - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer 
debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those 
arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.

SSttaannddbbyy  ffaacciilliittiieess  aanndd  ccrreeddiitt  lliinneess - under a loan commitment, NatWest Group agrees to 
make funds available to a customer in the future. Loan commitments, which are usually 
for a specified term, may be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all 

conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived. Commitments to lend include 
commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper 
conduits and unutilised overdraft facilities.

OOtthheerr  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss - these include documentary credits, which are commercial letters 
of credit providing for payment by NatWest Group to a named beneficiary against 
presentation of specified documents, forward asset purchases, forward deposits placed 
and undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term 
trade related transactions.

Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts
The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for 
in the accounts at the year end.

Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Contracts to purchase goods or services (1)

(1) Of which due within 1 year: £379 million (2022 – £321 million).

2023

£m
38
1,121
1,159

2022

£m 

8
677
685

TTrruusstteeee  aanndd  ootthheerr  ffiidduucciiaarryy  aaccttiivviittiieess  
In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, NatWest Group may hold or place assets 
on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension schemes and others. The assets and 
their income are not included in NatWest Group's financial statements. NatWest Group 
earned fee income of £264 million (2022 - £266 million; 2021 - £280 million) from these 
activities.

TThhee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSeerrvviicceess  CCoommppeennssaattiioonn  SScchheemmee
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), the UK's statutory fund of last 
resort for customers of authorised financial services firms, pays compensation if a firm is 
unable to meet its obligations. The FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising 
management expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry. In relation to 
protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution contributes towards these levies in 
proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the year 
preceding the scheme year (which runs from 1 April to 31 March), subject to annual 
maxima set by the Prudential Regulation Authority. In addition, the FSCS has the power 
to raise levies on a firm that has ceased to participate in the scheme and is in the 
process of ceasing to be authorised for the costs that it would have been liable to pay 
had the FSCS made a levy in the financial year it ceased to be a participant in the 
scheme.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss

NatWest Group plc and certain members of NatWest Group are party to various legal 

proceedings and are involved in, or subject to, various regulatory matters, including as 

the subject of investigations and other regulatory and governmental action (Matters) in 

the United Kingdom (UK), the United States (US), the European Union (EU) and other 

involved are set out below. We have provided information on the procedural history of 

certain Matters, where we believe appropriate, to aid the understanding of the Matter.

For a discussion of certain risks associated with NatWest Group’s litigation and 

regulatory matters (including the Matters), refer to the Risk Factor relating to legal, 

regulatory and governmental actions and investigations set out on pages 439 to 441.

jurisdictions.

obligation. 

NatWest Group recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these Matters when it is 

probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation 

resulting from past events, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 

Litigation

In many of the Matters, it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable, or to 

estimate reliably the amount of any loss, either as a direct consequence of the relevant 

proceedings and regulatory matters or as a result of adverse impacts or restrictions on 

NatWest Group’s reputation, businesses and operations. Numerous legal and factual 

issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and 

document production exercises and determination of important factual matters, and by 

addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, 

before the probability of a liability, if any, arising can reasonably be estimated in respect 

of any Matter. NatWest Group cannot predict if, how, or when such claims will be 

resolved or what the eventual settlement, damages, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, 

may be, particularly for Matters that are at an early stage in their development or where 

claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages.

There are situations where NatWest Group may pursue an approach that in some 

instances leads to a settlement agreement. This may occur in order to avoid the 

expense, management distraction or reputational implications of continuing to contest 

liability, or in order to take account of the risks inherent in defending or contesting 

Matters, even for those for which NatWest Group believes it has credible defences and 

should prevail on the merits. The uncertainties inherent in all Matters affect the amount 

and timing of any potential economic outflows for both Matters with respect to which 

provisions have been established and other contingent liabilities in respect of any such 

Matter. 

It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our Matters 

as a class of contingent liabilities.

LLoonnddoonn  IInntteerrbbaannkk  OOffffeerreedd  RRaattee  ((LLIIBBOORR))  aanndd  ootthheerr  rraatteess  lliittiiggaattiioonn

NWM Plc and certain other members of NatWest Group, including NatWest Group plc, 

are defendants in a number of class actions and individual claims pending in the United 

States District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY) with respect to the 

setting of LIBOR and certain other benchmark interest rates. The complainants allege 

that certain members of NatWest Group and other panel banks violated various federal 

laws, including the US commodities and antitrust laws, and state statutory and common 

law, as well as contracts, by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBOR-based derivatives 

in various markets through various means.

Several purported class actions relating to USD LIBOR, as well as more than two dozen 

non-class actions concerning USD LIBOR and involving NatWest Group companies, are 

part of a co-ordinated proceeding in the SDNY. The class actions include claims on 

behalf of persons who purchased LIBOR-linked instruments from defendants, bonds 

issued by defendants, persons who transacted futures and options on exchanges, and 

lenders who made LIBOR-based loans. The coordinated proceeding is currently in the 

discovery phase. NatWest Group companies’ previously disclosed settlement of a class 

action on behalf of bondholder plaintiffs has received final court approval. The amount of 

the settlement was covered by an existing provision.

The non-class claims filed in the SDNY include claims that the FDIC is asserting on behalf 

of certain failed US banks. In July 2017, the FDIC, on behalf of 39 of those failed US 

banks, commenced substantially similar claims against NatWest Group companies and 

others in the High Court of Justice of England and Wales. The action alleges collusion 

with regard to the setting of USD LIBOR and that the defendants breached UK and 

European competition law, as well as asserting common law claims of fraud under US 

law. The defendant banks consented to a request by the FDIC for discontinuance of the 

claim in respect of 20 failed US banks, leaving 19 failed US banks as claimants. The trial 

is currently anticipated to commence in Q1 2026.

The future economic outflow in respect of any Matter may ultimately prove to be 

substantially greater than, or less than, the aggregate provision, if any, that NatWest 

Group has recognised in respect of such Matter. Where a reliable estimate of the 

economic outflow cannot be reasonably made, no provision has been recognised. 

NatWest Group expects that in future periods, additional provisions and economic 

outflows relating to Matters that may or may not be currently known by NatWest Group 

will be necessary, in amounts that are expected to be substantial in some instances. 

Refer to Note 21 for information on material provisions.

In addition to the USD LIBOR cases described above, there is a class action relating to 

derivatives allegedly tied to JPY LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR, which was dismissed by the 

SDNY in relation to NWM Plc and other NatWest Group companies in September 2021.  

That dismissal may be the subject of a future appeal. The SDNY’s dismissal of another 

class action, which related to Euroyen TIBOR futures contracts, was affirmed by the 

United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (US Court of Appeals) in October 

2022. The plaintiffs filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court seeking review 

of the dismissal, but that petition was denied in October 2023. 

Matters which are, or could be, material, either individually or in aggregate, having 

regard to NatWest Group, considered as a whole, in which NatWest Group is currently 

Two other IBOR-related class actions involving NWM Plc, concerning alleged 

manipulation of Euribor and Pound Sterling LIBOR, were previously dismissed by the 

SDNY for various reasons. The plaintiffs’ appeals in those two cases remain pending. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

377

377

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss
NatWest Group plc and certain members of NatWest Group are party to various legal 
proceedings and are involved in, or subject to, various regulatory matters, including as 
the subject of investigations and other regulatory and governmental action (Matters) in 
the United Kingdom (UK), the United States (US), the European Union (EU) and other 
jurisdictions.

NatWest Group recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these Matters when it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation 
resulting from past events, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. 

In many of the Matters, it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable, or to 
estimate reliably the amount of any loss, either as a direct consequence of the relevant 
proceedings and regulatory matters or as a result of adverse impacts or restrictions on 
NatWest Group’s reputation, businesses and operations. Numerous legal and factual 
issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and 
document production exercises and determination of important factual matters, and by 
addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, 
before the probability of a liability, if any, arising can reasonably be estimated in respect 
of any Matter. NatWest Group cannot predict if, how, or when such claims will be 
resolved or what the eventual settlement, damages, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, 
may be, particularly for Matters that are at an early stage in their development or where 
claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages.

There are situations where NatWest Group may pursue an approach that in some 
instances leads to a settlement agreement. This may occur in order to avoid the 
expense, management distraction or reputational implications of continuing to contest 
liability, or in order to take account of the risks inherent in defending or contesting 
Matters, even for those for which NatWest Group believes it has credible defences and 
should prevail on the merits. The uncertainties inherent in all Matters affect the amount 
and timing of any potential economic outflows for both Matters with respect to which 
provisions have been established and other contingent liabilities in respect of any such 
Matter. 

It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our Matters 
as a class of contingent liabilities.

involved are set out below. We have provided information on the procedural history of 
certain Matters, where we believe appropriate, to aid the understanding of the Matter.

For a discussion of certain risks associated with NatWest Group’s litigation and 
regulatory matters (including the Matters), refer to the Risk Factor relating to legal, 
regulatory and governmental actions and investigations set out on pages 439 to 441.

Litigation
LLoonnddoonn  IInntteerrbbaannkk  OOffffeerreedd  RRaattee  ((LLIIBBOORR))  aanndd  ootthheerr  rraatteess  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWM Plc and certain other members of NatWest Group, including NatWest Group plc, 
are defendants in a number of class actions and individual claims pending in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY) with respect to the 
setting of LIBOR and certain other benchmark interest rates. The complainants allege 
that certain members of NatWest Group and other panel banks violated various federal 
laws, including the US commodities and antitrust laws, and state statutory and common 
law, as well as contracts, by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBOR-based derivatives 
in various markets through various means.

Several purported class actions relating to USD LIBOR, as well as more than two dozen 
non-class actions concerning USD LIBOR and involving NatWest Group companies, are 
part of a co-ordinated proceeding in the SDNY. The class actions include claims on 
behalf of persons who purchased LIBOR-linked instruments from defendants, bonds 
issued by defendants, persons who transacted futures and options on exchanges, and 
lenders who made LIBOR-based loans. The coordinated proceeding is currently in the 
discovery phase. NatWest Group companies’ previously disclosed settlement of a class 
action on behalf of bondholder plaintiffs has received final court approval. The amount of 
the settlement was covered by an existing provision.

The non-class claims filed in the SDNY include claims that the FDIC is asserting on behalf 
of certain failed US banks. In July 2017, the FDIC, on behalf of 39 of those failed US 
banks, commenced substantially similar claims against NatWest Group companies and 
others in the High Court of Justice of England and Wales. The action alleges collusion 
with regard to the setting of USD LIBOR and that the defendants breached UK and 
European competition law, as well as asserting common law claims of fraud under US 
law. The defendant banks consented to a request by the FDIC for discontinuance of the 
claim in respect of 20 failed US banks, leaving 19 failed US banks as claimants. The trial 
is currently anticipated to commence in Q1 2026.

The future economic outflow in respect of any Matter may ultimately prove to be 
substantially greater than, or less than, the aggregate provision, if any, that NatWest 
Group has recognised in respect of such Matter. Where a reliable estimate of the 
economic outflow cannot be reasonably made, no provision has been recognised. 
NatWest Group expects that in future periods, additional provisions and economic 
outflows relating to Matters that may or may not be currently known by NatWest Group 
will be necessary, in amounts that are expected to be substantial in some instances. 
Refer to Note 21 for information on material provisions.

In addition to the USD LIBOR cases described above, there is a class action relating to 
derivatives allegedly tied to JPY LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR, which was dismissed by the 
SDNY in relation to NWM Plc and other NatWest Group companies in September 2021.  
That dismissal may be the subject of a future appeal. The SDNY’s dismissal of another 
class action, which related to Euroyen TIBOR futures contracts, was affirmed by the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (US Court of Appeals) in October 
2022. The plaintiffs filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court seeking review 
of the dismissal, but that petition was denied in October 2023. 

Matters which are, or could be, material, either individually or in aggregate, having 
regard to NatWest Group, considered as a whole, in which NatWest Group is currently 

Two other IBOR-related class actions involving NWM Plc, concerning alleged 
manipulation of Euribor and Pound Sterling LIBOR, were previously dismissed by the 
SDNY for various reasons. The plaintiffs’ appeals in those two cases remain pending. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

378

378

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

379

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd
NWM Plc’s previously disclosed settlement of a class action relating to Swiss Franc 
LIBOR has received final court approval. The settlement amount has been paid by NWM 
Plc and was covered in full by an existing provision.

In August 2020, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern 
District of California by several United States retail borrowers against the USD ICE 
LIBOR panel banks and their affiliates (including NatWest Group plc, NWM Plc, NWMSI 
and NWB Plc), alleging (i) that the very process of setting USD ICE LIBOR amounts to 
illegal price-fixing; and (ii) that banks in the United States have illegally agreed to use 
LIBOR as a component of price in variable retail loans. In September 2022, the district 
court dismissed the complaint. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint but in October 
2023, the district court dismissed that complaint as well, and indicated that further 
amendment would not be permitted. The plaintiffs have commenced an appeal to the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit which is currently pending.

NWM Plc is also named as a defendant in a motion to certify a class action relating to 
LIBOR in the Tel Aviv District Court in Israel. NWM Plc filed a motion for cancellation of 
service outside the jurisdiction, which was granted in July 2020. The claimants appealed 
that decision and in November 2020 the appeal was refused and the claim dismissed by 
the Appellate Court. The claim could in future be recommenced depending on the 
outcome of an appeal to Israel’s Supreme Court in respect of the dismissal of the 
substantive case against banks that had a presence in Israel.

FFoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWM Plc, NWMSI and/or NatWest Group plc are defendants in several cases relating to 
NWM Plc’s foreign exchange (FX) business. 

An FX-related class action, on behalf of ‘consumers and end-user businesses’, was 
proceeding in the SDNY against NWM Plc and others. In March 2023, the court granted 
summary judgment in favour of the defendants, dismissing the plaintiffs’ claims. The 
plaintiffs have commenced an appeal of that decision as well as a prior decision denying 
class certification in the case. 

In May 2019, a cartel class action was filed in the Federal Court of Australia against 
NWM Plc and four other banks on behalf of persons who bought or sold currency 
through FX spots or forwards between 1 January 2008 and 15 October 2013 with a 
total transaction value exceeding AUD $0.5 million. The claimant has alleged that the 
banks, including NWM Plc, contravened Australian competition law by sharing 
information, coordinating conduct, widening spreads and manipulating FX rates for 
certain currency pairs during this period. NatWest Group plc and NWMSI have been 
named in the action as ‘other cartel participants’, but are not respondents. The claim 
was served in June 2019 and NWM Plc filed its defence in March 2022. 

In July and December 2019, two separate applications seeking opt-out collective 
proceedings orders were filed in the UK Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) against 
NatWest Group plc, NWM Plc and other banks. Both applications were brought on behalf 
of persons who, between 18 December 2007 and 31 January 2013, entered into a 
relevant FX spot or outright forward transaction in the EEA with a relevant financial 

institution or on an electronic communications network. In March 2022, the CAT declined 
to certify as collective proceedings either of the applications, which was appealed by the 
applicants, and the subject of an application for judicial review. 

In its amended judgment in November 2023, the Court of Appeal allowed the appeal and 
decided that the claims should proceed on an opt-out basis. Separately, the court 
determined which of the two competing applicants can proceed as class representative, 
and dismissed the application for judicial review of the CAT’s decision. The case has been 
remitted to the CAT for further case management and the banks have sought 
permission to appeal directly to the UK Supreme Court.

Two motions to certify FX-related class actions were filed in the Tel Aviv District Court in 
Israel in September and October 2018, and were subsequently consolidated into one 
motion. The consolidated motion to certify, which names The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
(now NWM Plc) and several other banks as defendants, was served on NWM Plc in May 
2020. The applicants have sought the court’s permission to amend their motions to 
certify the class actions. NWM Plc has filed a motion challenging the permission granted 
by the court for the applicants to serve the consolidated motion outside the Israeli 
jurisdiction. That NWM Plc motion remains pending.

In December 2021, a summons was served in the Netherlands against NatWest Group 
plc, NWM Plc and NWM N.V. by Stichting FX Claims on behalf of a number of parties, 
seeking declarations from the court concerning liability for anti-competitive FX market 
conduct described in decisions of the European Commission (EC) of 16 May 2019, along 
with unspecified damages. The claimant amended its claim to also refer to a 2 December 
2021 decision by the EC, which described anti-competitive FX market conduct. NatWest 
Group plc, NWM Plc and other defendants contested the jurisdiction of the Dutch court. 
In March 2023, the district court in Amsterdam accepted that it has jurisdiction to hear 
claims against NWM N.V. but refused jurisdiction to hear any claims against the other 
defendant banks (including NatWest Group plc and NWM Plc) brought on behalf of the 
parties represented by the claimant that are domiciled outside of the Netherlands. The 
claimant is appealing that decision and the defendant banks have brought cross-appeals 
which seek a ruling that the Dutch court has no jurisdiction to hear any claims against 
the defendant banks domiciled outside of the Netherlands, including claims brought on 
behalf of the parties represented by the claimant that are domiciled in the Netherlands.

In September 2023, second summonses were served by Stichting FX Claims on NWM 
N.V., NatWest Group plc and NWM Plc, for claims on behalf of a new group of parties 
that have now been brought before the district court in Amsterdam. The summonses 
seek declarations from the Dutch court concerning liability for anti-competitive FX 
market conduct described in the above referenced decisions of the EC of 16 May 2019 
and 2 December 2021, along with unspecified damages.

Certain other foreign exchange transaction related claims have been or may be 
threatened. NatWest Group cannot predict whether all or any of these claims will be 
pursued.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd

GGoovveerrnnmmeenntt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn

NWMSI and certain other US broker-dealers are defendants in a consolidated antitrust 

class action in the SDNY on behalf of persons who transacted in US Treasury securities 

or derivatives based on such instruments, including futures and options. The plaintiffs 

allege that the defendants rigged the US Treasury securities auction bidding process to 

deflate prices at which they bought such securities and colluded to increase the prices at 

which they sold such securities to the plaintiffs. In March 2022, the SDNY dismissed the 

complaint, without leave to re-plead. In February 2024, the US Court of Appeals affirmed 

the SDNY’s decision dismissing the complaint.  

Class action antitrust claims commenced in March 2019 are pending in the SDNY 

against NWM Plc, NWMSI and other banks in respect of Euro-denominated bonds issued 

by various European central banks (European government bonds or EGBs). The 

complaint alleges a conspiracy among dealers of EGBs to widen the bid-ask spreads they 

quoted to customers, thereby increasing the prices customers paid for the EGBs or 

decreasing the prices at which customers sold EGBs. The class consists of those who 

purchased or sold EGBs in the US between 2007 and 2012. Previously, in March 2022, 

the SDNY dismissed the claims against NWM Plc and NWMSI on the ground that the 

complaint’s conspiracy allegations were insufficient. However, in September 2023, the 

SDNY ruled that new allegations which plaintiffs have included in an amended complaint 

are sufficient to bring those NatWest entities back into the case as defendants.

SSwwaappss  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn

NWM Plc and other members of NatWest Group, including NatWest Group plc, as well as 

a number of other interest rate swap dealers, are defendants in several cases pending in 

the SDNY alleging violations of the US antitrust laws in the market for interest rate 

swaps. There is a consolidated class action complaint on behalf of persons who entered 

into interest rate swaps with the defendants, as well as non-class action claims by three 

swap execution facilities (TeraExchange, Javelin, and trueEx). The plaintiffs allege that 

the swap execution facilities would have successfully established exchange-like trading of 

interest rate swaps if the defendants had not unlawfully conspired to prevent that from 

happening through boycotts and other means. Discovery in these cases is complete. In 

December 2023, the SDNY denied the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. The 

plaintiffs have filed a petition requesting that the US Court of Appeals review the denial 

of class certification.

In June 2021, a class action antitrust complaint was filed against a number of credit 

default swap dealers, in New Mexico federal court on behalf of persons who, from 2005 

onwards, settled credit default swaps in the United States by reference to the ISDA 

credit default swap auction protocol. The complaint alleges that the defendants 

conspired to manipulate that benchmark through various means in violation of the 

antitrust laws and the Commodity Exchange Act. The defendants filed a motion to 

dismiss the complaint and, in June 2023, such motion was denied as regards NWMSI and 

other financial institutions, but granted as regards to NWM Plc on the ground that the 

court lacks jurisdiction over that entity. As a result, the case entered the discovery phase 

as against the non-dismissed defendants. In January 2024, the SDNY issued an order 

barring the plaintiffs in the New Mexico case from pursuing claims based on conduct 

occurring before 30 June 2014 on the ground that such claims were extinguished by a 

2015 settlement agreement that resolved a prior class action relating to credit default 

swaps.        

OOdddd  lloott  ccoorrppoorraattee  bboonndd  ttrraaddiinngg  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn

In October 2021, the SDNY granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the class action 

antitrust complaint alleging that from August 2006 onwards various securities dealers, 

including NWMSI, conspired artificially to widen spreads for odd lots of corporate bonds 

bought or sold in the United States secondary market and to boycott electronic trading 

platforms that would have allegedly promoted pricing competition in the market for such 

bonds. The plaintiffs have filed an appeal.

SSppooooffiinngg  lliittiiggaattiioonn  

In December 2021, three substantially similar class actions complaints were filed in 

federal court in the United States against NWM Plc and NWMSI alleging Commodity 

Exchange Act and common law unjust enrichment claims arising from manipulative 

trading known as spoofing. The complaints refer to NWM Plc’s December 2021 spoofing-

related guilty plea (described below under “US investigations relating to fixed-income 

securities”) and purport to assert claims on behalf of those who transacted in US 

Treasury securities and futures and options on US Treasury securities between 2008 and 

2018. In July 2022, defendants filed a motion to dismiss these claims, which have been 

consolidated into one matter in the United States District Court for the Northern District 

of Illinois.

MMaaddooffff

NWM N.V. was named as a defendant in two actions filed by the trustee for the bankrupt 

estates of Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, in 

bankruptcy court in New York, which together seek to clawback more than US$298 

million that NWM N.V. allegedly received from certain Madoff feeder funds and certain 

swap counterparties. The claims were previously dismissed, but as a result of an August 

2021 decision by the US Court of Appeals, they will now proceed in the bankruptcy 

court, where they have been consolidated into one action, subject to NWM N.V.’s legal 

and factual defences. In May 2022, NWM N.V. filed a motion to dismiss the amended 

complaint in the consolidated action and such motion was denied in March 2023. As a 

result, the case has now entered the discovery phase.

EEUUAA  ttrraaddiinngg  lliittiiggaattiioonn

NWM Plc was a named defendant in civil proceedings before the High Court of Justice of 

England and Wales brought in 2015 by ten companies (all in liquidation) (the ‘Liquidated 

Companies’) and their respective liquidators (together, ‘the Claimants’). The Liquidated 

Companies previously traded in European Union Allowances (EUAs) in 2009 and were 

alleged to be VAT defaulting traders within (or otherwise connected to) EUA supply 

chains of which NWM Plc was a party. In March 2020, the court held that NWM Plc and 

Mercuria Energy Europe Trading Limited (‘Mercuria’) were liable for dishonestly assisting 

and knowingly being a party to fraudulent trading during a seven business day period in 

2009. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

379

379

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd
GGoovveerrnnmmeenntt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWMSI and certain other US broker-dealers are defendants in a consolidated antitrust 
class action in the SDNY on behalf of persons who transacted in US Treasury securities 
or derivatives based on such instruments, including futures and options. The plaintiffs 
allege that the defendants rigged the US Treasury securities auction bidding process to 
deflate prices at which they bought such securities and colluded to increase the prices at 
which they sold such securities to the plaintiffs. In March 2022, the SDNY dismissed the 
complaint, without leave to re-plead. In February 2024, the US Court of Appeals affirmed 
the SDNY’s decision dismissing the complaint.  

Class action antitrust claims commenced in March 2019 are pending in the SDNY 
against NWM Plc, NWMSI and other banks in respect of Euro-denominated bonds issued 
by various European central banks (European government bonds or EGBs). The 
complaint alleges a conspiracy among dealers of EGBs to widen the bid-ask spreads they 
quoted to customers, thereby increasing the prices customers paid for the EGBs or 
decreasing the prices at which customers sold EGBs. The class consists of those who 
purchased or sold EGBs in the US between 2007 and 2012. Previously, in March 2022, 
the SDNY dismissed the claims against NWM Plc and NWMSI on the ground that the 
complaint’s conspiracy allegations were insufficient. However, in September 2023, the 
SDNY ruled that new allegations which plaintiffs have included in an amended complaint 
are sufficient to bring those NatWest entities back into the case as defendants.

SSwwaappss  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWM Plc and other members of NatWest Group, including NatWest Group plc, as well as 
a number of other interest rate swap dealers, are defendants in several cases pending in 
the SDNY alleging violations of the US antitrust laws in the market for interest rate 
swaps. There is a consolidated class action complaint on behalf of persons who entered 
into interest rate swaps with the defendants, as well as non-class action claims by three 
swap execution facilities (TeraExchange, Javelin, and trueEx). The plaintiffs allege that 
the swap execution facilities would have successfully established exchange-like trading of 
interest rate swaps if the defendants had not unlawfully conspired to prevent that from 
happening through boycotts and other means. Discovery in these cases is complete. In 
December 2023, the SDNY denied the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. The 
plaintiffs have filed a petition requesting that the US Court of Appeals review the denial 
of class certification.

In June 2021, a class action antitrust complaint was filed against a number of credit 
default swap dealers, in New Mexico federal court on behalf of persons who, from 2005 
onwards, settled credit default swaps in the United States by reference to the ISDA 
credit default swap auction protocol. The complaint alleges that the defendants 
conspired to manipulate that benchmark through various means in violation of the 
antitrust laws and the Commodity Exchange Act. The defendants filed a motion to 
dismiss the complaint and, in June 2023, such motion was denied as regards NWMSI and 
other financial institutions, but granted as regards to NWM Plc on the ground that the 
court lacks jurisdiction over that entity. As a result, the case entered the discovery phase 
as against the non-dismissed defendants. In January 2024, the SDNY issued an order 
barring the plaintiffs in the New Mexico case from pursuing claims based on conduct 
occurring before 30 June 2014 on the ground that such claims were extinguished by a 

2015 settlement agreement that resolved a prior class action relating to credit default 
swaps.        

OOdddd  lloott  ccoorrppoorraattee  bboonndd  ttrraaddiinngg  aannttiittrruusstt  lliittiiggaattiioonn
In October 2021, the SDNY granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the class action 
antitrust complaint alleging that from August 2006 onwards various securities dealers, 
including NWMSI, conspired artificially to widen spreads for odd lots of corporate bonds 
bought or sold in the United States secondary market and to boycott electronic trading 
platforms that would have allegedly promoted pricing competition in the market for such 
bonds. The plaintiffs have filed an appeal.

SSppooooffiinngg  lliittiiggaattiioonn  
In December 2021, three substantially similar class actions complaints were filed in 
federal court in the United States against NWM Plc and NWMSI alleging Commodity 
Exchange Act and common law unjust enrichment claims arising from manipulative 
trading known as spoofing. The complaints refer to NWM Plc’s December 2021 spoofing-
related guilty plea (described below under “US investigations relating to fixed-income 
securities”) and purport to assert claims on behalf of those who transacted in US 
Treasury securities and futures and options on US Treasury securities between 2008 and 
2018. In July 2022, defendants filed a motion to dismiss these claims, which have been 
consolidated into one matter in the United States District Court for the Northern District 
of Illinois.

MMaaddooffff
NWM N.V. was named as a defendant in two actions filed by the trustee for the bankrupt 
estates of Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, in 
bankruptcy court in New York, which together seek to clawback more than US$298 
million that NWM N.V. allegedly received from certain Madoff feeder funds and certain 
swap counterparties. The claims were previously dismissed, but as a result of an August 
2021 decision by the US Court of Appeals, they will now proceed in the bankruptcy 
court, where they have been consolidated into one action, subject to NWM N.V.’s legal 
and factual defences. In May 2022, NWM N.V. filed a motion to dismiss the amended 
complaint in the consolidated action and such motion was denied in March 2023. As a 
result, the case has now entered the discovery phase.

EEUUAA  ttrraaddiinngg  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWM Plc was a named defendant in civil proceedings before the High Court of Justice of 
England and Wales brought in 2015 by ten companies (all in liquidation) (the ‘Liquidated 
Companies’) and their respective liquidators (together, ‘the Claimants’). The Liquidated 
Companies previously traded in European Union Allowances (EUAs) in 2009 and were 
alleged to be VAT defaulting traders within (or otherwise connected to) EUA supply 
chains of which NWM Plc was a party. In March 2020, the court held that NWM Plc and 
Mercuria Energy Europe Trading Limited (‘Mercuria’) were liable for dishonestly assisting 
and knowingly being a party to fraudulent trading during a seven business day period in 
2009. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

380

380

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

381

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd
In October 2020, the High Court quantified total damages against NWM Plc and 
Mercuria at £45 million plus interest and costs, and permitted the defendants to appeal 
to the Court of Appeal. In May 2021 the Court of Appeal set aside the High Court’s 
judgment and ordered that a retrial take place before a different High Court judge. In 
January 2024, NWM Plc entered into an agreement to resolve the claim against it. The 
settlement amount paid by NWM Plc was covered in full by an existing provision.

OOffffsshhoorriinngg  VVAATT  aasssseessssmmeennttss
HMRC issued protective tax assessments in 2018 against NatWest Group plc totalling 
£143 million relating to unpaid VAT in respect of the UK branches of two NatWest Group 
companies registered in India. NatWest Group formally requested reconsideration by 
HMRC of their assessments, and this process was completed in November 2020. HMRC 
upheld their original decision and, as a result, NatWest Group plc lodged an appeal with 
the Tax Tribunal and an application for judicial review with the High Court of Justice of 
England and Wales, both in December 2020. In order to lodge the appeal with the Tax 
Tribunal, NatWest Group plc was required to pay £143 million to HMRC, and payment 
was made in December 2020. The appeal and the application for judicial review have 
both been stayed pending resolution of separate cases involving other banks.

UUSS  AAnnttii--TTeerrrroorriissmm  AAcctt  lliittiiggaattiioonn
NWM N.V. and certain other financial institutions are defendants in several actions filed 
by a number of US nationals (or their estates, survivors, or heirs), most of whom are or 
were US military personnel, who were killed or injured in attacks in Iraq between 2003 
and 2011. NWM Plc is also a defendant in some of these cases.

According to the plaintiffs’ allegations, the defendants are liable for damages arising from 
the attacks because they allegedly conspired with and/or aided and abetted Iran and 
certain Iranian banks to assist Iran in transferring money to Hezbollah and the Iraqi 
terror cells that committed the attacks, in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act, by 
agreeing to engage in ‘stripping’ of transactions initiated by the Iranian banks so that the 
Iranian nexus to the transactions would not be detected.

The first of these actions, alleging conspiracy claims but not aiding and abetting claims, 
was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in 
November 2014. In September 2019, the district court dismissed the case, finding that 
the claims were deficient for several reasons, including lack of sufficient allegations as to 
the alleged conspiracy and causation. In January 2023, the US Court of Appeals affirmed 
the district court’s dismissal of this case. The plaintiffs filed a petition with the United 
States Supreme Court seeking review of the dismissal of their claims and that petition 
was denied in October 2023. It is anticipated that the plaintiffs will file a motion to re-
open the case to assert aiding and abetting claims that they previously did not assert. 
Another action, filed in the SDNY in 2017, which asserted both conspiracy and aiding 
and abetting claims, was dismissed by the SDNY in March 2019 on similar grounds as 
the first case, but remains subject to appeal to the US Court of Appeals. Other follow-on 
actions that are substantially similar to those described above are pending in the same 
courts.

11MMDDBB  lliittiiggaattiioonn
A Malaysian court claim was served in Switzerland in November 2022 by 1MDB, a 
Sovereign Wealth Fund, in which Coutts & Co Ltd was named, along with six others, as a 
defendant in respect of losses allegedly incurred by 1MDB. It is claimed that Coutts & Co 
Ltd is liable as a constructive trustee for having dishonestly assisted the directors of 
1MDB in the breach of their fiduciary duties by failing (amongst other alleged claims) to 
undertake due diligence in relation to a customer of Coutts & Co Ltd, through which 
funds totalling c.US$1 billion were received and paid out between 2009 and 2011. The 
claimant seeks the return of that amount plus interest. Coutts & Co Ltd filed an 
application in January 2023 challenging the validity of service and the Malaysian court’s 
jurisdiction to hear the claim. Before that application was heard, in April 2023, the 
claimant filed a notice of discontinuance of its claim against certain defendants including 
Coutts & Co Ltd. The claimant subsequently indicated that it intended to issue further 
replacement proceedings. Coutts & Co Ltd challenged the claimant’s ability to take that 
step. In August 2023, the court disallowed the discontinuation of the claim by the 
claimant (a decision that the claimant has appealed) and directed that the application by 
Coutts & Co Ltd challenging the validity of the proceedings should proceed to a hearing, 
which took place in February 2024. Judgment is awaited.

Coutts & Co Ltd (a subsidiary of RBS Netherlands Holdings B.V., which in turn is a 
subsidiary of NWM Plc) is a company registered in Switzerland and is in wind-down 
following the announced sale of its business assets in 2015. 

Regulatory matters (including investigations and customer redress programmes) 
NatWest Group’s businesses and financial condition can be affected by the actions of 
various governmental and regulatory authorities in the UK, the US, the EU and 
elsewhere. NatWest Group has engaged, and will continue to engage, in discussions with 
relevant governmental and regulatory authorities, including in the UK, the US, the EU 
and elsewhere, on an ongoing and regular basis, and in response to informal and formal 
inquiries or investigations, regarding operational, systems and control evaluations and 
issues including those related to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, 
including consumer protection, investment advice, business conduct, competition/anti-
trust, VAT recovery, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and sanctions regimes. 

NatWest Group expects government and regulatory intervention in financial services to 
be high for the foreseeable future, including increased scrutiny from competition and 
other regulators in the retail and SME business sectors.

Any matters discussed or identified during such discussions and inquiries may result in, 
among other things, further inquiry or investigation, other action being taken by 
governmental and regulatory authorities, increased costs being incurred by NatWest 
Group, remediation of systems and controls, public or private censure, restriction of 
NatWest Group’s business activities and/or fines. Any of the events or circumstances 
mentioned in this paragraph or below could have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group, its business, authorisations and licences, reputation, results of operations or the 
price of securities issued by it, or lead to material additional provisions being taken.

NatWest Group is co-operating fully with the matters described below.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd

UUSS  iinnvveessttiiggaattiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  ffiixxeedd--iinnccoommee  sseeccuurriittiieess  

In December 2021, NWM Plc pled guilty in the United States District Court for the District 

of Connecticut to one count of wire fraud and one count of securities fraud in connection 

with historical spoofing conduct by former employees in US Treasuries markets between 

January 2008 and May 2014 and, separately, during approximately three months in 

2018. The 2018 trading occurred during the term of a non-prosecution agreement (NPA) 

between NWMSI and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut 

work.

(USAO CT), under which non-prosecution was conditioned on NWMSI and affiliated 

companies not engaging in criminal conduct during the term of the NPA. The relevant 

trading in 2018 was conducted by two NWM traders in Singapore and breached that 

NPA. The plea agreement reached with the US Department of Justice and the USAO CT 

resolved both the spoofing conduct and the breach of the NPA.  

As required by the resolution and sentence imposed by the court, NWM Plc is subject to 

a three-year period of probation scheduled to end in December 2024. The plea 

agreement also imposes an independent corporate monitor. In addition, NWM Plc has 

committed to compliance programme reviews and improvements and agreed to 

reporting and co-operation obligations. 

Other material adverse collateral consequences may occur as a result of this matter, as 

further described in the Risk Factor relating to legal, regulatory and governmental 

actions and investigations set out on pages 439 to 441. 

RRBBSSII  iinnssppeeccttiioonn  rreeppoorrtt  aanndd  rreeffeerrrraall  ttoo  eennffoorrcceemmeenntt

Following an inspection by the Isle of Man Financial Services Authority (IOMFSA) in 2021 

into The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited’s (RBSI’s) compliance with the 

Financial Services Rule Book 2016, the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the 

Financing of Terrorism Code 2015 (the “2015 Code”) and the Anti-Money Laundering 

and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Code 2019, RBSI and the IOMFSA entered 

into a settlement agreement in February 2024 with an agreed public statement that RBSI 

had contravened paragraph 7 of the 2015 Code. RBSI did not complete its updated 

Customer Risk Assessment process following the introduction of the 2015 Code until 

2018, resulting in 2,239 non-personal customers (on-boarded to its Isle of Man branches 

between 2015 and 2018, and not rated as high risk) being on-boarded using Customer 

Risk Assessments in line with earlier legislation. This constituted less than 3% of the total 

customer population of the Isle of Man branches. RBSI was fined £1.0 million (after a 

discount for co-operation), which was covered in full by an existing provision.

RRBBSSII  rreelliiaannccee  rreeggiimmee  aanndd  rreeffeerrrraall  ttoo  eennffoorrcceemmeenntt

In January 2023, the Jersey Financial Services Commission notified RBSI that it had been 

referred to its Enforcement Division in relation to RBSI’s operation of the reliance regime. 

The reliance regime is specific to certain Crown Dependencies and enables the bank to 

rely on regulated third parties for specific due diligence information.  

IInnvveessttmmeenntt  aaddvviiccee  rreevviieeww  

In October 2019, the FCA notified NatWest Group of its intention to appoint a Skilled 

Person under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to conduct a 

review of whether NatWest Group’s past business review of investment advice provided 

during 2010 to 2015 was subject to appropriate governance and accountability and led 

to appropriate customer outcomes. The Skilled Person’s review has concluded and, after 

discussion with the FCA, NatWest Group is undertaking additional review / remediation 

RReevviieewwss  iinnttoo  ccuussttoommeerr  aaccccoouunntt  cclloossuurreess

In July 2023, NatWest Group plc commissioned an independent review by the law firm 

Travers Smith LLP into issues that had arisen from treatment of a customer in 

connection with an account closure decision that attracted significant public attention 

and certain related interactions with the media. NatWest Group plc has received reports 

in connection with that review (and in October and December 2023 published summaries 

of the key findings and recommendations).

In addition, NatWest Group plc is conducting internal reviews with respect to certain 

governance processes, policies, systems and controls of NatWest Group entities, 

including with respect to customer account closures.

The FCA is conducting supervisory work into how the governance, systems and controls 

of NatWest Group and Coutts & Company are working, to identify and address any 

significant shortcomings.

RReevviieeww  aanndd  iinnvveessttiiggaattiioonn  ooff  ttrreeaattmmeenntt  ooff  ttrraacckkeerr  mmoorrttggaaggee  ccuussttoommeerrss  iinn  UUllsstteerr  BBaannkk  

IIrreellaanndd  DDAACC  

outstanding. 

In December 2015, correspondence was received from the Central Bank of Ireland 

setting out an industry examination framework in respect of the sale of tracker 

mortgages from approximately 2001 until the end of 2015. The redress and 

compensation process has now largely concluded, although certain cases remain 

UBIDAC customers have lodged tracker mortgage complaints with the Financial Services 

and Pensions Ombudsman (FSPO). UBIDAC challenged three FSPO adjudications in the 

Irish High Court. In June 2023, the High Court found in favour of the FSPO in all matters 

and a provision was recognised. UBIDAC was granted leave to appeal that decision and 

an appeal hearing has been scheduled to take place in the Court of Appeal.

Other customer remediation in Ulster Bank Ireland DAC 

UBIDAC has identified other legacy issues leading to the establishment of remediation 

requirements and progress is ongoing to conclude activities. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

381

381

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

LLiittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  mmaatttteerrss  ccoonnttiinnuueedd
UUSS  iinnvveessttiiggaattiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  ffiixxeedd--iinnccoommee  sseeccuurriittiieess  
In December 2021, NWM Plc pled guilty in the United States District Court for the District 
of Connecticut to one count of wire fraud and one count of securities fraud in connection 
with historical spoofing conduct by former employees in US Treasuries markets between 
January 2008 and May 2014 and, separately, during approximately three months in 
2018. The 2018 trading occurred during the term of a non-prosecution agreement (NPA) 
between NWMSI and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut 
(USAO CT), under which non-prosecution was conditioned on NWMSI and affiliated 
companies not engaging in criminal conduct during the term of the NPA. The relevant 
trading in 2018 was conducted by two NWM traders in Singapore and breached that 
NPA. The plea agreement reached with the US Department of Justice and the USAO CT 
resolved both the spoofing conduct and the breach of the NPA.  

As required by the resolution and sentence imposed by the court, NWM Plc is subject to 
a three-year period of probation scheduled to end in December 2024. The plea 
agreement also imposes an independent corporate monitor. In addition, NWM Plc has 
committed to compliance programme reviews and improvements and agreed to 
reporting and co-operation obligations. 

Other material adverse collateral consequences may occur as a result of this matter, as 
further described in the Risk Factor relating to legal, regulatory and governmental 
actions and investigations set out on pages 439 to 441. 

RRBBSSII  iinnssppeeccttiioonn  rreeppoorrtt  aanndd  rreeffeerrrraall  ttoo  eennffoorrcceemmeenntt
Following an inspection by the Isle of Man Financial Services Authority (IOMFSA) in 2021 
into The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited’s (RBSI’s) compliance with the 
Financial Services Rule Book 2016, the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the 
Financing of Terrorism Code 2015 (the “2015 Code”) and the Anti-Money Laundering 
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Code 2019, RBSI and the IOMFSA entered 
into a settlement agreement in February 2024 with an agreed public statement that RBSI 
had contravened paragraph 7 of the 2015 Code. RBSI did not complete its updated 
Customer Risk Assessment process following the introduction of the 2015 Code until 
2018, resulting in 2,239 non-personal customers (on-boarded to its Isle of Man branches 
between 2015 and 2018, and not rated as high risk) being on-boarded using Customer 
Risk Assessments in line with earlier legislation. This constituted less than 3% of the total 
customer population of the Isle of Man branches. RBSI was fined £1.0 million (after a 
discount for co-operation), which was covered in full by an existing provision.

RRBBSSII  rreelliiaannccee  rreeggiimmee  aanndd  rreeffeerrrraall  ttoo  eennffoorrcceemmeenntt
In January 2023, the Jersey Financial Services Commission notified RBSI that it had been 
referred to its Enforcement Division in relation to RBSI’s operation of the reliance regime. 
The reliance regime is specific to certain Crown Dependencies and enables the bank to 
rely on regulated third parties for specific due diligence information.  

IInnvveessttmmeenntt  aaddvviiccee  rreevviieeww  
In October 2019, the FCA notified NatWest Group of its intention to appoint a Skilled 
Person under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to conduct a 
review of whether NatWest Group’s past business review of investment advice provided 
during 2010 to 2015 was subject to appropriate governance and accountability and led 
to appropriate customer outcomes. The Skilled Person’s review has concluded and, after 
discussion with the FCA, NatWest Group is undertaking additional review / remediation 
work.

RReevviieewwss  iinnttoo  ccuussttoommeerr  aaccccoouunntt  cclloossuurreess
In July 2023, NatWest Group plc commissioned an independent review by the law firm 
Travers Smith LLP into issues that had arisen from treatment of a customer in 
connection with an account closure decision that attracted significant public attention 
and certain related interactions with the media. NatWest Group plc has received reports 
in connection with that review (and in October and December 2023 published summaries 
of the key findings and recommendations).

In addition, NatWest Group plc is conducting internal reviews with respect to certain 
governance processes, policies, systems and controls of NatWest Group entities, 
including with respect to customer account closures.

The FCA is conducting supervisory work into how the governance, systems and controls 
of NatWest Group and Coutts & Company are working, to identify and address any 
significant shortcomings.

RReevviieeww  aanndd  iinnvveessttiiggaattiioonn  ooff  ttrreeaattmmeenntt  ooff  ttrraacckkeerr  mmoorrttggaaggee  ccuussttoommeerrss  iinn  UUllsstteerr  BBaannkk  
IIrreellaanndd  DDAACC  
In December 2015, correspondence was received from the Central Bank of Ireland 
setting out an industry examination framework in respect of the sale of tracker 
mortgages from approximately 2001 until the end of 2015. The redress and 
compensation process has now largely concluded, although certain cases remain 
outstanding. 

UBIDAC customers have lodged tracker mortgage complaints with the Financial Services 
and Pensions Ombudsman (FSPO). UBIDAC challenged three FSPO adjudications in the 
Irish High Court. In June 2023, the High Court found in favour of the FSPO in all matters 
and a provision was recognised. UBIDAC was granted leave to appeal that decision and 
an appeal hearing has been scheduled to take place in the Court of Appeal.

Other customer remediation in Ulster Bank Ireland DAC 
UBIDAC has identified other legacy issues leading to the establishment of remediation 
requirements and progress is ongoing to conclude activities. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

382

382

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

383

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

27 Non-cash and other items
This note shows non-cash items adjusted for in the cash flow statement and movement in operating assets and liabilities.

Impairment losses/(releases)
Depreciation and amortisation
Change in fair value taken to profit or loss of other financial assets
Change in fair value taken to profit or loss on other financial liabilities and subordinated liabilities
Foreign exchange recycling (gains)/losses
Elimination of foreign exchange differences
Income receivable on other financial assets
Loss/(profit) on sale of other financial assets 
Profit on sale of subsidiaries and associates 
Share of loss/(profit) of associates
Loss on sale of other assets and net assets and liabilities
Interest payable on MRELs and subordinated liabilities
(Gain)/loss on redemption of own debt
Charges and releases on provisions
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges
Other non-cash items 
Defined benefit pension schemes
NNoonn--ccaasshh  aanndd  ootthheerr  iitteemmss
CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Change in trading assets
Change in derivative assets
Change in settlement balance assets
Change in loans to banks 
Change in loans to customers
Change in other financial assets
Change in other assets
Change in assets of disposal groups
Change in bank deposits
Change in customer deposits
Change in settlement balance liabilities
Change in trading liabilities
Change in derivative liabilities
Change in other financial liabilities
Change in notes in circulation 
Change in other liabilities
CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

2023

£m 

572
934
(584)
831
(484)
312
(1,415)
44
-
9
125
1,352
(3)
313
1,021
59
122
3,208

327
20,826
(4,659)
752
(15,626)
132
(213)
412
1,749
(18,964)
4,633
828
(21,652)
6,564
19
(807)
(25,679)

2022

£m 

266
833
1,267
(2,400)
(5)
10
(585)
172
-
30
154
1,103
161
248
(304)
48
205
1,203

14,991
3,621
(431)
(202)
(7,628)
(328)
(255)
(4,117)
(5,838)
(29,492)
(56)
(11,790)
(6,788)
989
171
(1,294)
(48,447)

2021

£m 

(1,335)
923
1,771
(1,083)
10
2,446
(378)
(118)
(48)
(216)
23
964
145
478
(161)
(13)
215
3,623

7,751
59,697
156
(252)
2,721
(128)
(57)
(9,015)
5,673
48,071
(350)
(7,658)
(59,870)
938
392
(1,463)
46,606

28 Analysis of the net investment in business interests and intangible assets

This note shows cash flows relating to obtaining or losing control of associates or subsidiaries and net assets and liabilities purchased and sold. 

These cash flows are presented as investing activities on the cash flow statement.

Fair value given for business acquired

Acquisition of interest in associates

Additional investment in associates

Net assets and liabilities purchased

Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions

Disposal of net assets and liabilities

(Loss)/profit on disposal of net assets and liabilities

Net inflow of cash in respect of disposals

Dividends received from associate

Net cash expenditure on intangible assets

Net inflow/(outflow) of cash

2023

£m 

(139)

(5)

-

-

(144)

5,560

(87)

5,473

16

(744)

4,601

2022

£m 

(1)

-

-

-

(1)

6,270

(106)

6,164

-

(743)

5,420

2021

£m 

-

-

(51)

(3,128)

(3,179)

114

55

169

-

(479)

(3,489)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

383

383

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

28 Analysis of the net investment in business interests and intangible assets

This note shows cash flows relating to obtaining or losing control of associates or subsidiaries and net assets and liabilities purchased and sold. 
These cash flows are presented as investing activities on the cash flow statement.

Fair value given for business acquired
Acquisition of interest in associates
Additional investment in associates
Net assets and liabilities purchased

Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions

Disposal of net assets and liabilities
(Loss)/profit on disposal of net assets and liabilities

Net inflow of cash in respect of disposals

Dividends received from associate
Net cash expenditure on intangible assets
Net inflow/(outflow) of cash

2023

£m 

(139)
-
(5)
-
(144)

5,560
(87)
5,473

16
(744)
4,601

2022

£m 

-
(1)
-
-
(1)

6,270
(106)
6,164

-
(743)
5,420

2021

£m 

-
-
(51)
(3,128)
(3,179)

114
55
169

-
(479)
(3,489)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

384

384

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

385

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

29 Analysis of changes in financing during the year

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

30 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 

This note shows cash flows and non-cash movements relating to the financing activities of the Group. These activities reflect movements in share capital, share 
premium, paid-in equity, subordinated liabilities and MRELs.

Non-cash and other add back items and movements in operating assets and liabilities are adjusted for in the cash flow statement. Loans to banks and treasury bills with 

an original maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value. 

At 1 January

   Issue of paid-in equity
   Issue of subordinated liabilities
   Issue of MRELs
   Redemption of subordinated liabilities
   Interest paid on subordinated liabilities
   Maturity and redemption of MRELs
   Interest paid on MRELs
Net cash flows from financing activities
Ordinary shares issued
Shares repurchased
Effects of foreign exchange
Changes in fair value of subordinated liabilities and MRELs
Preference shares reclassified to subordinated liabilities
Paid-in equity reclassified to subordinated liabilities
(Gain)/loss on redemption of own debt
Interest payable on subordinated liabilities and MRELs
Other
At 31 December

Share capital, share premium,

and paid-in equity

Subordinated liabilities

2023

£m 
15,590

-

2022

£m 
16,519

-

2021

£m 
18,239

937

2023

£m 
6,260

2022

£m 
8,429

2021

£m 
9,962

2023

£m 
22,265

MRELs

2022

£m 
23,423

2021

£m 
20,873

611

648

1,634

(1,250)
(439)

(3,693)
(374)

(4,765)
(321)

(1,078)

(3,419)

(3,452)

(166)
230
-
-
(3)
464
7
5,714

597
(594)
750
-
161
370
(34)
6,260

(18)
(434)
-
1,915
145
311
-
8,429

3,973

3,721

3,383

(4,236)
(844)
(1,107)

(4,992)
(703)
(1,974)

(987)
601

1,889
(1,806)

888
-
21,660

-
733
-
22,265

-
(647)
2,736

(190)
(649)

-
653
-
23,423

-
-
(856)

-
-
(929)

937
87
(698)

-

-

(2,046)

-
14,734

-
15,590

-
16,519

Cash and balances at central banks

Trading assets

Other financial assets

Loans to banks (1)

Cash and cash equivalents

2023

£m 

104,262

8,851

139

5,572

118,824

2022

£m 

144,832

8,551

19

5,047

158,449

2021

£m 

177,757

7,137

16

5,796

190,706

(1)

Includes cash collateral posted with bank counterparties in respect of derivative liabilities of £4,434 million (2022 - £4,895 million; 2021 - £4,293 million).

Certain members of NatWest Group are required by law or regulation to maintain balances with the central banks in the jurisdictions in which they operate. NatWest Markets N.V. had 

mandatory reserve deposits with De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. of €132 million (2022 - €64 million, 2021 - €60 million).  The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited had balances 

with Central Bank of Luxembourg of £135 million (2022 - £108 million, 2021 - £123 million).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

385

385

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

30 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 

Non-cash and other add back items and movements in operating assets and liabilities are adjusted for in the cash flow statement. Loans to banks and treasury bills with 
an original maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value. 

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Other financial assets
Loans to banks (1)
Cash and cash equivalents

2023

£m 
104,262
8,851
139
5,572
118,824

2022

£m 
144,832
8,551
19
5,047
158,449

2021

£m 
177,757
7,137
16
5,796
190,706

(1)

Includes cash collateral posted with bank counterparties in respect of derivative liabilities of £4,434 million (2022 - £4,895 million; 2021 - £4,293 million).

Certain members of NatWest Group are required by law or regulation to maintain balances with the central banks in the jurisdictions in which they operate. NatWest Markets N.V. had 
mandatory reserve deposits with De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. of €132 million (2022 - €64 million, 2021 - €60 million).  The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited had balances 
with Central Bank of Luxembourg of £135 million (2022 - £108 million, 2021 - £123 million).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

386

386

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

387

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

31 Directors’ and key management remuneration

32 Transactions with directors and key management

33 Related parties

Directors and key management are remunerated for services rendered in the 
period. The executive directors may participate in the company's long-term 
incentive plans, executive share option and sharesave schemes and details of 
their interests in the company's shares arising from their participation are 
given in the directors' remuneration report. Details of the remuneration 
received by each director are also given in the directors' remuneration report. 

Key management comprises members of the NatWest Group plc and NWH Ltd Boards, 
members of the NatWest Group plc and NWH Ltd Executive Committees, and the Chief 
Executives of NatWest Markets Plc and RBS International (Holdings) Limited. This is on 
the basis that these individuals have been identified as Persons Discharging Managerial 
Responsibilities of NatWest Group plc under the new governance structure.

DDiirreeccttoorrss''  rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
Non-executive directors emoluments
Chairman and executive directors emoluments 

Amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans
   and share option plans
Total

2023

£000
1,574
6,408
7,982

2,708
10,690

2022

£000
1,685
5,804
7,489

542
8,031

CCoommppeennssaattiioonn  ooff  kkeeyy  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
The aggregate remuneration of directors and other members of key management during 
the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2023

£000
21,098
741
7,264
29,103

2022

£000
22,175
732
2,547
25,454

Short term benefits include benefits expected to be settled wholly within twelve months 
of balance sheet date. Post-employment benefits include defined benefit contributions for 
active members and pension funding to support contributions to the defined contribution 
schemes. Share-based payments include awards vested under rewards schemes.

This note presents information relating to any transactions with directors and 
key management. Key management comprises directors of the company and 
Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities (PDMRs) of NatWest Group 
plc.

A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements. This includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-

employment benefits plans, Key management personnel and their close family members and entities controlled by them. Transactions between an entity and any 

related party are disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with both accounting standards and relevant listing rules to ensure readers are aware of how 

financial statements may be affected by these transactions.

For the purposes of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, key management comprises 
directors of the company and PDMRs of NatWest Group plc. Key management have 
banking relationships with NatWest Group entities which are entered into in the normal 
course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and 
security, as for comparable transactions with other persons of a similar standing or, 
where applicable, with other employees. These transactions did not involve more than 
the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.

Amounts in the table below are attributed to each person at their highest level of 
NatWest Group key management, and relate to those who were key management at 
any time during the financial period. 

UUKK  GGoovveerrnnmmeenntt

AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  jjooiinntt  vveennttuurreess  ((JJVVss))  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy  iinnvveessttmmeennttss

UK Government through HM Treasury is the controlling shareholder of NatWest Group 

In their roles as providers of finance, NatWest Group companies provide development 

plc as per UK listing rules. The UK Government’s shareholding is managed by UK 

and other types of capital support to businesses. These investments are made in the 

Government Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government. At 

normal course of business. To further strategic partnerships, NatWest Group may seek 

31 December 2023 HM Treasury’s holding in the company’s ordinary shares was 

to invest in third parties or allow third parties to hold a minority interest in a subsidiary of 

37.97%. As a result the UK Government and UK Government-controlled bodies are 

NatWest Group. We disclose as related parties for associates and joint ventures and 

related parties of the Group.

where equity interest are over 10%. Ongoing business transactions with these entities 

NatWest Group enters into transactions with many of these bodies. Transactions include 

the payment of: taxes – principally UK corporation tax (Note 7) and value added tax; 

Amounts included in the NatWest Group financial statements, in aggregate, by category 

national insurance contributions; local authority rates; and regulatory fees and levies 

of related party are as follows:

are on normal commercial terms.

Loans to customers - amortised cost
Customer deposits

At 31 December

2023

£000
11,406
55,254

2022

£000
12,137
47,866

(including the bank levy Note 3) and FSCS levy (Note 26) - together with banking 

transactions such as loans and deposits undertaken in the normal course of banker-

customer relationships. 

Bank of England facilities 

NatWest Group may participate in a number of schemes operated by the Bank of 

Loans to customers - amortised cost

England in the normal course of business. 

At 31 December 2023, amounts outstanding in relation to transactions, arrangements 
and agreements entered into by authorised institutions in NatWest Group, as defined in 
UK legislation, were £8,397,763 in respect of loans to 9 persons who were directors of 
the company at any time during the financial period.

Members of NatWest Group that are UK authorised institutions are required to maintain 

non-interest bearing (cash ratio) deposits with the Bank of England amounting to 0.382% 

of their average eligible liabilities in excess of £600 million. They also have access to Bank 

of England reserve accounts: sterling current accounts that earn interest at the Bank of 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

Investments

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Other comprehensive income

Other operating income

31 December 2022

Investments

Customer deposits

Settlement balances

Other comprehensive income

Other operating income

Associates and Joint 

Equity

Ventures

Shares (1)

£m

668

-

2

-

-

-

1

-

-

(11)

688

(30)

£m

145

13

10

(8)

-

-

149

-

4

34

11

-

Total

£m

813

13

12

-

(8)

(11)

837

-

5

34

11

(30)

NatWest Group provides guarantees for certain subsidiaries, liabilities to the Bank of 

Loans to customers - amortised cost

England Base rate.

England.

Other Related Parties

In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between NatWest Group entities 

that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported. 

The primary financial statements of the parent company include transactions and 

balances with its subsidiaries which have been further disclosed in the relevant notes.

(1) Represents investments in entities where ownership is more than 10%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

387

387

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

33 Related parties

A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements. This includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-
employment benefits plans, Key management personnel and their close family members and entities controlled by them. Transactions between an entity and any 
related party are disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with both accounting standards and relevant listing rules to ensure readers are aware of how 
financial statements may be affected by these transactions.

UUKK  GGoovveerrnnmmeenntt
UK Government through HM Treasury is the controlling shareholder of NatWest Group 
plc as per UK listing rules. The UK Government’s shareholding is managed by UK 
Government Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government. At 
31 December 2023 HM Treasury’s holding in the company’s ordinary shares was 
37.97%. As a result the UK Government and UK Government-controlled bodies are 
related parties of the Group.

NatWest Group enters into transactions with many of these bodies. Transactions include 
the payment of: taxes – principally UK corporation tax (Note 7) and value added tax; 
national insurance contributions; local authority rates; and regulatory fees and levies 
(including the bank levy Note 3) and FSCS levy (Note 26) - together with banking 
transactions such as loans and deposits undertaken in the normal course of banker-
customer relationships. 

Bank of England facilities 
NatWest Group may participate in a number of schemes operated by the Bank of 
England in the normal course of business. 

Members of NatWest Group that are UK authorised institutions are required to maintain 
non-interest bearing (cash ratio) deposits with the Bank of England amounting to 0.382% 
of their average eligible liabilities in excess of £600 million. They also have access to Bank 
of England reserve accounts: sterling current accounts that earn interest at the Bank of 
England Base rate.

NatWest Group provides guarantees for certain subsidiaries, liabilities to the Bank of 
England.

Other Related Parties
In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between NatWest Group entities 
that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported. 

The primary financial statements of the parent company include transactions and 
balances with its subsidiaries which have been further disclosed in the relevant notes.

AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  jjooiinntt  vveennttuurreess  ((JJVVss))  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy  iinnvveessttmmeennttss
In their roles as providers of finance, NatWest Group companies provide development 
and other types of capital support to businesses. These investments are made in the 
normal course of business. To further strategic partnerships, NatWest Group may seek 
to invest in third parties or allow third parties to hold a minority interest in a subsidiary of 
NatWest Group. We disclose as related parties for associates and joint ventures and 
where equity interest are over 10%. Ongoing business transactions with these entities 
are on normal commercial terms.

Amounts included in the NatWest Group financial statements, in aggregate, by category 
of related party are as follows:

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
Investments
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Other comprehensive income
Other operating income

31 December 2022
Investments
Loans to customers - amortised cost
Customer deposits
Settlement balances
Other comprehensive income
Other operating income

Associates and Joint 
Ventures

Equity

Shares (1)

£m
668
-
2
-
-
(11)

688
-
1
-
-
(30)

£m
145
13
10
-
(8)
-

149
-
4
34
11
-

Total

£m
813
13
12
-
(8)
(11)

837
-
5
34
11
(30)

(1) Represents investments in entities where ownership is more than 10%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

388

388

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

338899

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

33 Related parties continued
PPoosstt  eemmppllooyymmeenntt  bbeenneeffiittss
NatWest Group recharges NatWest Group Pension Fund with the cost of pension 
management services incurred by it. NatWest Group Pension Fund holds bank accounts 
held with the NatWest Group plc. At 31 December 2023 these balances amounted to 
£36.2 million (2022 - £61.7 million). 

NatWest Group Pension fund also holds certain interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, 
credit derivatives, cross currency swaps and forward exchange rate agreements where 
subsidiaries of NatWest Group act as counterparties. These transactions are on 
commercial terms and carried out on an arms-length basis.

During February 2023, NatWest Group has entered into an agreement to establish a 
new legal structure to hold assets, consolidated on NatWest Group’s balance sheet, to 
meet potential future contributions required by the Main section of the Group’ Pension 
Fund. This transaction required transfer of £471 million to the Reservoir Trust after the 
final dividend for 2022 approved by shareholders. This transaction does not create a 
pension liability with the Main section of the Group Pension Fund. Refer to  details in Note 
5 and in Material contracts information on page 444.

34 Post balance sheet events

A post balance sheet event is an event that takes place between the reporting 
date and the date of approval of the financial statements. Significant events 
are included in the financial statements either to provide new information 
about conditions that existed at 31 December 2023 (reporting date), including 
estimates used to prepare the financial statements (known as an adjusting 
event) or to provide new information about conditions that did not exist at 31 
December 2023 (non-adjusting events). This note provides information relating 
to material non-adjusting events.

As part of the ongoing on-market share buyback programme, NatWest Group plc has 
repurchased and cancelled a further 63.9 million shares since December 2023 for a total 
consideration (excluding fees) of £136.9 million.

Other than as disclosed in the accounts, there have been no other significant events 
subsequent to 31 December 2023 which would require a change or additional disclosure.

Parent company financial statements and notes

Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023

AAsssseettss

Derivatives with subsidiaries

Amounts due from subsidiaries 

Investments in Group undertakings

Other assets

TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Derivatives

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

Other liabilities

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

OOwwnneerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy

Note 

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

Owners’ equity of NatWest Group plc as at 31 December 

2023 includes the profit for the year of £2,842 million (2022 - 

£8,111 million). 

As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, 

the primary financial statements of the company do not 

include an income statement or a statement of 

comprehensive income. 

The accompanying notes on pages 393 to 406 form an 

integral part of these financial statements.

The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 15 

February 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

4

8

4

7

458

24,192

52,592

83

827

25,981

52,816

42

77,325

79,666

117

937

21,767

5,481

88

28,390

48,935

77,325

30

1,380

22,229

5,820

95

29,554

50,112

79,666

Howard Davies

Chairman

John-Paul Thwaite

Group Chief Executive Officer

Katie Murray

Group Chief Financial Officer

NatWest Group plc

Registered No. SC45551

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

338899

389

Parent company financial statements and notes

Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023

AAsssseettss
Derivatives with subsidiaries
Amounts due from subsidiaries 
Investments in Group undertakings
Other assets

TToottaall  aasssseettss

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivatives
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities

TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
OOwwnneerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  eeqquuiittyy

Note 

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

Owners’ equity of NatWest Group plc as at 31 December 
2023 includes the profit for the year of £2,842 million (2022 - 
£8,111 million). 

4

8

4

7

458
24,192
52,592
83

77,325

117
937
21,767
5,481
88

28,390
48,935
77,325

827
25,981
52,816
42

79,666

30
1,380
22,229
5,820
95

29,554
50,112
79,666

As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, 
the primary financial statements of the company do not 
include an income statement or a statement of 
comprehensive income. 

The accompanying notes on pages 393 to 406 form an 
integral part of these financial statements.

The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 15 
February 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Howard Davies
Chairman

John-Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial Officer

NatWest Group plc
Registered No. SC45551

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339900

390

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

339911

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2023 continued

Share capital

Other statutory

Other reserves

and share premium

Paid-in equity

reserves (6)

Retained earnings

Cash flow hedging

Total equity

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002233
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners  

£m
11,700

£m
3,875

£m
1,388

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Amounts recognised in equity
Amount transferred from equity to earnings
Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period (1,2)
Shares vested under employee share schemes
Own shares acquired (2)

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

(856)

10,844

3,875

856
114
(359)
1,999

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002222
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners  

12,629

3,875

350

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Amounts recognised in equity
Amount transferred from equity to earnings
Tax

TToottaall  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Special dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period 
Redemption of preference shares (5)
Employee share schemes
Shares vested under employee share schemes

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

For the notes to this table refer to the following page. 

(929)

-
11,700

3,875

929

109
1,388

£m
33,134
2,842

-
2,842

(1,456)
(242)
(2,057)

32,221

31,015
8,111

-
8,111

(1,205)
(1,746)
(249)
(2,054)
(750)
12

33,134

£m
15

(6)
(19)
6
(19)

(4)

36

3
(31)
7
(21)

15

£m
50,112
2,842

(6)
(19)
6
2,823

(1,456)
(242)
(2,057)
114
(359)
48,935

47,905
8,111

3
(31)
7
8,090

(1,205)
(1,746)
(249)
(2,054)
(750)
12
109
50,112

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002211

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners  

Share capital

and statutory

£m

13,240

£m

4,979

£m

Other statutory

Other reserves

Paid-in equity

reserves (6)

Retained earnings

Cash flow hedging

Total equity

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Amounts recognised in equity

Amount transferred from equity to earnings

Tax

Total comprehensive income

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid

Equity preference dividends paid

Paid-in equity dividends paid

Shares repurchased during the period 

Shares and securities issued during the period

Reclassification of paid-in equity (3)

Employee share schemes

Shares vested under employee share schemes

Own shares acquired

AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

£m

26,178

7,147

-

7,147

(693)

(19)

(299)

(1,423)

-

125

(1)

£m

42

8

(12)

(2)

(6)

£m

44,439

7,147

8

(12)

(2)

7,141

(693)

(19)

(299)

(1,423)

1,020

(1,912)

(1)

37

(385)

47,905

(698)

87

933

(2,037)

698

37

(385)

350

12,629

3,875

31,015

36

(1) NatWest Group plc repurchased and cancelled 460.3 million (2022 - 379.3 million, 2021 - 310.8 million) shares, of which 2.3 million were settled in January 2024. The total consideration for these shares excluding fees was £1,151.7 million (2022 - £829.3 

million, 2021 £676.2 million), of which £4.9 million were settled in January 2024, as part of the On Market Share Buyback Programmes. The nominal value of the share cancellations has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.

(2)

In May 2023, there was an agreement to buy 469.2 million (March 2022 - 549.9 million, March 2021 - 591.0 million) ordinary shares of the Company from UK Government Investments Ltd (UKGI) at 268.4 pence per share (March 2022 - 220.5 pence per 

share, March 2021 - 190.5 pence per share) for the total consideration of £1.3 billion (2022 - £1.2 billion, 2021 - £1.1 billion). NatWest Group cancelled 336.2 million of the purchased ordinary shares, amounting to £906.9 million excluding fees and held the 

remaining 133.0 million shares as Own Shares Held, amounting to £358.8 million excluding fees. The nominal value of the share cancellation has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve

In July 2021, paid-in equity reclassified to liabilities as the result of a call in August 2021 of US$2.65 billion AT1 capital notes.

The total distributable reserves for NatWest Group plc is £32,217 million (2022 – £33,134 million, 2021 - £31,015 million).

(3)

(4)

(5)

Following an announcement of a Regulatory Call in February 2022, the Series U preference shares were reclassified to liabilities. A £254 million loss was recognised in P&L reserves as a result of foreign exchange.

(6) Other statutory reserves consist of Capital redemption reserves of £2,483 million (2022 - £1,627 million, 2021 - £698 million) and Own shares held reserves of £484 million (2022 - £239 million, 2021 - £348 million).

The accompanying notes on pages 393 to 406 form an integral part of these financial statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339911

391

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2023 continued

AAtt  11  JJaannuuaarryy  22002211
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners  

Share capital

and statutory

£m
13,240

£m
4,979

£m

Other statutory

Other reserves

Paid-in equity

reserves (6)

Retained earnings

Cash flow hedging

Total equity

OOtthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee

Amounts recognised in equity
Amount transferred from equity to earnings
Tax

Total comprehensive income

TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  oowwnneerrss

Ordinary share dividends paid
Equity preference dividends paid
Paid-in equity dividends paid
Shares repurchased during the period 
Shares and securities issued during the period
Reclassification of paid-in equity (3)
Employee share schemes
Shares vested under employee share schemes
Own shares acquired
AAtt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

(698)
87

933
(2,037)

12,629

3,875

698

37
(385)
350

£m
42

8
(12)
(2)
(6)

£m
26,178
7,147

-
7,147

(693)
(19)
(299)
(1,423)
-
125
(1)

31,015

36

£m
44,439
7,147

8
(12)
(2)
7,141

(693)
(19)
(299)
(1,423)
1,020
(1,912)
(1)
37
(385)
47,905

(1) NatWest Group plc repurchased and cancelled 460.3 million (2022 - 379.3 million, 2021 - 310.8 million) shares, of which 2.3 million were settled in January 2024. The total consideration for these shares excluding fees was £1,151.7 million (2022 - £829.3 

(2)

million, 2021 £676.2 million), of which £4.9 million were settled in January 2024, as part of the On Market Share Buyback Programmes. The nominal value of the share cancellations has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
In May 2023, there was an agreement to buy 469.2 million (March 2022 - 549.9 million, March 2021 - 591.0 million) ordinary shares of the Company from UK Government Investments Ltd (UKGI) at 268.4 pence per share (March 2022 - 220.5 pence per 
share, March 2021 - 190.5 pence per share) for the total consideration of £1.3 billion (2022 - £1.2 billion, 2021 - £1.1 billion). NatWest Group cancelled 336.2 million of the purchased ordinary shares, amounting to £906.9 million excluding fees and held the 
remaining 133.0 million shares as Own Shares Held, amounting to £358.8 million excluding fees. The nominal value of the share cancellation has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve
In July 2021, paid-in equity reclassified to liabilities as the result of a call in August 2021 of US$2.65 billion AT1 capital notes.
(3)
The total distributable reserves for NatWest Group plc is £32,217 million (2022 – £33,134 million, 2021 - £31,015 million).
(4)
(5)
Following an announcement of a Regulatory Call in February 2022, the Series U preference shares were reclassified to liabilities. A £254 million loss was recognised in P&L reserves as a result of foreign exchange.
(6) Other statutory reserves consist of Capital redemption reserves of £2,483 million (2022 - £1,627 million, 2021 - £698 million) and Own shares held reserves of £484 million (2022 - £239 million, 2021 - £348 million).

The accompanying notes on pages 393 to 406 form an integral part of these financial statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339922

392

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

339933

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2023

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ooppeerraattiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Operating profit before tax from continuing 
   operations 
AAddjjuussttmmeennttss  ffoorr::
Non-cash and other items
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Income taxes received
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ooppeerraattiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess ((11))

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  iinnvveessttiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Sale and maturity of other financial assets 
Additional investments in Group undertakings
Disposals of investments in Group undertakings
Dividends received from subsidiaries
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  iinnvveessttiinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess 

CCaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ffiinnaanncciinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess
Ordinary shares issued
Issue of paid-in equity
Issue of subordinated liabilities
Redemption of subordinated liabilities
Interest paid on subordinated liabilities
Issue of MRELs
Maturity and redemption of MRELs
Interest paid on MRELs
Share repurchased
Dividends paid
NNeett  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  ffrroomm  ffiinnaanncciinngg  aaccttiivviittiieess

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash 
    equivalents
NNeett  ((ddeeccrreeaassee))//iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
CCaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr ((22))

Note

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

2021

£m 

2,796

7,963

7,133

9

9

(3,602)
3,699
-
2,893

(7,844)
4,103
38
4,260

(7,365)
(2,045)
97
(2,180)

-
(260)
-
3,542
3,282

-
-
611
(907)
(314)
43
(1,409)
(333)
(2,416)
(1,698)
(6,423)

3
(1,059)
999
4,842
4,785

-
-
648
(3,990)
(281)
2,285
(1,455)
(158)
(2,054)
(3,200)
(8,205)

-
(940)
911
4,872
4,843

87
933
1,634
(3,598)
(292)
598
1,082
(149)
(1,808)
(1,011)
(2,524)

(10)
(258)
1,198
940

27
867
331
1,198

4
143
188
331

10

(1)

Includes interest received of £541 million (2022 - £282 million, 2021 - £183 million) and interest paid of £1,073 million 
(2022 - £713 million, 2021 - £551 million)

(2) Cash and cash equivalents comprise intragroup loans and advances with a maturity of less than 3 months for 2023, 

2022 and 2021.

1 Presentation of financial statements

4 Financial instruments – classification

The accounting policies applied to the parent company financial statements are the same 

The following tables analyse NatWest Group plc’s financial assets and liabilities in 

as those applied in the consolidated financial statements except investment in group 

accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IFRS 9.

undertaking (subsidiaries) are stated at cost less impairment and that it has no policy 

regarding consolidation.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8, 3.9 and 3.11.

The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis based on 

the directors’ assessment that the parent company will continue in operational existence 

for a period of twelve months from the date the financial statements are approved (refer 

AAsssseettss

to the Report of the directors). 

2 Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation 

uncertainty

The reported results of the parent company are sensitive to the accounting policies, 

assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements. The 

judgements and assumptions involved in the parent company’s accounting policies that 

are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial 

condition are those involved in assessing the impairment, if any, in its investment in 

group undertakings, refer to Note 8.

3 Derivatives with subsidiaries – designated hedges

Fair value hedging is used to hedge loans and other financial liabilities, and cash flow 

hedging is used to hedge other financial liabilities and subordinated liabilities.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.11.

The following table shows derivatives held for hedging purposes.

Fair value hedging -

 interest rate contracts

Cash flow hedging -

 exchange rate contracts

Total

2023

2022

Notional

Assets 

Liabilities   

Notional

Assets 

Liabilities 

£bn

£m 

£m   

£bn

£m 

£m 

14.8

1.4

16.2

25

-

25

570  

19.8

16  

586  

1.4

21.2

93

-

93

829

13

842

Derivatives with subsidiaries

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Investment in Group undertakings

Other assets

31 December 2023

Derivatives with subsidiaries

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Investment in Group undertakings

Other assets

31 December 2022

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess 

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Derivatives with subsidiaries 

Other financial liabilities (1)

Subordinated liabilities

Other liabilities

31 December 2023

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Derivatives with subsidiaries 

Other financial liabilities (1)

Subordinated liabilities

Other liabilities

31 December 2022

(1) Other financial liabilities are MRELs.

Amortised

cost

£m 

Other

assets

£m 

MFVTPL

£m 

458

15,702

8,416

16,160

8,416

52,749

77,325

827

15,243

10,667

16,070

10,667

52,929

79,666

Total

£m 

458

24,192

52,592

83

827

25,981

52,816

42

Total

£m

117

937

21,767

5,481

88

28,390

30

1,380

22,229

5,820

95

29,554

52,592

74

83

52,816

71

42

Other

liabilities

£m

100

88

188

12

95

107

Held-for-

trading

£m

937

DFV

£m

11,034

Amortised

cost

£m

17

10,733

5,481

18

13,918

5,820

-

-

-

-

937

11,034

16,231

1,380

8,311

1,380

8,311

19,756

-

-

-

-

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339933

393

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

1 Presentation of financial statements
The accounting policies applied to the parent company financial statements are the same 
as those applied in the consolidated financial statements except investment in group 
undertaking (subsidiaries) are stated at cost less impairment and that it has no policy 
regarding consolidation.

4 Financial instruments – classification
The following tables analyse NatWest Group plc’s financial assets and liabilities in 
accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IFRS 9.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8, 3.9 and 3.11.

The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis based on 
the directors’ assessment that the parent company will continue in operational existence 
for a period of twelve months from the date the financial statements are approved (refer 
to the Report of the directors). 

2 Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation 
uncertainty
The reported results of the parent company are sensitive to the accounting policies, 
assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements. The 
judgements and assumptions involved in the parent company’s accounting policies that 
are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial 
condition are those involved in assessing the impairment, if any, in its investment in 
group undertakings, refer to Note 8.

3 Derivatives with subsidiaries – designated hedges
Fair value hedging is used to hedge loans and other financial liabilities, and cash flow 
hedging is used to hedge other financial liabilities and subordinated liabilities.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.11.

The following table shows derivatives held for hedging purposes.

Fair value hedging -
 interest rate contracts
Cash flow hedging -
 exchange rate contracts
Total

2023

2022

Notional

Assets 

Liabilities   

Notional

Assets 

Liabilities 

£bn

£m 

£m   

£bn

£m 

£m 

14.8

1.4
16.2

25

-
25

570  

19.8

16  
586  

1.4
21.2

93

-
93

829

13
842

AAsssseettss
Derivatives with subsidiaries
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Investment in Group undertakings
Other assets
31 December 2023

Derivatives with subsidiaries
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Investment in Group undertakings
Other assets
31 December 2022

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess 
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivatives with subsidiaries 
Other financial liabilities (1)
Subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities
31 December 2023

Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivatives with subsidiaries 
Other financial liabilities (1)
Subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities
31 December 2022

(1) Other financial liabilities are MRELs.

MFVTPL
£m 

458
15,702

Amortised
cost
£m 

Other
assets
£m 

8,416

74
52,592
83
52,749

71
52,816
42
52,929

16,160

8,416

827
15,243

10,667

16,070

10,667

Held-for-
trading
£m

-
937
-

DFV
£m

-

Amortised
cost
£m

17

Other
liabilities
£m

100

11,034
-

10,733
5,481

937

11,034

16,231

-
1,380
-

-

18

8,311
-

13,918
5,820

1,380

8,311

19,756

88
188

12

95
107

Total
£m 

458
24,192
52,592
83
77,325

827
25,981
52,816
42
79,666

Total
£m

117
937
21,767
5,481
88
28,390

30
1,380
22,229
5,820
95
29,554

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339944

394

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

339955

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

4 Financial instruments – classification - continued
The following table shows amounts due to/from subsidiaries of NatWest Group plc.

AAsssseettss
Trading assets
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Other assets
Amounts due from subsidiaries

Derivatives (1)

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Other liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Amounts due to subsidiaries

Derivatives (1)

2023

£m 

735
8,416
14,967
74
24,192

458

100
17
117

937

2022

£m 

811
10,667
14,432
71
25,981

827

12
18
30

1,380

6 Financial instruments - maturity analysis

RReemmaaiinniinngg  mmaattuurriittyy
The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments based on 
contractual date of maturity.

2023

2022

Less than  More than  
12 months 
12 months 

  Less than  More than  
Total    12 months  12 months 

£m 

£m 

£m   

£m 

£m 

Total 

£m 

AAsssseettss
Derivatives with subsidiaries
Amounts due from subsidiaries (1)

97
3,934

361
20,184

458
24,118

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess
Amounts due to subsidiaries (2)
Derivatives with subsidiaries
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities

-   
155
3,125
1,062

17
782
18,642
4,419

17
937
21,767
5,481

190

827
5,756 20,154 25,910

637

-
66

18
18
1,380
1,314
4,568 17,661 22,229
5,820
5,127

693

(1) Amounts due from subsidiaries relating to non-financial instruments of £74 million (2022 - £71 million) have been 

excluded from the table.

(2) Amounts due to subsidiaries relating to non-financial instruments of £100 million (2022 - £12 million) have been excluded 

(1)

Intercompany derivatives are included within derivative classification on the balance sheet.

from the table.

5 Financial instruments - fair value of financial instruments 
not carried at fair value
The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments 
carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet.

FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss
Amounts due from subsidiaries (1)

FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Other financial liabilities 
   - debt securities in issue (2)
Subordinated liabilities (2)

2023

Carrying

 value

£bn 

Fair 

value 

£bn  

8.4

8.2 

10.7
5.5

10.9 
5.4 

2022

Carrying

 value

£bn 

10.7

13.9
5.8

Fair

value

£bn 

10.3

14.0
5.5

(1)
(2)

Fair value hierarchy level 2 - £5.7 billion (2022 - £5.5 billion) and level 3 - £2.5 billion (2022 - £4.8 billion). 
Fair value hierarchy level 2.

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

6 Financial instruments - maturity analysis  continued

FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy

The following table shows undiscounted cash flows payable up to 20 years from the 

balance sheet date, including future interest payments. 

Held-for-trading liabilities amounting to £0.4 billion (2022 - £0.5 billion) have been 

excluded from the table. 

22002233

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy

Amounts due to subsidiaries (1)

Derivatives held for hedging

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

2022

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy

Amounts due to subsidiaries (1)

Derivatives held for hedging

Other financial liabilities

Subordinated liabilities

7 Subordinated liabilities 

Dated loan capital

0-3

3-12

1-3

3-5

months months

years

years

£m 

£m 

£m 

£m 

-

134

2,533

53

1

197

1,163

1,156

3

178

8,269

2,280

3

76

9,192

1,491

2,720

2,517 10,730 10,762

5-10

years

£m 

7

38

4,311

1,351

5,707

-

82

18

1

270

853

3

398

7,259

2,660

3

106

8,278

1,849

2,213

2,081

2,313

3,205 10,320 10,236

7

53

6,850

1,468

8,378

10-20

years

£m 

14

14

14

-

-

-

-

-

-

14

2023

£m 

5,481

5,481

2022

£m 

5,820

5,820

(1) Amounts due from subsidiaries relating to non-financial instruments have been excluded from the table.

For details of subordinated liabilities, refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial 

statements and notes.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.10.

8 Investments in Group undertakings 

CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  GGrroouupp  uunnddeerrttaakkiinnggss

At each reporting date, the parent company assesses whether there is any indication 

that its investment in its Group undertakings is impaired. If any such indication exists, the 

parent company undertakes an impairment test by comparing the carrying value of the 

investment in its Group undertakings with its estimated recoverable amount. The key 

judgement is in determining the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an 

investment in its Group undertakings is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its 

value in use, being an assessment of the discounted future cash flows of the entity. 

Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgements: the five-year cash flow 

forecast, the choice of appropriate discount and growth rates, and the estimation of fair 

value. For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.4 and 3.5.

Investments in Group undertakings are carried at cost less impairment losses. 

Movements during the year were as follows:

At 1 January 

Additional investments in Group undertakings

Disposals of investments in Group undertakings

Net (impairment)/reversal of impairment of investments

At 31 December

52,816

2023

£m

260

-

(484)

52,592

2022

££mm

48,835

1,059

(1,000)

3,922

52,816

The recoverable amount of investments in Group undertakings is the higher of net asset 

value as a proxy for fair value less cost to sell or value in use. Where recoverable value is 

based on net asset value, the fair value measurement is categorised as Level 3 of the fair 

value hierarchy. The carrying value of Investments in Group undertakings at 31 

December 2023 is supported by the respective recoverable values of the entities.

In 2023 the parent company invested additional capital of £145 million in its subsidiary 

RBS AA Holdings and £115 million in its subsidiary NatWest Markets Plc.

In 2023, impairment of investments is a £484 million impairment of the investment in 

NatWest Markets Plc (recoverable amount £6.2 billion), due to a decline in its net asset 

value mainly driven by losses incurred by the business. The net reversal of impairment of 

investments in 2022 was mainly related to a reversal of earlier impairments of the parent 

company’s investment in NatWest Holdings Limited.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339955

395

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

6 Financial instruments - maturity analysis  continued
FFiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy
The following table shows undiscounted cash flows payable up to 20 years from the 
balance sheet date, including future interest payments. 

Held-for-trading liabilities amounting to £0.4 billion (2022 - £0.5 billion) have been 
excluded from the table. 

22002233
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy
Amounts due to subsidiaries (1)
Derivatives held for hedging
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities

2022
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  bbyy  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittyy
Amounts due to subsidiaries (1)
Derivatives held for hedging
Other financial liabilities
Subordinated liabilities

0-3

3-12

1-3

3-5

months months

years

years

£m 

£m 

£m 

£m 

5-10

years

£m 

10-20

years

£m 

-
134
2,533
53
2,720

3
3
1
76
178
197
9,192
8,269
1,163
1,156
1,491
2,280
2,517 10,730 10,762

7
38
4,311
1,351
5,707

-
82
2,213
18
2,313

1
270
2,081
853

3
3
106
398
8,278
7,259
1,849
2,660
3,205 10,320 10,236

7
53
6,850
1,468
8,378

14
-
-
-
14

14
-
-
-
14

(1) Amounts due from subsidiaries relating to non-financial instruments have been excluded from the table.

7 Subordinated liabilities 

Dated loan capital

2023

£m 
5,481
5,481

2022

£m 
5,820
5,820

For details of subordinated liabilities, refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial 
statements and notes.

For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.8 and 3.10.

8 Investments in Group undertakings 
CCrriittiiccaall  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliiccyy::  IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  GGrroouupp  uunnddeerrttaakkiinnggss
At each reporting date, the parent company assesses whether there is any indication 
that its investment in its Group undertakings is impaired. If any such indication exists, the 
parent company undertakes an impairment test by comparing the carrying value of the 
investment in its Group undertakings with its estimated recoverable amount. The key 
judgement is in determining the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an 
investment in its Group undertakings is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its 
value in use, being an assessment of the discounted future cash flows of the entity. 
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgements: the five-year cash flow 
forecast, the choice of appropriate discount and growth rates, and the estimation of fair 
value. For accounting policy information refer to Accounting policies 3.4 and 3.5.

Investments in Group undertakings are carried at cost less impairment losses. 
Movements during the year were as follows:

At 1 January 
Additional investments in Group undertakings
Disposals of investments in Group undertakings
Net (impairment)/reversal of impairment of investments
At 31 December

2023

£m

52,816
260
-
(484)
52,592

2022

££mm

48,835
1,059
(1,000)
3,922
52,816

The recoverable amount of investments in Group undertakings is the higher of net asset 
value as a proxy for fair value less cost to sell or value in use. Where recoverable value is 
based on net asset value, the fair value measurement is categorised as Level 3 of the fair 
value hierarchy. The carrying value of Investments in Group undertakings at 31 
December 2023 is supported by the respective recoverable values of the entities.

In 2023 the parent company invested additional capital of £145 million in its subsidiary 
RBS AA Holdings and £115 million in its subsidiary NatWest Markets Plc.

In 2023, impairment of investments is a £484 million impairment of the investment in 
NatWest Markets Plc (recoverable amount £6.2 billion), due to a decline in its net asset 
value mainly driven by losses incurred by the business. The net reversal of impairment of 
investments in 2022 was mainly related to a reversal of earlier impairments of the parent 
company’s investment in NatWest Holdings Limited.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339966

396

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

339977

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

8 Investments in Group undertakings continued

The impact of reasonably possible changes to the more significant variables in the value in use calculations for Natwest Holdings Limited is presented below. This reflects the sensitivity 
of the value in use to each variable on its own. In all cases this would result in an impairment of NatWest Group’s investment in NatWest Holdings Limited. It is possible that more than 
one change may occur at the same time. The value in use calculations use 16% as a pre-tax discount rate and 1.4% as a long term growth rate. 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

NatWest Holdings Ltd

31 December 2022

NatWest Holdings Ltd

Assumptions

Impact of adverse movement

Carrying value

discount rate

growth rate

exceeded carrying value

discount rate

terminal growth rate

forecast income (1)

Pre-tax

Terminal

Recoverable amount

1% increase in

1% decrease in

5% decrease in 

£bn

42.6

%

16.0

42.6

15.3

%

1.4

1.4

£bn

-

14.1

£bn

(3.9)

(5.6)

£bn

(1.6)

(2.9)

£bn

(5.0)

(5.5)

(1)

5% income sensitivity has been applied to each year in the value in use calculation. The impact on the value in use shown above is however nonlinear as the majority of the value in use is derived in the terminal year.

The principal subsidiary undertakings of the parent company are shown below. Their capital consists of ordinary shares, preference shares and additional Tier 1 notes which are 
unlisted with the exception of certain preference shares listed by NWB Plc. All of these subsidiaries are included in NatWest Group’s consolidated financial statements and have an 
accounting reference date of 31 December.

National Westminster Bank Plc (1,3)
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (3)
Coutts & Company (2,3)
NatWest Markets Plc
NatWest Markets N.V. (4)
The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited (5) 

The parent company does not hold any of the preference shares in issue. 

(1)
(2) Coutts & Company is incorporated with unlimited liability.
(3) Owned via NatWest Holdings Limited.
(4) Owned via NatWest Markets Plc. 
(5) Owned via The Royal Bank of Scotland International (Holdings) Limited.

For full information on all related undertakings, refer to Note 12.

Nature of business
Banking
Banking
Banking
Banking
Banking
     Financial Institution

Country of incorporation and principal area of operation
Great Britain
Great Britain
Great Britain
Great Britain
Netherlands
                  Jersey 

Group interest
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

9 Non-cash and other items

This note shows non-cash items adjusted for in the cashflow statement and movement in operating assets and liabilities.

Impairment releases on intercompany loans to banks

Net impairment/(reversal) of investments in Group undertakings

Change in fair value taken to profit or loss on other financial  liabilities and subordinated liabilities

Elimination of foreign exchange differences

Other non-cash items

Dividends receivable from subsidiaries 

Loss on sale of investments in Group undertakings

Interest payable on MRELs and subordinated liabilities

(Gain)/loss on redemption of own debt

Charges and releases on provisions

NNoonn--ccaasshh  aanndd  ootthheerr  iitteemmss

CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

Change in derivative assets

Change in amounts due from subsidiaries

Change in other assets 

Change in amounts due to subsidiaries

Change in derivative liabilities

Change in other financial liabilities

Change in other liabilities 

CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

(3,922)

(845)

(2,600)

(440)

(3,542)

(4,842)

(4,872)

(3,602)

(7,844)

(7,365)

2022

£m 

-

960

(32)

1

485

351

-

150

2,794

655

(253)

676

-

81

4,103

2021

£m 

(6)

(14)

(12)

22

447

113

(3)

614

(1,825)

(87)

(347)

(398)

-

(2)

(2,045)

2023

£m 

(2)

484

(683)

(485)

(11)

644

(7)

-

-

363

3,688

6

549

(443)

(462)

(2)

3,699

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339977

397

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

9 Non-cash and other items
This note shows non-cash items adjusted for in the cashflow statement and movement in operating assets and liabilities.

Impairment releases on intercompany loans to banks
Net impairment/(reversal) of investments in Group undertakings
Change in fair value taken to profit or loss on other financial  liabilities and subordinated liabilities
Elimination of foreign exchange differences
Other non-cash items
Dividends receivable from subsidiaries 
Loss on sale of investments in Group undertakings
Interest payable on MRELs and subordinated liabilities
(Gain)/loss on redemption of own debt
Charges and releases on provisions
NNoonn--ccaasshh  aanndd  ootthheerr  iitteemmss
CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess
Change in derivative assets
Change in amounts due from subsidiaries
Change in other assets 
Change in amounts due to subsidiaries
Change in derivative liabilities
Change in other financial liabilities
Change in other liabilities 
CChhaannggee  iinn  ooppeerraattiinngg  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess

2023

£m 

(2)
484
(683)
(485)
(11)
(3,542)
-
644
(7)
-
(3,602)

363
3,688
6
549
(443)
(462)
(2)
3,699

2022

£m 

-
(3,922)
(845)
960
(32)
(4,842)
1
485
351
-
(7,844)

150
2,794
655
(253)
676
-
81
4,103

2021

£m 

(6)
(2,600)
(440)
(14)
(12)
(4,872)
22
447
113
(3)
(7,365)

614
(1,825)
(87)
(347)
(398)
-
(2)
(2,045)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339988

398

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

339999

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

10 Analysis of changes in financing during the year

At 1 January

 Ordinary shares issued
 Issue of paid-in equity
 Issue of subordinated liabilities
 Redemption of subordinated liabilities
 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities
 Issue of MRELs
 Maturity and redemption of MRELs
 Interest paid on MRELs
Net cash flows from financing activities
Effects of foreign exchange
Changes in fair value of subordinated 
   liabilities and MRELs
Paid-in equity reclassified to subordinated liabilities
Preference shares reclassified to subordinated 
   liabilities
(Gain)/loss on redemption of own debt
Interest payable on subordinated liabilities and MREL
Shares repurchased
Others
At 31 December

Share capital, share premium,

and paid-in equity 

Subordinated liabilities (1)

MRELs (2)

2023

£m 

2022

£m 

2021

£m 

15,575

16,504

18,219

2023

£m 

5,838

2022

£m 

7,853

2021

£m 

8,055

2023

£m 

8,950

2022

£m 

8,158

2021

£m 

6,655

-
-

-
-

-

-
-

-
-

-

87
933

611
(907)
(314)

648
(3,990)
(281)

1,634
(3,598)
(292)

1,020
-

(610)
(160)

(3,623)
574

(2,256)
44

(2,037)

91
-

-
(7)
340
-
6
5,498

(354)
-

750
351
287
-
-
5,838

(309)
1,915

-
114
290
-
-
7,853

(856)
-
14,719

(929)
-
15,575

(698)
-
16,504

43
(1,409)
(333)
(1,699)
(335)

(774)
-

-
304
-
-
6,446

2,285
(1,455)
(158)
672
413

(491)
-

-
198
-
-
8,950

598
1,082
(149)
1,531
(54)

(131)
-

-
157
-

8,158

Subordinated liabilities include intercompany subordinated liabilities.

(1)
(2) MREL balances are shown net of the effect of down streaming funding to subsidiary companies. This includes RBSI International Limited where MREL resolution rules are under consultation in Jersey.

11 Directors’ and key management remuneration
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 31 to the consolidated accounts. The directors had no other reportable related party transactions or balances with the company.

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings

LLeeggaall  eennttiittiieess  aanndd  aaccttiivviittiieess  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the company’s related undertakings and the accounting treatment for each are listed below. All undertakings are wholly-owned by the 

company or subsidiaries of the company and are consolidated by reason of contractual control (Section 1162(2) CA 2006), unless otherwise indicated. NatWest Group interest refers to 

ordinary shares of equal values and voting rights unless further analysis is provided in the notes. Activities are classified in accordance with Annex I to the Capital Requirements 

Directive (CRD V) and the definitions in Article 4 of the UK Capital Requirements Regulation. 

Active related undertakings incorporated in the UK which are 100% owned by NatWest Group and fully consolidated for accounting purposes

Regulatory

 treatment

Activity

INV

Notes

Entity name

Lombard Lessors Ltd

Lombard Maritime Ltd

Activity

Regulatory

 treatment

Notes

Entity name

280 Bishopsgate Finance Ltd

Better With Money Ltd

Caledonian Sleepers Rail Leasing Ltd

Care Homes 2 Ltd

Care Homes 3 Ltd

Care Homes Holdings Ltd

Coutts & Company

Coutts Finance Co

Creative Auto-Enrolment Ltd

Creative Benefit Solutions Ltd

Cushon Group Ltd

Cushon Holdings Ltd

Cushon Money Ltd

Cushon MT Ltd

Cushon MT NI Ltd

Esme Loans Ltd

FreeAgent Central Ltd

FreeAgent Holdings Ltd

ITB1 Ltd

ITB2 Ltd

KUC Properties Ltd

Land Options (West) Ltd

Lombard & Ulster Ltd

Gatehouse Way Developments Ltd

Lombard Business Leasing Ltd

Lombard Corporate Finance (6) Ltd

Lombard Corporate Finance (11) Ltd

Lombard Corporate Finance (June 2) Ltd

Lombard Corporate Finance (December 1) Ltd

Lombard Corporate Finance (December 2) Ltd

Lombard Discount Ltd

Lombard Finance Ltd

Lombard Industrial Leasing Ltd

Lombard Lease Finance Ltd

Lombard Leasing Company Ltd

Lombard Leasing Contracts Ltd

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406. 

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

CI

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

SC

SC

INV

INV

FC

DE

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

DE

DE

DE

DE

FC

DE

DE

FC

FC

FC

DE

FC

FC

DE

DE

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

1

57

1

1

1

1

15

15

57

57

57

57

57

57

58

1

25

25

1

3

3

3

3

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Lombard North Central Leasing Ltd

Lombard North Central PLC

Lombard Property Facilities Ltd

Lombard Technology Services Ltd

Mettle Ventures Ltd

National Westminster Bank Plc

National Westminster Home Loans Ltd

NatWest Group Plc

NatWest Holdings Ltd

Natwest Invoice Finance Ltd

NatWest Markets Plc

NatWest Markets Secretarial Services Ltd

NatWest Markets Secured Funding LLP

NatWest Property Investments Ltd

NatWest RT Holdings Ltd

NatWest Trustee and Depositary Services Ltd

NatWest Ventures Investments Ltd

14

Priority Sites Ltd

Patalex Productions Ltd

Pittville Leasing Ltd

Premier Audit Company Ltd

Price Productions Ltd

R.B. Capital Leasing Ltd

R.B. Equipment Leasing Ltd

R.B. Leasing (September) Ltd

R.B. Leasing Company Ltd

R.B. Quadrangle Leasing Ltd

RB Investments 3 Ltd

RBOS (UK) Ltd

RBS AA Holdings (UK) Ltd

RBS Asset Management Holdings

RBS Collective Investment Funds Ltd

RBS HG (UK) Ltd

RBS Invoice Finance Ltd

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

CI

BF

BF

OTH

INV

OTH

CI

SC

BF

INV

OTH

INV

INV

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

OTH

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

DE

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

DE

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

21

21

1

16

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

3

1

1

1

1

1

1

15

11

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

339999

399

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings
LLeeggaall  eennttiittiieess  aanndd  aaccttiivviittiieess  aatt  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the company’s related undertakings and the accounting treatment for each are listed below. All undertakings are wholly-owned by the 
company or subsidiaries of the company and are consolidated by reason of contractual control (Section 1162(2) CA 2006), unless otherwise indicated. NatWest Group interest refers to 
ordinary shares of equal values and voting rights unless further analysis is provided in the notes. Activities are classified in accordance with Annex I to the Capital Requirements 
Directive (CRD V) and the definitions in Article 4 of the UK Capital Requirements Regulation. 

Active related undertakings incorporated in the UK which are 100% owned by NatWest Group and fully consolidated for accounting purposes

Entity name
280 Bishopsgate Finance Ltd
Better With Money Ltd
Caledonian Sleepers Rail Leasing Ltd
Care Homes 2 Ltd
Care Homes 3 Ltd
Care Homes Holdings Ltd
Coutts & Company
Coutts Finance Co
Creative Auto-Enrolment Ltd
Creative Benefit Solutions Ltd
Cushon Group Ltd
Cushon Holdings Ltd
Cushon Money Ltd
Cushon MT Ltd
Cushon MT NI Ltd
Esme Loans Ltd
FreeAgent Central Ltd
FreeAgent Holdings Ltd
Gatehouse Way Developments Ltd
ITB1 Ltd
ITB2 Ltd
KUC Properties Ltd
Land Options (West) Ltd
Lombard & Ulster Ltd
Lombard Business Leasing Ltd
Lombard Corporate Finance (6) Ltd
Lombard Corporate Finance (11) Ltd
Lombard Corporate Finance (June 2) Ltd
Lombard Corporate Finance (December 1) Ltd
Lombard Corporate Finance (December 2) Ltd
Lombard Discount Ltd
Lombard Finance Ltd
Lombard Industrial Leasing Ltd
Lombard Lease Finance Ltd
Lombard Leasing Company Ltd
Lombard Leasing Contracts Ltd
For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406. 

Activity
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
CI
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
SC
SC
INV
BF
BF
BF
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Regulatory
 treatment
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
DE
DE
DE
FC
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Notes
1
57
1
1
1
1
15
15
57
57
57
57
57
57
58
1
25
25
1
3
3
3
3
14
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

Entity name
Lombard Lessors Ltd
Lombard Maritime Ltd
Lombard North Central Leasing Ltd
Lombard North Central PLC
Lombard Property Facilities Ltd
Lombard Technology Services Ltd
Mettle Ventures Ltd
National Westminster Bank Plc
National Westminster Home Loans Ltd
NatWest Group Plc
NatWest Holdings Ltd
Natwest Invoice Finance Ltd
NatWest Markets Plc
NatWest Markets Secretarial Services Ltd
NatWest Markets Secured Funding LLP
NatWest Property Investments Ltd
NatWest RT Holdings Ltd
NatWest Trustee and Depositary Services Ltd
NatWest Ventures Investments Ltd
Patalex Productions Ltd
Pittville Leasing Ltd
Premier Audit Company Ltd
Price Productions Ltd
Priority Sites Ltd
R.B. Capital Leasing Ltd
R.B. Equipment Leasing Ltd
R.B. Leasing (September) Ltd
R.B. Leasing Company Ltd
R.B. Quadrangle Leasing Ltd
RB Investments 3 Ltd
RBOS (UK) Ltd
RBS AA Holdings (UK) Ltd
RBS Asset Management Holdings
RBS Collective Investment Funds Ltd
RBS HG (UK) Ltd
RBS Invoice Finance Ltd

Activity
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
OTH
CI
BF
BF
INV
OTH
CI
SC
BF
INV
OTH
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
OTH
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Regulatory
 treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Notes
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
21
1
1
21
1
16
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
3
1
1
1
1
15
11
1
1

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440000

400

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

440011

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued

Entity name
RBS Management Services (UK) Ltd
RBS Mezzanine Ltd
RBS Property Developments Ltd
RBS Property Ventures Investments Ltd
RBS SME Investments Ltd
RBSG Collective Investments Holdings Ltd
RBSG International Holdings Ltd
RBSSAF (2) Ltd
RBSSAF (25) Ltd
Royal Bank Investments Ltd
Royal Bank Leasing Ltd
Royal Bank of Scotland (Industrial Leasing) Ltd

Royal Bank Ventures Investments Ltd

Royal Scot Leasing Ltd

RoyScot Trust Plc

Activity
SC
BF
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

BF

BF

BF

Regulatory
 treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

FC

FC

FC

Notes
1
3
3
3
1
11
3
1
1
3
3
3

3

3

1

Entity name
SIG 1 Holdings Ltd
SIG Number 2 Ltd
Silvermere Holdings Ltd
The One Account Ltd
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Independent Financial Services Ltd
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Ulster Bank Ltd
Ulster Bank Pension Trustees Ltd
Walton Lake Developments Ltd
West Register (Hotels Number 3) Ltd
West Register (Property Investments) Ltd
West Register (Realisations) Ltd

Winchcombe Finance Ltd

World Learning Ltd

Active related undertakings incorporated outside the UK which are 100% owned by NatWest Group and fully consolidated for accounting purpose.

Entity name
Airside Properties AB
Alcover A.G.
Alternative Investment Fund B.V.
Arenarena AS
Arkivborgen KB
Artul Koy
BD Lagerhus AS
Bilfastighet i Akalla AB
Bilfastighet i Avesta AB
Bilfastighet i Bollnas AB
Bilfastighet i Hemlingby AB
Bilfastighet i Hudiksvall AB
Bilfastighet i Ludvika AB
Bilfastighet i M!rsta AB
Bilfastighet i Mora AB
Bilfastighet i Uppsala KB
Bilfastighet Kista AB
Brodmagasinet KB
Candlelight Acquisition LLC

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

Activity
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Regulatory
treatment
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Notes
2
45
12
59
2
4
5
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
6

Entity name
Coutts & Co Ltd
Coutts General Partner (Cayman) V Ltd
Eiendomsselskapet Apteno La AS
Espeland Naering AS
Eurohill 4 KB
Fab Ekenäs Formanshagen 4
Fastighets AB Flojten i Norrkoping
Fastighets Aktiebolaget Sambiblioteket
Fastighetsbolaget Elmotorgatan AB
Fastighetsbolaget Holma i Hoor AB
Financial Asset Securities Corp.
First Active Ltd
Forskningshöjden KB
Forvaltningsbolaget Dalkyrkan KB
Forvaltningsbolaget Kloverbacken Skola KB
Fyrs!te Fastighets AB
Grinnhagen KB
Hatros 1 AS
Horrsta 4:38 KB

Regulatory
 treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE

FC

FC

Regulatory 
treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Activity
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
CI
CI
TR
INV
INV
BF
INV

BF

BF

Activity
CI
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Notes
3
3
3
1
3
21
14
14
1
3
3
3

1

1

Notes
44
41
5
5
2
4
2
2
2
2
6
7
2
2
2
2
2
5
2

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued 

Regulatory

Activity

treatment

Notes

Entity name

Regulatory

Activity

treatment

Notes

Entity name

IR Fastighets AB

IR IndustriRenting AB

Kallebäck Institutfastigheter AB

KB Eurohill

KB Lagermannen

KB Likriktaren

KEB Investors, L.P.

Kiinteist Oy Turun Mustionkatu 6

Koy Harkokuja 2

Kiinteisto Oy Lohjan Ojamonharjuntie 61

Koy Pennalan Johtotie 2

Kiinteisto Oy Vantaan Rasti IV

Koy Helsingin Mechelininkatu 1

Koy Helsingin Osmontie 34

Koy Helsingin Panuntie 11

Koy Helsingin Panuntie 6

Koy Iisalmen Kihlavirta

Koy Jamsan Keskushovi

Koy Jasperintie 6

Koy Kokkolan Kaarlenportti Fab

Koy Kouvolan Oikeus ja Poliisitalo

Koy Millennium

Koy Nummelan Portti

Koy Nuolialan päiväkoti

Koy Peltolantie 27

Koy Porkkanakatu 2

Koy Puotikuja 2 Vaasa

Koy Raision Kihlakulma

Koy Ravattulan Kauppakeskus

Koy Tapiolan Louhi

Koy Vapaalan Service-Center

Kvam Eiendom AS

Lakten 1 KB

Leiv Sand Eiendom AS

LerumsKrysset KB

Limstagården KB

Lombard Finance (CI) Ltd

Lothbury Insurance Company Ltd

Lundbyfilen 5 AB

Maja Finance S.R.L.

Narmovegen 455 AS

National Westminster International Holdings B.V.

NatWest Bank Europe GmbH

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

DE

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

NatWest Digital Services India Private Ltd

NatWest Innovation Services Inc.

NatWest Markets Group Holdings Corporation

NatWest Markets N.V.

NatWest Markets Securities Inc.

NatWest Markets Securities Japan Ltd

NatWest Services (Switzerland) Ltd

NatWest Services Inc.

Nordisk Renting AB

Nordisk Renting AS

Nordisk Renting OY

Nordisk Specialinvest AB

Nybergflata 5 AS

OFH Eiendom AS

Optimus KB

Nordiska Strategifastigheter Holding AB

R.B. Leasing BDA One Ltd

Random Properties Acquisition Corp. III

17

RBS (Gibraltar) Ltd

RBS AA Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.

RBS Acceptance Inc.

RBS Commercial Funding Inc.

RBS Deutschland Holdings GmbH

RBS Employment (Guernsey) Ltd

17

17

RBS Financial Products Inc.

RBS Group (Australia) Pty Ltd

RBS Holdings III (Australia) Pty Ltd

RBS Holdings N.V.

RBS Holdings USA Inc.

RBS Hollandsche N.V.

RBS International Depositary Services S.A.

RBS Investments (Ireland) Ltd

RBS Netherlands Holdings B.V.

RBS Nominees (Hong Kong) Ltd

RBS Nominees (Ireland) Ltd

RBS Polish Financial Advisory Services Sp. Z o.o.

RBS Prime Services (India) Private Ltd

Rigedalen 44 Eiendom AS

Ringdalveien 20 AS

Sandmoen Naeringsbygg AS

SFK Kommunfastigheter AB

Sjöklockan KB

Skinnarängen KB

36

17

17

17

17

2

2

2

2

2

2

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

5

2

5

2

2

13

43

2

35

5

3

26

SC

OTH

BF

CI

INV

INV

SC

SC

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

INV

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

SC

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

CI

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

OTH

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

33

6

6

12

6

50

39

37

6

2

4

2

2

5

60

47

2

6

40

12

6

6

26

61

6

22

22

12

6

12

31

7

12

50

7

38

29

5

5

5

2

2

2

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440011

401

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued 

Entity name
IR Fastighets AB
IR IndustriRenting AB
Kallebäck Institutfastigheter AB
KB Eurohill
KB Lagermannen
KB Likriktaren
KEB Investors, L.P.
Kiinteist Oy Turun Mustionkatu 6
Koy Harkokuja 2
Kiinteisto Oy Lohjan Ojamonharjuntie 61
Koy Pennalan Johtotie 2
Kiinteisto Oy Vantaan Rasti IV
Koy Helsingin Mechelininkatu 1
Koy Helsingin Osmontie 34
Koy Helsingin Panuntie 11
Koy Helsingin Panuntie 6
Koy Iisalmen Kihlavirta
Koy Jamsan Keskushovi
Koy Jasperintie 6
Koy Kokkolan Kaarlenportti Fab
Koy Kouvolan Oikeus ja Poliisitalo
Koy Millennium
Koy Nummelan Portti
Koy Nuolialan päiväkoti
Koy Peltolantie 27
Koy Porkkanakatu 2
Koy Puotikuja 2 Vaasa
Koy Raision Kihlakulma
Koy Ravattulan Kauppakeskus
Koy Tapiolan Louhi
Koy Vapaalan Service-Center
Kvam Eiendom AS
Lakten 1 KB
Leiv Sand Eiendom AS
LerumsKrysset KB
Limstagården KB
Lombard Finance (CI) Ltd
Lothbury Insurance Company Ltd
Lundbyfilen 5 AB
Maja Finance S.R.L.
Narmovegen 455 AS
National Westminster International Holdings B.V.
NatWest Bank Europe GmbH

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

Activity
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Regulatory

treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Notes
2
2
2
2
2
2
36
17
17
17
4
17
4
4
4
4
4
4
17
4
4
4
4
4
17
17
4
4
4
4
4
5
2
5
2
2
13
43
2
35
5
3
26

Entity name
NatWest Digital Services India Private Ltd
NatWest Innovation Services Inc.
NatWest Markets Group Holdings Corporation
NatWest Markets N.V.
NatWest Markets Securities Inc.
NatWest Markets Securities Japan Ltd
NatWest Services (Switzerland) Ltd
NatWest Services Inc.
Nordisk Renting AB
Nordisk Renting AS
Nordisk Renting OY
Nordisk Specialinvest AB
Nordiska Strategifastigheter Holding AB
Nybergflata 5 AS
OFH Eiendom AS
Optimus KB
R.B. Leasing BDA One Ltd
Random Properties Acquisition Corp. III
RBS (Gibraltar) Ltd
RBS AA Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.
RBS Acceptance Inc.
RBS Commercial Funding Inc.
RBS Deutschland Holdings GmbH
RBS Employment (Guernsey) Ltd
RBS Financial Products Inc.
RBS Group (Australia) Pty Ltd
RBS Holdings III (Australia) Pty Ltd
RBS Holdings N.V.
RBS Holdings USA Inc.
RBS Hollandsche N.V.
RBS International Depositary Services S.A.
RBS Investments (Ireland) Ltd
RBS Netherlands Holdings B.V.
RBS Nominees (Hong Kong) Ltd
RBS Nominees (Ireland) Ltd
RBS Polish Financial Advisory Services Sp. Z o.o.
RBS Prime Services (India) Private Ltd
Rigedalen 44 Eiendom AS
Ringdalveien 20 AS
Sandmoen Naeringsbygg AS
SFK Kommunfastigheter AB
Sjöklockan KB
Skinnarängen KB

Activity
SC
OTH
BF
CI
INV
INV
SC
SC
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
INV
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
SC
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
CI
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
OTH
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

Regulatory

treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Notes
33
6
6
12
6
50
39
6
2
37
4
2
2
5
60
2
47
6
40
12
6
6
26
61
6
22
22
12
6
12
31
7
12
50
7
38
29
5
5
5
2
2
2

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440022

402

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

440033

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued 

Entity name
Sletta Eiendom II AS
Snipetjernveien 1 AS
Solbanken KB
Solnorvika AS
Strand European Holdings AB
Svenskt Fastighetskapital AB
Svenskt Energikapital AB
Svenskt Fastighetskapital Holding AB
The RBS Group Ireland Retirement Savings Trustee Ltd
The Royal Bank of Scotland International (Holdings) Ltd

Activity
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
TR
BF

Regulatory

treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC

Notes
5
5
2
5
2
2
2
2
7
13

Entity name
The Royal Bank of Scotland International Ltd
Tygverkstaden 1 KB
Ulster Bank (Ireland) Holdings Unlimited Company
Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company Unlimited Company
Ulster Bank Holdings (ROI) Ltd
Ulster Bank Ireland Designated Activity Company
Ulster Bank Pension Trustees (R.I.) Ltd
Ulydien Trust Company Ltd
Fastighets AB Stockmakaren
Nordisk Renting Facilities Management AB

Related undertakings which are 100% owned by NatWest Group ownership but are not consolidated for accounting purposes

Entity name
AD Aggregator Platform Ltd
Bioenergie Dargun Immobilien GmbH
Bioenergie Jessen Immobilien GmbH
Bioenergie Wiesenburg GmbH & Co. KG
Bioenergie Wiesenburg Verwaltungs GmbH
Bioenergie Zittau GmbH
Bioenergie Zittau Immobilien GmbH
Capulet Homes Florida LLC
Crook Hill Properties Ltd
DBV Deutsche Bioenergie Verbinder GmbH
East Grove Holding Ltd
European Investments (Crook Hill) Ltd
German Biogas Holdco Ltd
Montague Homes Florida LLC
RBS International Employees' Pension Trustees Ltd
Reaps Moss Ltd
Reppinichen Dritte Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Reppinichen Erste Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Reppinichen Zweite Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Romeo Homes Florida LLC
Romeo Homes Georgia LLC
Romeo Homes Indiana LLC

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

Activity
OTH
OTH
OTH
INV
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
INV
OTH
INV
OTH
BF
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH

Regulatory 
treatment
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE

Notes
48
10
10
10
10
10
10
6
52
10
49
53
48
6
13
52
10
10
10
6
6
6

Entity name
Romeo Homes Kansas LLC
Romeo Homes Nevada LLC
Romeo Homes North Carolina LLC
Romeo Homes Oklahoma LLC
Romeo Homes Tennessee LLC
Romeo Homes Texas LLC
Ventus Investments Ltd
West Granite Homes Inc.
WGH Development LLC
WGH Florida LLC
WGH Georgia LLC
WGH Indiana LLC
WGH Kansas LLC
WGH Nevada LLC
WGH North Carolina LLC
WGH Oklahoma LLC
WGH Texas LLC
Wiesenburg Dritte Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Wiesenburg Erste Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Wiesenburg Zweite Biogas Betriebs GmbH
Wiesenburger Marktfrucht GmbH

Regulatory

treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC

Regulatory 
treatment
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE

Activity
CI
BF
INV
TR
BF
CI
TR
OTH
BF
BF

Activity
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
INV
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH
OTH

Notes
13
2
7
7
7
7
7
7
2
2

Notes
6
6
6
6
6
6
53
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
10
10
10
10

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued

Related undertakings incorporated in the UK where NatWest Group ownership is less than 100%

Related undertakings incorporated outside the UK where NatWest Group ownership is less than 100%

Entity name

BGF Group Ltd

Falcon Wharf Ltd

GWNW City Developments Ltd

Jaguar Cars Finance Ltd

JCB Finance Ltd

London Rail Leasing Ltd

Mortgage Brain Holdings Ltd

Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership II

Eris Finance S.R.L.

Herge Holding B.V.

Lunar Funding VIII Ltd

Lunar Luxembourg SA

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 04

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 05

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 06

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2020- 01

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2020- 02

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2022-01

Accounting  Regulatory 

Activity

treatment

treatment

Group %

Notes

Entity name

Accounting

Regulatory

Activity

treatment

treatment

Group  %

Notes

BF

OTH

BF

BF

BF

BF

OTH

AHC

EAJV

EAJV

FC

FC

EAJV

AHC

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

IA

IA

IA

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

PC

PC

DE

FC

FC

PC

DE

PC

PC

PC

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

25

50

50

50

75

50

17

21

45

63

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

21

24

24

1

19

34

51

41

35

46

8

31

31

31

31

31

31

31

Motability Operations Group Plc

NatWest Boxed Ltd

Natwest Covered Bonds (LM) Ltd

Natwest Covered Bonds LLP

Natwest Markets Secured Funding (LM) Ltd

NW A Holdings Ltd

Pollinate Networks Ltd

RBS Sempra Commodities LLP

Natwest Markets Secured Funding DAC

Nightingale CRE 2018-1 Ltd

Nightingale LF 2021-1 Ltd

Nightingale Project Finance 2019 1 Ltd

Nightingale Project Finance Ii 2023-1 Ltd

Nightingale Securities 2017-1 Ltd

Nightingale UK Corp 2020 2 Ltd

Pharos Estates Ltd

Sempra Energy  Trading Llc

Solar Funding II Ltd

Thames Asset Global Securitization No.1 Inc.

OTH

OTH

BF

BF

BF

BF

OTH

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF

IA

FC

IA

FC

FC

PC

AHC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC

OTH

AHC

FC

FC

PC

FC

PC

DE

DE

FC

FC

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE

FC

FC

FC

40

82

20

60

20

85

25

51

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

49

51

62

16

1

1

1

3

16

63

32

9

9

9

9

9

9

6

30

55

28

Entity name

Activity

treatment

treatment

Group %

Notes

Entity name

Accounting

Regulatory

Accounting

Regulatory

Activity

treatment

treatment

Group %

Notes

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440033

403

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued
Related undertakings incorporated in the UK where NatWest Group ownership is less than 100%

Entity name
BGF Group Ltd

Falcon Wharf Ltd
GWNW City Developments Ltd
Jaguar Cars Finance Ltd
JCB Finance Ltd
London Rail Leasing Ltd
Mortgage Brain Holdings Ltd

Activity
BF

Accounting  Regulatory 
treatment
PC

treatment
AHC

Group %
25

Notes
21

Entity name
Motability Operations Group Plc

Activity
OTH

Accounting
treatment
IA

Regulatory
treatment
FC

Group  %
40

Notes
62

OTH
BF
BF
BF
BF
OTH

EAJV
EAJV
FC
FC
EAJV
AHC

PC
DE
FC
FC
PC
DE

50
50
50
75
50
17

24
24
1
19
34
51

NatWest Boxed Ltd
Natwest Covered Bonds (LM) Ltd
Natwest Covered Bonds LLP
Natwest Markets Secured Funding (LM) Ltd
NW A Holdings Ltd
Pollinate Networks Ltd
RBS Sempra Commodities LLP

OTH
BF
BF
BF
BF
OTH
BF

FC
IA
FC
FC
PC
AHC
FC

FC
PC
FC
PC
DE
DE
FC

82
20
60
20
85
25
51

1
16
1
16
1
63
3

Related undertakings incorporated outside the UK where NatWest Group ownership is less than 100%

Entity name
Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership II

Activity
BF

Accounting
treatment
IA

Regulatory
treatment
PC

Group %
21

Notes
41

Entity name
Natwest Markets Secured Funding DAC

Activity
BF

Accounting
treatment
FC

Regulatory
treatment
FC

Group %
0

Notes
32

Eris Finance S.R.L.

Herge Holding B.V.

Lunar Funding VIII Ltd

Lunar Luxembourg SA

Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 04
Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 05
Lunar Luxembourg Series 2019- 06
Lunar Luxembourg Series 2020- 01
Lunar Luxembourg Series 2020- 02
Lunar Luxembourg Series 2022-01

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF
BF
BF
BF
BF
BF

IA

IA

FC

FC

FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

PC

PC

DE

DE

DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE

45

63

0

0

0
0
0
0
0
0

35

46

8

31

31
31
31
31
31
31

Nightingale CRE 2018-1 Ltd

Nightingale LF 2021-1 Ltd

Nightingale Project Finance 2019 1 Ltd

Nightingale Project Finance Ii 2023-1 Ltd

Nightingale Securities 2017-1 Ltd
Nightingale UK Corp 2020 2 Ltd
Pharos Estates Ltd
Sempra Energy  Trading Llc
Solar Funding II Ltd
Thames Asset Global Securitization No.1 Inc.

BF

BF

BF

BF

BF
BF
OTH
BF
BF
BF

FC

FC

FC

FC

FC
FC
AHC
FC
FC
FC

DE

DE

DE

DE

DE
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC

0

0

0

0

0
0
49
51
0
0

9

9

9

9

9
9
30
6
55
28

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440044

404

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

440055

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued
Related undertakings that are not active 

Entity name
Belfast Bankers' Clearing Company Ltd
Care Homes 1 Ltd
Churchill Management Ltd
Desertlands Entertainment Ltd
Dunmore Securities No.1 Dac
Lombard Ireland Group Holdings Unlimited
Lombard Ireland Ltd

Related undertakings that are dormant

Entity name
ANW TDS (Nominee 1) Ltd
ANW TDS (Nominee 2) Ltd
Atlas Nominees Ltd
British Overseas Bank Nominees Ltd
Buchanan Holdings Ltd
C.J. Fiduciaries Ltd
Coutts Scotland Nominees Ltd
Cushon Nominees Ltd
Cushon Pension Trustees Ltd
Custom House Docks Basement Management No. 2 Ltd
Fit Nominee 2 Ltd
Fit Nominee Ltd
Freehold Managers (Nominees) Ltd
Hput A Ltd
Hput B Ltd
JCB Finance Pension Ltd
N.C. Head Office Nominees Ltd
National Westminster Bank Nominees (Jersey) Ltd
Natwest FIS Nominees Ltd
NatWest Group Retirement Savings Trustee Ltd

Accounting
treatment
AHC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Regulatory
treatment Group  %
25
100
100
100
0
100
100

PC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC

Accounting
treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
AHC
FC
FC
FC
NC
NC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Regulatory
treatment
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC
DE
DE
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC

 Group %
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
25
100
100
100
100
100
88
100
100
100
100

Notes
56
1
1
1
27
23
23

Notes
1
1
50
1
1
13
11
57
57
54
1
1
1
1
1
14
3
13
1
1

Entity name
Natwest Nominees Ltd
Property Venture Partners Ltd
R.B.S. Special Investments Ltd
RBS Asset Management (Dublin) Ltd
RBSM Capital Ltd
RoboScot Equity Ltd
UB SIG (ROI) Ltd

Entity name
Natwest Group Secretarial Services Ltd
Natwest Pension Trustee Ltd
Natwest Pep Nominees Ltd
NatWest Strategic Investments Ltd
Nextlinks Ltd
Nordisk Renting A/S
Nordisk Renting HB
Project & Export Finance (Nominees) Ltd
R.B. Leasing (March) Ltd
RBOS Nominees Ltd
RBS Investment Executive Ltd
RBSG Collective Investments Nominees Ltd
Sixty Seven Nominees Ltd
Strand Nominees Ltd
Syndicate Nominees Ltd
TDS Nominee Company Ltd
The Royal Bank Of Scotland (1727) Ltd
The Royal Bank Of Scotland Group Ltd
Tilba Ltd
W G T C Nominees Ltd

Accounting
treatment
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Regulatory
treatment Group  %
100
100
100
100
100
100
100

FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Accounting
treatment
FC
NC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
NC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

Regulatory
treatment
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
DE
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC
FC

 Group %
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100

Notes
1
3
1
42
3
3
18

Notes
3
1
1
1
1
5
2
1
1
1
3
11
1
15
1
3
3
1
20
1

Regulated overseas branches of NatWest Group
Subsidiary
National Westminster Bank Plc
NatWest Markets Plc

For the notes to these tables refer to pages 405 to 406.

Geographic location
Germany
Germany, India, Japan, Singapore
Turkey, United Arab Emirates

Subsidiary
The Royal Bank of
Scotland International Ltd
NatWest Markets N.V. 

Geographic location

Gibraltar, Guernsey, Isle of Man, 
Luxembourg, United Kingdom
France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, 

6th Floor, Building 2, Tower A, GIL IT/ITES SEZ, Candor TechSpace, Sector 21, Dundahera, Gurugram, Haryana, 122016

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued

Banking and financial institution

Credit institution

Investment (shares or property) holding company 

KKeeyy:: 

AAccttiivviittyy

BF

CI

INV

SC

TR

OTH

DE

FC

PC

AHC

EAJV

IA

NC

AAccccoouunnttiinngg//RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt

Service company

Trustee

Other 

Deconsolidated

Full consolidation

Pro-rata consolidation

Associate held at cost

Equity accounting – Joint venture

Investment accounting 

Not consolidated

Notes

Registered addresses 

250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England

Jakobsbergsgatan 13, 8th Floor, Box 14044, Stockholm, SE-111 44

Gogarburn, 175 Glasgow Road, Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ

Mikonkatu 9, 6th Floor, Helsinki, 00100

Postboks 1400, 0115 Oslo

251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE, 19808

Ulster Bank Head Office, Block B Central Park, Leopardstown, Dublin 18, D18 N153

Grand Pavilion Commercial Centre, 802 West Bay Road, P.O. Box 31119

44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG

Walther-Nernst-Straße 1, Berlin, 12489

6-8 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2PF, Scotland

Claude Debussylaan 94, Amsterdam, 1082 MD

Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE2 4SU

440 Strand, London, England, WC2R OQS

1 Bartholomew Lane, London EC2N 2AX, England

Mikonkatu 9, Helsinki, 00100 

One Spencer Dock, Dublin, D01 X9R7

11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, Co Antrim, BT1 5UB, Northern Ireland

The Mill, High Street, Rocester, Staffordshire, ST14 5JW, England

2 Athol Street, Douglas, IM99 1AN

36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB, Scotland

Ashurst  Australia, Level 16, 80 Collins Street, South Tower, Melbourne, VIC, 3000

Block A Georges Quay Plaza, Georges Quay, Dublin 2

Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR

One Edinburgh Quay, 133 Fountainbridge, Edinburgh, EH3 9QG, Scotland

12/14, Veer Nariman Road, Brady House 4th floor, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400001

Roßmarkt 10, Frankfurt am Main, 60311

13-18 City Quay, Dublin 2

114 West 47th Street, New York, 10036

24 Demostheni Severi, 1st Floor, Nicosia, 1080

40, Avenue J.F Kennedy, Kirchberg,  L 1855

5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1, D01 E7E8

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

Country of incorporation

Sweden

UK

UK

Finland

Norway

USA

RoI

Cayman Islands

Jersey

Germany

UK

Netherlands

Jersey

Finland

Isle Of Man

Australia

Germany

UK

UK

UK

RoI

UK

UK

RoI

UK

UK

RoI

USA

India

RoI

India

Cyprus

Luxembourg

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440055

405

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

Banking and financial institution
Credit institution
Investment (shares or property) holding company 
Service company
Trustee
Other 

12 Related undertakings continued
KKeeyy:: 
AAccttiivviittyy
BF
CI
INV
SC
TR
OTH
AAccccoouunnttiinngg//RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt
Deconsolidated
DE
Full consolidation
FC
Pro-rata consolidation
PC
Associate held at cost
AHC
Equity accounting – Joint venture
EAJV
Investment accounting 
IA
Not consolidated
NC

Notes
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33

Registered addresses 
250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England
Jakobsbergsgatan 13, 8th Floor, Box 14044, Stockholm, SE-111 44
Gogarburn, 175 Glasgow Road, Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ
Mikonkatu 9, 6th Floor, Helsinki, 00100
Postboks 1400, 0115 Oslo
251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE, 19808
Ulster Bank Head Office, Block B Central Park, Leopardstown, Dublin 18, D18 N153
Grand Pavilion Commercial Centre, 802 West Bay Road, P.O. Box 31119
44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG
Walther-Nernst-Straße 1, Berlin, 12489
6-8 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2PF, Scotland
Claude Debussylaan 94, Amsterdam, 1082 MD
Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE2 4SU
11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, Co Antrim, BT1 5UB, Northern Ireland
440 Strand, London, England, WC2R OQS
1 Bartholomew Lane, London EC2N 2AX, England
Mikonkatu 9, Helsinki, 00100 
One Spencer Dock, Dublin, D01 X9R7
The Mill, High Street, Rocester, Staffordshire, ST14 5JW, England
2 Athol Street, Douglas, IM99 1AN
36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB, Scotland
Ashurst  Australia, Level 16, 80 Collins Street, South Tower, Melbourne, VIC, 3000
Block A Georges Quay Plaza, Georges Quay, Dublin 2
Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR
One Edinburgh Quay, 133 Fountainbridge, Edinburgh, EH3 9QG, Scotland
Roßmarkt 10, Frankfurt am Main, 60311
13-18 City Quay, Dublin 2
114 West 47th Street, New York, 10036
12/14, Veer Nariman Road, Brady House 4th floor, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400001
24 Demostheni Severi, 1st Floor, Nicosia, 1080
40, Avenue J.F Kennedy, Kirchberg,  L 1855
5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1, D01 E7E8
6th Floor, Building 2, Tower A, GIL IT/ITES SEZ, Candor TechSpace, Sector 21, Dundahera, Gurugram, Haryana, 122016

Country of incorporation
UK
Sweden
UK
Finland
Norway
USA
RoI
Cayman Islands
Jersey
Germany
UK
Netherlands
Jersey
UK
UK
UK
Finland
RoI
UK
Isle Of Man
UK
Australia
RoI
UK
UK
Germany
RoI
USA
India
Cyprus
Luxembourg
RoI
India

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440066

406

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

440077

Parent company financial statements and notes continued

12 Related undertakings continued

Notes
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63

Registered addresses 
99 Queen Victoria Street, London, EC4V 4EH
Alfieri V. 1, Conegliano
Clarendon House, Two Church Street, Suite 104, Reid Street, Hamilton, HM 11
H. Heyerdahlsgate 1, Postboks 2020 Vika, Oslo, 0125
Ilzecka 26 Street, Warsaw, 02-135
Lerchenstrasse 16, Zurich, CH 8022
Madison Building, Midtown, Queensway
Maples Corporate Services Limited, P.O. Box 309, 121 South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104s
One Dockland Central, Guild Street, IFSC, Dublin 1
PO Box 230, Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, GY1 4JH
Schuetzengassse 4, CH-8001 Zurich
Tirolerweg 8, Zug, CH- 6300
Verlengde Poolseweg 16, Breda, 4818CL
Victoria Place, 5th Floor, 31 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 10
Greencoat Capital, 5 The Peak, Wilton Road, London, Greater London, SW1V 1AN, England
8 Sackville Street, London, W1S 3DG, England
5/F Manulife Place, 348 Kwun Tong Road, Kowloon
6 The Countryard, Buntsford Gate, Buntsford Drive , Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, B60 3DJ
2nd floor, Palm Grove House, Road Town, Tortola
18 Riversway Business Village, Navigation Way, Ashton-on Ribble, Preston, PR2 2YP
c/o Apleona Real Estate Limited, Landscape House, Landscape Road, Churchtown, Dublin 14
IFC5, St.Helier,  JE1 1ST
Scottish Provident Building, 7 Donegall Square West, Belfast, BT1 6JH
Stephenson House, 2 Cherry Orchard Road, Croydon, CR0 6BA, England
4th Floor, State Buildings, 2 Arthur Place, Belfast, BT1 4HG, Northern Ireland
Postboks 1400, Oslo, 0115
Dokkveien 1, NO-0250, Oslo
Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, St Peter Port, GY1 1AR
City Gate House, 22 Southwark Bridge Road, London, SE1 9HB
 222 Bishopsgate, London  EC2M 4QD 

Country of incorporation
UK
Italy
Bermuda
Norway
Poland
Switzerland
Gibraltar
Cayman Islands
RoI
Guernsey
Switzerland
Switzerland
Netherlands
Bermuda
UK
UK
Hong Kong
UK
British Virgin Islands
UK
RoI
Jersey
UK
UK
UK
Norway
Norway
Guernsey
UK
UK

Non-IFRS financial measures

NatWest Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 

issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). This document contains a number of non-IFRS measures, also known as alternative performance measures, defined 

under the European Securities and Markets Authority guidance or non-GAAP financial measures in accordance with SEC regulations. These measures are adjusted for notable and 

other defined items which management believes are not representative of the underlying performance of the business and which distort period-on-period comparison. The non-IFRS 

measures provide users of the financial statements with a consistent basis for comparing business performance between financial periods and information on elements of 

performance that are one-off in nature. The non-IFRS measures also include a calculation of metrics that are used throughout the banking industry. These non-IFRS measures are 

not a substitute for IFRS measures and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS measure is presented where appropriate.

11..  TToottaall  iinnccoommee  eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoottaabbllee  iitteemmss

22..  OOppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess  --  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  vviieeww

Total income excluding notable items is calculated as total income less notable items. The 

The management analysis of operating expenses shows litigation and conduct costs on a 

exclusion of notable items aims to remove the impact of one-offs and other volatile items 

separate line. These amounts are included within staff costs and other administrative 

which may distort period-on-period comparisons. 

expenses in the statutory analysis. Other operating expenses excludes litigation and 

conduct costs, which are more volatile and may distort period-on-period comparisons. 

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Total income 

Less notable items:

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg

Consideration on the sale of the Adam & Company

   investment management business

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall

Fair value, disposal losses and asset disposals/

   strategic risk reduction

Tax variable lease repricing

Own credit adjustments (OCA)

Tax interest on prior periods

CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr

Loss on redemption of own debt

Effective interest rate adjustment as a 

   result of redemption of own debt

Profit from insurance liabilities

Liquidity Asset Bond sale (losses)/gains

Share of associate (losses)/gains for Business Growth Fund

Property strategy update

Interest and foreign exchange management derivatives

   not in hedge accounting relationships

Foreign exchange recycling gains

Ulster Bank RoI fair value mortgage adjustments

Tax interest on prior periods

Ulster Bank Rol gain arising from the restructuring

   of structural hedges

2023

£m

2022

£m

2021

£m

14,752

13,156

10,429

-

54

(161)

(138)

Staff expenses

YYeeaarr  eennddeedd  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Staff expenses

Premises and equipment

Depreciation and amortisation

Other administrative expenses

Total

Year ended 31 December 2022

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Premises and equipment

Depreciation and amortisation

Other administrative expenses

Total

Year ended 31 December 2021

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss

Staff expenses

Premises and equipment

Depreciation and amortisation

Other administrative expenses

Total

(86)

32

6

-

120

219

(44)

47

-

-

-

-

-

35

245

(2)

3

-

-

-

-

-

-

(43)

(4)

(69)

79

484

(35)

-

-

413

(45)

42

-

-

(41)

92

(88)

(22)

369

(51)

-

-

-

-

95

TToottaall  iinnccoommee  eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoottaabbllee  iitteemmss

14,339

13,061

10,184

Litigation

and conduct

Other

operating

expenses

£m

Statutory

operating

expenses

£m

costs

£m

62

-

-

293

355

45

-

-

340

385

-

-

-

466

466

3,839

1,153

934

1,715

7,641

3,671

1,112

833

1,686

7,302

3,676

1,133

923

1,560

7,292

3,901

1,153

934

2,008

7,996

3,716

1,112

833

2,026

7,687

3,676

1,133

923

2,026

7,758

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440077

407

Non-IFRS financial measures

NatWest Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). This document contains a number of non-IFRS measures, also known as alternative performance measures, defined 
under the European Securities and Markets Authority guidance or non-GAAP financial measures in accordance with SEC regulations. These measures are adjusted for notable and 
other defined items which management believes are not representative of the underlying performance of the business and which distort period-on-period comparison. The non-IFRS 
measures provide users of the financial statements with a consistent basis for comparing business performance between financial periods and information on elements of 
performance that are one-off in nature. The non-IFRS measures also include a calculation of metrics that are used throughout the banking industry. These non-IFRS measures are 
not a substitute for IFRS measures and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS measure is presented where appropriate.

11..  TToottaall  iinnccoommee  eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoottaabbllee  iitteemmss
Total income excluding notable items is calculated as total income less notable items. The 
exclusion of notable items aims to remove the impact of one-offs and other volatile items 
which may distort period-on-period comparisons. 

22..  OOppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess  --  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  vviieeww
The management analysis of operating expenses shows litigation and conduct costs on a 
separate line. These amounts are included within staff costs and other administrative 
expenses in the statutory analysis. Other operating expenses excludes litigation and 
conduct costs, which are more volatile and may distort period-on-period comparisons. 

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Total income 
Less notable items:
PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Consideration on the sale of the Adam & Company
   investment management business
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Fair value, disposal losses and asset disposals/
   strategic risk reduction
Tax variable lease repricing
Own credit adjustments (OCA)
Tax interest on prior periods
CCeennttrraall  iitteemmss  &&  ootthheerr
Loss on redemption of own debt
Effective interest rate adjustment as a 
   result of redemption of own debt
Profit from insurance liabilities
Liquidity Asset Bond sale (losses)/gains
Share of associate (losses)/gains for Business Growth Fund
Property strategy update
Interest and foreign exchange management derivatives
   not in hedge accounting relationships
Foreign exchange recycling gains
Ulster Bank RoI fair value mortgage adjustments
Tax interest on prior periods
Ulster Bank Rol gain arising from the restructuring
   of structural hedges

TToottaall  iinnccoommee  eexxcclluuddiinngg  nnoottaabbllee  iitteemmss

2023

£m

2022

£m

2021

£m

14,752

13,156

10,429

-

-
-
(2)
3

-

-
-
(43)
(4)
(69)

79
484
-
(35)

-

54

(45)
-
42
-

(86)
32
6
-

(161)

(138)

(41)
92
(88)
(22)
-

369
-
(51)
-

-
-
120
219
(44)

47
-
-
-

-
413
14,339

-
95
13,061

35
245
10,184

YYeeaarr  eennddeedd  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Staff expenses
Premises and equipment
Depreciation and amortisation
Other administrative expenses
Total

Year ended 31 December 2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Staff expenses
Premises and equipment
Depreciation and amortisation
Other administrative expenses
Total

Year ended 31 December 2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Staff expenses
Premises and equipment
Depreciation and amortisation
Other administrative expenses
Total

Litigation

and conduct

costs

£m

62
-
-
293
355

45
-
-
340
385

-
-
-
466
466

Other

operating

expenses

£m

Statutory

operating

expenses

£m

3,839
1,153
934
1,715
7,641

3,671
1,112
833
1,686
7,302

3,676
1,133
923
1,560
7,292

3,901
1,153
934
2,008
7,996

3,716
1,112
833
2,026
7,687

3,676
1,133
923
2,026
7,758

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440088

408

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

440099

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

33..  CCoosstt::iinnccoommee  rraattiioo  ((eexxccll..  lliittiiggaattiioonn  aanndd  ccoonndduucctt))
NatWest Group uses cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) in the Outlook guidance. It is calculated as other operating expenses (total operating expenses less litigation and 
conduct costs) divided by total income. Litigation and conduct costs are excluded as they are one-off in nature, difficult to forecast for Outlook purposes and distort period-on-period 
comparisons.

The calculation of the cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct) is shown below, along with a comparison to cost:income ratio calculated usingl operating expenses.

YYeeaarr  eennddeedd  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Operating expenses
Less litigation and conduct costs
Other operating expenses

Total income

Cost:income ratio
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)

Year ended 31 December 2022
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Operating expenses
Less litigation and conduct costs
Other operating expenses

Total income

Cost:income ratio
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)

Year ended 31 December 2021
CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
Operating expenses
Less litigation and conduct costs
Other operating expenses

Total income

Cost:income ratio
Cost:income ratio (excl. litigation and conduct)

Retail Banking
£m 

Private Banking
£m 

Commercial

& Institutional
£m 

2,828
(117)
2,711

5,931

47.7%
45.7%

2,593
(109)
2,484

5,646

45.9%
44.0%

2,513
(76)
2,437

4,445

56.5%
54.8%

685
(9)
676

990

69.2%
68.3%

622
(12)
610

1,056

58.9%
57.8%

520
3
523

816

63.7%
64.1%

4,091
(224)
3,867

7,421

55.1%
52.1%

3,744
(181)
3,563

6,413

58.4%
55.6%

3,757
(111)
3,646

4,838

77.7%
75.4%

Central items

& other

NatWest Group

£m

392
(5)
387

410

nm
nm

728
(83)
645

41

nm
nm

968
(282)
686

330

nm
nm

£m

7,996
(355)
7,641

14,752

54.2%
51.8%

7,687
(385)
7,302

13,156

58.4%
55.5%

7,758
(466)
7,292

10,429

74.4%
69.9%

44..  NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  rreettuurrnn  oonn  ttaannggiibbllee  eeqquuiittyy

55..  SSeeggmmeennttaall  rreettuurrnn  oonn  eeqquuiittyy

Return on tangible equity comprises profit or loss for the period attributable to ordinary 

Segmental return on equity comprises segmental operating profit or loss, adjusted for 

shareholders divided by average tangible equity. Average tangible equity is average total 

preference share dividends, paid-in equity and tax, divided by average notional equity. 

equity excluding average non-controlling interests, average other owners equity and 

Average RWAe is defined as average segmental RWAs incorporating the effect of capital 

average intangible assets. 

deductions. This is multiplied by an allocated equity factor for each segment to calculate 

This measure shows the return NatWest Group generates on tangible equity deployed. It is 

used to determine relative performance of banks and used widely across the sector, 

This measure shows the return generated by operating segments on equity deployed. 

the average notional tangible equity. 

although different banks may calculate the rate differently. A reconciliation is shown below 

including a comparison to the nearest GAAP measure: return on equity. This comprises 

profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average total equity. 

Private

Commercial &

Banking

Institutional

Year ended or as at

31 December

31 December

Adjustment for tax (£m)

YYeeaarr  eennddeedd  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233

Operating profit (£m)

Paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 

Average total equity

Adjustment  for other owners' equity and intangibles

Adjusted total tangible equity

Return on equity

Return on tangible equity

2023

£m

4,394

36,201

(11,486)

24,715

12.1%

17.8%

2022

£m

3,340

38,210

(11,153)

27,057

8.7%

12.3%

Adjusted attributable profit (£m)

Average RWAe (£bn)

Equity factor

Average notional equity (£bn)

Return on equity 

Year ended 31 December 2022

Operating profit (£m)

Paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)

Adjustment for tax (£m)

Adjusted attributable profit (£m)

Average RWAe (£bn)

Equity factor

Average notional equity (£bn)

Return on equity

Year ended 31 December 2021

Operating profit (£m)

Preference share and 

   paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)

Adjustment for tax (£m)

Adjusted attributable profit (£m)

Average RWAe (£bn)

Equity factor

Average notional equity (£bn)

Return on equity

Retail

Banking

2,638

(55)

(723)

1,860

57.8 

13.5%

7.8 

23.8%

2,824

(80)

(768)

1,976

53.1 

13.0%

6.9 

28.6%

1,968

(80)

(529)

1,359

36.0 

14.5%

5.2 

26.1%

291

(23)

(75)

193

11.4 

11.5%

1.3 

14.8%

436

(15)

(118)

303

11.3 

11.0%

1.2 

24.5%

350

(20)

(92)

238

11.2 

12.5%

1.4 

17.0%

3,236

(165)

(768)

2,303

107.0 

14.0%

15.0 

15.4%

2,547

(187)

(590)

1,770

104.0 

14.0%

14.6 

12.2%

2,241

(236)

(501)

1,504

106.0 

13.0%

13.8 

10.9%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

440099

409

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

44..  NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  rreettuurrnn  oonn  ttaannggiibbllee  eeqquuiittyy
Return on tangible equity comprises profit or loss for the period attributable to ordinary 
shareholders divided by average tangible equity. Average tangible equity is average total 
equity excluding average non-controlling interests, average other owners equity and 
average intangible assets. 

This measure shows the return NatWest Group generates on tangible equity deployed. It is 
used to determine relative performance of banks and used widely across the sector, 
although different banks may calculate the rate differently. A reconciliation is shown below 
including a comparison to the nearest GAAP measure: return on equity. This comprises 
profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average total equity. 

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 

Average total equity
Adjustment  for other owners' equity and intangibles
Adjusted total tangible equity

Return on equity
Return on tangible equity

Year ended or as at

31 December

31 December

2023

£m

4,394

36,201
(11,486)
24,715

12.1%
17.8%

2022

£m

3,340

38,210
(11,153)
27,057

8.7%
12.3%

55..  SSeeggmmeennttaall  rreettuurrnn  oonn  eeqquuiittyy
Segmental return on equity comprises segmental operating profit or loss, adjusted for 
preference share dividends, paid-in equity and tax, divided by average notional equity. 
Average RWAe is defined as average segmental RWAs incorporating the effect of capital 
deductions. This is multiplied by an allocated equity factor for each segment to calculate 
the average notional tangible equity. 

This measure shows the return generated by operating segments on equity deployed. 

YYeeaarr  eennddeedd  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002233
Operating profit (£m)
Paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)
Adjustment for tax (£m)
Adjusted attributable profit (£m)
Average RWAe (£bn)
Equity factor
Average notional equity (£bn)
Return on equity 

Year ended 31 December 2022
Operating profit (£m)
Paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)
Adjustment for tax (£m)
Adjusted attributable profit (£m)
Average RWAe (£bn)
Equity factor
Average notional equity (£bn)
Return on equity

Year ended 31 December 2021
Operating profit (£m)
Preference share and 
   paid-in equity cost allocation (£m)
Adjustment for tax (£m)
Adjusted attributable profit (£m)
Average RWAe (£bn)
Equity factor
Average notional equity (£bn)
Return on equity

Retail

Banking
2,638
(55)
(723)
1,860
57.8 
13.5%
7.8 
23.8%

2,824
(80)
(768)
1,976
53.1 
13.0%
6.9 
28.6%

1,968

(80)
(529)
1,359
36.0 
14.5%
5.2 
26.1%

Private

Commercial &

Banking
291
(23)
(75)
193
11.4 
11.5%
1.3 
14.8%

436
(15)
(118)
303
11.3 
11.0%
1.2 
24.5%

Institutional
3,236
(165)
(768)
2,303
107.0 
14.0%
15.0 
15.4%

2,547
(187)
(590)
1,770
104.0 
14.0%
14.6 
12.2%

350

2,241

(20)
(92)
238
11.2 
12.5%
1.4 
17.0%

(236)
(501)
1,504
106.0 
13.0%
13.8 
10.9%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

441100

410

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  

SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 

INFORMATION

441111

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

66..  BBaannkk  nneett  iinntteerreesstt  mmaarrggiinn
Bank net interest margin is net interest income as a percentage of bank average interest-
earning assets. Bank average interest earning assets are average interest earning assets 
of the banking business of NatWest Group excluding liquid asset buffer.

Liquid asset buffer consists of assets held by NatWest Group, such as cash and balances 
at central banks and debt securities in issue, that can be used to ensure repayment of 
financial obligations as they fall due. The exclusion of liquid asset buffer presents net 
interest margin on a basis more comparable with UK peers and excludes the impact of 
regulatory driven factors. A reconciliation is shown below including a comparison to the 
nearest GAAP measure: net interest margin. This is net interest income as a percentage of 
average interest earning assets.

CCoonnttiinnuuiinngg  ooppeerraattiioonnss
NatWest Group net interest income 
Average interest earning assets (IEA)
Less liquid asset buffer average IEA
Bank average IEA

Year ended

31 December

31 December

31 December

2023

£m

2022

£m

2021

£m

11,049
520,591
(157,677)
362,914

9,842
544,162
(198,927)
345,235

7,535
519,304
(192,036)
327,268

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  &&  IInnssttiittuuttiioonnaall
Net interest income
Commercial & Institutional average IEA
Less liquid asset buffer average IEA
Adjusted Commercial & Institutional average IEA

Year ended

31 December

31 December

31 December

2023

2022

2021

£m
5,044
244,445
(112,931)
131,514

£m
4,171
245,316
(119,244)
126,072

£m
2,974
238,642
(117,686)
120,956

Commercial & Institutional net interest margin

3.84%

3.31%

2.46%

77..  TTaannggiibbllee  nneett  aasssseett  vvaalluuee  ((TTNNAAVV))  ppeerr  oorrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarree
TNAV per ordinary share is calculated as tangible equity divided by the number of 
ordinary shares in issue.

This is a measure used by external analysts in valuing the bank and allows for comparison 
with other per ordinary share metrics including the share price. 

NatWest Group net interest margin
Bank net interest margin 

2.12%
3.04%

1.81%
2.85%

1.45%
2.30%

RReettaaiill  BBaannkkiinngg
Net interest income
Retail Banking average IEA
Less liquid asset buffer average IEA
Adjusted Retail Banking average IEA

5,496
222,174
(16,730)
205,444

5,224
210,404
(19,581)
190,823

4,074
196,043
(16,913)
179,130

Ordinary shareholders’ interests (£m)
Less intangible assets (£m)
Tangible equity (£m)

Ordinary shares in issue (millions) (1)

TTNNAAVV  ppeerr  oorrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarree

Year ended 

31 December

31 December

2023

33,267
(7,614)
25,653

8,792

292p 

2022

32,598
(7,116)
25,482

9,659

264p

Retail Banking net interest margin

2.68%

2.74%

2.27%

PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg
Net interest income
Private Banking average IEA
Less liquid asset buffer average IEA
Adjusted Private Banking average IEA

710
27,072
(8,088)
18,984

777
29,308
(10,221)
19,087

480
27,224
(8,949)
18,275

Private Banking net interest margin

3.74%

4.07%

2.63%

(1) At the General Meeting and Class Meeting on 25 August, the shareholders approved the proposed special dividend and 

share consolidation. On 30 August the issued ordinary share capital was consolidated in the ratio of 14 existing shares for 
13 new shares. Comparatives for the number of shares in issue and TNAV per ordinary share have not been adjusted. The 
number of ordinary shares in issue excludes own shares held.

88..  CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

1100..  LLooaann::ddeeppoossiitt  rraattiioo  ((eexxccll..  rreeppooss  aanndd  rreevveerrssee  rreeppooss))

Customer deposits excluding central items is calculated as total NatWest Group customer 

Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and reverse repos) is calculated as net customer loans held 

deposits excluding Central items & other customer deposits.

at amortised cost excluding reverse repos divided by total customer deposits excluding 

Central items & other includes Treasury repo activity and Ulster Bank RoI. The exclusion of 

Central items & other removes the volatility relating to Treasury repo activity and the 

The removal of repos and reverse repos reduces volatility and presents the ratio on a 

expected reduction of deposits as part of our withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland. 

basis that is comparable to UK peers. A reconciliation is shown below including a 

These items may distort period-on-period comparisons and their removal gives the user of 

comparison to the nearest GAAP measure: loan:deposit ratio. This is calculated as net 

the financial statements a better understanding of the movements in customer deposits.  

loans to customers held at amortised cost divided by customer deposits.

repos. This is a common metric used to assess liquidity.

Customer deposits

Less Central items & other

CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

99..  NNeett  llooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

Net loans to customers excluding central items is calculated as total NatWest Group net 

loans to customers excluding Central items & other net loans to customers.

Central items & other includes Treasury reverse repo activity and Ulster Bank RoI. The 

CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  ccoosstt  ((eexxccll..  rreeppooss))

exclusion of Central items & other removes the volatility relating to Treasury reverse repo 

activity and the reduction of loans to customers over 2022 as part of our withdrawal from 

the Republic of Ireland. This allows for better period-on-period comparisons and gives the 

user of the financial statements a better understanding of the movements in net loans to 

customers.

Loans to customers - amortised cost 

Less reverse repos

LLooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt

    ((eexxccll..  rreevveerrssee  rreeppooss))

Customer deposits 

Less repos

Total loans to customers (amortised cost)

Less Central items & other

NNeett  llooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

2023

£bn

431.4

(12.3)

419.1

2022

£bn

450.3

(17.4)

432.9

2023

£bn

381.4

(25.8)

355.6

2022

£bn

366.3

(19.6)

346.7

As at

31 December

31 December

31 December

2023

£m

2022

£m

2021

£m

381,433

(27,117)

366,340

(19,749)

358,990

(25,962)

354,316

346,591

333,028

431,377

(10,844)

420,533

450,318

(9,828)

440,490

479,810

(14,541)

465,269

Loan:deposit ratio

Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and reverse repos)

88%

84%

81%

79%

75%

72%

1111..  LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rraattee

Loan impairment rate is the loan impairment charge divided by gross customer loans. This 

measure is used to assess the credit quality of the loan book.

Loan impairment charge/(release) (£m)

Gross customer loans (£bn)

LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rraattee

Year ended

31 December

31 December

2023

578.0

384.9

15bps 

2022

337

369.7

9bps 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

441111

411

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

88..  CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss
Customer deposits excluding central items is calculated as total NatWest Group customer 
deposits excluding Central items & other customer deposits.

1100..  LLooaann::ddeeppoossiitt  rraattiioo  ((eexxccll..  rreeppooss  aanndd  rreevveerrssee  rreeppooss))
Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and reverse repos) is calculated as net customer loans held 
at amortised cost excluding reverse repos divided by total customer deposits excluding 
repos. This is a common metric used to assess liquidity.

Central items & other includes Treasury repo activity and Ulster Bank RoI. The exclusion of 
Central items & other removes the volatility relating to Treasury repo activity and the 
expected reduction of deposits as part of our withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland. 
These items may distort period-on-period comparisons and their removal gives the user of 
the financial statements a better understanding of the movements in customer deposits.  

The removal of repos and reverse repos reduces volatility and presents the ratio on a 
basis that is comparable to UK peers. A reconciliation is shown below including a 
comparison to the nearest GAAP measure: loan:deposit ratio. This is calculated as net 
loans to customers held at amortised cost divided by customer deposits.

Customer deposits
Less Central items & other
CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

2023

£bn
431.4
(12.3)
419.1

2022

£bn
450.3
(17.4)
432.9

99..  NNeett  llooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss
Net loans to customers excluding central items is calculated as total NatWest Group net 
loans to customers excluding Central items & other net loans to customers.

Central items & other includes Treasury reverse repo activity and Ulster Bank RoI. The 
exclusion of Central items & other removes the volatility relating to Treasury reverse repo 
activity and the reduction of loans to customers over 2022 as part of our withdrawal from 
the Republic of Ireland. This allows for better period-on-period comparisons and gives the 
user of the financial statements a better understanding of the movements in net loans to 
customers.

Total loans to customers (amortised cost)
Less Central items & other
NNeett  llooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  eexxcclluuddiinngg  cceennttrraall  iitteemmss

2023

£bn
381.4
(25.8)
355.6

2022

£bn
366.3
(19.6)
346.7

Loans to customers - amortised cost 
Less reverse repos
LLooaannss  ttoo  ccuussttoommeerrss  --  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt
    ((eexxccll..  rreevveerrssee  rreeppooss))

Customer deposits 
Less repos
CCuussttoommeerr  ddeeppoossiittss  ccoosstt  ((eexxccll..  rreeppooss))

As at

31 December

31 December

31 December

2023

£m
381,433
(27,117)

2022

£m
366,340
(19,749)

2021

£m
358,990
(25,962)

354,316

346,591

333,028

431,377
(10,844)
420,533

450,318
(9,828)
440,490

479,810
(14,541)
465,269

Loan:deposit ratio
Loan:deposit ratio (excl. repos and reverse repos)

88%
84%

81%
79%

75%
72%

1111..  LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rraattee
Loan impairment rate is the loan impairment charge divided by gross customer loans. This 
measure is used to assess the credit quality of the loan book.

Loan impairment charge/(release) (£m)
Gross customer loans (£bn)
LLooaann  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  rraattee

Year ended

31 December

31 December

2023

578.0
384.9
15bps 

2022

337
369.7
9bps 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

441122

412

Non-IFRS financial measures continued

1122..  FFuunnddeedd  aasssseettss
Funded assets is calculated as total assets less derivative assets. This measure allows 
review of balance sheet trends exclusive of the volatility associated with derivative fair 
values.  

Total assets
Less derivative assets
FFuunnddeedd  aasssseettss

As at

31 December

31 December

2023

£m

692,673
(78,904)
613,769

2022

£m

720,053
(99,545)
620,508

1133..  AAUUMMAA
AUMA comprises both assets under management (AUMs) and assets under administration 
(AUAs) serviced through the Private Banking segment. 

AUMs comprise assets where the investment management is undertaken by Private 
Banking on behalf of Private Banking, Retail Banking and Commercial & Institutional 
customers. 

AUAs comprise i) third party assets held on an execution-only basis in custody by Private 
Banking, Retail Banking and Commercial & Institutional for their customers, for which the 
execution services are supported by Private Banking, and for which Private Banking 
receives a fee for providing investment management and execution services to Retail 
Banking and Commercial & Institutional business segments ii) AUAMA of Cushon, acquired 
on 1 June 2023, which are supported by Private Banking and held and managed by third 
parties.

This measure is tracked and reported as the amount of funds that we manage or 
administer directly impacts the level of investment income that we receive. 

1144..  AAUUMM  nneett  fflloowwss
AUM net flows refers to client cash inflows and outflows relating to investment products 
(this can include transfers from savings accounts). AUM net flows excludes the impact of 
European Economic Area (EEA) resident client outflows following the UK’s exit from the 
EU and Russian client outflows since Q1 2022.

AUM net flows is reported and tracked to monitor the business performance of new 
business inflows and management of existing client withdrawals across Retail Banking, 
Private Banking and Commercial & Institutional Banking. 

1155..  WWhhoolleessaallee  ffuunnddiinngg
Wholesale funding comprises deposits by banks (excluding repos), debt securities in issue 
and subordinated liabilities. 

Funding risk is the risk of not maintaining a diversified, stable and cost-effective funding 
base. The disclosure of wholesale funding highlights the extent of our diversification and 
how we mitigate funding risk. 

1166..  TThhiirrdd  ppaarrttyy  rraatteess
Third party customer asset rate is calculated as interest receivable on third-party loans to 
customers as a percentage of third-party loans to customers. This excludes assets of 
disposal groups, intragroup items, loans to banks and liquid asset portfolios. Third party 
customer funding rate reflects interest payable or receivable on third-party customer 
deposits, including interest bearing and non-interest bearing customer deposits. Intragroup 
items, bank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are excluded for 
customer funding rate calculation. 

These metrics help investors better understand our net interest margin and interest rate 
sensitivity.

1177..  CClliimmaattee  aanndd  ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  ffuunnddiinngg  aanndd  ffiinnaanncciinngg
The climate and sustainable funding and financing metric is used by NatWest Group to 
measure the level of support it provides customers, through lending products and 
underwriting activities, to help in their transition towards a net zero, climate resilient and 
sustainable economy. We have a target to provide £100 billion of climate and sustainable 
funding and financing between the 1 of July 2021 and the end of 2025. As part of this, we 
aim to provide at least £10 billion in lending for residential properties with EPC ratings A 
and B between 1 January 2023 and the end of 2025.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts413

Serving our

customers

every day

Additional information

414 The capital requirements (country by country reporting)

417 Risk factors

442 Material contract

445 Shareholder information

445 Financial calendar

446 Analysis of ordinary shareholders

447 Shareholder enquiries

447 Important addresses

447 Principal offices

448 Presentation of information

448 Forward-looking statements

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441144

414

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441155

The Capital Requirements (Country by Country Reporting) Regulations (Audited)

This report has been prepared for NatWest Group to comply with the Capital Requirements (Country by Country Reporting) Regulations 2013 which implement Article 89 of the Capital 
Requirements Directive IV.

This report shows the income, profit/(loss) before tax, tax paid/(received), average and spot employee numbers on a full-time equivalent basis for the entities located in the countries in 
which we operate.

CCoouunnttrryy
Each subsidiary or branch is allocated to the country in which it is resident for tax purposes. The data is consolidated for all the subsidiaries and branches allocated to each country.

IInnccoommee  aanndd  pprrooffiitt//((lloossss))  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx
Income includes internal service fee income from other countries, which is eliminated on consolidation for accounting purposes and is shown as an elimination from total income in the 
tables below. Income and profit/(loss) totals are reported in Note 4 within the Geographical segments table.

TTaaxx  ppaaiidd//((rreecceeiivveedd))
Tax paid/(received) disclosed under CRD IV relates to corporation tax.

Corporation tax paid represents net cash taxes paid to/(received) from the tax authorities in each jurisdiction. 

Corporation tax paid is reported on a cash basis as opposed to an accounting basis and therefore does not necessarily have a direct correlation to the reported profits or losses arising 
in the year. For example, in certain jurisdictions taxable profits may be reduced as a result of the offset of tax losses brought forward from prior years; or tax payments may be 
calculated with reference to prior year profits.

FFuullll  ttiimmee  eeqquuiivvaalleenntt  eemmppllooyyeeeess  ((FFTTEEss))
FTEs are allocated to the country in which they are primarily based for the performance of their employment duties. The figures disclosed represent the average number of FTEs, 
including temporary staff, in each country during the period. The FTEs, including temporary staff, at 31 December 2023, have been added for completeness.

PPuubblliicc  ssuubbssiiddiieess  rreecceeiivveedd
No public subsidies were received during the period.

The Capital Requirements (Country by Country Reporting Regulations) (Audited) continued

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  CCoouunnttrryy--bbyy--CCoouunnttrryy  ttaaxx  bbrreeaakkddoowwnn  22002233

Profit/(loss) 

Tax paid/

Average FTE

FTE including temporary

Income (1,2)

before tax (1)

(received)

 including 

 staff as at the year end 

Headcount

temporary staff

31 December 2023

40,215

39,973

41,456

41,204

Country

UK

Guernsey

Isle of Man

Jersey

UK region (3)

Finland

France

Germany

Gibraltar

Greece

Italy

Luxembourg

Netherlands

Norway

Poland

Spain

Sweden

Republic of Ireland

Switzerland

Turkey

Europe region (3)

USA

Cayman Islands

US region (3)

Hong Kong

India

Japan

Singapore

Asia Pacific region (3)

UK region

Europe region

US region

Rest of World region

Global total

Elimination of internal 

   service fee income

Global total

£m

13,669

14,493

184

99

541

16

34

77

48

(1)

-

10

146

171

6

79

-

16

139

2

743

146

146

-

2

464

23

55

544

743

146

544

14,493

15,926

(1,168)

14,758

£m

5,771

138

27

260

6,196

12

(1)

24

24

(1)

(542)

108

84

(261)

1

5

7

-

8

9

1

44

1

45

63

5

3

15

86

45

86

6,196

(261)

£m

954

15

980

9

2

3

3

1

4

1

-

1

1

-

1

-

3

2

-

-

-

-

-

(1)

19

33

1

-

34

980

19

-

34

6,066

1,033

-

6,066

-

1,033

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

94

373

774

117

6

67

66

1

19

73

122

1,096

-

-

1,552

40

285

2

3,446

269

269

-

3

36

114

16,327

16,480

41,456

3,446

269

16,480

61,651

-

61,651

92

361

778

7

66

108

66

1

380

22

76

124

1,492

42

298

2

2,684

276

276

-

-

-

-

16,944

34

111

17,089

41,204

2,684

276

17,089

61,253

-

61,253

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441155

415

The Capital Requirements (Country by Country Reporting Regulations) (Audited) continued

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp  CCoouunnttrryy--bbyy--CCoouunnttrryy  ttaaxx  bbrreeaakkddoowwnn  22002233

Profit/(loss) 

Tax paid/

Average FTE

FTE including temporary

Income (1,2)

before tax (1)

(received)

 including 

 staff as at the year end 

Headcount

Country
UK
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
UK region (3)
Finland
France
Germany
Gibraltar
Greece
Republic of Ireland
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Europe region (3)
USA
Cayman Islands
US region (3)
Hong Kong
India
Japan
Singapore
Asia Pacific region (3)
UK region
Europe region
US region
Rest of World region
Global total
Elimination of internal 
   service fee income
Global total

£m
13,669
184
99
541
14,493
16
34
77
48
(1)
-
10
146
171
6
79
-
16
139
2
743
146
-
146
2
464
23
55
544
14,493
743
146
544
15,926

(1,168)
14,758

£m
5,771
138
27
260
6,196
12
(1)
24
24
(1)
(542)
1
108
84
5
7
-
8
9
1
(261)
44
1
45
5
63
3
15
86
6,196
(261)
45
86
6,066

-
6,066

£m
954
9
2
15
980
3
3
1
4
1
-
1
1
-
1
-
(1)
3
2
-
19
-
-
-
-
33
1
-
34
980
19
-
34
1,033

-
1,033

temporary staff
40,215
94
373
774
41,456
6
67
117
66
1
1,096
19
73
122
-
1,552
-
40
285
2
3,446
269
-
269
3
16,327
36
114
16,480
41,456
3,446
269
16,480
61,651

-
61,651

31 December 2023
39,973
92
361
778
41,204
7
66
108
66
1
380
22
76
124
-
1,492
-
42
298
2
2,684
276
-
276
-
16,944
34
111
17,089
41,204
2,684
276
17,089
61,253

-
61,253

For the notes to this table refer to the following page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441166

416

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441177

The Capital Requirements (Country by Country Reporting Regulations) (Audited) continued

NatWest Group Country-by-Country tax breakdown 2022

Income (1,2)

before tax (1)

(Loss)/profit

Tax paid/

(received)

Average FTE

FTE including temporary 

including

staff as at the year end

Headcount

Country
UK
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
UK region (3)
Finland
France
Germany
Gibraltar
Greece
Republic of Ireland
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Europe region (3)
USA
US region (3)
Hong Kong
India
Japan
Singapore
Asia Pacific region (3)
UK region
Europe region
US region
Rest of World region
Global total
Elimination of internal 
   service fee income
Global total

£m
12,568
166
77
359
13,170
15
38
25
41
-
(409)
10
79
142
4
55
1
22
112
2
137
95
95
1
414
17
65
497
13,170
137
95
497
13,899

(1,038)
12,861

£m
5,401
130
25
160
5,716
13
2
(10)
23
(1)
(1,024)
1
53
51
4
1
-
11
(7)
1
(882)
(46)
(46)
1
51
3
27
82
5,716
(882)
(46)
82
4,870

-
4,870

£m
1,172
4
(1)
7
1,182
3
-
1
-
-
2
(3)
2
-
1
-
-
3
3
-
12
1
1
-
28
-
-
28
1,182
12
1
28
1,223

-
1,223

temporary staff
40,003
90
357
717
41,167
4
61
105
65
1
1,919
16
62
117
-
1,445
2
34
277
2
4,110
268
268
6
14,480
39
108
14,633
41,167
4,110
268
14,633
60,178

-
60,178

31 December 2022
40,418
93
369
754
41,634
5
66
118
70
1
1,792
16
69
114
-
1,536
-
34
278
2
4,101
260
260
6
15,703
39
114
15,862
41,634
4,101
260
15,862
61,857

-
61,857

(1) A full list of NatWest Group’s subsidiaries names, nature of activities and 

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

geographical locations is available in Note 12 of the parent company accounts.
The figures for 2022 have been re-presented to include the internal service fee 
income from other countries. 
Includes internal service fee income of £489 million for UK region (2022 - £444 
million), £232 million for Europe region (2022 - £194 million), £3 million for US 
region (2022 - £1 million) and £444 million for Asia Pacific region (2022 - £399 
million)  
The amounts shown above are presented to the nearest million and as a result 
any amounts less than £0.5 million have been rounded to zero.
The information above is presented on a gross reporting basis and includes 
results from discontinued operations. The results from discontinued operations 
are included in the Republic of Ireland totals, increase in income: £6 million; loss 
before tax: £112 million; tax paid: nil; subsidies received: nil; average 
headcount: 130; headcount as at 31 December 2023: nil (2022 - Decrease in 
income: £295 million; loss before tax: £262 million; tax paid: nil; subsidies 
received: nil; average headcount: 531; headcount as at 31 December 2022 - 
396).

Risk factors 

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

Set out below are certain risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on 

NatWest Group’s future results, its financial condition and/or prospects and cause them 

to be materially different from what is forecast or expected, and directly or indirectly 

impact the value of its securities. These risk factors are broadly categorised and should 

be read in conjunction with other risk factors in this section and other parts of this 

annual report, including the forward-looking statements section, the strategic report and 

the risk and capital management section. They should not be regarded as a complete 

and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing NatWest 

Group. 

EEccoonnoommiicc  aanndd  ppoolliittiiccaall  rriisskk  

NatWest Group, its customers and its counterparties face continued economic 

and political risks and uncertainties in the UK and global markets, including as a 

result of inflation and interest rates, supply chain disruption, and geopolitical 

developments.

As a principally UK-focused banking group, NatWest Group is affected by global 

economic and market conditions and is, particularly exposed to those conditions in the 

UK. Uncertain and volatile economic conditions can create a challenging operating 

environment for financial services companies such as NatWest Group. The outlook for 

the UK and the global economy is affected by many factors including: GDP growth, 

inflation and changing interest rates, changing asset prices (including residential and 

NatWest Group is also exposed to risks arising out of geopolitical events or political 

developments that may hinder economic or financial activity levels. Political, military or 

diplomatic events, geopolitical tensions, armed conflict (for example the Russia-Ukraine 

and Israel-Hamas conflicts), terrorist acts or threats, protectionist policies or trade 

barriers, widespread public health crises, related potential adverse effects on supply 

chains and the responses to any of the above scenarios by various governments and 

markets, could negatively affect the business and performance of NatWest Group, 

including as a result of the direct or indirect impact on UK, regional or global trade 

and/or NatWest Group’s customers and counterparties. 

In recent years, the UK has experienced significant political uncertainty and a general 

election will take place before February 2025. Heightened political uncertainty could lead 

to a loss of confidence in the UK that could, in turn, negatively impact the economy and 

companies operating in the UK. NatWest Group also faces political uncertainty in 

Scotland as a result of a possible Scottish independence referendum. Scottish 

independence may adversely affect NatWest Group plc both in relation to its entities 

incorporated in Scotland and in other jurisdictions. Any changes to Scotland’s relationship 

with the UK or the EU may adversely affect the environment in which NatWest Group plc 

and its subsidiaries operate and may require further changes to NatWest Group, 

independently or in conjunction with other mandatory or strategic structural and 

organisational changes, any of which could adversely affect NatWest Group. Refer to 

‘Continuing uncertainty regarding the effects and extent of the UK’s post Brexit 

divergence from EU laws and regulation, and NatWest Group’s post Brexit EU operating 

model may adversely affect NatWest Group and its operating environment’.

commercial property), energy prices, supply chain disruption, and changes to monetary 

The value of NatWest Group’s own and other securities may be materially affected by 

and fiscal policy. 

These conditions could be exacerbated by a number of factors including: instability in the 

UK and/or global financial systems, market volatility and change, fluctuations in the value 

of the pound sterling, new or extended economic sanctions, economic volatility in the UK 

or globally, volatility in commodity prices, political uncertainty or instability (for example 

economic and market conditions. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and 

disruptions in the financial markets may make it very difficult to value certain of NatWest 

Group’s own and other securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. 

This could cause a decline in the value of NatWest Group’s own and other securities, or 

inaccurate carrying values for certain financial instruments.

the upcoming US presidential election and the UK general election to take place before 

In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by, or resulting 

February 2025), or concerns regarding sovereign debt or sovereign credit ratings, 

in, rapid depreciation in asset values, which may be accompanied by a reduction in asset 

changing demographics in the markets that NatWest Group and its customers serve, 

liquidity. Under these conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not 

increasing social and other inequalities, rapid changes to the economic environment due 

be as effective at mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market 

to the adoption of technology, automation, artificial intelligence, or due to climate change 

conditions. Moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly 

and/or other sustainability-related risks. Refer to ‘Changes in interest rates will continue 

exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously 

to affect NatWest Group’s business and results’ and ‘Fluctuations in currency exchange 

(and often automatically) and on a large scale, increasing NatWest Group’s counterparty 

rates may adversely affect NatWest Group’s results and financial condition’.

risk. NatWest Group’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and 

mitigate NatWest Group’s exposure to extreme market moves. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441177

417

Risk factors 

Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Set out below are certain risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on 
NatWest Group’s future results, its financial condition and/or prospects and cause them 
to be materially different from what is forecast or expected, and directly or indirectly 
impact the value of its securities. These risk factors are broadly categorised and should 
be read in conjunction with other risk factors in this section and other parts of this 
annual report, including the forward-looking statements section, the strategic report and 
the risk and capital management section. They should not be regarded as a complete 
and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing NatWest 
Group. 

EEccoonnoommiicc  aanndd  ppoolliittiiccaall  rriisskk  

NatWest Group, its customers and its counterparties face continued economic 
and political risks and uncertainties in the UK and global markets, including as a 
result of inflation and interest rates, supply chain disruption, and geopolitical 
developments.
As a principally UK-focused banking group, NatWest Group is affected by global 
economic and market conditions and is, particularly exposed to those conditions in the 
UK. Uncertain and volatile economic conditions can create a challenging operating 
environment for financial services companies such as NatWest Group. The outlook for 
the UK and the global economy is affected by many factors including: GDP growth, 
inflation and changing interest rates, changing asset prices (including residential and 
commercial property), energy prices, supply chain disruption, and changes to monetary 
and fiscal policy. 

These conditions could be exacerbated by a number of factors including: instability in the 
UK and/or global financial systems, market volatility and change, fluctuations in the value 
of the pound sterling, new or extended economic sanctions, economic volatility in the UK 
or globally, volatility in commodity prices, political uncertainty or instability (for example 
the upcoming US presidential election and the UK general election to take place before 
February 2025), or concerns regarding sovereign debt or sovereign credit ratings, 
changing demographics in the markets that NatWest Group and its customers serve, 
increasing social and other inequalities, rapid changes to the economic environment due 
to the adoption of technology, automation, artificial intelligence, or due to climate change 
and/or other sustainability-related risks. Refer to ‘Changes in interest rates will continue 
to affect NatWest Group’s business and results’ and ‘Fluctuations in currency exchange 
rates may adversely affect NatWest Group’s results and financial condition’.

NatWest Group is also exposed to risks arising out of geopolitical events or political 
developments that may hinder economic or financial activity levels. Political, military or 
diplomatic events, geopolitical tensions, armed conflict (for example the Russia-Ukraine 
and Israel-Hamas conflicts), terrorist acts or threats, protectionist policies or trade 
barriers, widespread public health crises, related potential adverse effects on supply 
chains and the responses to any of the above scenarios by various governments and 
markets, could negatively affect the business and performance of NatWest Group, 
including as a result of the direct or indirect impact on UK, regional or global trade 
and/or NatWest Group’s customers and counterparties. 

In recent years, the UK has experienced significant political uncertainty and a general 
election will take place before February 2025. Heightened political uncertainty could lead 
to a loss of confidence in the UK that could, in turn, negatively impact the economy and 
companies operating in the UK. NatWest Group also faces political uncertainty in 
Scotland as a result of a possible Scottish independence referendum. Scottish 
independence may adversely affect NatWest Group plc both in relation to its entities 
incorporated in Scotland and in other jurisdictions. Any changes to Scotland’s relationship 
with the UK or the EU may adversely affect the environment in which NatWest Group plc 
and its subsidiaries operate and may require further changes to NatWest Group, 
independently or in conjunction with other mandatory or strategic structural and 
organisational changes, any of which could adversely affect NatWest Group. Refer to 
‘Continuing uncertainty regarding the effects and extent of the UK’s post Brexit 
divergence from EU laws and regulation, and NatWest Group’s post Brexit EU operating 
model may adversely affect NatWest Group and its operating environment’.

The value of NatWest Group’s own and other securities may be materially affected by 
economic and market conditions. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and 
disruptions in the financial markets may make it very difficult to value certain of NatWest 
Group’s own and other securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. 
This could cause a decline in the value of NatWest Group’s own and other securities, or 
inaccurate carrying values for certain financial instruments.

In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by, or resulting 
in, rapid depreciation in asset values, which may be accompanied by a reduction in asset 
liquidity. Under these conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not 
be as effective at mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market 
conditions. Moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly 
exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously 
(and often automatically) and on a large scale, increasing NatWest Group’s counterparty 
risk. NatWest Group’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and 
mitigate NatWest Group’s exposure to extreme market moves. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441188

418

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441199

Risk factors continued

However, market events have historically been difficult to predict, and NatWest Group, 
its customers and its counterparties could realise significant losses if extreme market 
events were to occur.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Changes in interest rates will continue to affect NatWest Group’s business and 
results.
NatWest Group’s performance is affected by changes in interest rates. Benchmark 
overnight interest rates, such as the UK base rate, increased in 2023, although forward 
rates at 31 December 2023 suggested interest rates may begin to fall in 2024. 

Stable interest rates support predictable income flow and less volatility in asset and 
liability valuations, although persistently low and negative interest rates may adversely 
affect NatWest Group. Further, volatility in interest rates may result in unexpected 
outcomes both for interest income and asset and liability valuations which may adversely 
affect NatWest Group. For example, unexpected movements in spreads between key 
benchmark rates such as sovereign and swap rates may in turn affect liquidity portfolio 
valuations. In addition, unexpected sharp rises in rates may also have negative impacts 
on some asset and derivative valuations.

Furthermore, customer and investor responses to rapid changes in interest rates can 
have an adverse effect on NatWest Group. For example, customers may make deposit 
choices that provide them with higher returns than those then being offered by NatWest 
Group, and NatWest Group may not respond with competitive products as rapidly, for 
example following an interest rate change, which may in turn decrease NatWest Group’s 
net interest income. 

Movements in interest rates also influence and reflect the macroeconomic situation more 
broadly, affecting factors such as business and consumer confidence, property prices, 
default rates on loans, customer behaviour (which may adversely impact the 
effectiveness of NatWest Group’s hedging strategy) and other indicators that may 
indirectly affect NatWest Group. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect NatWest Group’s 
results and financial condition.
Decisions of central banks (including the Bank of England, the European Central Bank 
(ECB) and the US Federal Reserve) and political or market events, which are outside 
NatWest Group’s control, may lead to sharp and sudden fluctuations in currency 
exchange rates.

Although NatWest Group is principally a UK-focused banking group, it is subject to 
structural foreign exchange risk from capital deployed in NatWest Group’s foreign 
subsidiaries, branches and other strategic equity shareholdings. NatWest Group also 
relies on issuing securities in non-sterling currencies, such as US dollars and euros, that 
assist in meeting NatWest Group’s MREL requirements. In addition, NatWest Group 
conducts banking activities in non-sterling currencies (for example, loans, deposits and 
dealing activity) which affect its revenue. NatWest Group also uses service providers 
based outside of the United Kingdom for certain services and as a result certain 
operating results are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 

NatWest Group maintains policies and procedures designed to manage the impact of its 
exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar 
and sterling-euro rates, may adversely affect various accounting and financial metrics 
including, the value of assets, liabilities (including the total amount of MREL-eligible 
instruments), foreign exchange dealing activity, income and expenses, RWAs and hence 
the reported earnings and financial condition of NatWest Group.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, reputation, and/or its ability to meet regulatory capital 
adequacy requirements.

Continuing uncertainty regarding the effects and extent of the UK’s post Brexit 
divergence from EU laws and regulation, and NatWest Group’s post Brexit EU 
operating model may adversely affect NatWest Group and its operating 
environment. 
As a result of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, certain aspects of the services provided 
by NatWest Group require local licences or individual equivalence decisions (temporary or 
otherwise) by relevant regulators. In late 2021 the European Commission proposed 
legislation that would require non-EU firms to establish a branch or subsidiary in the EU 
before providing ‘banking services’ in the EU. When these proposals become law all 
‘banking services’ provided by NatWest Group in the EU may be licensable activities in 
each EU member state in which it provides such services and member states may not be 
permitted to offer bilateral permissions to financial institutions outside the EU allowing 
them to provide such ‘banking services’, except in limited circumstances. 

NatWest Group continues to evaluate its EU operating model, making adaptations as 
necessary. Changes to NatWest Group’s EU operating model have been, and may 
continue to be, costly and failure to receive regulatory permissions and/or further 
changes to its business operations, product offering, customer engagement, and 
regulatory requirements could result in further costs and/or regulatory sanction. 

The long-term effects of Brexit and the uncertainty regarding NatWest Group’s EU 
operating model may adversely affect NatWest Group and its customers and 
counterparties who are themselves dependent on trading with the EU or personnel from 
the EU. The long-term effects of Brexit may also be exacerbated by wider UK and global 
macroeconomic trends and events.

Risk factors continued

Uncertainties remain as to the extent to which EU/EEA laws will diverge from UK law. 

HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of 

For example, bank regulation in the UK may diverge from European bank regulation 

NatWest Group and that NatWest Group will continue to have its own independent board 

following the enactment of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (‘FSMA 2023’) 

of directors and management team determining its own strategy. However, for as long 

and the Retained EU Law (Revocation and Reform) Act 2023. In particular, FSMA 2023 

as HM Treasury remains NatWest Group plc’s largest single shareholder, HM Treasury 

provides for the revocation of Retained EU Law relating to financial services regulation 

and UK Government Investments Limited (‘UKGI’) (as manager of HM Treasury’s 

but sets out that this process will likely take a number of years and that the intention is 

shareholding) could exercise a significant degree of influence over NatWest Group 

that specific retained EU laws will not be revoked until such time as replacement 

including: the election or removal of directors, the appointment or removal of senior 

regulatory rules are in place. The actions taken by regulators in response to any new or 

management, NatWest Group’s capital strategy, dividend policy, remuneration policy or 

revised bank regulation and other rules affecting financial services, may adversely affect 

the conduct of NatWest Group’s operations. HM Treasury or UKGI’s approach largely 

NatWest Group, including its business, non-UK operations, group structure, compliance 

depends on government policy, which could change. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

Group’s largest single shareholder could give rise to conflicts between the interests of 

costs, intragroup arrangements and capital requirements.

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) could exercise a significant degree of 

influence over NatWest Group and further offers or sales of NatWest Group’s 

shares held by HM Treasury may affect the price of NatWest Group securities. 

In its Autumn Statement 2023 (presented on 22 November 2023), the UK Government 

confirmed its commitment to exiting its shareholding in NatWest Group plc, subject to 

market conditions. It also stated that it “intends to fully exit by 2025-26 utilising a range 

of disposal methods” and “will explore options to launch a share sale to retail investors in 

the next twelve months, subject to supportive market conditions”. 

NatWest Group plc has most recently: (i) carried out a directed buyback of NatWest 

Group plc ordinary shares from HM Treasury in May 2023, and (ii) made purchases 

under NatWest Group plc’s on-market buyback programmes announced in July 2023 

and February 2024. NatWest Group plc may participate in similar directed or on-market 

buybacks in the near- and medium-term future. As at 8 January 2024, HM Treasury held 

36.94% of the ordinary share capital with voting rights of NatWest Group plc. 

Achievement of the UK Government’s Autumn Statement 2023 objective is likely to entail 

it selling a significant number of NatWest Group plc’s shares. The precise timing, method 

and extent of further HM Treasury’s disposal of NatWest Group plc’s shares may be 

driven by economic as well as other considerations and is uncertain, which could result in 

a prolonged period of price volatility for NatWest Group plc’s ordinary shares and its (and 

NatWest Group’s) other securities. 

Any offers or sales of a substantial number of ordinary shares in NatWest Group plc by 

HM Treasury (including at a discount or with other incentives), market expectations 

about these offers or sales, or perceptions about the success or failure of any offers or 

sales (including for example, media or public attention on any such offering or post-offer 

share price performance), and any directed, on- or off-market buyback activity by 

NatWest Group plc, could affect the prevailing market price for the outstanding ordinary 

shares of NatWest Group plc and, in the case of a directed, on- or off-market buyback, 

could reduce NatWest Group plc’s capital and liquidity, which may have an adverse 

effect on NatWest Group.

The manner in which HM Treasury or UKGI exercises HM Treasury’s rights as NatWest 

HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders, including as a result of a change in 

government policy, which may in turn adversely affect NatWest Group.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

SSttrraatteeggiicc  rriisskk

targeted outcomes. 

NatWest Group continues to implement its strategy, which carries significant 

execution and operational risks and it may not achieve its stated aims and 

NatWest Group continues to implement its strategy, which is intended to reflect the 

rapidly shifting environment and backdrop of significant disruption in society driven by 

technology and changing customer expectations. Further, shifting trends include 

digitalisation, decarbonisation, automation, artificial intelligence, e-commerce and hybrid 

working, each of which has resulted in significant market volatility and change. There is 

also increasing investor, employee, stakeholder, regulatory and customer scrutiny 

regarding how businesses address these changes and related environmental challenges, 

including climate change, biodiversity and other sustainability issues, including how 

NatWest Group supports its customers’ transition to net zero, is tackling inequality, 

working conditions, workplace health, safety and wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, data 

protection and management, workforce management, human rights and supply chain 

management. 

In recent years, as part of its strategy, NatWest Group has refocused its NatWest 

Markets business, and has also created the Commercial & Institutional business segment. 

This business segment combines the previously separately reporting Commercial, 

NatWest Markets and RBS International businesses to form a single business segment, 

which focuses on serving Commercial & Institutional customers. It was created to 

promote closer operational and strategic alignment to support growth, with more 

integrated services to customers across NatWest Group entities within and outside the 

ring-fenced banks, with the potential increased risk of breach of the UK ring-fencing 

regime requiring effective conflicts of interest policies.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

441199

419

Risk factors continued

Uncertainties remain as to the extent to which EU/EEA laws will diverge from UK law. 
For example, bank regulation in the UK may diverge from European bank regulation 
following the enactment of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (‘FSMA 2023’) 
and the Retained EU Law (Revocation and Reform) Act 2023. In particular, FSMA 2023 
provides for the revocation of Retained EU Law relating to financial services regulation 
but sets out that this process will likely take a number of years and that the intention is 
that specific retained EU laws will not be revoked until such time as replacement 
regulatory rules are in place. The actions taken by regulators in response to any new or 
revised bank regulation and other rules affecting financial services, may adversely affect 
NatWest Group, including its business, non-UK operations, group structure, compliance 
costs, intragroup arrangements and capital requirements.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) could exercise a significant degree of 
influence over NatWest Group and further offers or sales of NatWest Group’s 
shares held by HM Treasury may affect the price of NatWest Group securities. 
In its Autumn Statement 2023 (presented on 22 November 2023), the UK Government 
confirmed its commitment to exiting its shareholding in NatWest Group plc, subject to 
market conditions. It also stated that it “intends to fully exit by 2025-26 utilising a range 
of disposal methods” and “will explore options to launch a share sale to retail investors in 
the next twelve months, subject to supportive market conditions”. 

NatWest Group plc has most recently: (i) carried out a directed buyback of NatWest 
Group plc ordinary shares from HM Treasury in May 2023, and (ii) made purchases 
under NatWest Group plc’s on-market buyback programmes announced in July 2023 
and February 2024. NatWest Group plc may participate in similar directed or on-market 
buybacks in the near- and medium-term future. As at 8 January 2024, HM Treasury held 
36.94% of the ordinary share capital with voting rights of NatWest Group plc. 
Achievement of the UK Government’s Autumn Statement 2023 objective is likely to entail 
it selling a significant number of NatWest Group plc’s shares. The precise timing, method 
and extent of further HM Treasury’s disposal of NatWest Group plc’s shares may be 
driven by economic as well as other considerations and is uncertain, which could result in 
a prolonged period of price volatility for NatWest Group plc’s ordinary shares and its (and 
NatWest Group’s) other securities. 

Any offers or sales of a substantial number of ordinary shares in NatWest Group plc by 
HM Treasury (including at a discount or with other incentives), market expectations 
about these offers or sales, or perceptions about the success or failure of any offers or 
sales (including for example, media or public attention on any such offering or post-offer 
share price performance), and any directed, on- or off-market buyback activity by 
NatWest Group plc, could affect the prevailing market price for the outstanding ordinary 
shares of NatWest Group plc and, in the case of a directed, on- or off-market buyback, 
could reduce NatWest Group plc’s capital and liquidity, which may have an adverse 
effect on NatWest Group.

HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of 
NatWest Group and that NatWest Group will continue to have its own independent board 
of directors and management team determining its own strategy. However, for as long 
as HM Treasury remains NatWest Group plc’s largest single shareholder, HM Treasury 
and UK Government Investments Limited (‘UKGI’) (as manager of HM Treasury’s 
shareholding) could exercise a significant degree of influence over NatWest Group 
including: the election or removal of directors, the appointment or removal of senior 
management, NatWest Group’s capital strategy, dividend policy, remuneration policy or 
the conduct of NatWest Group’s operations. HM Treasury or UKGI’s approach largely 
depends on government policy, which could change. 

The manner in which HM Treasury or UKGI exercises HM Treasury’s rights as NatWest 
Group’s largest single shareholder could give rise to conflicts between the interests of 
HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders, including as a result of a change in 
government policy, which may in turn adversely affect NatWest Group.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

SSttrraatteeggiicc  rriisskk

NatWest Group continues to implement its strategy, which carries significant 
execution and operational risks and it may not achieve its stated aims and 
targeted outcomes. 
NatWest Group continues to implement its strategy, which is intended to reflect the 
rapidly shifting environment and backdrop of significant disruption in society driven by 
technology and changing customer expectations. Further, shifting trends include 
digitalisation, decarbonisation, automation, artificial intelligence, e-commerce and hybrid 
working, each of which has resulted in significant market volatility and change. There is 
also increasing investor, employee, stakeholder, regulatory and customer scrutiny 
regarding how businesses address these changes and related environmental challenges, 
including climate change, biodiversity and other sustainability issues, including how 
NatWest Group supports its customers’ transition to net zero, is tackling inequality, 
working conditions, workplace health, safety and wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, data 
protection and management, workforce management, human rights and supply chain 
management. 

In recent years, as part of its strategy, NatWest Group has refocused its NatWest 
Markets business, and has also created the Commercial & Institutional business segment. 
This business segment combines the previously separately reporting Commercial, 
NatWest Markets and RBS International businesses to form a single business segment, 
which focuses on serving Commercial & Institutional customers. It was created to 
promote closer operational and strategic alignment to support growth, with more 
integrated services to customers across NatWest Group entities within and outside the 
ring-fenced banks, with the potential increased risk of breach of the UK ring-fencing 
regime requiring effective conflicts of interest policies.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442200

420

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442211

Risk factors continued

Many factors may adversely impact the successful implementation of NatWest Group’s 
strategy and the delivery of its intended benefits, including:





 macroeconomic challenges including GDP growth, inflation, changing interest rates, 
changing asset prices (including residential and commercial property), energy prices, 
supply chain disruption, changes to monetary and fiscal policy, and the impact of 
armed conflict, which may adversely affect NatWest Group’s customers, and which 
could in turn impact adversely certain strategic initiatives and new venture 
opportunities for NatWest Group; 
changing customer expectations and behaviour in response to macroeconomic 
conditions or developments, technology and other factors which could reduce the 
profitability, competitiveness, or volume of the services NatWest Group offers;
the rapid emergence and rapid deployment of new technologies (such as artificial 
intelligence, quantum computing, blockchain and digital currencies) resulting in a 
potential shift across the market towards products and services that are not part of 
NatWest Group’s core offering today;
increased competitive threats from incumbent banks, fintech companies, large 
technology conglomerates and other new market entrants (including those that 
emerge from mergers and consolidations) who may have competitive advantages in 
terms of scale, technology and customer engagement;
uncertainties regarding, or changes by, the senior leadership of NatWest Group; and
changes to the regulatory environment and associated requirements which could 
lead to shifts in operating cost and regulatory capital requirements, that impact 
NatWest Group’s product offerings and business models (refer to ‘NatWest Group’s 
businesses are subject to substantial regulation and oversight, which are constantly 
evolving and may adversely affect NatWest Group; and NatWest Group could incur 
losses or be required to maintain higher levels of capital as a result of limitations or 
failure of various models.’)






Delivery of NatWest Group’s strategy will require:

 maintaining effective governance, procedures, systems and controls giving effect to 

NatWest Group’s strategy;

 managing a broad range of risks and opportunities related to changes in the 

macroeconomic environment, customer expectations and behaviour, technology, 
regulation and competition alongside the emerging risks and opportunities associated 
with climate and other sustainability-related areas;
achieving a number of financial, capital and operational targets and expectations 
within the relevant timeframe, or at all; and



 continued cost-controlling measures, which may result in provisions in connection to 
a lower NatWest Group’s cost base, may divert investment from other areas, and 
may vary considerably from year to year.

In pursuing its strategy, NatWest Group may not be able to successfully: (i) implement 
some or all aspects of its strategy; (ii) meet any or all of the related targets or 
expectations of its strategy; and otherwise realise the anticipated benefits of its strategy, 
in a timely manner, or at all; or (iii) realise the intended strategic objectives of any other 
future strategic or growth initiative. The scale and scope of its strategy and the intended 
changes continue to present material business, operational and regulatory (including 
compliance with the UK ring-fencing regime), conflicts, legal, execution, IT system, 
cybersecurity, internal culture, conduct and people risks to NatWest Group. Implementing 
changes and strategic actions, including in respect of any growth initiatives, requires the 
effective application of robust governance and controls frameworks and robust IT 
systems and there is a risk that NatWest Group may not be successful in all these 
respects. The ongoing implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy could result in 
materially higher costs than initially contemplated (including due to material uncertainties 
and factors outside of NatWest Group’s control) and may not be completed as planned 
(both in terms of substantive targets and timing), or at all. This could lead to additional 
management actions by NatWest Group. 

Each of these risks, and others identified in these Principal Risks and Uncertainties, 
individually or collectively could jeopardise the implementation and delivery of NatWest 
Group’s strategy, impact NatWest Group’s products and services offering, its reputation 
with customers or business model and adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to deliver 
its strategy and meet its targets and guidance.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Acquisitions, divestments, other strategic transactions and/or the withdrawal from 
the Republic of Ireland by NatWest Group may not be successful, and 
consolidation or fragmentation of the financial services industry may adversely 
affect NatWest Group.
The financial services industry is experiencing continued competitive pressure resulting 
from technological advancement that disrupts traditional business models and from 
incumbent banks, fintech companies, large technology conglomerates and other new 
market entrants. To compete effectively, NatWest Group may decide, as part of its 
strategy, to undertake acquisitions, investments, the purchase of assets and liabilities, 
divestments, restructurings, reorganisations, joint ventures and other strategic 
partnerships, as well as other transactions and initiatives.

In addition, NatWest Group may decide to grow its business through these transactions 
and initiatives to, amongst others: (i) enhance capabilities that may lead to better 
productivity or cost efficiencies; (ii) acquire talent; (iii) pursue new products or expand 
existing products; and/or (iv) enter new markets or enhance its presence in existing 
markets.

In pursuing its strategy, NatWest Group may not fully realise the expected benefits and 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

value from the above-mentioned transactions and initiatives in the time, or to the degree, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

Risk factors continued

anticipated, or at all. In particular, NatWest Group may: (i) fail to realise the business 

rationale for the transaction or initiative, or rely on assumptions underlying the business 

plans supporting the valuation of a target transaction or initiative that may prove 

inaccurate, for example, regarding synergies and expected commercial demand; (ii) fail 

to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, investment, joint-venture or assets 

(including in respect of technologies, existing strategies, products, governance, systems 

and controls, and human capital) or to successfully divest or restructure a business; (iii) 

fail to retain key employees, customers and suppliers of any acquired or restructured 

business; (iv) be required or wish to terminate pre-existing contractual relationships, 

which could prove costly and/or be executed at unfavourable terms and conditions; (v) 

fail to discover certain contingent or undisclosed liabilities in businesses that it acquires, 

or its due diligence to discover any such liabilities may be inadequate; (vi) not obtain 

necessary regulatory and other approvals or onerous conditions may be attached to 

such approvals; and (vii) compete with existing larger banks or financial institutions (and 

those that emerge from mergers and consolidations) or other larger entities offering 

financial services products that may have more bargaining power in negotiations than 

NatWest Group. Accordingly, NatWest Group may not be successful in changing its 

business and any particular transaction may not succeed, may be limited in scope or 

scale (including due to NatWest Group’s current ownership structure) and may not 

conclude on the terms contemplated, or at all.

For example, in the context of divestments, the remaining phases of NatWest Group’s 

phased withdrawal from ROI entails commercial, operational, reputational, legal and 

execution risks, as it will require transfers of business, assets and liabilities. These risks 

include: (i) inability to return capital from Ulster Bank Ireland DAC to its parent or 

additional costs for its parent; (ii) higher than anticipated recognition of disposal losses as 

part of the orderly run-down of certain loan portfolios; (iii) execution risks and additional 

operational expense and resource to facilitate exit; (iv) the inability to obtain necessary 

approvals and/or support from governmental authorities, regulators and/or other 

stakeholders; (v) potential loss of colleagues; (vi) regulatory risk, including in relation to 

prudential, conduct and other regulatory requirements; (vii) brand and/or reputational 

risks and stakeholder scrutiny about the phased withdrawal from ROI. These risks and 

uncertainties may result in the withdrawal costing more, taking more time, being more 

complex or harder to mitigate than currently estimated. These risks and other 

divestment risks may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, reputation, or its ability to complete its phased withdrawal 

from ROI. 

Continued competitive pressure in the financial services industry from both established 

and new market entrants such as technology companies, may have a negative impact 

on NatWest Group’s business. Existing larger banks or financial institutions (and those 

that emerge from mergers and consolidations) or other larger entities offering financial 

services products may have more bargaining power in negotiations than NatWest Group 

and therefore may be in a position to extract more advantageous terms than NatWest 

Group. Refer to ‘NatWest Group operates in markets that are highly competitive, with 

competitive pressures and technology disruption’. 

The transfer of NatWest Group’s Western European corporate portfolio involves 

certain risks.

To improve efficiencies and best serve customers following Brexit, NatWest Group 

expects that certain of its assets, liabilities, transactions and activities (including NatWest 

Group’s Western European corporate portfolio principally consisting of term funding and 

revolving credit facilities), may be: (i) transferred from the ring-fenced subgroup of 

NatWest Group to NWM Group and/or (ii) transferred to the ring-fenced subgroup of 

NatWest Group from NWM Group, subject to regulatory and customer requirements. The 

timing, success and quantum of any of these transfers remain uncertain as is the impact 

of these transactions on its results of operations. 

As a result, this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  rreessiilliieennccee  rriisskk

NatWest Group may not achieve its ambitions, targets, guidance it communicates 

or be in a position to continue to make discretionary capital distributions 

(including dividends to shareholders).

As part of NatWest Group’s strategy, it has set a number of financial, capital and 

operational targets including in respect of its: CET1 ratio target, MREL targets, return on 

tangible equity (ROTE), funding plans and requirements, employee engagement, diversity 

and inclusion as well as climate-related targets (including its climate and sustainable 

funding and financing targets) and customer satisfaction targets and discretionary capital 

distributions (including dividends to shareholders). Refer to ‘NatWest Group continues to 

implement its strategy, which carries significant execution and operational risks and may 

not achieve its stated aims and targeted outcomes.’

NatWest Group’s ability to meet its ambitions, targets and guidance and make 

discretionary capital distributions is subject to various internal and external factors, risks 

and uncertainties. These include but are not limited to: UK and global macroeconomic, 

political, market and regulatory uncertainties, operational risks and risks relating to 

NatWest Group’s business model and strategy (including risks associated with climate 

and other sustainability-related issues), competitive pressures, and litigation, 

governmental actions, investigations and regulatory matters. If assumptions, judgements 

and estimates (for example about future economic conditions) prove to be incorrect 

NatWest Group may not achieve any or all or its ambitions, targets, or guidance. 

In addition, as NatWest Group plc is a non-operating holding company, its source of 

income is from its operating subsidiaries that hold the principal assets and operations of 

NatWest Group and its ability to continue to make capital distributions (including 

dividends to shareholders) is therefore subject to such subsidiaries’ financial 

performance, and their respective ability to make capital distributions directly or 

indirectly to NatWest Group plc which, in certain cases, could also be restricted by 

applicable laws, regulations and other requirements. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442211

421

Risk factors continued

In pursuing its strategy, NatWest Group may not fully realise the expected benefits and 
value from the above-mentioned transactions and initiatives in the time, or to the degree, 
anticipated, or at all. In particular, NatWest Group may: (i) fail to realise the business 
rationale for the transaction or initiative, or rely on assumptions underlying the business 
plans supporting the valuation of a target transaction or initiative that may prove 
inaccurate, for example, regarding synergies and expected commercial demand; (ii) fail 
to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, investment, joint-venture or assets 
(including in respect of technologies, existing strategies, products, governance, systems 
and controls, and human capital) or to successfully divest or restructure a business; (iii) 
fail to retain key employees, customers and suppliers of any acquired or restructured 
business; (iv) be required or wish to terminate pre-existing contractual relationships, 
which could prove costly and/or be executed at unfavourable terms and conditions; (v) 
fail to discover certain contingent or undisclosed liabilities in businesses that it acquires, 
or its due diligence to discover any such liabilities may be inadequate; (vi) not obtain 
necessary regulatory and other approvals or onerous conditions may be attached to 
such approvals; and (vii) compete with existing larger banks or financial institutions (and 
those that emerge from mergers and consolidations) or other larger entities offering 
financial services products that may have more bargaining power in negotiations than 
NatWest Group. Accordingly, NatWest Group may not be successful in changing its 
business and any particular transaction may not succeed, may be limited in scope or 
scale (including due to NatWest Group’s current ownership structure) and may not 
conclude on the terms contemplated, or at all.

For example, in the context of divestments, the remaining phases of NatWest Group’s 
phased withdrawal from ROI entails commercial, operational, reputational, legal and 
execution risks, as it will require transfers of business, assets and liabilities. These risks 
include: (i) inability to return capital from Ulster Bank Ireland DAC to its parent or 
additional costs for its parent; (ii) higher than anticipated recognition of disposal losses as 
part of the orderly run-down of certain loan portfolios; (iii) execution risks and additional 
operational expense and resource to facilitate exit; (iv) the inability to obtain necessary 
approvals and/or support from governmental authorities, regulators and/or other 
stakeholders; (v) potential loss of colleagues; (vi) regulatory risk, including in relation to 
prudential, conduct and other regulatory requirements; (vii) brand and/or reputational 
risks and stakeholder scrutiny about the phased withdrawal from ROI. These risks and 
uncertainties may result in the withdrawal costing more, taking more time, being more 
complex or harder to mitigate than currently estimated. These risks and other 
divestment risks may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, reputation, or its ability to complete its phased withdrawal 
from ROI. 

Continued competitive pressure in the financial services industry from both established 
and new market entrants such as technology companies, may have a negative impact 
on NatWest Group’s business. Existing larger banks or financial institutions (and those 
that emerge from mergers and consolidations) or other larger entities offering financial 
services products may have more bargaining power in negotiations than NatWest Group 
and therefore may be in a position to extract more advantageous terms than NatWest 
Group. Refer to ‘NatWest Group operates in markets that are highly competitive, with 
competitive pressures and technology disruption’. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

The transfer of NatWest Group’s Western European corporate portfolio involves 
certain risks.
To improve efficiencies and best serve customers following Brexit, NatWest Group 
expects that certain of its assets, liabilities, transactions and activities (including NatWest 
Group’s Western European corporate portfolio principally consisting of term funding and 
revolving credit facilities), may be: (i) transferred from the ring-fenced subgroup of 
NatWest Group to NWM Group and/or (ii) transferred to the ring-fenced subgroup of 
NatWest Group from NWM Group, subject to regulatory and customer requirements. The 
timing, success and quantum of any of these transfers remain uncertain as is the impact 
of these transactions on its results of operations. 

As a result, this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  rreessiilliieennccee  rriisskk

NatWest Group may not achieve its ambitions, targets, guidance it communicates 
or be in a position to continue to make discretionary capital distributions 
(including dividends to shareholders).
As part of NatWest Group’s strategy, it has set a number of financial, capital and 
operational targets including in respect of its: CET1 ratio target, MREL targets, return on 
tangible equity (ROTE), funding plans and requirements, employee engagement, diversity 
and inclusion as well as climate-related targets (including its climate and sustainable 
funding and financing targets) and customer satisfaction targets and discretionary capital 
distributions (including dividends to shareholders). Refer to ‘NatWest Group continues to 
implement its strategy, which carries significant execution and operational risks and may 
not achieve its stated aims and targeted outcomes.’

NatWest Group’s ability to meet its ambitions, targets and guidance and make 
discretionary capital distributions is subject to various internal and external factors, risks 
and uncertainties. These include but are not limited to: UK and global macroeconomic, 
political, market and regulatory uncertainties, operational risks and risks relating to 
NatWest Group’s business model and strategy (including risks associated with climate 
and other sustainability-related issues), competitive pressures, and litigation, 
governmental actions, investigations and regulatory matters. If assumptions, judgements 
and estimates (for example about future economic conditions) prove to be incorrect 
NatWest Group may not achieve any or all or its ambitions, targets, or guidance. 

In addition, as NatWest Group plc is a non-operating holding company, its source of 
income is from its operating subsidiaries that hold the principal assets and operations of 
NatWest Group and its ability to continue to make capital distributions (including 
dividends to shareholders) is therefore subject to such subsidiaries’ financial 
performance, and their respective ability to make capital distributions directly or 
indirectly to NatWest Group plc which, in certain cases, could also be restricted by 
applicable laws, regulations and other requirements. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442222

422

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442233

Risk factors continued

Refer to ‘NatWest Group, its customers and its counterparties face continued economic 
and political risks and uncertainties in the UK and global markets, including as a result of 
inflation and interest rates, supply chain disruption and geopolitical developments.’

Any failure of NatWest Group to achieve ambitions, targets or guidance, or make 
discretionary capital distributions may  have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group operates in markets that are highly competitive, with competitive 
pressures and technology disruption.
The markets within which NatWest Group operates are highly competitive. NatWest 
Group expects competition to continue and intensify in response to various changes 
including: evolving customer behaviour, technological changes (including digital 
currencies and other instruments, stablecoins and the growth of digital banking, such as 
from fintech entrants), competitor behaviour, new entrants to the market (including non-
traditional financial services providers such as retail or technology conglomerates, who 
may have competitive advantages in scale, technology and customer engagement), 
competitive foreign exchange offerings, industry trends resulting in increased 
disaggregation or unbundling of financial services or conversely the re-intermediation of 
traditional banking services, and the impact of regulatory actions and other factors. In 
particular, developments in the financial sector resulting from new (or more competitive) 
banking, lending and payment products and services offered by rapidly evolving 
incumbents, challengers (including shadow banks and alternative lenders, i.e. entities 
which carry out activities of a similar nature to banks but without the same regulatory 
oversight) and new entrants such as technology companies (which may result in a shift in 
customer behaviour) and the introduction of disruptive technology, may impede NatWest 
Group’s ability to grow or retain its market share and impact its revenues and 
profitability, particularly in its key UK retail and commercial and institutional banking 
segments. Moreover, innovations such as biometrics, artificial intelligence (including 
generative artificial intelligence), automation, the cloud, blockchain, cryptocurrencies and 
quantum computing may rapidly facilitate industry transformation.

Some of these trends have been catalysed by various regulatory and competition policy 
interventions, including the UK initiative on Open Banking, ‘Open Finance’ and other 
remedies imposed by the Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’), which are 
designed to further promote competition within the financial sector (including banking). 
The competition enhancing measures under NatWest Group’s independently 
administered Alternative Remedies Package (ARP) benefit grant recipients and eligible 
competitors. The ARP may be more costly than anticipated and may adversely affect 
NatWest Group’s competitive position and/or reputation. Failure  to comply with the terms 
of the ARP scheme could result in the imposition of additional measures or limitations on 
NatWest Group’s operations, additional supervision by NatWest Group’s regulators, and 
loss of investor confidence. 

Increasingly, many of the products and services offered by NatWest Group are, and will 
become, more technology intensive, including through digitalisation and the use of 
artificial intelligence. For example, NatWest Group has invested in a number of fintech 
ventures, including Mettle, FreeAgent, Tyl, Rapid Cash, Rooster Money, Vodeno and 
Cushon. NatWest Group’s ability to develop or acquire such digital solutions (which also 
need to comply with applicable and evolving regulations) and their integration in NatWest 
Group’s systems and controls has become increasingly important to retaining and 
growing NatWest Group’s competitiveness, market share and customer-facing 
businesses in the UK or elsewhere. There is a risk that NatWest Group’s innovation 
strategy, which includes investment in its IT capability intended to address the material 
increase in customer and merchant use of online and mobile technology for banking as 
well as selective acquisitions, which carry associated risks will be successful or that it will 
allow NatWest Group to successfully offer innovative products and services in the future. 
For example, NatWest Group’s current or future competitors may be more successful 
than NatWest Group in implementing technologies for delivering products or services to 
their customers, which may adversely affect its competitive position. NatWest Group may 
also fail to identify future opportunities or fail to derive benefits from technologies in a 
context of technological innovation, changing customer behaviour and changing 
regulatory demands, resulting in increased competition from traditional banking 
businesses as well as new providers of financial services, including technology 
conglomerates with strong brand recognition, that may be able to develop financial 
services at a lower cost base.

NatWest Group’s competitors may also be better able to attract and retain customers 
and key employees, may have more effective IT systems, and may have access to lower 
cost funding and/or be able to attract deposits on more favourable terms than NatWest 
Group. Although NatWest Group invests in new technologies and participates in industry 
and research-led initiatives aimed at developing new technologies, such investments may 
be insufficient or ineffective, especially given NatWest Group’s focus on cost efficiencies. 
This could affect NatWest Group’s ability to offer innovative products or technologies for 
delivering products or services to customers and its competitive position.

Furthermore, the development of innovative products depends on NatWest Group’s 
ability to effectively produce, acquire, or manage underlying high-quality data, failing 
which its ability to offer innovative products may be compromised. 

If NatWest Group is unable to offer competitive, attractive and innovative products that 
are also profitable and rolled out in a timely manner; it will lose market share, incur 
losses on some or all of its initiatives and lose opportunities for growth. In this context, 
NatWest Group is investing in the automation of certain solutions and interactions within 
its customer-facing businesses, including through automated processes and artificial 
intelligence. Such initiatives may result in operational, reputational and conduct risks if 
the technology used is not used appropriately, is defective, inadequate or is not fully 
integrated into NatWest Group’s current solutions, systems and controls. There can be 
no certainty that such initiatives will deliver the expected cost savings and investment in 
technology (including automated processes and artificial intelligence) will likely also result 
in increased costs for NatWest Group.

Risk factors continued

In addition, the implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy (including in relation to 

NatWest Group may be affected by volatility in property prices (including as a result of 

acquisitions, divestments, reorganisations and/or partnerships), delivery on its climate 

UK political or economic conditions) given that NatWest Group’s mortgage loan and 

ambition, cost-controlling measures, as well as employee remuneration constraints, may 

wholesale property loan portfolios as at 31 December 2023 amounted to £239.5 billion, 

also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively. Intensified competition from 

representing 61% of NatWest Group’s total loan exposure. If property prices in the UK 

incumbents, challengers and new entrants as well as disintermediation by large 

were to weaken this could lead to higher impairment charges, particularly if default rates 

technology companies could affect NatWest Group’s ability to maintain satisfactory 

also increase. In addition, NatWest Group’s credit risk may be exacerbated if the 

returns. Moreover, activist investors have increasingly become engaged and 

collateral that it holds cannot be realised as a result of market conditions, regulatory 

interventionist in recent years, which may pose a threat to NatWest Group’s strategic 

intervention, or other applicable laws, or if it is liquidated at prices not sufficient to 

initiatives. Furthermore, continued consolidation or technological or other developments 

recover the net amount outstanding to NatWest Group after accounting for any IFRS 9 

in the financial services industry could result in NatWest Group’s competitors gaining 

provisions already made. This is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity or 

greater capital and other resources, including the ability to offer a broader and more 

depressed asset valuations.

attractive or better value range of products and services and geographic diversity, or the 

emergence of new competitors. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial sponsors and funds, backed by assets or investor commitments) and securitised 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group has significant exposure to counterparty and borrower risk 

to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other financial institutions or 

including credit losses, which may have an adverse effect on NatWest Group.

NatWest Group has exposure to many different sectors, customers and counterparties, 

and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and the recoverability 

of monies due from borrowers and other counterparties are inherent in a wide range of 

NatWest Group’s businesses. NatWest Group’s lending strategy and associated 

processes and systems may fail to identify, anticipate or quickly react to weaknesses or 

risks in a particular sector, market, borrower or counterparty, or NatWest Group’s credit 

risk appetite relative to competitors, or fail to appropriately value physical or financial 

collateral. This may result in increased default rates or a higher loss given default for 

loans, which may, in turn, impact NatWest Group’s profitability. Refer to ‘Risk and capital 

management — Credit Risk’.

The credit quality of NatWest Group’s borrowers and other counterparties may be 

affected by UK and global macroeconomic and political uncertainties, prevailing 

economic and market conditions. These include factors relating to interest rates and 

inflation, changing asset prices (including residential and commercial property), energy 

prices, supply chain disruption, changes to monetary and fiscal policy, the impact of 

armed conflict, and the legal and regulatory landscape in the UK and countries where 

NatWest Group is exposed to credit risk. Any further deterioration in these conditions or 

changes to legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty 

credit quality or impact the enforcement of contractual rights, increasing credit risk.

Any increase in drawings upon credit facilities may also increase NatWest Group’s RWAs. 

In addition, the level of household indebtedness (on a per capita basis) in the UK remains 

high. The ability of households and businesses to service their debts could be worsened 

by a period of high unemployment, or high interest rates or inflation, particularly if 

prolonged. 

NatWest Group is exposed to the financial sector, including sovereign debt securities, 

financial institutions, financial intermediation providers (including providing facilities to 

products (typically senior lending to special purpose vehicles backed by pools of financial 

assets). Concerns about, or a default by, a financial institution or intermediary could lead 

intermediaries, since the commercial and financial soundness of many financial 

institutions and intermediaries is closely related and interdependent as a result of credit, 

trading, clearing and other relationships. Any perceived lack of creditworthiness of a 

counterparty or borrower may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses for 

NatWest Group. This systemic risk may also adversely affect financial intermediaries, 

such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with 

which NatWest Group interacts on a regular basis. Refer to ‘NatWest Group may not 

meet the prudential regulatory requirements for liquidity and funding or may not be able 

to adequately access sources of liquidity and funding, which could trigger the execution of 

certain management actions or recovery options.’

As a result, adverse changes in borrower and counterparty credit risk may cause 

additional impairment charges under IFRS 9, increased repurchase demands, higher 

costs, additional write-downs and losses for NatWest Group and an inability to engage in 

routine funding transactions. If NatWest Group experiences losses and a reduction in 

profitability, this is likely to affect the recoverable value of fixed assets, including goodwill 

and deferred taxes, which may lead to write-downs.

NatWest Group has applied an internal analysis of multiple economic scenarios (MES) 

together with the determination of specific overlay adjustments to inform its IFRS 9 ECL 

(Expected Credit Loss). The recognition and measurement of ECL is complex and 

involves the use of significant judgement and estimation. This includes the formulation 

and incorporation of multiple forward-looking economic scenarios into ECL to meet the 

measurement objective of IFRS 9. The ECL provision is sensitive to the model inputs and 

economic assumptions underlying the estimate. Going forward, NatWest Group 

anticipates observable credit deterioration of a proportion of assets resulting in a 

systematic uplift in defaults, which is mitigated by those economic assumption scenarios 

being reflected in the Stage 2 ECL across portfolios, along with a combination of post 

model overlays in both wholesale and retail portfolios reflecting the uncertainty of credit 

outcomes. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442233

423

Risk factors continued

In addition, the implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy (including in relation to 
acquisitions, divestments, reorganisations and/or partnerships), delivery on its climate 
ambition, cost-controlling measures, as well as employee remuneration constraints, may 
also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively. Intensified competition from 
incumbents, challengers and new entrants as well as disintermediation by large 
technology companies could affect NatWest Group’s ability to maintain satisfactory 
returns. Moreover, activist investors have increasingly become engaged and 
interventionist in recent years, which may pose a threat to NatWest Group’s strategic 
initiatives. Furthermore, continued consolidation or technological or other developments 
in the financial services industry could result in NatWest Group’s competitors gaining 
greater capital and other resources, including the ability to offer a broader and more 
attractive or better value range of products and services and geographic diversity, or the 
emergence of new competitors. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group has significant exposure to counterparty and borrower risk 
including credit losses, which may have an adverse effect on NatWest Group.
NatWest Group has exposure to many different sectors, customers and counterparties, 
and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and the recoverability 
of monies due from borrowers and other counterparties are inherent in a wide range of 
NatWest Group’s businesses. NatWest Group’s lending strategy and associated 
processes and systems may fail to identify, anticipate or quickly react to weaknesses or 
risks in a particular sector, market, borrower or counterparty, or NatWest Group’s credit 
risk appetite relative to competitors, or fail to appropriately value physical or financial 
collateral. This may result in increased default rates or a higher loss given default for 
loans, which may, in turn, impact NatWest Group’s profitability. Refer to ‘Risk and capital 
management — Credit Risk’.

The credit quality of NatWest Group’s borrowers and other counterparties may be 
affected by UK and global macroeconomic and political uncertainties, prevailing 
economic and market conditions. These include factors relating to interest rates and 
inflation, changing asset prices (including residential and commercial property), energy 
prices, supply chain disruption, changes to monetary and fiscal policy, the impact of 
armed conflict, and the legal and regulatory landscape in the UK and countries where 
NatWest Group is exposed to credit risk. Any further deterioration in these conditions or 
changes to legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty 
credit quality or impact the enforcement of contractual rights, increasing credit risk.

Any increase in drawings upon credit facilities may also increase NatWest Group’s RWAs. 
In addition, the level of household indebtedness (on a per capita basis) in the UK remains 
high. The ability of households and businesses to service their debts could be worsened 
by a period of high unemployment, or high interest rates or inflation, particularly if 
prolonged. 

NatWest Group may be affected by volatility in property prices (including as a result of 
UK political or economic conditions) given that NatWest Group’s mortgage loan and 
wholesale property loan portfolios as at 31 December 2023 amounted to £239.5 billion, 
representing 61% of NatWest Group’s total loan exposure. If property prices in the UK 
were to weaken this could lead to higher impairment charges, particularly if default rates 
also increase. In addition, NatWest Group’s credit risk may be exacerbated if the 
collateral that it holds cannot be realised as a result of market conditions, regulatory 
intervention, or other applicable laws, or if it is liquidated at prices not sufficient to 
recover the net amount outstanding to NatWest Group after accounting for any IFRS 9 
provisions already made. This is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity or 
depressed asset valuations.

NatWest Group is exposed to the financial sector, including sovereign debt securities, 
financial institutions, financial intermediation providers (including providing facilities to 
financial sponsors and funds, backed by assets or investor commitments) and securitised 
products (typically senior lending to special purpose vehicles backed by pools of financial 
assets). Concerns about, or a default by, a financial institution or intermediary could lead 
to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other financial institutions or 
intermediaries, since the commercial and financial soundness of many financial 
institutions and intermediaries is closely related and interdependent as a result of credit, 
trading, clearing and other relationships. Any perceived lack of creditworthiness of a 
counterparty or borrower may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses for 
NatWest Group. This systemic risk may also adversely affect financial intermediaries, 
such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with 
which NatWest Group interacts on a regular basis. Refer to ‘NatWest Group may not 
meet the prudential regulatory requirements for liquidity and funding or may not be able 
to adequately access sources of liquidity and funding, which could trigger the execution of 
certain management actions or recovery options.’

As a result, adverse changes in borrower and counterparty credit risk may cause 
additional impairment charges under IFRS 9, increased repurchase demands, higher 
costs, additional write-downs and losses for NatWest Group and an inability to engage in 
routine funding transactions. If NatWest Group experiences losses and a reduction in 
profitability, this is likely to affect the recoverable value of fixed assets, including goodwill 
and deferred taxes, which may lead to write-downs.

NatWest Group has applied an internal analysis of multiple economic scenarios (MES) 
together with the determination of specific overlay adjustments to inform its IFRS 9 ECL 
(Expected Credit Loss). The recognition and measurement of ECL is complex and 
involves the use of significant judgement and estimation. This includes the formulation 
and incorporation of multiple forward-looking economic scenarios into ECL to meet the 
measurement objective of IFRS 9. The ECL provision is sensitive to the model inputs and 
economic assumptions underlying the estimate. Going forward, NatWest Group 
anticipates observable credit deterioration of a proportion of assets resulting in a 
systematic uplift in defaults, which is mitigated by those economic assumption scenarios 
being reflected in the Stage 2 ECL across portfolios, along with a combination of post 
model overlays in both wholesale and retail portfolios reflecting the uncertainty of credit 
outcomes. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442244

424

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442255

Risk factors continued

Refer to  ‘Risk and capital management – Credit Risk’. A credit deterioration would also 
lead to RWA increases. Furthermore, the assumptions and judgements used in the MES 
and ECL assessment at 31 December 2023 may not prove to be adequate resulting in 
incremental ECL provisions for NatWest Group.

Due to NatWest Group’s exposure to the financial industry, it also has exposure to 
shadow banking entities. NatWest Group is required to identify and monitor its exposure 
to shadow banking entities, implement and maintain an internal framework for the 
identification, management, control and mitigation of the risks associated with exposure 
to shadow banking entities, and ensure effective reporting and governance in respect of 
such exposure. If NatWest Group is unable to properly identify and monitor its shadow 
banking exposure, maintain an adequate framework, and/or ensure effective reporting 
and governance in respect of shadow banking exposure, this may adversely affect 
NatWest Group.

In line with certain mandated COVID-19 pandemic support schemes, NatWest Group 
assisted customers with a number of initiatives including NatWest Group’s participation in 
BBLS, CBILS and CLBILS products. NatWest Group sought to manage the risks of fraud 
and money laundering against the need for the fast and efficient release of funds to 
customers and businesses. NatWest Group may be exposed to fraud, conduct and 
litigation risks arising from inappropriate approval (or denial) of BBLS, CBILS or CLBILS 
or the enforcing or pursuing repayment of BBLS, CBILS and CLBILS (or a failure to 
exercise forbearance), which may have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’s reputation 
and results of operations. The implementation of the initiatives and efforts mentioned 
above may result in litigation, regulatory and government actions and proceedings. 
These actions may result in judgements, settlements, penalties, fines, or removal of 
recourse to the government guarantee provided under those schemes for impacted 
loans. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group may not meet the prudential regulatory requirements for liquidity 
and funding or may not be able to adequately access sources of liquidity and 
funding, which could trigger the execution of certain management actions or 
recovery options. 
Liquidity and the ability to raise funds continues to be a key area of focus for NatWest 
Group and the industry as a whole. NatWest Group is required by regulators in the UK, 
the EU and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain 
adequate liquidity and funding resources. To satisfy its liquidity and funding requirements, 
NatWest Group may therefore access sources of liquidity and funding through retail and 
wholesale deposits, as well as through the debt capital markets. As at 31 December 
2023, NatWest Group plc subsidiaries held £453.6 billion in deposits from banks and 
customers. 

The level of deposits may fluctuate due to factors outside NatWest Group’s control, such 
as a loss of customers, loss of customer and/or investor confidence (including in individual 
NatWest Group entities and as a result of volatility in the financial industry), changes in 
customer behaviour, changes in interest rates, government support, increasing 
competitive pressures for retail and corporate customer deposits or the reduction or 
cessation of deposits by wholesale depositors, which could result in a significant outflow 
of deposits within a short period of time. An inability to grow or any material decrease in 
NatWest Group’s deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one or more of the other 
factors mentioned above, adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to satisfy its liquidity 
or funding needs, or comply with its related regulatory requirements. In turn, this could 
require NatWest Group to adapt its funding plans or change its operations.

Macroeconomic developments, political uncertainty, changes in interest rates, and 
market volatility could affect NatWest Group’s ability to access sources of liquidity and 
funding on satisfactory terms, or at all. This may result in higher funding costs and failure 
to comply with regulatory capital, funding and leverage requirements. As a result, 
NatWest Group and its subsidiaries could be required to change their funding plans. This 
could exacerbate funding and liquidity risk, which may adversely affect NatWest Group.

As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group plc’s liquidity coverage ratio was 144% and 
net stable funding ratio was 133%. If its liquidity position and/or funding were to come 
under stress, and if NatWest Group were unable to raise funds through deposits, in the 
debt capital markets or through other reliable funding sources, on acceptable terms, or 
at all, its liquidity position would likely be adversely affected and it might be unable to 
meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay 
borrowings as they mature, to meet its obligations under committed financing facilities, to 
comply with regulatory funding requirements, to undertake certain capital and/or debt 
management activities, and/or to fund new loans, investments and businesses or make 
capital distributions to its shareholders. 

If, under a stress scenario, the level of liquidity falls outside of NatWest Group’s risk 
appetite, there are a range of recovery management actions that NatWest Group could 
take to manage its liquidity levels, but any such actions may not be sufficient to restore 
adequate liquidity levels and the related implementation may have adverse 
consequences for NatWest Group’s operations. Under the EU Bank Recovery and 
Resolution Directives I and II (BRRD), as implemented in the UK, NatWest Group must 
maintain a recovery plan acceptable to its regulator, such that a breach of NatWest 
Group’s applicable liquidity requirements may trigger the application of NatWest Group’s 
recovery plan to attempt to remediate a deficient liquidity position.

NatWest Group may need to liquidate assets to meet its liabilities, including disposals of 
assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce its funding commitments or trigger 
the execution of certain management actions or recovery options. In a time of reduced 
liquidity, NatWest Group may be unable to sell its assets, at attractive prices, or at all, 
which may adversely affect NatWest Group’s liquidity.

Risk factors continued

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group may not meet the prudential regulatory requirements for 

regulatory capital and MREL, or manage its capital effectively, which could 

trigger the execution of certain management actions or recovery options. 

NatWest Group is required by regulators in the UK, the EU and other jurisdictions in 

which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate financial resources. 

Adequate levels of capital provide NatWest Group with financial flexibility specifically in its 

core UK operations in the face of turbulence and uncertainty in the UK and the global 

economy. Adequate levels of capital also enable NatWest Group plc to make 

discretionary capital distributions (including dividends to shareholders) and undertake 

buybacks of its shares.

As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group plc’s CET1 ratio was 13.4% and is targeting a 

CET1 ratio of 13-14%. NatWest Group plc’s target CET1 ratio is based on a combination 

of its views on the appropriate level of capital and its actual and expected regulatory 

requirements and internal modelling, including stress scenarios and management’s 

and/or the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA) views on appropriate buffers above 

minimum required operating levels. NatWest Group plc’s current capital strategy is based 

on the expected accumulation of additional capital through the accrual of retained 

earnings over time, planned capital actions (including issuances, redemptions, and 

discretionary capital distributions), RWA growth in the form of regulatory uplifts and 

lending growth and other capital management initiatives which focus on improving 

capital efficiency and ensuring NatWest Group meets its medium-to-long term targets. 

NatWest Group intends to make capital distributions to its equity investors of certain 

amounts surplus to its publicly stated CET1 target, subject to macroeconomic conditions, 

via a combination of dividends and buybacks. In making dividends distribution and 

buyback decisions, consideration is given to previously guided ordinary dividend pay-out 

ratios, an intention to continue to help reduce the government’s stake in the Group, and 

maximising shareholder value. 

A number of factors may impact NatWest Group plc’s ability to maintain its CET1 ratio 

target and achieve its capital strategy. These include: 







a depletion of its capital resources through increased costs or liabilities or reduced 

profits (for example, due to an increase in provisions due to a deterioration in UK 

economic conditions);

an increase in the quantum of RWAs/Leverage Exposure in excess of that expected, 

including due to regulatory changes (including their interpretation or application), or a 

failure in internal controls or procedures to accurately measure and report RWAs/ 

Leverage Exposure;

changes in prudential regulatory requirements including NatWest Group plc’s Total 

Capital Requirement/Leverage Requirement set by the PRA, including Pillar 2 

requirements, as applicable, and regulatory buffers as well as any applicable scalars; 

and



reduced upstreaming of dividends from NatWest Group plc’s subsidiaries because of 

changes in their financial performance and/or the extent to which local capital 

requirements exceed NatWest Group plc’s target ratio; and limitations on the use of 

double leverage (i.e., NatWest Group plc’s use of debt to invest in the equity of its 

subsidiaries, as a result of the Bank of England’s and/or NatWest Group’s evolving 

views on distribution of capital within groups).

A shortage or reduction of capital could in turn affect NatWest Group plc’s capital ratio, 

and/or its ability to make capital distributions and in turn NatWest Group may not remain 

a viable, competitive or profitable banking business.

A minimum level of capital is required to be met by NatWest Group plc for it to be 

entitled to make certain discretionary payments, and institutions such as NatWest Group 

plc which fail to meet the regulatory combined buffer requirement are subject to 

restricted discretionary payments. The resulting restrictions are scaled according to the 

extent of the breach of the combined buffer requirement and calculated as a percentage 

of the profits of the institution since the last distribution of profits or discretionary 

payment which gives rise to a maximum distributable amount (MDA) (if any) that the 

financial institution can distribute through discretionary payments. Any breach of the 

combined buffer requirement may necessitate for NatWest Group plc reducing or 

ceasing discretionary payments to shareholders (including payments of dividends) and 

buybacks depending on the extent of the breach.

NatWest Group plc is required to maintain a set quantum of MREL set as the higher of its 

RWAs or the applicable leverage-based minimum capital requirement. The Bank of 

England has identified single point-of-entry at NatWest Group plc, as the preferred 

resolution strategy for NatWest Group. As a result, NatWest Group plc is the only entity 

within NatWest Group that can externally issue securities that count towards its MREL, 

the proceeds of which can then be downstreamed to meet the internal MREL of its 

operating entities and intermediate holding companies. 

If NatWest Group plc is unable to raise or retain the requisite amount of regulatory 

capital or MREL, downstream the proceeds of MREL to subsidiaries as required, or to 

otherwise meet its regulatory capital, MREL and leverage requirements, it may be 

exposed to increased regulatory supervision or sanctions, loss of customer and/or 

investor confidence, constrained or more expensive funding and be unable to make 

discretionary payments on capital instruments.

If, under a stress scenario, the level of regulatory capital or MREL falls outside of 

NatWest Group’s risk appetite, there are a range of recovery management actions 

(focused on risk reduction and mitigation) that NatWest Group could seek to take to 

manage its capital levels, but any such actions may not be sufficient to restore adequate 

capital levels. Under the BRRD, as implemented in the UK, NatWest Group must maintain 

a recovery plan acceptable to its regulator, such that a breach of NatWest Group’s 

applicable capital or leverage requirements may trigger the application of NatWest 

Group’s recovery plan to remediate a deficient capital position. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442255

425

Risk factors continued

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.



NatWest Group may not meet the prudential regulatory requirements for 
regulatory capital and MREL, or manage its capital effectively, which could 
trigger the execution of certain management actions or recovery options. 
NatWest Group is required by regulators in the UK, the EU and other jurisdictions in 
which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate financial resources. 
Adequate levels of capital provide NatWest Group with financial flexibility specifically in its 
core UK operations in the face of turbulence and uncertainty in the UK and the global 
economy. Adequate levels of capital also enable NatWest Group plc to make 
discretionary capital distributions (including dividends to shareholders) and undertake 
buybacks of its shares.

As at 31 December 2023, NatWest Group plc’s CET1 ratio was 13.4% and is targeting a 
CET1 ratio of 13-14%. NatWest Group plc’s target CET1 ratio is based on a combination 
of its views on the appropriate level of capital and its actual and expected regulatory 
requirements and internal modelling, including stress scenarios and management’s 
and/or the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA) views on appropriate buffers above 
minimum required operating levels. NatWest Group plc’s current capital strategy is based 
on the expected accumulation of additional capital through the accrual of retained 
earnings over time, planned capital actions (including issuances, redemptions, and 
discretionary capital distributions), RWA growth in the form of regulatory uplifts and 
lending growth and other capital management initiatives which focus on improving 
capital efficiency and ensuring NatWest Group meets its medium-to-long term targets. 
NatWest Group intends to make capital distributions to its equity investors of certain 
amounts surplus to its publicly stated CET1 target, subject to macroeconomic conditions, 
via a combination of dividends and buybacks. In making dividends distribution and 
buyback decisions, consideration is given to previously guided ordinary dividend pay-out 
ratios, an intention to continue to help reduce the government’s stake in the Group, and 
maximising shareholder value. 

A number of factors may impact NatWest Group plc’s ability to maintain its CET1 ratio 
target and achieve its capital strategy. These include: 







a depletion of its capital resources through increased costs or liabilities or reduced 
profits (for example, due to an increase in provisions due to a deterioration in UK 
economic conditions);
an increase in the quantum of RWAs/Leverage Exposure in excess of that expected, 
including due to regulatory changes (including their interpretation or application), or a 
failure in internal controls or procedures to accurately measure and report RWAs/ 
Leverage Exposure;
changes in prudential regulatory requirements including NatWest Group plc’s Total 
Capital Requirement/Leverage Requirement set by the PRA, including Pillar 2 
requirements, as applicable, and regulatory buffers as well as any applicable scalars; 
and

reduced upstreaming of dividends from NatWest Group plc’s subsidiaries because of 
changes in their financial performance and/or the extent to which local capital 
requirements exceed NatWest Group plc’s target ratio; and limitations on the use of 
double leverage (i.e., NatWest Group plc’s use of debt to invest in the equity of its 
subsidiaries, as a result of the Bank of England’s and/or NatWest Group’s evolving 
views on distribution of capital within groups).

A shortage or reduction of capital could in turn affect NatWest Group plc’s capital ratio, 
and/or its ability to make capital distributions and in turn NatWest Group may not remain 
a viable, competitive or profitable banking business.

A minimum level of capital is required to be met by NatWest Group plc for it to be 
entitled to make certain discretionary payments, and institutions such as NatWest Group 
plc which fail to meet the regulatory combined buffer requirement are subject to 
restricted discretionary payments. The resulting restrictions are scaled according to the 
extent of the breach of the combined buffer requirement and calculated as a percentage 
of the profits of the institution since the last distribution of profits or discretionary 
payment which gives rise to a maximum distributable amount (MDA) (if any) that the 
financial institution can distribute through discretionary payments. Any breach of the 
combined buffer requirement may necessitate for NatWest Group plc reducing or 
ceasing discretionary payments to shareholders (including payments of dividends) and 
buybacks depending on the extent of the breach.

NatWest Group plc is required to maintain a set quantum of MREL set as the higher of its 
RWAs or the applicable leverage-based minimum capital requirement. The Bank of 
England has identified single point-of-entry at NatWest Group plc, as the preferred 
resolution strategy for NatWest Group. As a result, NatWest Group plc is the only entity 
within NatWest Group that can externally issue securities that count towards its MREL, 
the proceeds of which can then be downstreamed to meet the internal MREL of its 
operating entities and intermediate holding companies. 

If NatWest Group plc is unable to raise or retain the requisite amount of regulatory 
capital or MREL, downstream the proceeds of MREL to subsidiaries as required, or to 
otherwise meet its regulatory capital, MREL and leverage requirements, it may be 
exposed to increased regulatory supervision or sanctions, loss of customer and/or 
investor confidence, constrained or more expensive funding and be unable to make 
discretionary payments on capital instruments.

If, under a stress scenario, the level of regulatory capital or MREL falls outside of 
NatWest Group’s risk appetite, there are a range of recovery management actions 
(focused on risk reduction and mitigation) that NatWest Group could seek to take to 
manage its capital levels, but any such actions may not be sufficient to restore adequate 
capital levels. Under the BRRD, as implemented in the UK, NatWest Group must maintain 
a recovery plan acceptable to its regulator, such that a breach of NatWest Group’s 
applicable capital or leverage requirements may trigger the application of NatWest 
Group’s recovery plan to remediate a deficient capital position. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442266

426

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442277

Risk factors continued

NatWest Group’s regulator may request that NatWest Group carry out certain capital 
management actions or, if NatWest Group plc’s CET1 ratio falls below 7%, certain 
regulatory capital instruments issued by NatWest Group plc will be written-down or 
converted into equity and there may be an issue of additional equity by NatWest Group 
plc, which could result in the reduction in value of the holdings of NatWest Group plc’s 
existing shareholders. 

The success of such issuances will also be dependent on favourable market conditions 
and NatWest Group may not be able to raise the amount of capital required on 
acceptable terms, or at all. Separately, NatWest Group may address a shortage of 
capital by taking action to reduce leverage exposure and/or RWAs via asset or business 
disposals. These actions may, in turn, affect: NatWest Group’s product offering, credit 
ratings, ability to operate its businesses, pursue its strategy and strategic opportunities, 
any of which may adversely affect NatWest Group. Refer to ‘‘NatWest Group may 
become subject to the application of UK statutory stabilisation or resolution powers which 
may result in, for example, the cancellation, transfer or dilution of ordinary shares, or the 
write-down or conversion of certain other of NatWest Group’s securities.’; and ‘NatWest 
Group may be adversely affected if it fails to meet the requirements of regulatory stress 
tests.’

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Any reduction in the credit rating and/or outlooks assigned to NatWest Group plc, 
any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective debt securities could adversely 
affect the availability of funding for NatWest Group, reduce NatWest Group’s 
liquidity and funding position and increase the cost of funding. 
Rating agencies regularly review NatWest Group plc and other NatWest Group entities’ 
credit ratings and outlooks. NatWest Group entities’ credit ratings and outlooks could be 
negatively affected (directly and indirectly) by a number of factors that can change over 
time, including, without limitation: credit rating agencies’ assessment of NatWest Group’s 
strategy and management’s capability; its financial condition including in respect of 
profitability, asset quality, capital, funding and liquidity, and risk management practices; 
the level of political support for the sectors and regions in which NatWest Group 
operates; the implementation of structural reform; the legal and regulatory frameworks 
applicable to NatWest Group’s legal structure; business activities and the rights of its 
creditors; changes in rating methodologies; changes in the relative size of the loss-
absorbing buffers protecting bondholders and depositors; the competitive environment; 
political, geopolitical and economic conditions in NatWest Group’s key markets (including 
inflation and interest rates), supply chain disruptions and the outcome of any further 
Scottish independence referendum, any reduction of the UK’s sovereign credit ratings 
and market uncertainty. In addition, credit ratings agencies are increasingly taking into 
account sustainability-related factors, including climate, environmental, social and 
governance related risk, as part of the credit ratings analysis, as are investors in their 
investment decisions. Refer to ‘A reduction in the ESG ratings of NatWest Group could 
have a negative impact on NatWest Group’s reputation and on investors’ risk appetite 
and customers’ willingness to deal with NatWest Group.’

Any reductions in the credit ratings of NatWest Group plc or of certain other NatWest 
Group entities, including, in particular, any downgrade below investment grade, or a 
deterioration in the capital markets’ perception of NatWest Group’s financial resilience 
could significantly affect NatWest Group’s access to capital markets, reduce the size of 
its deposit base and trigger additional collateral or other requirements in its funding 
arrangements or the need to amend such arrangements, which could adversely affect 
NatWest Group’s (and, in particular, NatWest Group plc’s) liquidity and funding position, 
cost of funding and its access to capital markets and could limit the range of 
counterparties willing to enter into transactions, on favourable terms, or at all, with 
NatWest Group (and, in particular, with NatWest Group plc). This may in turn adversely 
affect NatWest Group’s competitive position and threaten its prospects.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group may be adversely affected if it fails to meet the requirements of 
regulatory stress tests. 
NatWest Group entities are subject to annual and other stress tests by their respective 
regulators in the UK and EU. Stress tests are designed to assess the resilience of banks 
such as NatWest Group to potential adverse economic or financial developments and 
ensure that they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account 
for the risks associated with their business profile. If the stress tests reveal that a bank’s 
existing regulatory capital buffers are not sufficient to absorb the impact of the stress, 
then it is possible that NatWest Group may need to take action to strengthen its capital 
position.

Failure by NatWest Group to meet the quantitative and qualitative requirements of the 
stress tests as set forth by its UK regulator may result in: NatWest Group’s regulators 
requiring NatWest Group to generate additional capital, reputational damage, increased 
supervision and/or regulatory sanctions, restrictions on capital distributions and loss of 
investor confidence, all of which may adversely affect NatWest Group.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group could incur losses or be required to maintain higher levels of 
capital as a result of limitations or failure of various models.
Given the complexity of NatWest Group’s business, strategy and capital requirements, 
NatWest Group relies on analytical and other models for a wide range of purposes, 
including to manage its business, assess the value of its assets and its risk exposure, as 
well as to anticipate capital and funding requirements (including to facilitate NatWest 
Group’s mandated stress testing). In addition, NatWest Group utilises models for 
valuations, credit approvals, calculation of loan impairment charges on an IFRS 9 basis, 
financial reporting and for financial crime (criminal activities in the form of money 
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, tax evasion and sanctions  as well 
as external or internal fraud (collectively, financial crime)). NatWest Group’s models, and 
the parameters and assumptions on which they are based, are periodically reviewed. 

estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, 

The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that NatWest Group has 

Risk factors continued

As model outputs are imperfect representations of real-world phenomena or 

simplifications of complex real-world systems and processes, and are based on a limited 

set of observations, model outputs therefore remain uncertain. NatWest Group may face 

adverse consequences as a result of actions or decisions based on models that are 

poorly developed, incorrectly implemented, outdated or used inappropriately. This 

includes models that are based on inaccurate or non-representative data (for example, 

where there have been changes in the micro or macroeconomic environment in which 

NatWest Group operates) or as a result of the modelled outcome being misunderstood, 

or by such information being used for purposes for which it was not designed. This could 

result in findings of deficiencies by NatWest Group’s regulators (including as part of 

NatWest Group’s mandated stress testing) and increased capital requirements, may 

render some business lines uneconomic, may require management action or may subject 

NatWest Group to regulatory sanction, any of which in turn may also have an adverse 

effect on NatWest Group and its customers.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group’s financial statements are sensitive to underlying accounting 

policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions. 

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, 

expenses, exposures and RWAs. While estimates, judgements and assumptions take into 

account historical experience and other factors (including market practice and 

expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 

circumstances), actual results may differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making 

estimates, judgements and assumptions (particularly those involving the use of complex 

models). Further, accounting policy and financial statement reporting requirements 

increasingly require management to adjust existing judgements, estimates and 

assumptions for the effects of climate-related, sustainability and other matters that are 

inherently uncertain and for which there is little historical experience which may affect 

the comparability of NatWest Group’s future financial results with its historical results. 

Actual results may differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making climate-related and 

sustainability estimates, judgements and assumptions. 

Accounting policies deemed critical to NatWest Group’s results and financial position, 

based upon materiality and significant judgements and estimates, involve a high degree 

of uncertainty and may have a material impact on its results. For 2023, these include 

loan impairments, fair value, deferred tax and conduct and litigation provisions. These 

are set out in ‘Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation uncertainty’.

Changes in accounting standards may materially impact NatWest Group’s 

financial results.

NatWest Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with the 

requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with IFRS as issued by the 

International Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting standards or guidance 

by accounting bodies or in the timing of their implementation, whether immediate or 

foreseeable, could result in NatWest Group having to recognise additional liabilities on its 

balance sheet, or in further write-downs or impairments to its assets and could also have 

a material adverse effect on NatWest Group. 

From time to time, the International Accounting Standards Board may issue new 

accounting standards or interpretations that could materially impact how NatWest Group 

calculates, reports and discloses its financial results and financial condition, and which 

may affect NatWest Group capital ratios, including the CET1 ratio. New accounting 

standards and interpretations that have been issued by the International Accounting 

Standards Board but which have not yet been adopted by NatWest Group are discussed 

in ‘Future accounting developments’.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the financial 

condition of the insurers and counterparties.

NatWest Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative contracts, 

mainly credit default swaps (CDSs), and other credit derivatives, each of which are 

carried at fair value. The fair value of these CDSs, as well as NatWest Group’s exposure 

to the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the 

perceived credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought. Many 

market counterparties have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential 

mortgage-linked and corporate credit products, whether synthetic or otherwise, and 

their actual and perceived creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly. If the financial 

condition of these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness 

deteriorates, NatWest Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the 

credit protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs. NatWest Group also 

recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit derivatives. Any such 

adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 

Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

NatWest Group is subject to Bank of England and PRA oversight in respect of 

England in the future deem NatWest Group’s preparations to be inadequate.

NatWest Group is subject to regulatory oversight by the Bank of England and the PRA 

and is required (under the PRA rulebook) to carry out an assessment of its preparations 

for resolution, submit a report of the assessment to the PRA, and disclose a summary of 

this report. NatWest Group has dedicated significant resources towards the preparation 

of NatWest Group for a potential resolution scenario. 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

resolution, and NatWest Group could be adversely affected should the Bank of 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442277

427

Risk factors continued

As model outputs are imperfect representations of real-world phenomena or 
simplifications of complex real-world systems and processes, and are based on a limited 
set of observations, model outputs therefore remain uncertain. NatWest Group may face 
adverse consequences as a result of actions or decisions based on models that are 
poorly developed, incorrectly implemented, outdated or used inappropriately. This 
includes models that are based on inaccurate or non-representative data (for example, 
where there have been changes in the micro or macroeconomic environment in which 
NatWest Group operates) or as a result of the modelled outcome being misunderstood, 
or by such information being used for purposes for which it was not designed. This could 
result in findings of deficiencies by NatWest Group’s regulators (including as part of 
NatWest Group’s mandated stress testing) and increased capital requirements, may 
render some business lines uneconomic, may require management action or may subject 
NatWest Group to regulatory sanction, any of which in turn may also have an adverse 
effect on NatWest Group and its customers.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group’s financial statements are sensitive to underlying accounting 
policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions. 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses, exposures and RWAs. While estimates, judgements and assumptions take into 
account historical experience and other factors (including market practice and 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances), actual results may differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making 
estimates, judgements and assumptions (particularly those involving the use of complex 
models). Further, accounting policy and financial statement reporting requirements 
increasingly require management to adjust existing judgements, estimates and 
assumptions for the effects of climate-related, sustainability and other matters that are 
inherently uncertain and for which there is little historical experience which may affect 
the comparability of NatWest Group’s future financial results with its historical results. 
Actual results may differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making climate-related and 
sustainability estimates, judgements and assumptions. 

Accounting policies deemed critical to NatWest Group’s results and financial position, 
based upon materiality and significant judgements and estimates, involve a high degree 
of uncertainty and may have a material impact on its results. For 2023, these include 
loan impairments, fair value, deferred tax and conduct and litigation provisions. These 
are set out in ‘Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation uncertainty’.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Changes in accounting standards may materially impact NatWest Group’s 
financial results.
NatWest Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting standards or guidance 
by accounting bodies or in the timing of their implementation, whether immediate or 
foreseeable, could result in NatWest Group having to recognise additional liabilities on its 
balance sheet, or in further write-downs or impairments to its assets and could also have 
a material adverse effect on NatWest Group. 

From time to time, the International Accounting Standards Board may issue new 
accounting standards or interpretations that could materially impact how NatWest Group 
calculates, reports and discloses its financial results and financial condition, and which 
may affect NatWest Group capital ratios, including the CET1 ratio. New accounting 
standards and interpretations that have been issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board but which have not yet been adopted by NatWest Group are discussed 
in ‘Future accounting developments’.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that NatWest Group has 
purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the financial 
condition of the insurers and counterparties.
NatWest Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative contracts, 
mainly credit default swaps (CDSs), and other credit derivatives, each of which are 
carried at fair value. The fair value of these CDSs, as well as NatWest Group’s exposure 
to the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the 
perceived credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought. Many 
market counterparties have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential 
mortgage-linked and corporate credit products, whether synthetic or otherwise, and 
their actual and perceived creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly. If the financial 
condition of these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness 
deteriorates, NatWest Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the 
credit protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs. NatWest Group also 
recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit derivatives. Any such 
adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation. 

NatWest Group is subject to Bank of England and PRA oversight in respect of 
resolution, and NatWest Group could be adversely affected should the Bank of 
England in the future deem NatWest Group’s preparations to be inadequate.
NatWest Group is subject to regulatory oversight by the Bank of England and the PRA 
and is required (under the PRA rulebook) to carry out an assessment of its preparations 
for resolution, submit a report of the assessment to the PRA, and disclose a summary of 
this report. NatWest Group has dedicated significant resources towards the preparation 
of NatWest Group for a potential resolution scenario. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442288

428

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442299

Risk factors continued

In June 2022 the Bank of England communicated its assessment of NatWest Group’s 
preparations and did not identify any shortcomings, deficiencies or substantive 
impediments although two areas were highlighted as requiring further enhancements. 
NatWest Group could be adversely affected should future Bank of England assessments 
deem NatWest Group’s preparations to be inadequate.

If future Bank of England assessments identify a significant gap in NatWest Group’s 
ability to achieve the resolvability outcomes or reveals that NatWest Group is not 
adequately prepared to be resolved, or does not have adequate plans in place to meet 
resolvability requirements, NatWest Group may be required to take action to enhance its 
preparations to be resolvable, resulting in additional costs and the dedication of additional 
resources. Such a scenario may have an impact on NatWest Group as, depending on the 
Bank of England’s assessment, potential action may include, but is not limited to, 
restrictions on NatWest Group’s maximum individual and aggregate exposures, a 
requirement to dispose of specified assets, a requirement to change its legal or 
operational structure, a requirement to cease carrying out certain activities, a 
requirement not to make discretionary distributions or undertake NatWest Group’s 
shares buybacks, and/or a requirement to maintain a specified amount of MREL. 

This may also impact NatWest Group’s strategic plans and may have a material adverse 
effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or 
reputation, or lead to a loss of investor confidence.

NatWest Group may become subject to the application of UK statutory 
stabilisation or resolution powers which may result in, for example, the 
cancellation, transfer or dilution of ordinary shares, or the write-down or 
conversion of certain other of NatWest Group’s securities. 
HM Treasury, the Bank of England, the PRA and the FCA (together, the ‘Authorities’) are 
granted substantial powers to resolve and stabilise UK-incorporated financial institutions. 
Five stabilisation options exist: (i) transfer of all of the business of a relevant entity or the 
shares of the relevant entity to a private sector purchaser; (ii) transfer of all or part of the 
business of the relevant entity to a ‘bridge bank’ wholly-owned by the Bank of England; 
(iii) transfer of part of the assets, rights or liabilities of the relevant entity to one or more 
asset management vehicles for management of the transferor’s assets, rights or 
liabilities; (iv) the write-down, conversion, transfer, modification, or suspension of the 
relevant entity’s equity, capital instruments and liabilities; and (v) temporary public 
ownership of the relevant entity. These options may be applied to NatWest Group plc as 
the parent company or to any subsidiary where certain conditions are met (such as, 
whether the firm is failing or likely to fail, or whether it is reasonably likely that action will 
be taken (outside of resolution) that will result in the firm no longer failing or being likely 
to fail). Moreover, there are modified insolvency and administration procedures for 
relevant entities within NatWest Group, and the Authorities have the power to modify or 
override certain contractual arrangements in certain circumstances and amend the law 
for the purpose of enabling their powers to be used effectively and may promulgate 
provisions with retrospective applicability.

Under the UK Banking Act 2009, the Authorities are generally required to have regard to 
specified objectives in exercising the powers provided for by the UK Banking Act. One of 
the objectives (which is required to be balanced as appropriate with the other specified 
objectives) refers to the protection and enhancement of the stability of the financial 
system of the UK. Moreover, the ‘no creditor worse off’ safeguard provides that where 
resolution action is taken, the Authorities are required to ensure that no creditor is in a 
worse position than if the bank had entered into normal insolvency proceedings. 
Although, this safeguard may not apply in relation to an application of the separate 
write-down and conversion power relating to capital instruments in circumstances where 
a stabilisation power is not also used, the UK Banking Act still requires the Authorities to 
respect the hierarchy on insolvency when using the write-down and conversion power. 
Further, holders of debt instruments which are subject to the power may, however, have 
ordinary shares transferred to or issued to them by way of compensation.

Uncertainty exists as to how the Authorities may exercise their powers including the 
determination of actions undertaken in relation to the ordinary shares and other 
securities issued by NatWest Group, which may depend on factors outside of NatWest 
Group’s control. Moreover, the UK Banking Act provisions remain largely untested in 
practice, particularly in respect of resolutions of large financial institutions and groups.

If NatWest Group is at or is approaching the point such that regulatory intervention is 
required, any exercise of the resolution regime powers by the Authorities may adversely 
affect holders of NatWest Group plc’s ordinary shares or other NatWest Group securities. 
This may result in various actions being undertaken in relation to NatWest Group and 
any securities of NatWest Group, including cancellation, transfer, dilution, write-down or 
conversion (as applicable). There may also be a corresponding adverse effect on the 
market price of such ordinary shares and other NatWest Group securities. 

Each of these actions may also have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s 
future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

CClliimmaattee  aanndd  ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy--rreellaatteedd  rriisskkss

NatWest Group and its value chain face climate-related and sustainability-related 
risk that may adversely affect NatWest Group. 
NatWest Group and its value chain (including its investors, customers, counterparties 
(including its suppliers) and employees) may face financial and non-financial risks arising 
from sustainability-related risks, including climate-related risks. 

Climate and sustainability-related risks may:

There are significant uncertainties as to the location, extent and timing of the 







adversely affect asset pricing and valuations of NatWest Group’s own and other 
securities and, in turn, the wider financial system;
adversely affect economic activities directly (for example through lower corporate 
profitability or the devaluation of assets) or indirectly (for example through macro-
financial changes);
adversely affect the viability or resilience of business models over the medium to 
longer term, particularly those business models most vulnerable to climate and 
sustainability-related risks;

Risk factors continued







trigger losses stemming directly or indirectly from liability risks and/or reputational 

In addition, NatWest Group’s premises and operations, or those of its critical outsourced 

damage, including as a result of adverse media coverage, activists, the public, 

functions may experience damage or disruption leading to increased costs. Any of these 

customers, counterparties (including suppliers) and/or investors associating NatWest 

may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial 

Group or its customers with adverse climate and sustainability-related issues;

condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to deliver on its strategy, including achieving 

its climate ambitions and targets;

exacerbate other risk categories to which NatWest Group is exposed, including credit 

risk, operational risk (including business continuity), market risk (both traded and 

non-traded), liquidity and funding risk (for example, net cash outflows or depletion of 

liquidity buffers), reputational risk, pension risk, regulatory compliance risk and 

conduct risk; and

 may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s reputation, future results, 

financial condition, and/or prospects (including cash flows, access to finance or cost 

of capital over the short, medium or long term). 

Climate and sustainability matters are becoming increasingly political and polarised. 

Some customers, counterparties (including suppliers) and investors may decide not to do 

business with NatWest Group because, according to their own assessment, NatWest 

Group’s strategy, ambitions and targets related to climate and sustainability do not meet 

their expectations, whereas others may decide not to do business with NatWest Group 

for failing to progress its climate and sustainability-related strategy, ambitions and 

targets or if they are of the view that they lack credibility.

If NatWest Group fails to identify, assess, prioritise, monitor and react appropriately to 

climate and sustainability-related risks, in a timely manner or at all, climate and 

sustainability-related physical, transition and liability risks and opportunities, changing 

regulatory and market expectations and societal preferences that NatWest Group, its 

customers, counterparties (including suppliers) face, this may have a material adverse 

effect on NatWest Group’s business, future results, financial condition, prospects, 

reputation or the price of its securities.

Climate-related risks may adversely affect the global financial system, NatWest 

Group or its value chain.

Climate-related risks represent a source of systemic risk in the global financial system. 

The financial impacts of climate-related risks are expected to be widespread and may 

disrupt the orderly functioning of financial markets and have an adverse effect on 

financial institutions, including NatWest Group. 

To meet the goals of the UK’s Net Zero Strategy will require a net-zero transition across 

all sectors of the UK economy. The impacts of the extensive social, commercial, 

technological, policy and regulatory changes required to achieve this transition remain 

uncertain but are expected to be significant, subject to continuous changes and 

developments and may be disruptive across the global economy and markets, especially 

if these changes do not occur in an orderly or timely manner or are not effective in 

reducing emissions sufficiently in a timely manner, or at all. NatWest Group’s business 

and customers in some sectors, including but not limited to, residential mortgages, 

commercial real estate, agriculture (primary farming), automotive manufacturing, 

aviation, shipping, land transport and logistics (freight road, passenger rail and road), 

electricity generation and oil and gas are expected to be particularly impacted. The 

timing and pace of the net-zero transition is also uncertain, will depend on many factors 

and uncertainties and may be near-term, gradual and orderly, or delayed, rapid and 

disorderly, or a combination of these. 

Climate-related risks may exacerbate the impact of financial and non-financial risks and 

they may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial 

condition, prospects, and/or reputation, including as a result of financial losses caused 

directly or indirectly by climate-related litigation and conduct matters (referred to as 

‘liability risk’). Refer to ‘NatWest Group may be subject to potential climate and other 

sustainability-related litigation, enforcement proceedings, investigations and conduct risk.’

NatWest Group and its value chain may, face other sustainability-related risks 

that may adversely affect NatWest Group.

NatWest Group and its value chain (including its investors, customers, counterparties 

(including its suppliers) and employees) may face financial and non-financial risks arising 

from broader (i.e. non-climate-related) sustainability issues. These include: (i) risks 

relating to nature loss (such as the loss and/or decline of the state of nature including but 

not limited to, the reduction of any aspect of biological diversity and other forms of 

environmental degradation such as air, water and land pollution, soil quality degradation 

and water stress); (ii) risks related to societal (including human rights) matters, for 

example, climate change and environmental degradation negatively impacting people’s 

standard of living and health, geopolitical tensions and conflict endangering people’s lives 

and security, the displacement of communities, the violation of indigenous people’s rights, 

manifestation of the physical impacts of climate change, such as more severe and 

unjust working conditions and labour rights breaches (including discrimination, lack of 

frequent extreme weather events (storms, flooding, subsidence, heat waves, droughts 

diversity and inclusion, inequality, gender/ethnicity pay gap and payments under the 

and wildfires), rising average global temperatures and sea levels, nature loss, declining 

minimum wage), modern slavery, financial crime, data privacy breaches and lack of 

food yields, destruction of critical infrastructure, supply chain disruption and resource 

support for the vulnerable; and (iii) governance-related risks (including board diversity, 

scarcity. Damage to NatWest Group customers’ and counterparties’(including suppliers’) 

ethics, executive compensation and management structure).

properties and operations could disrupt business, result in the deterioration of the value 

of collateral or insurance shortfalls, impair asset values and negatively impact the 

creditworthiness of customers and their ability and/or willingness to pay fees, afford new 

products or repay their debts, leading to increased default rates, delinquencies, write-offs 

and impairment charges in NatWest Group’s portfolios. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

442299

429

Risk factors continued







trigger losses stemming directly or indirectly from liability risks and/or reputational 
damage, including as a result of adverse media coverage, activists, the public, 
customers, counterparties (including suppliers) and/or investors associating NatWest 
Group or its customers with adverse climate and sustainability-related issues;
adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to deliver on its strategy, including achieving 
its climate ambitions and targets;
exacerbate other risk categories to which NatWest Group is exposed, including credit 
risk, operational risk (including business continuity), market risk (both traded and 
non-traded), liquidity and funding risk (for example, net cash outflows or depletion of 
liquidity buffers), reputational risk, pension risk, regulatory compliance risk and 
conduct risk; and

 may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s reputation, future results, 
financial condition, and/or prospects (including cash flows, access to finance or cost 
of capital over the short, medium or long term). 

Climate and sustainability matters are becoming increasingly political and polarised. 
Some customers, counterparties (including suppliers) and investors may decide not to do 
business with NatWest Group because, according to their own assessment, NatWest 
Group’s strategy, ambitions and targets related to climate and sustainability do not meet 
their expectations, whereas others may decide not to do business with NatWest Group 
for failing to progress its climate and sustainability-related strategy, ambitions and 
targets or if they are of the view that they lack credibility.

If NatWest Group fails to identify, assess, prioritise, monitor and react appropriately to 
climate and sustainability-related risks, in a timely manner or at all, climate and 
sustainability-related physical, transition and liability risks and opportunities, changing 
regulatory and market expectations and societal preferences that NatWest Group, its 
customers, counterparties (including suppliers) face, this may have a material adverse 
effect on NatWest Group’s business, future results, financial condition, prospects, 
reputation or the price of its securities.

Climate-related risks may adversely affect the global financial system, NatWest 
Group or its value chain.
Climate-related risks represent a source of systemic risk in the global financial system. 
The financial impacts of climate-related risks are expected to be widespread and may 
disrupt the orderly functioning of financial markets and have an adverse effect on 
financial institutions, including NatWest Group. 

There are significant uncertainties as to the location, extent and timing of the 
manifestation of the physical impacts of climate change, such as more severe and 
frequent extreme weather events (storms, flooding, subsidence, heat waves, droughts 
and wildfires), rising average global temperatures and sea levels, nature loss, declining 
food yields, destruction of critical infrastructure, supply chain disruption and resource 
scarcity. Damage to NatWest Group customers’ and counterparties’(including suppliers’) 
properties and operations could disrupt business, result in the deterioration of the value 
of collateral or insurance shortfalls, impair asset values and negatively impact the 
creditworthiness of customers and their ability and/or willingness to pay fees, afford new 
products or repay their debts, leading to increased default rates, delinquencies, write-offs 
and impairment charges in NatWest Group’s portfolios. 

In addition, NatWest Group’s premises and operations, or those of its critical outsourced 
functions may experience damage or disruption leading to increased costs. Any of these 
may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial 
condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

To meet the goals of the UK’s Net Zero Strategy will require a net-zero transition across 
all sectors of the UK economy. The impacts of the extensive social, commercial, 
technological, policy and regulatory changes required to achieve this transition remain 
uncertain but are expected to be significant, subject to continuous changes and 
developments and may be disruptive across the global economy and markets, especially 
if these changes do not occur in an orderly or timely manner or are not effective in 
reducing emissions sufficiently in a timely manner, or at all. NatWest Group’s business 
and customers in some sectors, including but not limited to, residential mortgages, 
commercial real estate, agriculture (primary farming), automotive manufacturing, 
aviation, shipping, land transport and logistics (freight road, passenger rail and road), 
electricity generation and oil and gas are expected to be particularly impacted. The 
timing and pace of the net-zero transition is also uncertain, will depend on many factors 
and uncertainties and may be near-term, gradual and orderly, or delayed, rapid and 
disorderly, or a combination of these. 

Climate-related risks may exacerbate the impact of financial and non-financial risks and 
they may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial 
condition, prospects, and/or reputation, including as a result of financial losses caused 
directly or indirectly by climate-related litigation and conduct matters (referred to as 
‘liability risk’). Refer to ‘NatWest Group may be subject to potential climate and other 
sustainability-related litigation, enforcement proceedings, investigations and conduct risk.’

NatWest Group and its value chain may, face other sustainability-related risks 
that may adversely affect NatWest Group.
NatWest Group and its value chain (including its investors, customers, counterparties 
(including its suppliers) and employees) may face financial and non-financial risks arising 
from broader (i.e. non-climate-related) sustainability issues. These include: (i) risks 
relating to nature loss (such as the loss and/or decline of the state of nature including but 
not limited to, the reduction of any aspect of biological diversity and other forms of 
environmental degradation such as air, water and land pollution, soil quality degradation 
and water stress); (ii) risks related to societal (including human rights) matters, for 
example, climate change and environmental degradation negatively impacting people’s 
standard of living and health, geopolitical tensions and conflict endangering people’s lives 
and security, the displacement of communities, the violation of indigenous people’s rights, 
unjust working conditions and labour rights breaches (including discrimination, lack of 
diversity and inclusion, inequality, gender/ethnicity pay gap and payments under the 
minimum wage), modern slavery, financial crime, data privacy breaches and lack of 
support for the vulnerable; and (iii) governance-related risks (including board diversity, 
ethics, executive compensation and management structure).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443300

430

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443311

Risk factors continued

NatWest Group is directly and indirectly exposed to multiple types of nature-related risks 
through the breadth of its activities, products and services offering, including through the 
risk of default by customers whose businesses are exposed to nature-related risks. In 
2021, NatWest Group first classified ‘Biodiversity and Nature Loss’ as an emerging risk 
for NatWest Group within its Risk Management Framework. From January 2024, 
NatWest Group has expanded its key risk definition from climate risk to climate and 
nature risk and updated its climate risk policy to reflect emerging nature-related risks 
and to capture requirements that go beyond climate risk.

NatWest Group supports the aims of the Task Force on Nature Related Financial 
Disclosure and continues to enhance its reporting and measurement capabilities, 
acknowledging challenges associated with data availability, while continuing to review 
evolving disclosure standards and framework. NatWest Group’s approach is to integrate 
nature its existing strategy on climate, recognising there is still, much to do in 
understanding its impacts and dependencies on nature as well as our nature-related 
risks and opportunities. There is also increased scrutiny from NatWest Group’s investors, 
customers, counterparties (including its suppliers), employees, communities, regulators, 
the media and other stakeholders on how NatWest Group addresses societal and 
governance related matters, including unjust working conditions and labour rights 
breaches, resilience in the workplace, safety and wellbeing, data protection and 
management, workforce management, human rights and value chain management. For 
example, NatWest Group’s ambition is to support decarbonisation while promoting 
energy security, may lead to continued exposure to carbon-intensive activities and 
sectors regarded as posing high climate and nature-related and societal (including 
human rights) risks, (such as the textiles, agriculture and mining sectors) each of which 
may impact NatWest Group’s employees, customers, counterparties (including suppliers) 
and stakeholders and their business activities and/or the communities in which they 
operate and, in turn, result in reputational risk for NatWest Group.

There is also growing expectation of the need for a ‘just transition’ and ‘energy justice’ – 
in recognition that the transition to net zero should happen in a way that is as fair and 
inclusive as possible to everyone concerned. Although NatWest Group continues to 
evaluate and assess how it integrates ‘just transition’ considerations into its climate and 
sustainability strategy, a failure (or perception of failure) by NatWest Group to sufficiently 
factor these considerations into existing products and service offerings may adversely 
affect NatWest Group, including NatWest Group’s reputation.

In 2023, NatWest Group published its initial assessment of its ‘salient human rights 
issues’. Human rights saliency assessments are high-level scoping exercises based on 
internal and external stakeholder engagement and involve subjective materiality and 
other judgements including as to severity and likelihood of human rights impacts. Failure 
by NatWest Group to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor any actual or potential 
adverse human rights issues that NatWest Group, contributes to, or is directly linked to, 
may adversely impact people and communities, which in turn may have a material 
adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects and/or 
reputation.

Sustainability-related risks may have the potential to cause or stress other financial and 
non-financial risks, including climate-related risks, and they may have a material adverse 
effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or 
reputation, including as a result of financial losses caused directly or indirectly by 
sustainability-related litigation and conduct matters (referred to as ‘liability risk’). Refer to 
‘NatWest Group may be subject to potential climate and other sustainability-related 
litigation, enforcement proceedings, investigations and conduct risk’.

NatWest Group’s climate change related strategy, ambitions, targets and 
transition plan entail significant execution and/or reputational risks and are 
unlikely to be achieved without significant and timely government policy, 
technology and customer behavioural changes. 
NatWest Group has an ambition to become a leading bank in the UK, helping to address 
the climate challenge. At NatWest Group’s Annual General Meeting in April 2022, 
ordinary shareholders passed an advisory ‘Say on Climate’ resolution endorsing NatWest 
Group’s previously announced strategic direction on climate change, including its 
ambitions to at least halve the climate impact of its financing activity by 2030, achieve 
alignment with the 2015 Paris Agreement and reach net zero across its financed 
emissions, assets under management and operational value chain by 2050. Further, in 
December 2022, NatWest Group published its science-based targets validated by 
Science Based Target Initiative for 79% of its lending book as at 31 December 2019 and 
57% of debt securities and equity shares, excluding sovereign debt securities.

NatWest Group has also announced and in the future it may also announce other climate 
ambitions, targets and initiatives which support its aim to help addressing the climate 
challenge.

Making the changes necessary to achieve NatWest Group’s strategic direction on climate 
change, including its climate ambitions and targets and executing its transition plan, 
together with the active management of climate and sustainability-related risks and 
other regulatory, policy and market changes, is likely to necessitate material changes to 
NatWest Group’s business, operating model, its existing exposures and the products and 
services NatWest Group provides to its customers (potentially on accelerated timescales). 
NatWest Group may be required to (i) significantly reduce its financed emissions and its 
exposure to customers that do not align with a transition to net zero or do not have a 
credible transition plan in place, and (ii) divest or discontinue certain activities for 
regulatory or legal reasons or in response to the transition to a less carbon-dependent 
economy. Increases in lending and financing activities may wholly or partially offset some 
or all these reductions, which may increase the extent of changes and reductions 
necessary. 

Making the necessary changes (or not making the necessary changes in a timely 
manner, or at all) may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s business and 
operations, financial condition, prospects and competitive position and NatWest Group’s 
ability to achieve its climate and financial ambitions and targets, take advantage of 
climate change-related opportunities and generate sustainable returns.

. 

Risk factors continued

NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its climate ambitions and 

targets, will significantly depend on many factors and uncertainties beyond NatWest 

Group’s control. These include (i) the extent and pace of climate change, including the 

timing and manifestation of physical and transition risks; (ii) the macroeconomic 

There are significant limitations related to accessing accurate, reliable, verifiable, 

auditable, consistent and comparable climate and other sustainability-related 

data that contribute to substantial uncertainties in accurately modelling and 

reporting on climate and sustainability information, as well as making appropriate 

environment; (iii) the effectiveness of actions of governments, legislators, regulators and 

important internal decisions.

businesses; (iv) the response of the wider society, investors, customers, suppliers and 

Meaningful reporting of climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities and 

other stakeholders to mitigate the impact of climate and sustainability-related risks; (v) 

their potential impacts and related metrics depends on access to accurate, reliable, 

changes in customer behaviour and demand; (vi) appetite for new markets, credit 

verifiable, auditable, consistent and comparable climate and sustainability-related data 

appetite, concentration risk appetite, lending opportunities; (vii) developments in the 

from counterparties (including suppliers) or customers. Data may not be generally 

available technology; (viii) the roll-out of low carbon infrastructure; and (ix) the availability 

available or, if available, may not be accurate, reliable, verifiable, auditable, consistent, or 

of accurate, verifiable, reliable, auditable, consistent and comparable data. These 

comparable. Any failure of NatWest Group to  proportionately collect or develop 

external factors and other uncertainties will make it challenging for NatWest Group to 

accurate, reliable, verifiable, auditable, consistent and comparable counterparty 

meet its climate ambitions and targets and there is a significant risk that all or some of 

(including supplier) and customer data, may adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to 

these ambitions and targets will not be achieved or not achieved within the intended 

prepare meaningful reporting which is relevant, represented in an accurate, verifiable, 

timescales.

comparable and understandable way of the climate and sustainability-related risks and 

opportunities which may adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to meet external 

NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its climate ambitions and targets depends to a 

disclosure obligations and its reputation, business and its competitive position. 

significant extent on the timely implementation and integration of appropriate 

government policies. The UK CCC June 2023 Progress Report to the UK Parliament 

states that the rate of emissions reduction will need to significantly increase for the UK to 

meet its 2030 commitments and continued delays in policy development and 

implementation mean achievement is increasingly challenging. On 20 September 2023, 

the UK Government announced its revised plans on reducing emissions to reach net 

zero, including (i) delaying the proposed ban on the sale of petrol and diesel cars to 

2035; (ii) not proceeding with new policies forcing landlords to upgrade the energy 

efficiency of their properties; and (iii) delaying the ban on new fossil fuel boilers for certain 

households. Accordingly, NatWest Group considers achievement of the following 

ambitions increasingly challenging (i) 50% of NatWest Group’s mortgage portfolio to have 

an EPC rating of C or above by 2030; and (ii) to at least halve the climate impact of 

NatWest Group’s financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline.

NatWest Group has also stated that it plans to phase-out coal for UK and non-UK 

customers who have UK coal production, coal fired generation and coal related 

infrastructure by 1 October 2024, with a full global phase-out by 1 January 2030. Data 

challenges, particularly the lack of granular customer information, creates challenges in 

identifying customers with ‘coal related infrastructure’ (e.g. transportation and storage) 

and other customers with ‘coal- related operations’ within NatWest Group’s large and 

diversified customer portfolios. Therefore, there is a risk that some customers with UK-

based coal activities may not have been identified and that NatWest Group will not be 

able to identify all relevant activities to achieve these coal phase-out plans. 

Any delay or failure in setting, making progress against or meeting NatWest Group’s 

climate-related ambitions, targets and plans may have a material adverse effect on 

NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation and may 

increase the climate and sustainability-related risks NatWest Group faces.

In the absence of other sources, reporting of financed emissions and other sustainability 

data by financial institutions, including NatWest Group, is necessarily based on 

aggregated information developed by third parties that may be prepared in an 

inconsistent way using different methodologies, interpretations, or assumptions. NatWest 

Group’s climate and sustainability-related disclosures use a greater number and level of 

assumptions, judgements and estimates than many of its financial disclosures. These 

assumptions, judgements and estimates are highly likely to change materially over time, 

and, when coupled with the longer timeframes used in these climate and sustainability-

related disclosures, make any assessment of materiality inherently uncertain. 

In particular, in the absence of actual emissions monitoring and measurement, emissions 

estimates are based on sector and other assumptions that may not be accurate for a 

given counterparty (including supplier) or customer. There may also be data gaps that 

are filled using proxy data, such as sectoral averages or use of emissions estimated by a 

third party, again developed in a variety of ways and in some cases not in a timely 

manner causing data to be potentially outdated at the time when they are used. 

Significant risks, uncertainties and variables are inherent in the assessment, 

measurement and mitigation of climate and sustainability-related risks. These include 

data quality gaps and limitations mentioned above, as well as the pace at which climate 

science, greenhouse gas accounting standards and various emissions reduction solutions 

develop. In addition, there is significant uncertainty about how climate change and the 

world’s transition to a net-zero economy will unfold over time and how and when climate 

and sustainability-related risks will manifest. These timeframes are considerably longer 

than NatWest Group’s historical and current strategic, financial, resilience and 

investment planning horizons.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443311

431

Risk factors continued

NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its climate ambitions and 
targets, will significantly depend on many factors and uncertainties beyond NatWest 
Group’s control. These include (i) the extent and pace of climate change, including the 
timing and manifestation of physical and transition risks; (ii) the macroeconomic 
environment; (iii) the effectiveness of actions of governments, legislators, regulators and 
businesses; (iv) the response of the wider society, investors, customers, suppliers and 
other stakeholders to mitigate the impact of climate and sustainability-related risks; (v) 
changes in customer behaviour and demand; (vi) appetite for new markets, credit 
appetite, concentration risk appetite, lending opportunities; (vii) developments in the 
available technology; (viii) the roll-out of low carbon infrastructure; and (ix) the availability 
of accurate, verifiable, reliable, auditable, consistent and comparable data. These 
external factors and other uncertainties will make it challenging for NatWest Group to 
meet its climate ambitions and targets and there is a significant risk that all or some of 
these ambitions and targets will not be achieved or not achieved within the intended 
timescales.

NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its climate ambitions and targets depends to a 
significant extent on the timely implementation and integration of appropriate 
government policies. The UK CCC June 2023 Progress Report to the UK Parliament 
states that the rate of emissions reduction will need to significantly increase for the UK to 
meet its 2030 commitments and continued delays in policy development and 
implementation mean achievement is increasingly challenging. On 20 September 2023, 
the UK Government announced its revised plans on reducing emissions to reach net 
zero, including (i) delaying the proposed ban on the sale of petrol and diesel cars to 
2035; (ii) not proceeding with new policies forcing landlords to upgrade the energy 
efficiency of their properties; and (iii) delaying the ban on new fossil fuel boilers for certain 
households. Accordingly, NatWest Group considers achievement of the following 
ambitions increasingly challenging (i) 50% of NatWest Group’s mortgage portfolio to have 
an EPC rating of C or above by 2030; and (ii) to at least halve the climate impact of 
NatWest Group’s financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline.

NatWest Group has also stated that it plans to phase-out coal for UK and non-UK 
customers who have UK coal production, coal fired generation and coal related 
infrastructure by 1 October 2024, with a full global phase-out by 1 January 2030. Data 
challenges, particularly the lack of granular customer information, creates challenges in 
identifying customers with ‘coal related infrastructure’ (e.g. transportation and storage) 
and other customers with ‘coal- related operations’ within NatWest Group’s large and 
diversified customer portfolios. Therefore, there is a risk that some customers with UK-
based coal activities may not have been identified and that NatWest Group will not be 
able to identify all relevant activities to achieve these coal phase-out plans. 

Any delay or failure in setting, making progress against or meeting NatWest Group’s 
climate-related ambitions, targets and plans may have a material adverse effect on 
NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation and may 
increase the climate and sustainability-related risks NatWest Group faces.

There are significant limitations related to accessing accurate, reliable, verifiable, 
auditable, consistent and comparable climate and other sustainability-related 
data that contribute to substantial uncertainties in accurately modelling and 
reporting on climate and sustainability information, as well as making appropriate 
important internal decisions.
Meaningful reporting of climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities and 
their potential impacts and related metrics depends on access to accurate, reliable, 
verifiable, auditable, consistent and comparable climate and sustainability-related data 
from counterparties (including suppliers) or customers. Data may not be generally 
available or, if available, may not be accurate, reliable, verifiable, auditable, consistent, or 
comparable. Any failure of NatWest Group to  proportionately collect or develop 
accurate, reliable, verifiable, auditable, consistent and comparable counterparty 
(including supplier) and customer data, may adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to 
prepare meaningful reporting which is relevant, represented in an accurate, verifiable, 
comparable and understandable way of the climate and sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities which may adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to meet external 
disclosure obligations and its reputation, business and its competitive position. 

In the absence of other sources, reporting of financed emissions and other sustainability 
data by financial institutions, including NatWest Group, is necessarily based on 
aggregated information developed by third parties that may be prepared in an 
inconsistent way using different methodologies, interpretations, or assumptions. NatWest 
Group’s climate and sustainability-related disclosures use a greater number and level of 
assumptions, judgements and estimates than many of its financial disclosures. These 
assumptions, judgements and estimates are highly likely to change materially over time, 
and, when coupled with the longer timeframes used in these climate and sustainability-
related disclosures, make any assessment of materiality inherently uncertain. 

In particular, in the absence of actual emissions monitoring and measurement, emissions 
estimates are based on sector and other assumptions that may not be accurate for a 
given counterparty (including supplier) or customer. There may also be data gaps that 
are filled using proxy data, such as sectoral averages or use of emissions estimated by a 
third party, again developed in a variety of ways and in some cases not in a timely 
manner causing data to be potentially outdated at the time when they are used. 

Significant risks, uncertainties and variables are inherent in the assessment, 
measurement and mitigation of climate and sustainability-related risks. These include 
data quality gaps and limitations mentioned above, as well as the pace at which climate 
science, greenhouse gas accounting standards and various emissions reduction solutions 
develop. In addition, there is significant uncertainty about how climate change and the 
world’s transition to a net-zero economy will unfold over time and how and when climate 
and sustainability-related risks will manifest. These timeframes are considerably longer 
than NatWest Group’s historical and current strategic, financial, resilience and 
investment planning horizons.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443322

432

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443333

Risk factors continued

As a result, NatWest Group’s climate and sustainability-related disclosures may be 
amended, updated or restated in the future as the quality and completeness of NatWest 
Group’s data and methodologies continue to improve. These data quality challenges, 
gaps and limitations may have a material impact on NatWest Group’s ability to make 
effective business decisions about climate and sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities, including risk management decisions, to comply with disclosure 
requirements and to monitor and report progress in meeting ambitions, targets and 
pathways. 

Climate-related risks are challenging to model due to their forward-looking nature, the 
lack of and/or quality of historical testing capabilities, lack of accuracy, standardisation 
and incompleteness of emissions and other climate and sub-sector related data and the 
immature nature of risk measurement and modelling methodologies. As a result, it is very 
difficult to predict and model the impact of climate-related risks into precise financial and 
economic outcomes..

The evaluation of climate-related risk exposure and the development of associated 
potential risk mitigation techniques largely depend on the choice of climate scenario 
modelling methodology and the assumptions made which involves a number of risks and 
uncertainties, for example: 

















climate scenarios are not predictions of what is likely to happen or what NatWest 
Group would like to happen, rather they explore the possible implications of different 
judgements and assumptions by considering a series of scenarios;
climate scenarios do not provide a comprehensive description of all possible future 
outcomes;
lack of specialist expertise in NatWest Group that needs to rely on third party advice, 
modelling, and data which is also subject to many limitations and uncertainties;
immaturity of modelling of and data on climate-related risks on financial assets which 
will presumably evolve rapidly in the coming years;
the number of variables and the forward-looking nature of climate scenarios which 
makes them challenging to back test and benchmark;
the significant uncertainty as to how the climate will evolve over time, how and when 
governments, regulators, businesses, investors and customers respond and how 
those responses impact the economy, asset valuations, land systems, energy 
systems, technology, policy and wider society;
the assumptions will continue to evolve with more data/information which may affect 
the baselines for comparability across reporting periods and impact internal and 
external verification processes; and
the pace of the development of the methodologies across different sectors may be 
different and therefore it may be challenging to report on the whole balance sheet 
with regard to financed emissions. 

Accordingly, these risks and uncertainties coupled with significantly long timeframes 
make the outputs of climate-related risk modelling, climate-related targets (including 
emission reduction targets) and pathways, inherently more uncertain than outputs 
modelled for traditional financial planning cycles based on historical financial information. 

Furthermore, there is a lack of scientific, industry and regulatory consensus regarding 
the appropriate metrics, methodologies, modelling and standardised reporting to enable 
the assessment of the location, acuteness, and severity of climate-related risks and the 
monitoring and mitigation of these risks in the economy and financial system. 

There is increasing industry concern (acknowledged by the Network for Greening the 
Financial System) that model scenarios, including those provided by central banks and 
supervisory bodies and are too benign and may not adequately capture: (i) the financial 
implications of increasing frequency and severity of acute physical risks as global 
temperatures increase; (ii) second and third order impacts such as disruptions to supply 
chains and increased geo-political risks; nor (iii) possible ‘tipping points’ that could lead to 
large, irreversible changes in the climate system (for example the melting of permafrost 
or the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets).

Capabilities within NatWest Group to appropriately assess, model, report and manage 
climate-related risks and impacts and the suitability of the assumptions required to model 
and manage climate-related risks appropriately continue to develop. But such 
development is still in its early stages. Even when those capabilities are appropriately 
developed, the high level of uncertainty regarding any assumptions modelled, the highly 
subjective nature of risk measurement and mitigation techniques, incorrect or inadequate 
assumptions and judgements and data quality gaps and limitations may lead to 
inadequate risk management information and frameworks, or ineffective business 
adaptation or mitigation strategies or regulatory non-compliance, all of which may have 
a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s business, future results, financial condition, 
prospects, reputation and the price of its securities.

Failure to implement effective governance, procedures, systems and controls in 
compliance with legal, regulatory requirements and societal expectations to 
manage climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities could adversely 
affect NatWest Group.
The UK’s prudential regulation of climate-related risk management is an important driver 
in how NatWest Group develops its associated risk framework for financing activities or 
engaging with counterparties (including suppliers). Legislative and regulatory authorities 
are publishing expectations as to how banks should prudently manage and transparently 
disclose climate and sustainability-related risks. In the UK this includes the Bank of 
England’s Supervisory Statement 3/19 on the management of climate-related financial 
risks, covering governance, risk management, scenario analysis and disclosure which 
sets out expectations that firms, such as NatWest Group, take a strategic approach to 
managing climate-related financial risks, identifying current risks and those that can 
plausibly arise in the future, and appropriate actions to mitigate those risks. 

Risk factors continued

In March 2023 the Bank of England published a report setting out its latest thinking on 

In some jurisdictions, particularly the United States, regulatory and enforcement activity 

climate-related risks and regulatory capital frameworks. It found there to be uncertainty 

around climate and sustainability initiatives is becoming increasingly politicised. This has 

over whether banks are sufficiently capitalised for future climate-related losses and it 

resulted in a polarisation between promoting more extensive climate and sustainability-

stated that it will undertake further analysis to explore whether changes to the 

related requirements, such as the proposed SEC climate disclosure rules, and challenging 

regulatory capital frameworks may be required.  

climate and sustainability-related initiatives on the basis of allegations that they could 

Any failure of NatWest Group to fully and timely embed climate and other sustainability-

breach applicable laws. 

related risks into its risk management practices and framework to appropriately identify, 

Divergence between UK, EU, US and other climate and sustainability-related legal and 

assess, prioritise and monitor the various climate-related physical and transition risks and 

regulatory requirements and their interpretation may increase the cost of doing business 

other sustainability-related risks and apply the appropriate product governance process 

(including increased operating costs), may result in contentious regulatory and litigation 

in line with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and expectations, may adversely 

risk, may require changes to NatWest Group’s business and may restrict NatWest 

affect NatWest Group’s regulatory compliance, prudential capital requirements, liquidity 

Group’s access to the EU/EEA and US capital markets. Failure to comply with these 

position and this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s business, 

divergent legal and regulatory requirements which are applicable to NatWest Group may 

future results, financial condition, prospects, reputation or the price of its securities.

result in NatWest Group and/or its subsidiaries not meeting applicable regulatory 

Increasing levels of climate and other sustainability-related laws, regulation and 

climate and sustainability-related legal and regulatory requirements and voluntary 

oversight may adversely affect NatWest Group.

NatWest Group as well as its subsidiaries in the UK, EU and elsewhere are increasingly 

becoming subject to more extensive climate and sustainability-related legal and 

regulatory requirements. In the UK, these include mandatory requirements by the FCA 

and under the Companies Act 2006 to make climate-related disclosures consistent with 

the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. 

In addition, in August 2023 the FCA set out its intention to consult in 2024 on rules and 

guidance for listed companies to disclose in line with the UK-endorsed ISSB standards 

and the Transition Plan Taskforce Disclosure Framework published in October 2023 as a 

complementary package. Further regulatory requirements may emerge as part of the 

developing UK sustainability-related disclosure requirements. In the EU, these climate and 

sustainability-related legal and regulatory requirements include the EU Taxonomy, the 

EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), the EU Green Bond Standard 

and proposed EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (‘CSDDD’). 

Certain non-UK subsidiaries of NatWest Group in the EU and elsewhere may also be 

subject to EU, national and other climate and sustainability laws and regulations which in 

some cases may differ. For example, NatWest Group’s Dutch subsidiary, NWM N.V., is 

subject to the EU Taxonomy, CSRD, the proposed CSDDD, and other legal, regulatory 

and supervisory expectations relating to climate-related and environmental risk 

management and disclosure. A failure of NatWest Group or any of its subsidiaries, 

including NWM N.V., to comply with these regulations (if applicable), whether through 

insufficient resources, expertise, support, customer and counterparty data challenges or 

otherwise may have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’s reputation and the successful 

implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy.

requirements or investors’ expectations. Compliance with these complex and evolving 

standards and initiatives is likely to require NatWest Group to implement significant 

changes to its business models, IT systems, products, governance, internal controls over 

financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, modelling capability and risk 

management systems, which may increase the cost of doing business, result in higher 

capital requirements, and entail additional change risk and increased compliance, 

regulatory sanctions, conduct and litigation (including settlements) costs. 

Failure to implement and comply with these requirements, standards and initiatives may 

also result in investigations and/or regulatory sanctions, reputational damage and 

investor disapproval each of which may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 

Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Increasing regulation of “greenwashing” is likely to increase the risk of regulatory 

enforcement and investigation and litigation.

Misrepresenting or over-emphasising the extent to which an investment or other type of 

product takes into account ‘green’, ‘environmentally friendly’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘ethical’ 

features and concerns, using misleading labels and language in relation to such products 

and/or omitting material information about NatWest Group’s contribution to the climate 

crisis (including its direct or indirect contribution to greenhouse gas emissions), or other 

sustainability-related issues, could potentially result in complaints, regulatory investigation 

and/or sanction, claims and/or litigation and/or reputational damage. 

This risk is likely to increase as the UK and other jurisdictions implement and enforce 

new anti-greenwashing regulations. For example, the FCA’s Sustainability Disclosure 

Requirements and investment labels policy statement (PS 23/16) published in November 

2023 includes a general anti-greenwashing rule that requires regulated firms (such as 

certain subsidiaries of NatWest Group) to ensure that sustainability claims in financial 

promotions of their products and services are consistent with the sustainability 

characteristics of the product or service and are fair, clear and not misleading. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443333

433

Risk factors continued

In March 2023 the Bank of England published a report setting out its latest thinking on 
climate-related risks and regulatory capital frameworks. It found there to be uncertainty 
over whether banks are sufficiently capitalised for future climate-related losses and it 
stated that it will undertake further analysis to explore whether changes to the 
regulatory capital frameworks may be required.  

Any failure of NatWest Group to fully and timely embed climate and other sustainability-
related risks into its risk management practices and framework to appropriately identify, 
assess, prioritise and monitor the various climate-related physical and transition risks and 
other sustainability-related risks and apply the appropriate product governance process 
in line with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and expectations, may adversely 
affect NatWest Group’s regulatory compliance, prudential capital requirements, liquidity 
position and this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s business, 
future results, financial condition, prospects, reputation or the price of its securities.

Increasing levels of climate and other sustainability-related laws, regulation and 
oversight may adversely affect NatWest Group.
NatWest Group as well as its subsidiaries in the UK, EU and elsewhere are increasingly 
becoming subject to more extensive climate and sustainability-related legal and 
regulatory requirements. In the UK, these include mandatory requirements by the FCA 
and under the Companies Act 2006 to make climate-related disclosures consistent with 
the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. 

In addition, in August 2023 the FCA set out its intention to consult in 2024 on rules and 
guidance for listed companies to disclose in line with the UK-endorsed ISSB standards 
and the Transition Plan Taskforce Disclosure Framework published in October 2023 as a 
complementary package. Further regulatory requirements may emerge as part of the 
developing UK sustainability-related disclosure requirements. In the EU, these climate and 
sustainability-related legal and regulatory requirements include the EU Taxonomy, the 
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), the EU Green Bond Standard 
and proposed EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (‘CSDDD’). 

Certain non-UK subsidiaries of NatWest Group in the EU and elsewhere may also be 
subject to EU, national and other climate and sustainability laws and regulations which in 
some cases may differ. For example, NatWest Group’s Dutch subsidiary, NWM N.V., is 
subject to the EU Taxonomy, CSRD, the proposed CSDDD, and other legal, regulatory 
and supervisory expectations relating to climate-related and environmental risk 
management and disclosure. A failure of NatWest Group or any of its subsidiaries, 
including NWM N.V., to comply with these regulations (if applicable), whether through 
insufficient resources, expertise, support, customer and counterparty data challenges or 
otherwise may have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’s reputation and the successful 
implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy.

In some jurisdictions, particularly the United States, regulatory and enforcement activity 
around climate and sustainability initiatives is becoming increasingly politicised. This has 
resulted in a polarisation between promoting more extensive climate and sustainability-
related requirements, such as the proposed SEC climate disclosure rules, and challenging 
climate and sustainability-related initiatives on the basis of allegations that they could 
breach applicable laws. 

Divergence between UK, EU, US and other climate and sustainability-related legal and 
regulatory requirements and their interpretation may increase the cost of doing business 
(including increased operating costs), may result in contentious regulatory and litigation 
risk, may require changes to NatWest Group’s business and may restrict NatWest 
Group’s access to the EU/EEA and US capital markets. Failure to comply with these 
divergent legal and regulatory requirements which are applicable to NatWest Group may 
result in NatWest Group and/or its subsidiaries not meeting applicable regulatory 
requirements or investors’ expectations. Compliance with these complex and evolving 
climate and sustainability-related legal and regulatory requirements and voluntary 
standards and initiatives is likely to require NatWest Group to implement significant 
changes to its business models, IT systems, products, governance, internal controls over 
financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, modelling capability and risk 
management systems, which may increase the cost of doing business, result in higher 
capital requirements, and entail additional change risk and increased compliance, 
regulatory sanctions, conduct and litigation (including settlements) costs. 

Failure to implement and comply with these requirements, standards and initiatives may 
also result in investigations and/or regulatory sanctions, reputational damage and 
investor disapproval each of which may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

Increasing regulation of “greenwashing” is likely to increase the risk of regulatory 
enforcement and investigation and litigation.
Misrepresenting or over-emphasising the extent to which an investment or other type of 
product takes into account ‘green’, ‘environmentally friendly’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘ethical’ 
features and concerns, using misleading labels and language in relation to such products 
and/or omitting material information about NatWest Group’s contribution to the climate 
crisis (including its direct or indirect contribution to greenhouse gas emissions), or other 
sustainability-related issues, could potentially result in complaints, regulatory investigation 
and/or sanction, claims and/or litigation and/or reputational damage. 

This risk is likely to increase as the UK and other jurisdictions implement and enforce 
new anti-greenwashing regulations. For example, the FCA’s Sustainability Disclosure 
Requirements and investment labels policy statement (PS 23/16) published in November 
2023 includes a general anti-greenwashing rule that requires regulated firms (such as 
certain subsidiaries of NatWest Group) to ensure that sustainability claims in financial 
promotions of their products and services are consistent with the sustainability 
characteristics of the product or service and are fair, clear and not misleading. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443344

434

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443355

Risk factors continued

The FCA has stated that it would publish guidance as to how regulated firms should 
comply with its anti-greenwashing rule including the requirements for sustainability 
claims that will become effective on 31 May 2024 (currently the subject of FCA 
consultation paper (GC23/3)). In the EU the European Commission has proposed a Green 
Claims Directive which will address false environmental claims and the proliferation of 
environmental labels by requiring certain claims to be substantiated with scientific 
evidence and independently verified. 

Natwest Group plans to invest in voluntary carbon credits to mitigate emissions beyond 
its own value chain whilst transitioning towards a state of net zero emissions by 2050. 
NatWest Group may also be involved in trading voluntary carbon credits with its clients, 
or facilitating clients to trade these credits. Financial market and platform regulators are 
increasingly taking an interest in the voluntary carbon market and voluntary carbon 
credits retired, sold or traded by financial institutions or used by them as part of their 
own emissions reduction plans. NatWest Group could potentially be exposed to financial, 
litigation, regulatory enforcement and reputational risk where it retires, facilitates or is 
otherwise associated with voluntary carbon credit transactions or use (including use to 
offset own emissions). This includes where voluntary carbon credits are not of sufficient 
quality, potential issues or risks with respect to such carbon credits (or projects through 
which they are generated) are not adequately disclosed or stated benefits are 
exaggerated or misleading and/or such carbon credits are used either by NatWest Group 
or by a third party organisation (such as a customer) as a substitute for achieving 
appropriate emissions reductions in their own operations.

Any failure of NatWest Group to implement robust and effective climate and 
sustainability-related disclosure, communications and product governance policies, 
procedures and controls to make accurate public statements and claims about how 
environmentally friendly, sustainable or ethical NatWest Group’s products and services 
are and to apply these in line with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and 
expectations, may adversely affect NatWest Group’s regulatory compliance and/or 
reputation and could give rise to increased regulatory enforcement, investigation and 
litigation. 

NatWest Group may be subject to potential climate and other sustainability-
related litigation, enforcement proceedings, investigations and conduct risk.
Due to increasing new climate and sustainability-related jurisprudence, laws and 
regulations in the UK and other jurisdictions, growing demand from investors and 
customers for environmentally sustainable products and services, and regulatory 
scrutiny, financial institutions, including NatWest Group, may through their business 
activities, face increasing litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks 
related to climate change, nature-related degradation, human rights violations and other 
social, governance and sustainability-related issues. 

These risks may arise, for example, from claims pertaining to: 



failure to meet obligations, targets or commitments relating to, or to disclose 
accurately, or provide updates on material climate and/or sustainability-related risks, 
or otherwise provide appropriate, balanced, clear, complete, correct, fair, meaningful, 
understandable, disclosure (which is capable of being substantiated) to investors, 
customers, counterparties (including suppliers) and other stakeholders; 

 conduct, mis-selling and customer protection claims, including claims which may 

relate to alleged insufficient product understanding, unsuitable product offering and 
/or reliance upon information provided by NatWest Group or claims alleging unfair 
pricing of climate-related products, for example in relation to products where limited 
liquidity or reliable market data exists for benchmarking purposes or which may be 
impacted by future climate policy uncertainty or other factors; 

 marketing that portrays products, securities, activities or policies as having positive 











climate, nature-related or sustainable outcomes to an extent that may not be the 
case, or may not adequately be qualified and/or omits material information about 
NatWest Group’s contribution to the climate crisis and/or its direct / indirect 
contribution to greenhouse gas emissions or other sustainability-related issues; 
damages claims under various tort theories, including common law public nuisance 
claims, or negligent mismanagement of physical and/or transition risks; 
alleged violations of officers’, directors’ and other fiduciaries’ duties, for example by 
financing various carbon-intensive, environmentally harmful or otherwise highly 
exposed assets, companies, and industries; 
changes in the understanding of what constitutes positive climate, nature-related or 
sustainable outcomes as a result of developing climate science, leading to 
discrepancy between current product offerings and investor and/or market and/or 
broader stakeholder expectations; 
any weaknesses or failures in specific systems or processes associated particularly 
with climate, nature-related or sustainability linked products, and/or human rights 
due diligence, including any failure in the timely implementation, onboarding and/or 
updating of such systems or processes; 
counterparties, collaborators, customers to whom NatWest Group provides services 
and third parties in NatWest Group’s value chain who act, or fail to act, or undertake 
due diligence, or apply appropriate risk management and product governance in a 
manner that may adversely affect NatWest Group’s reputation or sustainability 
credentials; or

 NatWest Group’s or its customers’, counterparties’ (including suppliers’) involvement 
in, or decision not to participate in, certain industries or projects associated with 
causing or exacerbating climate change and nature-related degradation.

Furthermore, there is a risk that shareholders, campaign groups, customers and activist 
groups could seek to take legal action against NatWest Group for financing or 
contributing to climate change, nature-related degradation and human rights violations, 
failure to implement or follow adequate governance procedures and for not supporting 
the principles of ‘just transition’ (i.e. maximising the social benefits of the transition, 
mitigating the social risks of the transition, empowering those affected by the change, 
anticipating future shifts to address issues up front and mobilising investments from the 
public and private sectors). 

Risk factors continued

There is an increase in the number of legal, conduct and regulatory claims as well as an 

investors’ risk appetite for NatWest Group’s and/or its subsidiaries’ securities, particularly 

increase in the variety of legal bases being alleged, remedies sought and amount of 

ESG securities, could potentially affect the pricing of securities issued by NatWest Group 

damages awarded in legal, conduct and regulatory proceedings, investigations, 

and/or its subsidiaries and could affect a customer’s willingness to deal with NatWest 

administrative actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial institutions for 

Group..

climate and sustainability matters. There is a risk that as climate, nature-related and 

environmental science develop and societal understanding of these issues increases and 

deepens, courts, regulators and enforcement authorities may apply the then current 

understandings of climate and the broader sustainability-related matters retrospectively 

when assessing claims about historical conduct or dealings of financial institutions, 

including NatWest Group. There is also an increase in enforcement and litigation focusing 

on challenging public and private sector sustainability policies and initiatives intended to 

address climate change and nature-related degradation. Refer to ‘NatWest Group is 

exposed to the risk of various litigation matters, regulatory and governmental actions and 

investigations as well as remedial undertakings, the outcomes of which are inherently 

difficult to predict, and which could have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’. In 

addition, supervisors and regulators are increasing their enforcement focus on climate 

and sustainability-related matters. For example, the ECB has stated that enforcement 

measures in the form of periodic penalty payments may be imposed on banks that do 

not fully align with ECB supervisory expectations of sound practices for managing 

climate and environmental risks.

These potential litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks may have a 

material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its 

climate ambitions and targets, and this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 

Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

willingness to deal with NatWest Group.

ESG ratings from agencies and data providers which rate how NatWest Group manages 

environmental, social and governance risks are increasingly influencing investment 

decisions pertaining to NatWest Group’s and/or its subsidiaries’ securities or being used 

as a basis to label financial products and services as environmentally friendly or 

sustainable. ESG ratings are often (i) unsolicited; (ii) subject to the assessment and 

interpretation by the ESG rating agencies; (iii) provided without warranty; (iv) not a 

sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of NatWest Group by the relevant rating 

agency; and (v) may depend on many factors some of which are beyond NatWest 

Group’s control (e.g. any change in rating methodology). In addition, certain NatWest 

Group entities offer and sell products and services to customers and counterparties 

based exclusively or largely on a rating by an unregulated ESG rating agency or data 

providers. ESG rating agencies, at this stage, are not subject to any specific regulatory or 

other regime or oversight (although there are proposals by regulators in different 

jurisdictions to regulate rating agencies and data providers). Regulators have expressed 

concern that harm may arise from potential conflicts of interest within ESG rating and 

review or second party opinion providers and there is a lack of transparency in 

methodologies and data points, which renders ratings and reviews incomparable 

between agencies or providers. Any material reduction in the ESG ratings of NatWest 

Group may have a negative impact on NatWest Group’s reputation, could influence 

A regulatory sanction or enforcement action involving an ESG rating agency used by a 

NatWest Group entity could also have a negative impact on NatWest Group’s reputation.

OOppeerraattiioonnaall  aanndd  IITT  rreessiilliieennccee  rriisskk  

Operational risks (including reliance on third party suppliers and outsourcing of 

certain activities) are inherent in NatWest Group’s businesses. 

Operational risk is the risk of loss or disruption resulting from inadequate or failed internal 

processes, procedures, people or systems, or from external events, including legal and 

regulatory risks, third party processes, procedures, people or systems. NatWest Group 

operates in a number of countries, offering a diverse range of products and services 

supported directly or indirectly by third party suppliers. As a result, operational risks or 

losses can arise from a number of internal or external factors (including for example, 

payment errors or financial crime and fraud), for which there is continued scrutiny by 

third parties of NatWest Group’s compliance with financial crime requirements; refer to, 

‘NatWest Group is exposed to the risks of various litigation matters, regulatory and 

governmental actions and investigations as well as remedial undertakings, the outcomes 

of which are inherently difficult to predict, and which could have an adverse effect on 

NatWest Group.’ These risks are also present when NatWest Group relies on critical 

service providers (suppliers) or vendors to provide services to it or its customers, as is 

increasingly the case as NatWest Group outsources certain activities, including with 

respect to the implementation of technologies, innovation and responding to regulatory 

Operational risks continue to be heightened as a result of the implementation of NatWest 

Group’s strategy, and the organisational and operational changes involved, including: 

NatWest Group’s phased withdrawal from ROI; NatWest Group’s current cost-controlling 

measures; the progression towards working as One Bank across NatWest Group to 

serve customers; the implementation of the recommendations from the recent 

independent reviews by the law firm Travers Smith LLP of customer account closures, as 

well as the outcome of ongoing FCA and internal reviews with respect to certain 

governance processes, policies, systems and controls of NatWest Group entities including 

with respect to customer account closures; and conditions affecting the financial services 

industry generally (including macroeconomic and other geopolitical developments) as well 

as the legal and regulatory uncertainty resulting from these conditions. It is unclear as to 

how the future ways of working may evolve, including in respect of how working 

practices may further evolve, or how NatWest Group will evolve to best serve its 

customers. Any of the above may place significant pressure on NatWest Group’s ability 

to maintain effective internal controls and governance frameworks.

A reduction in the ESG ratings of NatWest Group could have a negative impact 

on NatWest Group’s reputation and on investors’ risk appetite and customers’ 

and market changes.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443355

435

Risk factors continued

There is an increase in the number of legal, conduct and regulatory claims as well as an 
increase in the variety of legal bases being alleged, remedies sought and amount of 
damages awarded in legal, conduct and regulatory proceedings, investigations, 
administrative actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial institutions for 
climate and sustainability matters. There is a risk that as climate, nature-related and 
environmental science develop and societal understanding of these issues increases and 
deepens, courts, regulators and enforcement authorities may apply the then current 
understandings of climate and the broader sustainability-related matters retrospectively 
when assessing claims about historical conduct or dealings of financial institutions, 
including NatWest Group. There is also an increase in enforcement and litigation focusing 
on challenging public and private sector sustainability policies and initiatives intended to 
address climate change and nature-related degradation. Refer to ‘NatWest Group is 
exposed to the risk of various litigation matters, regulatory and governmental actions and 
investigations as well as remedial undertakings, the outcomes of which are inherently 
difficult to predict, and which could have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’. In 
addition, supervisors and regulators are increasing their enforcement focus on climate 
and sustainability-related matters. For example, the ECB has stated that enforcement 
measures in the form of periodic penalty payments may be imposed on banks that do 
not fully align with ECB supervisory expectations of sound practices for managing 
climate and environmental risks.

These potential litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks may have a 
material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its 
climate ambitions and targets, and this may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

A reduction in the ESG ratings of NatWest Group could have a negative impact 
on NatWest Group’s reputation and on investors’ risk appetite and customers’ 
willingness to deal with NatWest Group.
ESG ratings from agencies and data providers which rate how NatWest Group manages 
environmental, social and governance risks are increasingly influencing investment 
decisions pertaining to NatWest Group’s and/or its subsidiaries’ securities or being used 
as a basis to label financial products and services as environmentally friendly or 
sustainable. ESG ratings are often (i) unsolicited; (ii) subject to the assessment and 
interpretation by the ESG rating agencies; (iii) provided without warranty; (iv) not a 
sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of NatWest Group by the relevant rating 
agency; and (v) may depend on many factors some of which are beyond NatWest 
Group’s control (e.g. any change in rating methodology). In addition, certain NatWest 
Group entities offer and sell products and services to customers and counterparties 
based exclusively or largely on a rating by an unregulated ESG rating agency or data 
providers. ESG rating agencies, at this stage, are not subject to any specific regulatory or 
other regime or oversight (although there are proposals by regulators in different 
jurisdictions to regulate rating agencies and data providers). Regulators have expressed 
concern that harm may arise from potential conflicts of interest within ESG rating and 
review or second party opinion providers and there is a lack of transparency in 
methodologies and data points, which renders ratings and reviews incomparable 
between agencies or providers. Any material reduction in the ESG ratings of NatWest 
Group may have a negative impact on NatWest Group’s reputation, could influence 

investors’ risk appetite for NatWest Group’s and/or its subsidiaries’ securities, particularly 
ESG securities, could potentially affect the pricing of securities issued by NatWest Group 
and/or its subsidiaries and could affect a customer’s willingness to deal with NatWest 
Group..

A regulatory sanction or enforcement action involving an ESG rating agency used by a 
NatWest Group entity could also have a negative impact on NatWest Group’s reputation.

OOppeerraattiioonnaall  aanndd  IITT  rreessiilliieennccee  rriisskk  

Operational risks (including reliance on third party suppliers and outsourcing of 
certain activities) are inherent in NatWest Group’s businesses. 
Operational risk is the risk of loss or disruption resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, procedures, people or systems, or from external events, including legal and 
regulatory risks, third party processes, procedures, people or systems. NatWest Group 
operates in a number of countries, offering a diverse range of products and services 
supported directly or indirectly by third party suppliers. As a result, operational risks or 
losses can arise from a number of internal or external factors (including for example, 
payment errors or financial crime and fraud), for which there is continued scrutiny by 
third parties of NatWest Group’s compliance with financial crime requirements; refer to, 
‘NatWest Group is exposed to the risks of various litigation matters, regulatory and 
governmental actions and investigations as well as remedial undertakings, the outcomes 
of which are inherently difficult to predict, and which could have an adverse effect on 
NatWest Group.’ These risks are also present when NatWest Group relies on critical 
service providers (suppliers) or vendors to provide services to it or its customers, as is 
increasingly the case as NatWest Group outsources certain activities, including with 
respect to the implementation of technologies, innovation and responding to regulatory 
and market changes.

Operational risks continue to be heightened as a result of the implementation of NatWest 
Group’s strategy, and the organisational and operational changes involved, including: 
NatWest Group’s phased withdrawal from ROI; NatWest Group’s current cost-controlling 
measures; the progression towards working as One Bank across NatWest Group to 
serve customers; the implementation of the recommendations from the recent 
independent reviews by the law firm Travers Smith LLP of customer account closures, as 
well as the outcome of ongoing FCA and internal reviews with respect to certain 
governance processes, policies, systems and controls of NatWest Group entities including 
with respect to customer account closures; and conditions affecting the financial services 
industry generally (including macroeconomic and other geopolitical developments) as well 
as the legal and regulatory uncertainty resulting from these conditions. It is unclear as to 
how the future ways of working may evolve, including in respect of how working 
practices may further evolve, or how NatWest Group will evolve to best serve its 
customers. Any of the above may place significant pressure on NatWest Group’s ability 
to maintain effective internal controls and governance frameworks.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443366

436

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443377

Risk factors continued

The effective management of operational risks is critical to meeting customer service 
expectations and retaining and attracting customer business. Although NatWest Group 
has implemented risk controls and mitigation actions, with resources and planning having 
been devoted to mitigate operational risk, such measures may not be effective in 
controlling each of the operational risks faced by NatWest Group. 

Ineffective management of such risks may have a material adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group is subject to sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. 
NatWest Group experiences a constant threat from cyberattacks across the entire 
NatWest Group and against NatWest Group’s supply chain, reinforcing the importance of 
due diligence of and close working relationship with the third parties on which NatWest 
Group relies. NatWest Group is reliant on technology, against which there is a constantly 
evolving series of attacks that are increasing in terms of frequency, sophistication, 
impact and severity. As cyberattacks evolve and become more sophisticated, NatWest 
Group is required to continue to invest in additional capability designed to defend against 
emerging threats. In 2023, NatWest Group and its supply chain were subjected to a small 
number of Distributed Denial of Service (‘DDOS’) and ransomware attacks, which are a 
pervasive threat to the financial services industry. The focus is to manage the impact of 
the attacks and sustain availability of services for NatWest Group’s customers. 
Consequently, NatWest Group continues to invest significant resources in developing and 
evolving of cybersecurity controls that are designed to minimise the potential effect of 
such attacks.

Third parties continue to make hostile attempts to gain access to, introduce malware 
(including ransomware) into and exploit potential vulnerabilities of, NatWest Group’s IT 
systems. NatWest Group has information and cybersecurity controls that seek to 
minimise the impact of any such attacks, which are subject to review on a regular basis 
but given the nature of the threat, there can be no assurance that such measures will 
prevent the potential adverse effect of an attack from occurring. Refer to ‘NatWest 
Group’s operations are highly dependent on its complex IT systems and any IT failure 
could adversely affect NatWest Group.’ 

Any failure in NatWest Group’s information and cybersecurity policies, procedures or 
controls, may result in significant financial losses, major business disruption, inability to 
deliver customer services, or loss of, or ability to access, data or systems or other 
sensitive information (including as a result of an outage) and may cause associated 
reputational damage. Any of these factors could increase costs (including costs relating 
to notification of, or compensation for customers, credit monitoring or card reissuance), 
result in regulatory investigations or sanctions being imposed or may affect NatWest 
Group’s ability to retain and attract customers. Regulators in the UK, US, Europe and 
Asia continue to recognise cybersecurity as an important systemic risk to the financial 
sector and have highlighted the need for financial institutions to improve their monitoring 
and control of, and resilience (particularly of critical services) to cyberattacks, and to 
provide timely reporting or notification of them, as appropriate (including, for example, 
the new SEC cybersecurity requirements). Furthermore, cyberattacks on NatWest 
Group’s counterparties and suppliers may also have an adverse effect on NatWest 
Group’s operations. 

Additionally, third parties may induce employees, customers, third-party providers or 
other users with access to NatWest Group’s systems to wrongfully disclose sensitive 
information to gain access to NatWest Group’s data or systems or that of NatWest 
Group’s customers or employees. Cybersecurity and information security events can 
derive from groups or factors such as: internal or external threat actors, human error, 
fraud or malice on the part of NatWest Group’s employees or third parties, including 
third party providers, or may result from technological failure. 

NatWest Group expects greater regulatory engagement, supervision and enforcement to 
continue in relation to its overall resilience to withstand IT and IT-related disruption, 
either through a cyberattack or some other disruptive event. Such increased regulatory 
engagement, supervision and enforcement is uncertain in relation to the scope, cost, 
consequence and the pace of change, which may have a material adverse effect on 
NatWest Group. Due to NatWest Group’s reliance on technology and the increasing 
sophistication, frequency and impact of cyberattacks, such attacks may have an adverse 
effect on NatWest Group.

In accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union Withdrawal 
Act 2018, the Data Protection, Privacy and Electronic Communications (Amendments 
Etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019, as amended by the Data Protection, Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (Amendments Etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 (‘UK Data 
Protection Framework’) and European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) Guidelines on ICT and 
Security Risk Management, NatWest Group is required to ensure it implements timely, 
appropriate and effective organisational and technological safeguards against 
unauthorised or unlawful access to the data of NatWest Group, its customers and its 
employees. In order to meet this requirement, NatWest Group relies on the effectiveness 
of its internal policies, controls and procedures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of information held on its IT systems, networks and devices as well as with 
third parties with whom NatWest Group interacts. A failure to monitor and manage data 
in accordance with the UK Data Protection Framework and EBA requirements of the 
applicable legislation may result in financial losses, regulatory fines and investigations and 
associated reputational damage.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group operations and strategy are highly dependent on the accuracy 
and effective use of data.
NatWest Group relies on the effective use of accurate data to support, monitor, evaluate, 
manage and enhance its operations, innovate its products offering, meet its regulatory 
obligations, and deliver its strategy. Investment is being made in data tools and analytics, 
including raising awareness around ethical data usage (for example, in relation to the use 
of artificial intelligence) and privacy across NatWest Group. The availability and 
accessibility of current, complete, detailed, accurate and, wherever possible, machine-
readable customer segment and sub-sector data, together with appropriate governance 
and accountability for data, is fast becoming a critical strategic asset, which is subject to 
increased regulatory focus. 

Risk factors continued

Failure to have or be able to access that data or the ineffective use or governance of 

In 2023, NatWest Group made considerable investments to further simplify, upgrade and 

that data could result in a failure to manage and report important risks and opportunities 

improve its IT and technology capabilities (including migration of certain services to cloud 

or satisfy customers’ expectations including the inability to deliver products and services. 

platforms). NatWest Group also continues to develop and enhance digital services for its 

This could also result in a failure to deliver NatWest Group’s strategy and could place 

customers and seeks to improve its competitive position through enhancing controls and 

NatWest Group at a competitive disadvantage by increasing its costs, inhibiting its efforts 

procedures and strengthening the resilience of services including cybersecurity. Any 

to reduce costs or its ability to improve its systems, controls and processes, which could 

failure of these investment and rationalisation initiatives to achieve the expected results, 

result in a failure to deliver NatWest Group’s strategy. 

due to cost challenges or otherwise, may adversely affect NatWest Group’s operations, 

its reputation and ability to retain or grow its customer business or adversely affect its 

These data weaknesses and limitations, or the unethical or inappropriate use of data, 

competitive position.

and/or non-compliance with data protection laws could give rise to conduct and litigation 

risks and may increase the risk of operational challenges, losses, reputational damage or 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

other adverse consequences due to inappropriate models, systems, processes, decisions 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

or other actions.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group’s operations are highly dependent on its complex IT systems and 

any IT failure could adversely affect NatWest Group. 

NatWest Group’s operations are highly dependent on the ability to process a very large 

number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws 

and regulations. The proper functioning of NatWest Group’s transactional and payment 

systems, financial crime, fraud systems and controls, risk management, credit analysis 

and reporting, accounting, customer service and other IT systems (some of which are 

owned and operated by other entities in NatWest Group or third parties), as well as the 

communication networks between its branches and main data processing centres, is 

critical to NatWest Group’s operations.

Individually or collectively, any system failure, loss of service availability or breach of data 

security could potentially cause significant damage to: (i) important business services 

across NatWest Group and (ii) NatWest Group’s ability to provide services to its 

customers, which could result in reputational damage, significant compensation costs 

and regulatory sanctions (including fines resulting from regulatory investigations) or a 

breach of applicable regulations and could affect NatWest Group’s regulatory approvals, 

competitive position, business and brands, which could undermine its ability to attract 

and retain customers and talent. NatWest Group outsources certain functions as it 

innovates and offers new digital solutions to its customers to meet the demand for online 

and mobile banking. Outsourcing alongside remote working heighten the above risks. 

NatWest Group uses IT systems that enable remote working interface with third-party 

systems, and NatWest Group could experience service denials or disruptions if such 

systems exceed capacity or if NatWest Group or a third-party system fails or 

experiences any interruptions, all of which could result in business and customer 

interruption and related reputational damage, significant compensation costs, regulatory 

sanctions and/or a breach of applicable regulations.

NatWest Group relies on attracting, retaining and developing diverse senior 

management and skilled personnel, and is required to maintain good employee 

relations.

pressures. 

NatWest Group’s success depends on its ability to attract, retain through creating an 

inclusive environment, and develop highly skilled and qualified diverse personnel, 

including senior management, directors and key employees (including technology and 

data focused roles), in a highly competitive market and under internal cost efficiency 

NatWest Group’s ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled and qualified diverse 

senior management (this may include a new permanent CEO in 2024) and skilled 

personnel may be more difficult due to the cost-controlling measures, a failure to pay 

employees competitive compensation, heightened regulatory oversight of banks and the 

increasing scrutiny of, and (in some cases) restrictions placed upon, employee 

compensation arrangements (in particular those of banks that have been in receipt of 

government support such as NatWest Group). In addition, certain economic, market and 

regulatory conditions and political developments may reduce the pool of candidates for 

key management and non-executive roles, including non-executive directors with the 

right skills, knowledge and experience, or may increase the number of departures of 

existing employees. Moreover, a failure to foster a diverse and inclusive workforce may 

adversely affect NatWest Group’s employee engagement and the formulation and 

execution of its strategy and could also have an adverse effect on its reputation with 

employees, customers, investors and regulators. 

Many of NatWest Group’s employees in the UK, the ROI and continental Europe are 

represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions and works 

councils. Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to NatWest Group 

in maintaining good employee relations. Any failure to do so may adversely affect 

NatWest Group’s ability to operate its business effectively.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443377

437

Risk factors continued

Failure to have or be able to access that data or the ineffective use or governance of 
that data could result in a failure to manage and report important risks and opportunities 
or satisfy customers’ expectations including the inability to deliver products and services. 
This could also result in a failure to deliver NatWest Group’s strategy and could place 
NatWest Group at a competitive disadvantage by increasing its costs, inhibiting its efforts 
to reduce costs or its ability to improve its systems, controls and processes, which could 
result in a failure to deliver NatWest Group’s strategy. 

These data weaknesses and limitations, or the unethical or inappropriate use of data, 
and/or non-compliance with data protection laws could give rise to conduct and litigation 
risks and may increase the risk of operational challenges, losses, reputational damage or 
other adverse consequences due to inappropriate models, systems, processes, decisions 
or other actions.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group’s operations are highly dependent on its complex IT systems and 
any IT failure could adversely affect NatWest Group. 
NatWest Group’s operations are highly dependent on the ability to process a very large 
number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws 
and regulations. The proper functioning of NatWest Group’s transactional and payment 
systems, financial crime, fraud systems and controls, risk management, credit analysis 
and reporting, accounting, customer service and other IT systems (some of which are 
owned and operated by other entities in NatWest Group or third parties), as well as the 
communication networks between its branches and main data processing centres, is 
critical to NatWest Group’s operations.

Individually or collectively, any system failure, loss of service availability or breach of data 
security could potentially cause significant damage to: (i) important business services 
across NatWest Group and (ii) NatWest Group’s ability to provide services to its 
customers, which could result in reputational damage, significant compensation costs 
and regulatory sanctions (including fines resulting from regulatory investigations) or a 
breach of applicable regulations and could affect NatWest Group’s regulatory approvals, 
competitive position, business and brands, which could undermine its ability to attract 
and retain customers and talent. NatWest Group outsources certain functions as it 
innovates and offers new digital solutions to its customers to meet the demand for online 
and mobile banking. Outsourcing alongside remote working heighten the above risks. 

NatWest Group uses IT systems that enable remote working interface with third-party 
systems, and NatWest Group could experience service denials or disruptions if such 
systems exceed capacity or if NatWest Group or a third-party system fails or 
experiences any interruptions, all of which could result in business and customer 
interruption and related reputational damage, significant compensation costs, regulatory 
sanctions and/or a breach of applicable regulations.

In 2023, NatWest Group made considerable investments to further simplify, upgrade and 
improve its IT and technology capabilities (including migration of certain services to cloud 
platforms). NatWest Group also continues to develop and enhance digital services for its 
customers and seeks to improve its competitive position through enhancing controls and 
procedures and strengthening the resilience of services including cybersecurity. Any 
failure of these investment and rationalisation initiatives to achieve the expected results, 
due to cost challenges or otherwise, may adversely affect NatWest Group’s operations, 
its reputation and ability to retain or grow its customer business or adversely affect its 
competitive position.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group relies on attracting, retaining and developing diverse senior 
management and skilled personnel, and is required to maintain good employee 
relations.
NatWest Group’s success depends on its ability to attract, retain through creating an 
inclusive environment, and develop highly skilled and qualified diverse personnel, 
including senior management, directors and key employees (including technology and 
data focused roles), in a highly competitive market and under internal cost efficiency 
pressures. 

NatWest Group’s ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled and qualified diverse 
senior management (this may include a new permanent CEO in 2024) and skilled 
personnel may be more difficult due to the cost-controlling measures, a failure to pay 
employees competitive compensation, heightened regulatory oversight of banks and the 
increasing scrutiny of, and (in some cases) restrictions placed upon, employee 
compensation arrangements (in particular those of banks that have been in receipt of 
government support such as NatWest Group). In addition, certain economic, market and 
regulatory conditions and political developments may reduce the pool of candidates for 
key management and non-executive roles, including non-executive directors with the 
right skills, knowledge and experience, or may increase the number of departures of 
existing employees. Moreover, a failure to foster a diverse and inclusive workforce may 
adversely affect NatWest Group’s employee engagement and the formulation and 
execution of its strategy and could also have an adverse effect on its reputation with 
employees, customers, investors and regulators. 

Many of NatWest Group’s employees in the UK, the ROI and continental Europe are 
represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions and works 
councils. Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to NatWest Group 
in maintaining good employee relations. Any failure to do so may adversely affect 
NatWest Group’s ability to operate its business effectively.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443388

438

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443399

Risk factors continued

Risk factors continued

A failure in NatWest Group’s risk management framework could adversely affect 
NatWest Group, including its ability to achieve its strategic objectives. 
Risk management is an integral part of all of NatWest Group’s activities and delivery of 
its long-term strategy. NatWest Group’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework 
sets out the approach for managing risk within NatWest Group including in relation to 
risk governance and risk appetite. A failure to adhere to this framework, or any material 
weaknesses or deficiencies in the framework’s controls and procedures, could adversely 
affect NatWest Group’s financial condition and strategic delivery including in relation to 
inaccurate adherence to agreed risk appetite statements and accurate risk reporting of 
risk exposures. 

In addition, financial crime risk management is dependent on the use and effectiveness of 
financial crime assessment, systems and controls. Weak or ineffective financial crime 
processes and controls may risk NatWest Group inadvertently facilitating financial crime 
which may result in regulatory investigation, sanction, litigation, fines and/or reputational 
damage. Financial crime continues to evolve, whether through fraud, scams, 
cyberattacks or other criminal activity. These risks are exacerbated as NatWest Group 
continues to innovate its product offering and increasingly offers digital solutions to its 
customers. NatWest Group has made and continues to make significant, multi-year 
investments to strengthen and improve its overall financial crime control framework with 
prevention systems and capabilities. As part of its ongoing programme of investment, 
there is current and future investment planned to further strengthen financial crime 
controls over the coming years, including investment in new technologies and capabilities 
to further enhance customer due diligence, transaction monitoring, sanctions and anti-
bribery and corruption systems. 

Financial risk management is highly dependent on the use and effectiveness of internal 
stress tests and models and ineffective risk management may arise from a wide variety 
of factors, including lack of transparency or incomplete risk reporting, manual processes 
and controls, inaccurate data, inadequate IT systems, unidentified conflicts or misaligned 
incentives, lack of accountability control and governance, incomplete risk monitoring and 
management or insufficient challenges or assurance processes or a failure to commence 
or timely complete risk remediation projects. Failure to manage risks effectively, or within 
regulatory expectations, could adversely affect NatWest Group’s reputation or its 
relationship with its regulators, customers, shareholders or other stakeholders.

NatWest Group’s operations are inherently exposed to conduct risks, which include 
business decisions, actions or reward mechanisms that are not responsive to or aligned 
with NatWest Group’s regulatory obligations, customers’ needs or do not reflect NatWest 
Group’s strategy, ineffective product management, unethical or inappropriate use of 
data, information asymmetry, implementation and utilisation of new technologies, 
outsourcing of customer service and product delivery, inappropriate behaviour towards 
customers, customer outcomes, the possibility of mis-selling of financial products and 
mishandling of customer complaints. Some of these risks have materialised in the past 
and ineffective management and oversight of conduct risks may lead to further 
remediation and regulatory intervention or enforcement. 

NatWest Group’s businesses are also exposed to risks from employee, contractor or 
service providers misconduct including non-compliance with policies and regulations, 
negligence or fraud (including financial crimes and fraud), any of which could result in 
regulatory fines or sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm to NatWest 
Group. Hybrid working arrangements for NatWest Group employees place heavy 
reliance on the IT systems that enable remote working and may place additional 
pressure on NatWest Group’s ability to maintain effective internal controls and 
governance frameworks and increase operational risk. 

Hybrid working arrangements are also subject to regulatory scrutiny to ensure adequate 
recording, surveillance and supervision of regulated activities, and compliance with 
regulatory requirements and expectations, including requirements to: meet threshold 
conditions for regulated activities; ensure the ability to oversee functions (including any 
outsourced functions); ensure no detriment is caused to customers; and ensure no 
increased risk of financial crime. 

NatWest Group seeks to embed a risk awareness culture across the organisation and 
has implemented policies and allocated new resources across all levels of the 
organisation to manage and mitigate conduct risk and expects to continue to invest in 
risk management, including the ongoing development of a risk management strategy in 
line with regulatory expectations. However, such efforts may not insulate NatWest Group 
from instances of misconduct and no assurance can be given that NatWest Group’s 
strategy and control framework will be effective. Any failure in NatWest Group’s risk 
management framework may result in the inability to achieve its strategic objectives for 
its customers, employees and wider stakeholders.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group’s operations are subject to inherent reputational risk. 
Reputational risk relates to stakeholder and public perceptions of NatWest Group arising 
from an actual or perceived failure to meet stakeholder or the public’s expectations, 
including with respect to NatWest Group’s strategy and related targets, the progression 
towards working as One Bank across NatWest Group to serve customers or due to any 
events, behaviour, action or inaction by NatWest Group, its employees or those with 
whom NatWest Group is associated. Refer to ‘NatWest Group’s businesses are subject 
to substantial regulation and oversight, which are constantly evolving and may adversely 
affect NatWest Group.’’ This includes harm to its brand, which may be detrimental to 
NatWest Group’s business, including its ability to build or sustain business relationships 
with customers, stakeholders and regulators, and may cause low employee morale, 
regulatory censure or reduced access to, or an increase in the cost of, funding. 
Reputational risk may arise whenever there is, or there is perceived to be, a material 
lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer or operating efficiency, or 
regulatory or press scrutiny, and may adversely affect NatWest Group’s ability to attract 
and retain customers. For example, NatWest Group’s reputational risks were elevated 
during 2023 as a result of the departure of its CEO in connection with account closures 
and related use of customer data that attracted significant public and media attention.

In particular, NatWest Group’s ability to attract and retain customers (particularly, 

In addition, there is significant oversight by competition authorities of the jurisdictions in 

corporate/institutional and retail depositors), and talent, and engage with counterparties 

which NatWest Group operates. The competitive landscape for banks and other financial 

may be adversely affected by factors including: negative public opinion resulting from 

institutions in the UK, EU/EEA, Asia and the US is rapidly changing. Recent regulatory 

the actual or perceived manner in which NatWest Group conducts or modifies its 

and legal changes have and may continue to result in new market participants and 

business activities and operations, media coverage (whether accurate or otherwise), 

changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas. Regulatory and competition 

employee misconduct, NatWest Group’s financial performance, IT systems failures or 

authorities, including the CMA, are also looking at and focusing more on how they can 

cyberattacks, data breaches, financial crime and fraud, the level of direct and indirect 

support competition and innovation in digital and other markets. Future competition 

government support, or the actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial 

investigations, market reviews, or the regulation of mergers may lead to the imposition of 

industry in general, or a wide variety of other factors.

financial penalties or market remedies that may adversely affect NatWest Group’s 

Technologies, in particular online social networks and other broadcast tools that 

facilitate communication with large audiences in short timeframes and with minimal 

Recent regulatory changes and heightened levels of public and regulatory scrutiny in the 

costs, may also significantly increase and accelerate the impact of damaging information 

UK, the EU and the US have resulted in increased capital, funding and liquidity 

competitive or financial position.

and allegations. 

Although NatWest Group has implemented a Reputational Risk Policy to identify, 

measure and manage material reputational risk exposures, NatWest Group cannot be 

requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, changes in other regulatory 

requirements and increased operating costs, and have impacted, and will continue to 

impact, product offerings and business models. 

certain that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk.

Other areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, regulatory and 

Any of the above aspects of reputational risk may have a material adverse effect on 

NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

to, the following:

accounting changes, and increased public and regulatory scrutiny may have an adverse 

effect (some of which could be material) on NatWest Group include, but are not limited 

LLeeggaall,,  rreegguullaattoorryy  aanndd  ccoonndduucctt  rriisskk  

NatWest Group’s businesses are subject to substantial regulation and oversight, 

which are constantly evolving and may adversely affect NatWest Group.

NatWest Group is subject to extensive laws, regulations, guidelines, corporate 

governance practice and disclosure requirements, administrative actions and policies in 

each jurisdiction in which it operates, which represents ongoing compliance and conduct 

risks. Many of these have been introduced or amended recently and are subject to 

further material changes, which may increase compliance and conduct risks, particularly 

as EU/EEA and UK laws diverge as a result of Brexit. NatWest Group expects 

government and regulatory intervention in the financial services industry to remain high 

for the foreseeable future.

Regulators and governments continue to focus on reforming the prudential regulation of 

the financial services industry and the manner in which the business of financial services 

is conducted. Measures have included: enhanced capital, liquidity and funding 

requirements, through initiatives such as the Basel 3.1 standards implementation (and 

any resulting effect on RWAs and models), the UK ring-fencing regime, the strengthening 

of the recovery and resolution framework applicable to financial institutions in the UK, 

the EU and the US, financial industry reforms (including in respect of MiFID II and the 

FSM Act 2023), LIBOR transition, corporate governance requirements, rules relating to 

the compensation of senior management and other employees, enhanced data 

protection and IT resilience requirements, financial market infrastructure reforms, 

enhanced regulations in respect of the provision of ‘investment services and activities’, 

and increased regulatory focus in certain areas, including conduct, consumer protection 

(such as the FCA’s Consumer Duty) in retail or other financial markets, competition and 

disputes regimes, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion, 

payment systems, sanctions and anti-terrorism laws and regulations.

 General changes in government, central bank, regulatory or competition policy, or 

changes in regulatory regimes that may influence investor decisions in the 

jurisdictions in which NatWest Group operates;

 Rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation or 

appropriation of assets;



Increased scrutiny including from the CMA, FCA and Payment Systems Regulator 

(‘PSR’) for the protection and resilience of, and competition and innovation in, digital 

and other markets, UK payment systems (with the development of the government’s 

National Payments Vision and Strategy) and retail banking developments relating to 

the UK initiative on Open Banking, Open Finance and the European directive on 

payment services;

 The ongoing compliance by NatWest Group with CMA’s Market Orders including the 

Retail Banking Market Order 2017 (the ‘Order’) and SME Undertakings as well as 

legislation being drafted to introduce penalties for breaches of such requirements (in 

addition to the current customer remediation requirements);

 Ongoing competition litigation in the English courts around payment card interchange 

fees, combined with increased regulatory scrutiny (from the PSR) of the Visa and 

Mastercard card schemes;



Increased risk of new class action claims being brought against NatWest Group in the 

Competition Appeal Tribunal for breaches of competition law;

 New or increased regulations relating to customer data protection as well as IT 

controls and resilience, such as the proposed UK Data Protection and Digital 

Information Bill (No 2) and in India, the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill 2022; 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

443399

439

Risk factors continued

In particular, NatWest Group’s ability to attract and retain customers (particularly, 
corporate/institutional and retail depositors), and talent, and engage with counterparties 
may be adversely affected by factors including: negative public opinion resulting from 
the actual or perceived manner in which NatWest Group conducts or modifies its 
business activities and operations, media coverage (whether accurate or otherwise), 
employee misconduct, NatWest Group’s financial performance, IT systems failures or 
cyberattacks, data breaches, financial crime and fraud, the level of direct and indirect 
government support, or the actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial 
industry in general, or a wide variety of other factors.

Technologies, in particular online social networks and other broadcast tools that 
facilitate communication with large audiences in short timeframes and with minimal 
costs, may also significantly increase and accelerate the impact of damaging information 
and allegations. 

Although NatWest Group has implemented a Reputational Risk Policy to identify, 
measure and manage material reputational risk exposures, NatWest Group cannot be 
certain that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk.

Any of the above aspects of reputational risk may have a material adverse effect on 
NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

LLeeggaall,,  rreegguullaattoorryy  aanndd  ccoonndduucctt  rriisskk  

NatWest Group’s businesses are subject to substantial regulation and oversight, 
which are constantly evolving and may adversely affect NatWest Group.
NatWest Group is subject to extensive laws, regulations, guidelines, corporate 
governance practice and disclosure requirements, administrative actions and policies in 
each jurisdiction in which it operates, which represents ongoing compliance and conduct 
risks. Many of these have been introduced or amended recently and are subject to 
further material changes, which may increase compliance and conduct risks, particularly 
as EU/EEA and UK laws diverge as a result of Brexit. NatWest Group expects 
government and regulatory intervention in the financial services industry to remain high 
for the foreseeable future.

Regulators and governments continue to focus on reforming the prudential regulation of 
the financial services industry and the manner in which the business of financial services 
is conducted. Measures have included: enhanced capital, liquidity and funding 
requirements, through initiatives such as the Basel 3.1 standards implementation (and 
any resulting effect on RWAs and models), the UK ring-fencing regime, the strengthening 
of the recovery and resolution framework applicable to financial institutions in the UK, 
the EU and the US, financial industry reforms (including in respect of MiFID II and the 
FSM Act 2023), LIBOR transition, corporate governance requirements, rules relating to 
the compensation of senior management and other employees, enhanced data 
protection and IT resilience requirements, financial market infrastructure reforms, 
enhanced regulations in respect of the provision of ‘investment services and activities’, 
and increased regulatory focus in certain areas, including conduct, consumer protection 
(such as the FCA’s Consumer Duty) in retail or other financial markets, competition and 
disputes regimes, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion, 
payment systems, sanctions and anti-terrorism laws and regulations.

In addition, there is significant oversight by competition authorities of the jurisdictions in 
which NatWest Group operates. The competitive landscape for banks and other financial 
institutions in the UK, EU/EEA, Asia and the US is rapidly changing. Recent regulatory 
and legal changes have and may continue to result in new market participants and 
changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas. Regulatory and competition 
authorities, including the CMA, are also looking at and focusing more on how they can 
support competition and innovation in digital and other markets. Future competition 
investigations, market reviews, or the regulation of mergers may lead to the imposition of 
financial penalties or market remedies that may adversely affect NatWest Group’s 
competitive or financial position.

Recent regulatory changes and heightened levels of public and regulatory scrutiny in the 
UK, the EU and the US have resulted in increased capital, funding and liquidity 
requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, changes in other regulatory 
requirements and increased operating costs, and have impacted, and will continue to 
impact, product offerings and business models. 

Other areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, regulatory and 
accounting changes, and increased public and regulatory scrutiny may have an adverse 
effect (some of which could be material) on NatWest Group include, but are not limited 
to, the following:

 General changes in government, central bank, regulatory or competition policy, or 

changes in regulatory regimes that may influence investor decisions in the 
jurisdictions in which NatWest Group operates;

 Rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation or 



appropriation of assets;
Increased scrutiny including from the CMA, FCA and Payment Systems Regulator 
(‘PSR’) for the protection and resilience of, and competition and innovation in, digital 
and other markets, UK payment systems (with the development of the government’s 
National Payments Vision and Strategy) and retail banking developments relating to 
the UK initiative on Open Banking, Open Finance and the European directive on 
payment services;

 The ongoing compliance by NatWest Group with CMA’s Market Orders including the 
Retail Banking Market Order 2017 (the ‘Order’) and SME Undertakings as well as 
legislation being drafted to introduce penalties for breaches of such requirements (in 
addition to the current customer remediation requirements);

 Ongoing competition litigation in the English courts around payment card interchange 
fees, combined with increased regulatory scrutiny (from the PSR) of the Visa and 
Mastercard card schemes;
Increased risk of new class action claims being brought against NatWest Group in the 
Competition Appeal Tribunal for breaches of competition law;



 New or increased regulations relating to customer data protection as well as IT 
controls and resilience, such as the proposed UK Data Protection and Digital 
Information Bill (No 2) and in India, the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill 2022; 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444400

440

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444411

Risk factors continued

 The introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees applicable to NatWest 

Group’s operations, such as the introduction of global minimum tax rules, changes in 
tax rates, changes in the scope and administration of the Bank Levy, increases in the 
bank corporation tax surcharge in the UK, restrictions on the tax deductibility of 
interest payments or further restrictions imposed on the treatment of carry-forward 
tax losses that reduce the value of deferred tax assets and require increased 
payments of tax; 

 The potential introduction by the Bank of England of a Central Bank Digital Currency 
which could result in deposit outflows, higher funding costs, and/or other implications 
for UK banks including NatWest Group; 

 Regulatory enforcement in the form of PRA imposed financial penalties for failings in 

banks’ regulatory reporting governance and controls, and ongoing regulatory 
scrutiny, and the PRA’s thematic reviews of the governance, controls and processes 
for preparing regulatory returns of selected UK banks, including NatWest Group; 
‘Dear CEO’ letters issued by the Bank of England from time to time;


 Recent or proposed US regulations around cybersecurity incidents, climate 

disclosures and other climate and sustainability-related rules; 

 New or increased regulations relating to financial crime (including the new criminal 

offence of failure to prevent fraud), and

 Any regulatory requirements relating to the use of artificial intelligence and large 

language models across the financial services industry (such as the European Union 
Artificial Intelligence Act).

Any of these developments (including any failure to comply with new rules and 
regulations) could also have an adverse effect on NatWest Group’s authorisations and 
licences, the products and services that NatWest Group may offer, its reputation and the 
value of its assets, NatWest Group’s operations or legal entity structure, and the manner 
in which NatWest Group conducts its business. Material consequences could arise should 
NatWest Group be found to be non-compliant with these regulatory requirements. 
Regulatory developments may also result in an increased number of regulatory 
investigations and proceedings and have increased the risks relating to NatWest Group’s 
ability to comply with the applicable body of rules and regulations in the manner and 
within the timeframes required.

Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, or the 
implementation of new laws, rules or regulations, including contradictory or conflicting 
laws, rules or regulations by key regulators or policymakers in different jurisdictions, or 
failure by NatWest Group to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, may adversely 
affect NatWest Group’s business, results of operations and outlook. In addition, 
uncertainty and insufficient international regulatory coordination as enhanced 
supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely affect NatWest 
Group’s ability to engage in effective business, capital and risk management planning.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

NatWest Group is exposed to the risks of various litigation matters, regulatory and 
governmental actions and investigations as well as remedial undertakings, the 
outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, and which could have an 
adverse effect on NatWest Group. 
NatWest Group’s operations are diverse and complex and it operates in legal and 
regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant civil actions (including 
those following on from regulatory sanction), as well as criminal, regulatory and 
governmental proceedings. NatWest Group has resolved a number of legal and 
regulatory actions over the past several years but continues to be, and may in the future 
be, involved in such actions in the US, the UK, Europe, Asia and other jurisdictions.

NatWest Group is, has recently been or will likely be involved in a number of significant 
legal and regulatory actions, including investigations, proceedings and ongoing reviews 
(both formal and informal) by governmental law enforcement and other agencies and 
litigation proceedings, including in relation to the offering of securities, conduct in the 
foreign exchange market, the setting of benchmark rates such as LIBOR and related 
derivatives trading, the issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading of fixed-income 
securities (including government securities), product mis-selling, customer mistreatment, 
anti-money laundering, antitrust, VAT recovery and various other issues. There is also an 
increasing risk of new class action claims being brought against NatWest Group in the 
Competition Appeal Tribunal for breaches of competition law.

Legal and regulatory actions are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes, 
including the timing, amount of fines, damages or settlements or the form of any 
settlements, which may be material and in excess of any related provisions, are often 
difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or investigation. NatWest 
Group’s expectation for resolution may change and substantial additional provisions and 
costs may be recognised in respect of any matter.

The resolution of significant investigations include: NWM Plc’s December 2021 spoofing-
related guilty plea in the United States that was agreed with the US Department of 
Justice, and involves a three-year period of probation, an independent corporate monitor 
and the ongoing implementation of recommendations made by it, and commitments to 
compliance programme reviews and improvements and reporting obligations. Ongoing 
matters include the implementation of recommendations made by the law firm Travers 
Smith LLP following independent reviews into issues that had arisen from treatment of a 
customer in connection with an account closure decision that attracted significant public 
attention and related interactions with the media, and certain account closures more 
generally. NatWest Group plc has received reports in connection with the Travers Smith 
reviews, and published summaries of the key findings and recommendations in October 
and December 2023. In addition, NatWest Group plc is conducting internal reviews with 
respect to certain governance processes, policies, systems and controls of NatWest 
Group entities, including with respect to customer account closures and the FCA is 
conducting supervisory work into how the governance, systems and controls of NatWest 
Group and Coutts & Company are working, to identify and address any significant 
shortcomings. For additional information relating to legal, regulatory proceedings and 
matters to which NatWest Group is exposed, refer to ‘Litigation and regulatory matters’ 
at Note 26 to the consolidated accounts.

Risk factors continued

Recently resolved matters or adverse outcomes or resolution of current or future legal, 

regulatory or other matters, including conduct-related reviews, redress projects or the 

subject matter and outcomes of any of the independent or internal reviews described 

above, could increase the risk of greater regulatory and third-party scrutiny and/or result 

in future legal or regulatory actions, and could have material financial, reputational, or 

collateral consequences for NatWest Group’s business and result in restrictions or 

limitations on NatWest Group’s operations.

These may include the effective or actual disqualification from carrying on certain 

regulated activities and consequences resulting from the need to reapply for various 

important licences or obtain waivers to conduct certain existing activities of NatWest 

Group, particularly but not solely in the US, which may take a significant period of time 

and the results and implications of which are uncertain. 

Disqualification from carrying on any activities, whether automatically as a result of the 

resolution of a particular matter or as a result of the failure to obtain such licences or 

waivers could adversely affect NatWest Group’s business, in particular in the US. This in 

turn and/or any fines, settlement payments or penalties may have a material adverse 

effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or 

reputation.

matters.

Failure to comply with undertakings made by NatWest Group to its regulators, or the 

conditions of probation resulting from the spoofing-related guilty plea, may result in 

additional measures or penalties being taken against NatWest Group. In addition, any 

failure to administer conduct redress processes adequately, or to handle individual 

complaints fairly or appropriately, could result in further claims as well as the imposition 

of additional measures or limitations on NatWest Group’s operations, additional 

supervision by NatWest Group’s regulators, and loss of investor confidence.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, capital position, reputation or its ability to meet regulatory 

capital adequacy requirements.

Changes in tax legislation or failure to generate future taxable profits may impact 

the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by NatWest Group.

In accordance with the accounting policies set out in ‘Critical accounting policies and 

sources of estimation uncertainty’, NatWest Group has recognised deferred tax assets on 

losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent it is probable that 

they will be recovered. The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax 

legislation and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of the future 

rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and offsetting allowable losses.

Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further changes in tax legislation 

(including with respect to rates of tax) or accounting standards may reduce the 

recoverable amount of the recognised tax loss deferred tax assets, amounting to £1.019 

billion as at 31 December 2023. Changes to the treatment of certain deferred tax assets 

may impact NatWest Group’s capital position. In addition, NatWest Group’s interpretation 

or application of relevant tax laws may differ from those of the relevant tax authorities 

and provisions are made for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the 

amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ 

materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such 

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 

financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444411

441

Risk factors continued

Recently resolved matters or adverse outcomes or resolution of current or future legal, 
regulatory or other matters, including conduct-related reviews, redress projects or the 
subject matter and outcomes of any of the independent or internal reviews described 
above, could increase the risk of greater regulatory and third-party scrutiny and/or result 
in future legal or regulatory actions, and could have material financial, reputational, or 
collateral consequences for NatWest Group’s business and result in restrictions or 
limitations on NatWest Group’s operations.

These may include the effective or actual disqualification from carrying on certain 
regulated activities and consequences resulting from the need to reapply for various 
important licences or obtain waivers to conduct certain existing activities of NatWest 
Group, particularly but not solely in the US, which may take a significant period of time 
and the results and implications of which are uncertain. 

Disqualification from carrying on any activities, whether automatically as a result of the 
resolution of a particular matter or as a result of the failure to obtain such licences or 
waivers could adversely affect NatWest Group’s business, in particular in the US. This in 
turn and/or any fines, settlement payments or penalties may have a material adverse 
effect on NatWest Group’s future results, financial condition, prospects, and/or 
reputation.

Failure to comply with undertakings made by NatWest Group to its regulators, or the 
conditions of probation resulting from the spoofing-related guilty plea, may result in 
additional measures or penalties being taken against NatWest Group. In addition, any 
failure to administer conduct redress processes adequately, or to handle individual 
complaints fairly or appropriately, could result in further claims as well as the imposition 
of additional measures or limitations on NatWest Group’s operations, additional 
supervision by NatWest Group’s regulators, and loss of investor confidence.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, capital position, reputation or its ability to meet regulatory 
capital adequacy requirements.

Changes in tax legislation or failure to generate future taxable profits may impact 
the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by NatWest Group.
In accordance with the accounting policies set out in ‘Critical accounting policies and 
sources of estimation uncertainty’, NatWest Group has recognised deferred tax assets on 
losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent it is probable that 
they will be recovered. The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax 
legislation and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of the future 
rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and offsetting allowable losses.

Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further changes in tax legislation 
(including with respect to rates of tax) or accounting standards may reduce the 
recoverable amount of the recognised tax loss deferred tax assets, amounting to £1.019 
billion as at 31 December 2023. Changes to the treatment of certain deferred tax assets 
may impact NatWest Group’s capital position. In addition, NatWest Group’s interpretation 
or application of relevant tax laws may differ from those of the relevant tax authorities 
and provisions are made for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the 
amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ 
materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such 
matters.

Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on NatWest Group’s future results, 
financial condition, prospects, and/or reputation.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444422

442

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444433

Material contracts

The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the ordinary course 
of business. Material contracts include the following:

BB  SShhaarree  AAccqquuiissiittiioonn  aanndd  CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  CCaappiittaall  AAggrreeeemmeenntt
On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the Acquisition 
and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM Treasury subscribed for the 
initial B shares and the Dividend Access Share (the Acquisitions) and agreed the terms 
of HM Treasury's contingent subscription (the Contingent Subscription) for an 
additional £8 billion in aggregate in the form of further B shares (the Contingent B 
shares), to be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares. The Acquisitions were 
subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including the company having obtained 
the approval of its shareholders in relation to the Acquisitions.

On 16 December 2013, the company announced that, having received approval from 
the PRA, it had terminated the £8 billion Contingent Subscription. The company was 
able to cancel the Contingent Subscription as a result of the actions announced in the 
second half of 2013 to further strengthen its capital position.

On 9 October 2015, the company announced that on 8 October 2015, it had received 
a valid conversion notice from HM Treasury in respect of all outstanding B shares held 
by HM Treasury. The new ordinary shares issued on conversion of the B shares were 
admitted to the official list of the UK Listing Authority (UKLA), and to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange plc, on 14 October 2015. Following such conversion, HM 
Treasury no longer holds any B shares. 

The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM Treasury on the 
date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement, on the date the circular 
was posted to shareholders, on the first date on which all of the conditions precedent 
were satisfied, or waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions. The company also 
agreed to a number of undertakings.

The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred in 
connection with the Acquisitions.

For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company (within the meaning of the 
UKLA’s Listing Rules), HM Treasury has undertaken not to vote on related party 
transaction resolutions at general meetings and to direct that its affiliates do not so 
vote

Directed Buyback Contract
On 7 February 2019, the company and HM Treasury entered into the Directed Buyback 
Contract to help facilitate the return of the company to full private ownership through the 
use of any excess capital to buy back the company’s ordinary shares held by HM 
Treasury. 

Under the terms of the Directed Buyback Contract, the company may agree with HM 
Treasury to make off-market purchases from time to time of its ordinary shares held by 
HM Treasury, including by way of one or more standalone purchases, through a non-
discretionary, broker-managed directed trading programme, or in conjunction with any 
offer or sale by HM Treasury by way of an institutional placing. Neither the company nor 
HM Treasury would be under an obligation to agree to make such off-market purchases 
and would only do so subject to regulatory approval at the time.

The aggregate number of ordinary shares which the company may purchase from HM 
Treasury under the Directed Buyback Contract will not exceed 4.99%. of the company’s 
issued share capital and the aggregate consideration to be paid will not exceed 4.99%. of 
the company’s market capitalisation. The price to be paid for each ordinary share will be 
the market price at the time of purchase or, if the directed buyback is in conjunction with 
an institutional placing, the placing price.

To date, the company has made three separate off-market purchases under the Directed 
Buyback Contract. One purchase took place in 2021, the second purchase took place in 
2022, and another took place in 2023.

On 19 March 2021, the company announced that it had agreed with HM Treasury to 
make an off-market purchase under the Directed Buyback Contract for the total 
consideration of £1,125,341,269 for 590,730,325 ordinary shares representing 4.86% of 
the company’s issued share capital at that point in time.

On 28 March 2022, the company announced an off-market purchase of 549,851,147 
ordinary shares for the total consideration of £1,212,421,779. The purchased ordinary 
shares represented 4.91% of the company’s issued share capital at the time (excluding 
treasury shares). This took HM Treasury's ownership in the company below 50% for the 
first time since 2008. 

On 22 May 2023, the company announced an off-market purchase of 469,200,081 
ordinary shares for a total consideration of £1,259,333,017. The purchased ordinary shares 
represented 4.95% of the company's issued ordinary share capital at the time (excluding 
treasury shares).

Material contracts continued

Framework and State Aid Deed

As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to work with HM 

Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the European Commission (EC), 

which was then approved by the EC under the State Aid rules on 14 December 2009. 

The company agreed a series of measures which supplemented the measures in the 

company’s strategic plan.

The company entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury at the 

time of the initial EC decision and, following the EC’s approval of amendments to the 

restructuring plan in April 2014, the company entered into a revised State Aid 

Commitment Deed with HM Treasury. In September 2017, the revised State Aid 

Commitment Deed was amended by a Deed of Variation (as so amended, the ‘Revised 

State Aid Commitment Deed’) following the EC’s approval of an alternative remedies 

package (the ‘Alternative Remedies Package’) to replace the company’s final 

outstanding commitment under its State Aid obligations (to divest the business 

previously known as Williams & Glyn) 

Under the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company also agreed to indemnify the 

Independent Body and HM Treasury, up to an amount of £320 million collectively to cover 

liabilities that may be incurred in implementing the Alternative Remedies Package. The 

provisions of the indemnity to the Independent Body are set out in the Framework and 

State Aid Deed and the provisions of the indemnity to HM Treasury are set out in a 

separate agreement between the company and HM Treasury, described under “Deed of 

Indemnity” below.

The Framework and State Aid Deed also provides that if the EC adopts a decision that the 

UK Government must recover any State Aid (a ‘Repayment Decision’) and the recovery 

order of the Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the General 

Court or the European Court of Justice, then the company must repay HM Treasury any 

aid ordered to be recovered under the Repayment Decision.

Deed of Indemnity

In the context of the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company entered into a Deed of 

Indemnity with HM Treasury on 25 April 2018, pursuant to which the company agreed to 

On 25 April 2018, the Revised State Aid Commitment Deed was replaced by the 

indemnify HM Treasury to cover liabilities that may be incurred in implementing the 

Framework and State Aid Deed between the company, HM Treasury and an 

Alternative Remedies Package, as described under “Framework and State Aid Deed” 

independent body established to facilitate and oversee the delivery of the Alternative 

above.

Remedies Package (the ‘Independent Body’). Under the Framework and State Aid 

Deed, the company agrees to do all acts and things necessary to ensure that HM 

Treasury is able to comply with its obligations under any EC decision approving State 

Aid to the company, including under the Alternative Remedies Package.

Trust Deed

Pursuant to the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company has committed: (i) £425 

million into a fund for eligible bodies in the UK banking and financial technology sectors 

to develop and improve their capability to compete with the company in the provision 

of banking services to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and develop and 

improve the financial products and services available to SMEs (the ‘Capability and 

Innovation Fund’); and (ii) £275 million to eligible bodies to help them incentivise SME 

banking customers within the division of the company previously known as Williams & 

Glyn to switch their business current accounts and loans to the eligible bodies (the 

‘Incentivised Switching Scheme’).

The company has also agreed to set aside up to a further £75 million in funding to 

cover certain costs customers may incur as a result of switching under the Incentivised 

Switching Scheme. In addition, under the terms of the Alternative Remedies Package, 

should the uptake within the Incentivised Switching Scheme not be sufficient, the 

company may be required to make a further contribution, capped at £50 million. The 

Independent Body will distribute funds from the Capability and Innovation Fund and 

implement the Incentivised Switching Scheme.

In the context of the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company entered into a Trust 

Deed with the Independent Body on 25 April 2018, to set up a trust to administer the funds 

committed by the company under the Framework and State Aid Deed for the Alternative 

Remedies Package.State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed 

Under the 2009 State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the company has agreed to 

reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with the State Aid and 

State Aid approval.

HMT and UKFI Relationship Deed

On 7 November 2014, in order to comply with an amendment to the UK Listing Rules, the 

company entered into a Relationship Deed with HM Treasury and UK Financial Investments 

Limited in relation to the company’s obligations under the UK Listing Rules to put in place 

an agreement with any controlling shareholder (as defined for these purposes in the Listing 

Rules). The Relationship Deed covers the three independence provisions mandated by the 

Listing Rules: (i) that contracts between the company and HM Treasury (or any of its 

subsidiaries) will be arm's length and normal commercial arrangements, (ii) that neither HM 

Treasury nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of 

preventing the company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules; and (iii) 

neither HM Treasury nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a 

shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the 

proper application of the Listing Rules.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444433

443

Material contracts continued

Framework and State Aid Deed
As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to work with HM 
Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the European Commission (EC), 
which was then approved by the EC under the State Aid rules on 14 December 2009. 
The company agreed a series of measures which supplemented the measures in the 
company’s strategic plan.

The company entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury at the 
time of the initial EC decision and, following the EC’s approval of amendments to the 
restructuring plan in April 2014, the company entered into a revised State Aid 
Commitment Deed with HM Treasury. In September 2017, the revised State Aid 
Commitment Deed was amended by a Deed of Variation (as so amended, the ‘Revised 
State Aid Commitment Deed’) following the EC’s approval of an alternative remedies 
package (the ‘Alternative Remedies Package’) to replace the company’s final 
outstanding commitment under its State Aid obligations (to divest the business 
previously known as Williams & Glyn) 

On 25 April 2018, the Revised State Aid Commitment Deed was replaced by the 
Framework and State Aid Deed between the company, HM Treasury and an 
independent body established to facilitate and oversee the delivery of the Alternative 
Remedies Package (the ‘Independent Body’). Under the Framework and State Aid 
Deed, the company agrees to do all acts and things necessary to ensure that HM 
Treasury is able to comply with its obligations under any EC decision approving State 
Aid to the company, including under the Alternative Remedies Package.

Pursuant to the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company has committed: (i) £425 
million into a fund for eligible bodies in the UK banking and financial technology sectors 
to develop and improve their capability to compete with the company in the provision 
of banking services to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and develop and 
improve the financial products and services available to SMEs (the ‘Capability and 
Innovation Fund’); and (ii) £275 million to eligible bodies to help them incentivise SME 
banking customers within the division of the company previously known as Williams & 
Glyn to switch their business current accounts and loans to the eligible bodies (the 
‘Incentivised Switching Scheme’).

The company has also agreed to set aside up to a further £75 million in funding to 
cover certain costs customers may incur as a result of switching under the Incentivised 
Switching Scheme. In addition, under the terms of the Alternative Remedies Package, 
should the uptake within the Incentivised Switching Scheme not be sufficient, the 
company may be required to make a further contribution, capped at £50 million. The 
Independent Body will distribute funds from the Capability and Innovation Fund and 
implement the Incentivised Switching Scheme.

Under the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company also agreed to indemnify the 
Independent Body and HM Treasury, up to an amount of £320 million collectively to cover 
liabilities that may be incurred in implementing the Alternative Remedies Package. The 
provisions of the indemnity to the Independent Body are set out in the Framework and 
State Aid Deed and the provisions of the indemnity to HM Treasury are set out in a 
separate agreement between the company and HM Treasury, described under “Deed of 
Indemnity” below.

The Framework and State Aid Deed also provides that if the EC adopts a decision that the 
UK Government must recover any State Aid (a ‘Repayment Decision’) and the recovery 
order of the Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the General 
Court or the European Court of Justice, then the company must repay HM Treasury any 
aid ordered to be recovered under the Repayment Decision.

Deed of Indemnity
In the context of the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company entered into a Deed of 
Indemnity with HM Treasury on 25 April 2018, pursuant to which the company agreed to 
indemnify HM Treasury to cover liabilities that may be incurred in implementing the 
Alternative Remedies Package, as described under “Framework and State Aid Deed” 
above.

Trust Deed
In the context of the Framework and State Aid Deed, the company entered into a Trust 
Deed with the Independent Body on 25 April 2018, to set up a trust to administer the funds 
committed by the company under the Framework and State Aid Deed for the Alternative 
Remedies Package.State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed 

Under the 2009 State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the company has agreed to 
reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with the State Aid and 
State Aid approval.

HMT and UKFI Relationship Deed
On 7 November 2014, in order to comply with an amendment to the UK Listing Rules, the 
company entered into a Relationship Deed with HM Treasury and UK Financial Investments 
Limited in relation to the company’s obligations under the UK Listing Rules to put in place 
an agreement with any controlling shareholder (as defined for these purposes in the Listing 
Rules). The Relationship Deed covers the three independence provisions mandated by the 
Listing Rules: (i) that contracts between the company and HM Treasury (or any of its 
subsidiaries) will be arm's length and normal commercial arrangements, (ii) that neither HM 
Treasury nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of 
preventing the company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules; and (iii) 
neither HM Treasury nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a 
shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the 
proper application of the Listing Rules.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444444

444

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444455

Material contracts continued

Memorandum of Understanding Relating to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group 
Pension Fund
On 16 April 2018 the company entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the 
‘MoU’) with the trustee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund (the ‘Group 
Fund’), which aimed to facilitate both the necessary changes to the Main Section of the 
Group Fund to align the employing entity structure with the requirements of the UK 
ring-fencing legislation and acceleration of the settlement framework for the 31 
December 2017 triennial valuation of the Main Section of the Group Fund (brought 
forward from 31 December 2018).

In addition, the MoU also provided clarity on the additional related funding 
contributions required to be made by the company to the Main Section of the Group 
Fund as follows: (i) a pre-tax payment of £2 billion that was made in the second half of 
2018 and (ii) from 1 January 2020, further pre-tax contributions of up to £1.5 billion in 
aggregate linked to the making of future distributions to RBS shareholders including 
ordinary and special dividends and/or share buy backs (subject to an annual cap on 
contributions of £500 million before tax).

Framework Agreement Relating to the NatWest Group Pension Fund
On 28 September 2018, National Westminster Bank plc (NWB Plc) entered into a 
framework agreement (the ‘Framework Agreement’) with, among others, the trustee 
(‘Trustee’) of the NatWest Group Pension Fund (the ‘Group Fund’). Amongst others, the 
Framework Agreement set out the funding contributions required to be made by NatWest 
Group to the Main Section of the Group Fund as follows: (i) a pre-tax payment of £2 billion 
that was made in the second half of 2018 and (ii) from 1 January 2020, further pre-tax 
contributions of up to £1.5 billion in aggregate linked to the making of future distributions to 
NatWest Group shareholders including ordinary and special dividends and/or share buy 
backs (subject to an annual cap on contributions of £471 million before tax). Pursuant to 
funding requirements in the Framework Agreement, NatWest Group made contributions to 
the Main Section of the Group Fund in an aggregate amount of £500 million in 2021 and 
£500 million in 2022.

On 6 February 2023, NWB Plc and the Trustee entered into an amendment to the 
Framework Agreement, a supplemental framework agreement and a revised Schedule of 
Contributions to, among others, restructure the requirement to make a distribution-linked 
contribution to the Main Section of the Group Fund of up to £500 million (before tax) in 
2023. In place of this requirement, NWB Plc and the Trustee agreed to establish a 
bankruptcy remote reservoir trust to hold assets with a value equivalent to £471 million 
under the continuing control of NWB Plc. These assets would become transferrable to the 
Main Section of the Group Fund in the event that specified payment triggers, reflecting a 
funding requirement, were met in two consecutive financial years. The bankruptcy remote 
reservoir trust arrangement was given effect through NWB Plc and the Trustee, among 
others, entering into a suite of related agreements in May 2023. These documents include 
a Reservoir Trust Deed, a Payment Triggers Agreement and a Security Agreement. 
Together they establish the reservoir trust and set out the circumstances under which 
assets are payable to the Group Fund or NWB Plc. 

Computershare Investor Services PLC

OOuurr  RReeggiissttrraarr

The Pavilions

Bridgwater Road

Bristol 

BS99 6ZZ

Telephone: +44 (0)370 702 0135

Website: www-uk.computershare.com/investor

Shareholder information

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

2 May and 28 November 2024

Cumulative preference shares

FFiinnaanncciiaall  ccaalleennddaarr

Dividends

EExx--ddiivviiddeenndd  ddaatteess

14 March 2024

RReeccoorrdd  ddaatteess

15 March 2024

PPaayymmeenntt  ddaatteess

29 April 2024

RReessuullttss

26 April 2024 - Q1 results 

26 July 2024 - Interim results 

25 October 2024 - Q3 results

MMaannaaggee  yyoouurr  sshhaarreehhoollddiinngg  oonnlliinnee

Log into Investor Centre at investor.centre.co.uk  and you can:

choose to go paperless

have dividends paid straight into your bank account











view any outstanding payments

view shareholdings

change address details.

3 May and 29 November 2024

Cumulative preference shares

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

CCooppiieess  ooff  tthhee  AAnnnnuuaall  RReeppoorrtt  aanndd  AAccccoouunnttss  

You can download copies from our website at natwestgroup.com   

Contact the Registrar on the number above if you need a hard copy, or a Braille or audio 

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

version of the Strategic Report.

SShhaarreeGGiifftt

31 May and 31 December 2024

Cumulative preference shares

ShareGift is a free charity donation service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. If 

AAnnnnuuaall  GGeenneerraall  MMeeeettiinngg

The AGM will be held on 23 April 2024. Further details will be set out in our 

Notice of AGM which will published on our website at natwestgroup.com

you would like to donate shares to charity, contact ShareGift at:

ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity 1052686), 

4th Floor, 67/68 Jermyn Street 

London 

SW1Y 6NY

Telephone: +44 (0)20 7930 3737

Website: www.sharegift.org

AAmmeerriiccaann  DDeeppoossiitt  RReecceeiippttss  ((AADDRRss))  

Our ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange via an ADR facility. 

ADRs are quoted and traded in US dollars in the US securities market and the dividends 

are paid to investors in US dollars. Bank of New York Mellon are the depository bank for 

our ADR programme and their contact details can be found below:

Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com,

Tel: Toll free in USA +1888 269 2377

International calls +1 201 680 6825

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444455

445

Shareholder information

FFiinnaanncciiaall  ccaalleennddaarr

Dividends

EExx--ddiivviiddeenndd  ddaatteess
14 March 2024

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

2 May and 28 November 2024

Cumulative preference shares

RReeccoorrdd  ddaatteess
15 March 2024

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

3 May and 29 November 2024

Cumulative preference shares

PPaayymmeenntt  ddaatteess

29 April 2024

Ordinary shares (2023 final)

31 May and 31 December 2024

Cumulative preference shares

AAnnnnuuaall  GGeenneerraall  MMeeeettiinngg
The AGM will be held on 23 April 2024. Further details will be set out in our 
Notice of AGM which will published on our website at natwestgroup.com

RReessuullttss
26 April 2024 - Q1 results 
26 July 2024 - Interim results 
25 October 2024 - Q3 results

MMaannaaggee  yyoouurr  sshhaarreehhoollddiinngg  oonnlliinnee
Log into Investor Centre at investor.centre.co.uk  and you can:






choose to go paperless
have dividends paid straight into your bank account
view any outstanding payments
view shareholdings
change address details.

OOuurr  RReeggiissttrraarr
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ

Telephone: +44 (0)370 702 0135
Website: www-uk.computershare.com/investor

CCooppiieess  ooff  tthhee  AAnnnnuuaall  RReeppoorrtt  aanndd  AAccccoouunnttss  
You can download copies from our website at natwestgroup.com   

Contact the Registrar on the number above if you need a hard copy, or a Braille or audio 
version of the Strategic Report.

SShhaarreeGGiifftt
ShareGift is a free charity donation service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. If 
you would like to donate shares to charity, contact ShareGift at:

ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity 1052686), 
4th Floor, 67/68 Jermyn Street 
London 
SW1Y 6NY

Telephone: +44 (0)20 7930 3737
Website: www.sharegift.org

AAmmeerriiccaann  DDeeppoossiitt  RReecceeiippttss  ((AADDRRss))  
Our ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange via an ADR facility. 
ADRs are quoted and traded in US dollars in the US securities market and the dividends 
are paid to investors in US dollars. Bank of New York Mellon are the depository bank for 
our ADR programme and their contact details can be found below:

Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com,
Tel: Toll free in USA +1888 269 2377
International calls +1 201 680 6825

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444466

446

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444477

Shareholder information continued

SShhaarree  pprriiccee  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Details of our latest and historic share prices can be found on our website at 
natwestgroup.com   

SShhaarreehhoollddeerr  sseeccuurriittyy
Shareholders should be wary of cold callers offering to the chance to buy or sell 
shares, often with the promise of returns that sound too good to be true. Fraudsters 
use sophisticated and persuasive tactics to pressure shareholders into high-risk 
investments or scams. 

Check the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) register at www.fca.org.uk to make 
sure that the company contacting you is authorised. Don’t give any personal details to 
any caller unless you’re certain that they are genuine. It is unlikely that companies  
authorised by the FCA will contact you unexpectedly. We strongly recommend that 
you seek independent professional advice from an FCA authorised adviser before 
making any investment.

Report a scam
If you think that you have been approached by fraudsters, or have any concerns about a 
potential scam, contact the FCA’s Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or use their 
Share Fraud Reporting Form which can be found on their website at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams. You can also contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or visit 
www.actionfraud.org.uk

AAnnaallyyssiiss  ooff  oorrddiinnaarryy  sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss

At 31 December 2023
Individuals
Banks and nominee companies
Investment trusts
Insurance companies
Other companies
Pension trusts
Other corporate bodies

Range of shareholdings:
1 - 1,000
1,001 - 10,000
10,001 - 100,000
100,001 - 1,000,000 
1,000,001 - 10,000,000
10,000,001 and over

Shareholdings
157,889
1662
39
2
406
16
66
160,080

139,605
18,728
852
492
315
88
160,080

Number 
of shares 
83,297,793
8,642,080,822
289,957
2,136
33,604,044
36,564
232,425,660
8,991,736,976

33,104,907
42,293,218
26,741,390
186,402,587
1,088,703,837
7,614,491,037
8,991,736,976

% 
0.94
96.11
0.00
0.00
0.37
0.00
2.58
100.00

0.37
0.47
0.30
2.07
12.11
84.68
100.00

Shareholder information continued

Important addresses

SShhaarreehhoollddeerr  eennqquuiirriieess

Registrar

Computershare Investor Services PLC

The Pavilions Bridgwater Road 

Bristol BS99 6ZZ

Telephone: +44 (0)370 702 0135 

Website: www-uk.computershare.com/investor

ADR Depositary Bank

BNY Mellon Shareowner Services

PO Box 505000

Louisville, KY 40233-5000

Direct Mailing for overnight packages: 

BNY Mellon Shareowner Services

462 South 4th Street

Suite 1600

Louisville KY 40202

Telephone: 1-888-269-2377 (US callers – toll free)

Telephone: +1 201 680 6825 (International)

Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com 

Website: www.mybnymdr.com

Corporate, Governance

NatWest Group plc 

PO Box 1000, Gogarburn

Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ

Investor Relations

250 Bishopsgate, London

EC2M 4AA, England

Email: investor.relations@natwest.com

Registered office

36 St Andrew Square

Edinburgh, EH2 2YB

Registered in Scotland No. SC45551

Website

www.natwestgroup.com

PPrriinncciippaall  ooffffiicceess

NatWest Group plc

PO Box 1000, Gogarburn

Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ 

National Westminster Bank Plc

250 Bishopsgate, London

EC2M 4AA, England

The Royal Bank of Scotland plc

PO Box 1000, Gogarburn

Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ 

Coutts & Company

440 Strand, London

WC2R 0QS, England

NatWest Markets Plc

250 Bishopsgate, London

EC2M 4AA, England

NatWest Markets N.V.

Claude Debussylaan, 94

Amsterdam, 1082 MD

The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited

Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street 

St Helier, JE4 8PJ

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444477

447

Shareholder information continued

Important addresses
SShhaarreehhoollddeerr  eennqquuiirriieess
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Telephone: +44 (0)370 702 0135 
Website: www-uk.computershare.com/investor

ADR Depositary Bank
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 505000
Louisville, KY 40233-5000

Direct Mailing for overnight packages: 
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
462 South 4th Street
Suite 1600
Louisville KY 40202

Telephone: 1-888-269-2377 (US callers – toll free)
Telephone: +1 201 680 6825 (International)
Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com 
Website: www.mybnymdr.com

Corporate, Governance
NatWest Group plc 
PO Box 1000, Gogarburn
Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ

Investor Relations
250 Bishopsgate, London
EC2M 4AA, England
Email: investor.relations@natwest.com

Registered office
36 St Andrew Square
Edinburgh, EH2 2YB
Registered in Scotland No. SC45551

Website
www.natwestgroup.com

PPrriinncciippaall  ooffffiicceess
NatWest Group plc
PO Box 1000, Gogarburn
Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ 

National Westminster Bank Plc
250 Bishopsgate, London
EC2M 4AA, England

The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
PO Box 1000, Gogarburn
Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ 

Coutts & Company
440 Strand, London
WC2R 0QS, England

NatWest Markets Plc
250 Bishopsgate, London
EC2M 4AA, England

NatWest Markets N.V.
Claude Debussylaan, 94
Amsterdam, 1082 MD

The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited
Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street 
St Helier, JE4 8PJ

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444488

448

NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp

2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 

REPORT

FINANCIAL 

REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 

MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 

STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  

IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444499

Presentation of information
In the Annual Report and Accounts, unless specified otherwise, ‘parent company’ refers 
to NatWest Group plc, and ‘NatWest Group’, ‘Group’ or ‘we’ refers to NatWest Group plc 
and its subsidiaries. The term ‘NWH Group’ refers to NatWest Holdings Limited (‘NWH 
Limited’) and its subsidiary and associated undertakings. The term ‘NWM Group’ refers 
to NatWest Markets Plc (‘NWM Plc’) and its subsidiary and associated undertakings. The 
term ‘NWM N.V.’ refers to NatWest Markets N.V. The term ‘NWM N.V. Group’ refers to 
NatWest Markets N.V. and its subsidiary and associated undertakings The term ‘NWMSI’ 
refers to NatWest Markets Securities, Inc. The term ‘RBS plc’ refers to The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc. The term ‘NWB Plc’ refers to National Westminster Bank Plc. The term 
‘UBIDAC’ refers to Ulster Bank Ireland DAC. The term ‘RBSI Ltd’ refers to The Royal 
Bank of Scotland International Limited.

NatWest Group publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling (‘£’ or ‘sterling’). The 
abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds 
sterling (‘GBP’), respectively, and references to ‘pence’ represent pence where amounts 
are denominated in pounds sterling. Reference to ‘dollars’ or ‘$’ are to United States of 
America (‘US’) dollars. The abbreviations ‘$m’ and ‘$bn’ represent millions and thousands 
of millions of dollars, respectively. The abbreviation ‘€’ represents the ‘euro’, and the 
abbreviations ‘€m’ and ‘€bn’ represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, 
respectively. 

Forward looking statements
CCaauuttiioonnaarryy  ssttaatteemmeenntt  rreeggaarrddiinngg  ffoorrwwaarrdd--llooookkiinngg  ssttaatteemmeennttss  
Certain sections in this document contain ‘forward-looking statements’ as that term is 
defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as 
statements that include the words ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, ‘anticipate’, ‘commit’, 
‘believe’, ‘should’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘plan’, ‘could’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, ‘Value-at-Risk (VaR)’, 
‘target’, ‘goal’, ‘objective’, ‘may’, ‘endeavour’, ‘outlook’, ‘optimistic’, ‘prospects’ and 
similar expressions or variations on these expressions. In particular, this document 
includes forward-looking targets and guidance relating to financial performance 
measures, such as income growth, operating expense, RoTE, ROE, discretionary capital 
distribution targets, impairment loss rates, balance sheet reduction, including the 
reduction of RWAs, CET1 ratio (and key drivers of the CET1 ratio including timing, 
impact and details), Pillar 2 and other regulatory buffer requirements and MREL and 
non-financial performance measures, such as NatWest Group’s initial area of focus, 
climate and sustainability-related performance ambitions, targets and metrics, including 
in relation to initiatives to transition to a net zero economy, Climate and Sustainable 
Funding and Financing and financed emissions. 

In addition, this document includes forward-looking statements relating, but not limited 
to: implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy (including in relation to: cost-controlling 
measures, the Commercial & Institutional segment and achieving a number of various 
targets within the relevant timeframe); the timing and outcome of litigation and 
government and regulatory investigations; direct and on-market buy-backs; funding 
plans and credit risk profile; managing its capital position; liquidity ratio; portfolios; net 
interest margin and drivers related thereto; lending and income growth, product share 
and growth in target segments; impairments and write-downs; restructuring and 
remediation costs and charges; NatWest Group’s exposure to political risk, economic 
assumptions and risk, climate, environmental and sustainability risk, operational risk, 
conduct risk, financial crime risk, cyber, data and IT risk and credit rating risk and to 
various types of market risk, including interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and 
commodity and equity price risk; customer experience, including our Net Promoter 
Score; employee engagement and gender balance in leadership positions.

LLiimmiittaattiioonnss  iinnhheerreenntt  ttoo  ffoorrwwaarrdd--llooookkiinngg  ssttaatteemmeennttss
These statements are based on current plans, expectations, estimates, targets and 
projections, and are subject to significant inherent risks, uncertainties and other factors, 
both external and relating to NatWest Group’s strategy or operations, which may result 
in NatWest Group being unable to achieve the current plans, expectations, estimates, 
targets, projections and other anticipated outcomes expressed or implied by such 
forward-looking statements. In addition, certain of these disclosures are dependent on 
choices relying on key model characteristics and assumptions and are subject to various 
limitations, including assumptions and estimates made by management. By their nature, 
certain of these disclosures are only estimates and, as a result, actual future results, 
gains or losses could differ materially from those that have been estimated. Accordingly, 
undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. The forward-looking 
statements contained in this document speak only as of the date we make them and we 
expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking 
statements contained herein, whether to reflect any change in our expectations with 
regard thereto, any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such 
statement is based, or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.

IImmppoorrttaanntt  ffaaccttoorrss  tthhaatt  ccoouulldd  aaffffeecctt  tthhee  aaccttuuaall  oouuttccoommee  ooff  tthhee  ffoorrwwaarrdd--

CClliimmaattee  aanndd  ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy--rreellaatteedd  ddiisscclloossuurreess

llooookkiinngg  ssttaatteemmeennttss

We caution you that a large number of important factors could adversely affect our 

results or our ability to implement our strategy, cause us to fail to meet our targets, 

predictions, expectations and other anticipated outcomes or affect the accuracy of 

forward-looking statements described in this document. These factors include, but are 

not limited to, those set forth in the risk factors and the other uncertainties described in 

NatWest Group plc’s Annual Report on Form 20-F and its other filings with the US 

Securities and Exchange Commission. The principal risks and uncertainties that could 

adversely affect NatWest Group’s future results, its financial condition and/or prospects 

and cause them to be materially different from what is forecast or expected, include, but 

are not limited to: economic and political risk (including in respect of: political and 

economic risks and uncertainty in the UK and global markets, including due to GDP 

growth, inflation and interest rates, political uncertainty and instability, supply chain 

disruption and geopolitical tensions and armed conflict); changes in foreign currency 

exchange rates; uncertainty regarding the effects of Brexit; and HM Treasury’s 

ownership as the largest shareholder of NatWest Group plc); strategic risk (including in 

respect of the implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy; future acquisitions and 

divestments (including the phased withdrawal from ROI), and the transfer of its Western 

European corporate portfolio); financial resilience risk (including in respect of: NatWest 

Group’s ability to meet targets and to make discretionary capital distributions; the 

competitive environment; counterparty and borrower risk; liquidity and funding risks; 

prudential regulatory requirements for capital and MREL; reductions in the credit ratings; 

the requirements of regulatory stress tests; model risk; sensitivity to accounting policies, 

judgements, estimates and assumptions (and the economic, climate, competitive and 

other forward looking information affecting those judgements, estimates and 

assumptions); changes in applicable accounting standards; the value or effectiveness of 

credit protection; the adequacy of NatWest Group’s future assessments by the Prudential 

Regulation Authority and the Bank of England; and the application of UK statutory 

stabilisation or resolution powers); climate and sustainability risk (including in respect of: 

risks relating to climate-related  and sustainability-related risks; both the execution and 

reputational risk relating to NatWest Group’s climate change-related strategy, ambitions, 

targets and transition plan; climate and sustainability-related data and model risk; the 

failure to implement climate change resilient governance, systems, controls and 

procedures; increasing levels of climate, environmental, human rights and sustainability-

related regulation and oversight; increasing anti-greenwashing regulations; climate, 

environmental and sustainability-related litigation, enforcement proceedings 

investigations and conduct risk; and reductions in ESG ratings); operational and IT 

resilience risk (including in respect of: operational risks (including reliance on third party 

suppliers); cyberattacks; the accuracy and effective use of data; complex IT systems; 

attracting, retaining and developing diverse senior management and skilled personnel; 

NatWest Group’s risk management framework; and reputational risk); and legal, 

regulatory and conduct risk (including in respect of: the impact of substantial regulation 

and oversight; the outcome of legal, regulatory and governmental actions, investigations 

and remedial undertakings; and changes in tax legislation or failure to generate future 

taxable profits). 

Climate and sustainability-related disclosures in this document are not measures within 

the scope of International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), use a greater number 

and level of judgements, assumptions and estimates, including with respect to the 

classification of climate and sustainable funding and financing activities, than our 

reporting of historical financial information in accordance with IFRS. These judgements, 

assumptions and estimates are highly likely to change materially over time, and, when 

coupled with the longer time frames used in these disclosures, make any assessment of 

materiality inherently uncertain. In addition, our climate risk analysis, net zero strategy, 

including the implementation of our climate transition plan remain under development, 

and the data underlying our analysis and strategy remain subject to evolution over time. 

The process we have adopted to define, gather and report data on our performance on 

climate and sustainability-related measures is not subject to the formal processes 

adopted for financial reporting in accordance with IFRS and there are currently limited 

industry standards or globally recognised established practices for measuring and 

defining climate and sustainability-related metrics. As a result, we expect that certain 

climate and sustainability-related disclosures made in this document are likely to be 

amended, updated, recalculated or restated in the future. Refer to the cautionary 

statement in the section entitled ‘Climate-related and other forward-looking statements 

and metrics’ in the NatWest Group 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

CCaauuttiioonnaarryy  ssttaatteemmeenntt  rreeggaarrddiinngg  NNoonn--IIFFRRSS  ffiinnaanncciiaall  mmeeaassuurreess  aanndd  AAPPMMss

NatWest Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 

accounting principles (GAAP). This document may contain financial measures and ratios 

not specifically defined under GAAP or IFRS (Non-IFRS) and/or alternative performance 

measures (APMs) as defined in European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 

guidelines. Non-IFRS measures and APMs are adjusted for notable and other defined 

items which management believes are not representative of the underlying performance 

of the business and which distort period-on-period comparison. Non-IFRS measures 

provide users of the financial statements with a consistent basis for comparing business 

performance between financial periods and information on elements of performance that 

are one-off in nature. Any Non-IFRS measures and/or APMs included in this document, 

are not measures within the scope of IFRS, are based on a number of assumptions that 

are subject to uncertainties and change, and are not a substitute for IFRS measures.

The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not constitute a 

public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer 

to buy any securities or financial instruments or any advice or recommendation with 

respect to such securities or other financial instruments.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FINANCIAL 
REVIEW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  
IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN

444499

449

IImmppoorrttaanntt  ffaaccttoorrss  tthhaatt  ccoouulldd  aaffffeecctt  tthhee  aaccttuuaall  oouuttccoommee  ooff  tthhee  ffoorrwwaarrdd--
llooookkiinngg  ssttaatteemmeennttss
We caution you that a large number of important factors could adversely affect our 
results or our ability to implement our strategy, cause us to fail to meet our targets, 
predictions, expectations and other anticipated outcomes or affect the accuracy of 
forward-looking statements described in this document. These factors include, but are 
not limited to, those set forth in the risk factors and the other uncertainties described in 
NatWest Group plc’s Annual Report on Form 20-F and its other filings with the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission. The principal risks and uncertainties that could 
adversely affect NatWest Group’s future results, its financial condition and/or prospects 
and cause them to be materially different from what is forecast or expected, include, but 
are not limited to: economic and political risk (including in respect of: political and 
economic risks and uncertainty in the UK and global markets, including due to GDP 
growth, inflation and interest rates, political uncertainty and instability, supply chain 
disruption and geopolitical tensions and armed conflict); changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates; uncertainty regarding the effects of Brexit; and HM Treasury’s 
ownership as the largest shareholder of NatWest Group plc); strategic risk (including in 
respect of the implementation of NatWest Group’s strategy; future acquisitions and 
divestments (including the phased withdrawal from ROI), and the transfer of its Western 
European corporate portfolio); financial resilience risk (including in respect of: NatWest 
Group’s ability to meet targets and to make discretionary capital distributions; the 
competitive environment; counterparty and borrower risk; liquidity and funding risks; 
prudential regulatory requirements for capital and MREL; reductions in the credit ratings; 
the requirements of regulatory stress tests; model risk; sensitivity to accounting policies, 
judgements, estimates and assumptions (and the economic, climate, competitive and 
other forward looking information affecting those judgements, estimates and 
assumptions); changes in applicable accounting standards; the value or effectiveness of 
credit protection; the adequacy of NatWest Group’s future assessments by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority and the Bank of England; and the application of UK statutory 
stabilisation or resolution powers); climate and sustainability risk (including in respect of: 
risks relating to climate-related  and sustainability-related risks; both the execution and 
reputational risk relating to NatWest Group’s climate change-related strategy, ambitions, 
targets and transition plan; climate and sustainability-related data and model risk; the 
failure to implement climate change resilient governance, systems, controls and 
procedures; increasing levels of climate, environmental, human rights and sustainability-
related regulation and oversight; increasing anti-greenwashing regulations; climate, 
environmental and sustainability-related litigation, enforcement proceedings 
investigations and conduct risk; and reductions in ESG ratings); operational and IT 
resilience risk (including in respect of: operational risks (including reliance on third party 
suppliers); cyberattacks; the accuracy and effective use of data; complex IT systems; 
attracting, retaining and developing diverse senior management and skilled personnel; 
NatWest Group’s risk management framework; and reputational risk); and legal, 
regulatory and conduct risk (including in respect of: the impact of substantial regulation 
and oversight; the outcome of legal, regulatory and governmental actions, investigations 
and remedial undertakings; and changes in tax legislation or failure to generate future 
taxable profits). 

CClliimmaattee  aanndd  ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy--rreellaatteedd  ddiisscclloossuurreess
Climate and sustainability-related disclosures in this document are not measures within 
the scope of International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), use a greater number 
and level of judgements, assumptions and estimates, including with respect to the 
classification of climate and sustainable funding and financing activities, than our 
reporting of historical financial information in accordance with IFRS. These judgements, 
assumptions and estimates are highly likely to change materially over time, and, when 
coupled with the longer time frames used in these disclosures, make any assessment of 
materiality inherently uncertain. In addition, our climate risk analysis, net zero strategy, 
including the implementation of our climate transition plan remain under development, 
and the data underlying our analysis and strategy remain subject to evolution over time. 
The process we have adopted to define, gather and report data on our performance on 
climate and sustainability-related measures is not subject to the formal processes 
adopted for financial reporting in accordance with IFRS and there are currently limited 
industry standards or globally recognised established practices for measuring and 
defining climate and sustainability-related metrics. As a result, we expect that certain 
climate and sustainability-related disclosures made in this document are likely to be 
amended, updated, recalculated or restated in the future. Refer to the cautionary 
statement in the section entitled ‘Climate-related and other forward-looking statements 
and metrics’ in the NatWest Group 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.

CCaauuttiioonnaarryy  ssttaatteemmeenntt  rreeggaarrddiinngg  NNoonn--IIFFRRSS  ffiinnaanncciiaall  mmeeaassuurreess  aanndd  AAPPMMss
NatWest Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP). This document may contain financial measures and ratios 
not specifically defined under GAAP or IFRS (Non-IFRS) and/or alternative performance 
measures (APMs) as defined in European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
guidelines. Non-IFRS measures and APMs are adjusted for notable and other defined 
items which management believes are not representative of the underlying performance 
of the business and which distort period-on-period comparison. Non-IFRS measures 
provide users of the financial statements with a consistent basis for comparing business 
performance between financial periods and information on elements of performance that 
are one-off in nature. Any Non-IFRS measures and/or APMs included in this document, 
are not measures within the scope of IFRS, are based on a number of assumptions that 
are subject to uncertainties and change, and are not a substitute for IFRS measures.

The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not constitute a 
public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer 
to buy any securities or financial instruments or any advice or recommendation with 
respect to such securities or other financial instruments.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsNatWest Group plc
36 St Andrew Square
Edinburgh, EH2 2YB
www.natwestgroup.com

This Report is printed on Edixion Offset which has been 
independently certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC®).

Printed in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral® company.

Both manufacturing paper mill and the printer are registered to 
the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 and are 
Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.

Designed and produced by Black Sun Global.

www.blacksun-global.com

