NNaattWWeesstt  GGrroouupp
2023 Annual Report and Accounts

STRATEGIC 
REPORT

FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  
RREEVVIIEEWW

GOVERNANCE

RISK AND CAPITAL 
MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS

ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION

8822

82

Summary financial statements

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  

For the year ended 31 December 2023

SSuummmmaarryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett

As at 31 December 2023

Net interest income
Non-interest income 
Total income
Operating expenses
Profit before impairment losses
Impairment losses
Operating profit before tax
Tax charge
Profit from continuing operations
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit for the year

AAttttrriibbuuttaabbllee  ttoo::
Ordinary shareholders
Preference shareholders
Paid-in equity holders
Non-controlling interests

2023

£m 
11,049
3,703
14,752
(7,996)
6,756
(578)
6,178
(1,434)
4,744
(112)
4,632

4,394
-
242
(4)
4,632

2022

£m 
9,842
3,314
13,156
(7,687)
5,469
(337)
5,132
(1,275)
3,857
(262)
3,595

3,340
-
249
6
3,595

2021

£m 
7,535
2,894
10,429
(7,758)
2,671
1,173
3,844
(996)
2,848
464
3,312

2,950
19
299
44
3,312

Cash and balances at central banks
Trading assets
Derivatives
Settlement balances
Loans to banks and customers - amortised cost
Other financial assets
Other and intangible assets
Assets of disposal groups 
Total assets

Deposits
Trading liabilities
Settlement balances, derivatives, other financial
   liabilities and subordinated liabilities
Other liabilities
Owners' equity
Notes in circulation
Non-controlling interests
Total liabilities and equity

2023

£m

104,262
45,551
78,904
7,231
388,347
51,102
16,374
902
692,673

2022

£m

144,832
45,577
99,545
2,572
373,479
30,895
16,292
6,861
720,053

2021

£m

177,757
59,158
106,139
2,141
366,672
46,145
14,965
9,015
781,992

453,567
53,636

470,759
52,808

506,089
64,598

139,843
5,202
37,157
3,237
31
692,673

151,426
5,346
36,488
3,218
8
720,053

160,658
5,797
41,796
3,047
7
781,992

NatWest Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK adopted International Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
83

Serving our

customers

every day

Governance

84

88

89

105

110

115

122

127

138

141

162

165

169

Our Board

Chairman’s introduction

Governance at a glance

Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee

Report of the Group Audit Committee

Report of the Group Board Risk Committee

Report of the Group Sustainable Banking Committee

Directors’ remuneration report

Summary of Policy for executive directors

Annual remuneration report

Compliance report

Report of the directors

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance

Our Board

84

Howard Davies
Chairman

Paul Thwaite
Group Chief Executive 
Officer

Katie Murray
Group Chief Financial 
Officer

Date of appointment:
14 July 2015 (Board), 1 September 2015 (Chairman)

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
25 July 2023

Committee memberships:
N/A

Date of appointment:
1 January 2019

Committee memberships:
N/A

Contribution to the Board:
Howard brings substantial financial services knowledge and 
experience to the Board, together with a deep understanding of 
global economic, environmental and social issues. With extensive 
board level experience, Howard draws on his prior regulatory and 
supervisory expertise to contribute both strategic and practical 
insights to Board discussions and debate. Howard is also a highly 
adept Chairman with valuable leadership and stakeholder 
management skills.

Relevant experience:
Howard has held several regulatory roles during his career 
including Chairman of the UK Financial Services Authority and 
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England. Howard was Director of 
the London School of Economics and Political Science and is also 
Professor of Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Studies 
(Sciences Po).

Howard has also previously served as a non-executive director of 
Morgan Stanley and Prudential plc, as Chairman of Phoenix plc 
and as Chair of the UK Airports Commission.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Inigo Limited
 – Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of 

Millennium Management LLC

 – Chair of the International Advisory Council of the China Securities 

Regulatory Commission

 – Member of the International Advisory Council of the National 
Administration of Financial Regulation (formerly the China 
Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission)

Contribution to the Board:
An experienced leader of NatWest Group’s Commercial & 
Institutional segment and Payments business, Paul was appointed 
NatWest Group CEO for an initial 12-month period in July 2023 and 
then permanently with effect from 16 February 2024. He brings a 
customer focus to the Board, as well as expertise in balance sheet 
management, transformation and risk and controls.

Contribution to the Board:
Katie is a Chartered Accountant with over 30 years’ experience 
in finance and accounting gained through several roles across the 
financial services industry. Katie’s deep knowledge and experience 
in specialist areas including capital management, investor relations 
and financial planning mean she is well placed to provide valuable 
input and expertise during Board discussions.

Paul was central to the formulation and execution of NatWest 
Group’s strategy reviews in both 2014 and 2019, giving him a 
strong, enterprise-wide view. He has led the development and 
delivery of industry-leading initiatives on climate and support for 
SMEs, including the coordination of NatWest Group’s business 
support during the COVID pandemic.

In addition, Paul has played an active role in NatWest Group’s 
diversity, equality and inclusion agenda, sponsoring and progressing 
a number of targeted programmes including NatWest Group’s 
Junior Management Team and Multicultural Network.

Relevant experience:
Paul has a track record of success in senior global roles within 
Wholesale, Corporate, International, Risk and Retail Banking, 
based across the UK, Europe and US. Most recently he was Chief 
Executive Officer of NatWest Group’s Commercial & Institutional 
segment between July 2022 and July 2023, having previously led 
NatWest Group’s Commercial Banking division as CEO since 
November 2019. As part of his most recent role, Paul also 
led NatWest Group’s Payments business.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Pollinate Networks Limited 

Relevant experience:
Katie joined NatWest Group as Director of Finance in 2015 and was 
appointed as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in March 2017. She 
was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer in January 2019.

Katie was previously the Group Finance Director for Old Mutual 
Emerging Markets, based in Johannesburg (2011-2015), having 
held various roles across Old Mutual from 2002. Prior to this Katie 
worked at KPMG for 13 years. She is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Phoenix Group Holdings plc

Board Committees

A Group Audit Committee (GAC)

N

Group Nominations & Governance Committee (N&G)

Re Group Performance & Remuneration Committee (RemCo)

Ri Group Board Risk Committee (BRC)

S Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC)

Underline denotes Committee Chair

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

85

Mark Seligman
Senior Independent 
Director

Frank Dangeard
Independent  
non-executive director

Roisin Donnelly
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 April 2017 (Board), 1 January 2018  
(Senior Independent Director)

Committee memberships:

A

N

Re

Contribution to the Board:
Mark, a former senior investment banker, brings comprehensive 
financial services knowledge and substantial FTSE 100 board 
experience to the Board. A former boardroom adviser, Mark 
contributes significant banking and corporate transformation 
expertise in particular, alongside a range of customer and 
wider stakeholder engagement skills.

Relevant experience:
Mark has held various senior roles at Credit Suisse/BZW during his 
executive career, including Deputy Chairman, CSFB Europe and 
Chairman, UK Investment Banking, CSFB.

Mark has served as a non-executive director on company boards 
across a range of industry sectors, including BG Group plc, as 
Senior Independent Director of Kingfisher plc, and as Deputy 
Chairman of G4S plc. He has significant experience of chairing 
committees and as a Senior Independent Director.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc
 – Non-executive director and trustee of The Brooklands Museum

Date of appointment:
16 May 2016

Committee memberships:

Re

Date of appointment:
1 October 2022

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Frank is a former investment banker and technology company 
CEO with substantial global board expertise. This broad background 
enables Frank to make a valuable contribution to Board discussions, 
particularly in relation to technology, digital and innovation matters. 
Frank’s experience also encompasses key areas including customer 
experience, stakeholder engagement, ESG and risk. In April 2018, 
Frank assumed the role of Chairman of NatWest Markets Plc, 
which enables him to bring a unique perspective to Board debate.

Relevant experience:
During his executive career, Frank held various roles at Thomson 
S.A., including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and was 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of France Telecom. Prior to that 
he was Chairman of SG Warburg France and Managing Director 
of SG Warburg.

Frank has also held a number of non-executive roles at Crédit 
Agricole CIB, EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom SGPS and 
Arqiva Group Limited. He was also Deputy Chairman and 
acting Chairman of Telenor ASA, an international media 
communications group.

Current external appointments:
 – Chairman of Gen Digital Inc.
 – Non-executive director of IHS Holding Limited
 – Chairman of the Advisory Board of STJ Advisors

Contribution to the Board:
Roisin brings extensive customer, marketing and branding 
experience to the Board, gained during her long executive  
career at Procter & Gamble. She has a strong background in 
digital transformation and data and significant knowledge and 
experience of developing ESG strategies at board level. Roisin 
also brings practical board and committee experience to the role, 
having served on a number of listed company boards.

In April 2023, Roisin was appointed as NatWest Group’s Consumer 
Duty Board Champion. She is also the Chair of the NatWest Group 
Colleague Advisory Panel, which provides a valuable link to 
colleague and customer issues.

Relevant experience:
Roisin spent over 30 years leading marketing and brand building 
at Procter & Gamble in different UK and international roles. Most 
recently Roisin served as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & 
Gamble Northern Europe (2014-2016) and prior to that served 
as Chief Marketing Officer for Procter & Gamble UK and Ireland 
(2002-2014).

Roisin’s previous non-executive directorships include HomeServe 
plc, Just Eat plc, Holland and Barrett Limited, and Bourne 
Leisure Limited.

Roisin is an Honorary Fellow of the Marketing Society.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Premier Foods plc
 – Non-executive director of The Sage Group plc
 – Member of the Digital Advisory Board, Coca-Cola Europacific 

Partners plc

 – Non-executive Advisor, Internet Advertising Bureau

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

86

Patrick Flynn
Independent  
non-executive director

Rick Haythornthwaite
Independent non-executive 
director and Chair Designate

Yasmin Jetha
Independent  
non-executive director

Date of appointment:
1 June 2018

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
8 January 2024

Committee memberships:

N

Date of appointment:
1 April 2020

Committee memberships:

S

Contribution to the Board:
Patrick contributes significant retail and commercial banking 
experience to the Board, together with a background in complex 
organisational restructuring and technology transformation. 
This experience enables Patrick to provide insightful contributions 
to Board discussions on complex matters, alongside his significant 
financial knowledge and expertise.

Relevant experience:
Patrick was the Chief Financial Officer and a member of the 
Executive Board of ING Group for over eight years to May 2017. 
Prior to that, he worked for HSBC for 20 years. Patrick is a 
Fellow of Chartered Accountants Ireland.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of 

Aviva plc

Contribution to the Board:
Rick is a highly experienced Chair who combines a successful 
commercial career with a deep knowledge of financial services 
markets and technology, as well as a strong track record of delivery 
at significant customer-facing organisations. Rick’s Chair experience 
extends across industry sectors, including Embedded Finance, 
a fintech company; QiO Technologies Limited, the industrial AI 
company that Rick co-founded; and Xynteo, a Norway-based 
sustainability consultancy.

Relevant experience:
Rick served as Chair of Mastercard Inc. during its transformation 
from a credit card company to a global technology company and 
an increase in its market value from $5 billion to over $350 billion. 
He also chaired Arc International Holdings, Centrica plc and 
Network Rail Limited, and was a partner at Star Capital. Rick’s 
past non-executive directorships include Globant S.A., Cookson plc, 
Lafarge S.A., Land Securities plc and ICI plc. Rick also led the 
Haythornthwaite Review of UK Armed Forces Incentivisation.

Rick has been responsible for several high-profile business 
transformations and rescues, including Invensys, then one 
of the world’s leading industrial controls companies, as CEO.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Ocado Group plc
 – Chairman of AA Limited
 – Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited(1)
 – Senior advisory partner at Moelis & Co

(1)  advisory role

Prior to becoming NatWest Group Chair, Rick will step down as 
Chairman of AA Limited (remaining as a non-executive director) 
and as advisory Chairman of Embedded Finance Limited.

Contribution to the Board:
Yasmin brings a wealth of retail banking and customer experience 
to the Board, as well as valuable technology and innovation insights, 
and a strong background in general management. Yasmin adds 
strength and depth to the Board in these important areas, 
supporting challenge and debate and effective decision-making.

On 1 April 2020 Yasmin re-joined the Board of NatWest Group plc, 
having first been appointed in June 2017. Yasmin stepped down 
in April 2018 in order to serve solely as a director of our key 
ring-fenced entities, and, like the majority of our directors, she 
continues to serve on these boards in addition to the Board of 
NatWest Group plc.

Relevant experience:
During her executive career, Yasmin held Chief Information Officer 
roles at Bupa and the Financial Times, where she later became 
the Chief Operating Officer. Prior to that Yasmin held a number 
of senior roles at Abbey National PLC, in a career spanning nearly 
20 years, where latterly she served as an executive director on 
the board.

Yasmin has also held a number of non-commercial roles 
including Vice Chair of the Board of Governors at the University 
of Bedfordshire (2008 to 2011) and Vice Chair of the National 
Committee of the Aga Khan Foundation (UK) Ltd, a non-
denominational charity that works with communities in Africa, 
Asia and the Middle East.

Current external appointments:
 – Non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc
 – Non-executive director of Nation Media Group Limited

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

87

Stuart Lewis
Independent  
non-executive director

Lena Wilson CBE
Independent  
non-executive director

Jan Cargill
Chief Governance Officer 
and Company Secretary

Date of appointment:
1 April 2023

Committee memberships:

A

N

Ri

Date of appointment:
1 January 2018

Committee memberships:

N Re

Ri

S

Contribution to the Board:
Stuart brings extensive risk management, financial services and 
regulatory experience to the Board gained during his executive 
career, predominantly at Deutsche Bank. He also brings practical 
board-level experience, having served on a number of boards and 
committees in both executive and non-executive capacities. Stuart’s 
strengths in risk and financial services complement and enhance the 
overall knowledge and experience of the Board, particularly in support 
of growth opportunities and continued organisational transformation.

Relevant experience:
Stuart served 10 years on the Management Board of Deutsche 
Bank as Chief Risk Officer, retiring in May 2022. He joined Deutsche 
Bank in 1996, where he held a variety of senior roles, including 
Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Global Chief Credit Officer and Chief 
Credit Officer for Asia Pacific. He was previously Head of European 
Credit Risk Management at Credit Suisse Financial Products.

Stuart served as a non-executive director of the London Stock 
Exchange Group plc (2013-2016) and in 2013 was elected to the 
Global Association of Risk Professionals Board of Trustees. He was 
also a Member of the Foundation Board of the International Financial 
Risk Institute (2010-2022) and served as Chair (2016-2018).

Current external appointments:
 – Member of the Board of Trustees of the Global Association of 

Risk Professionals

 – Member of the Advisory Committee of the International 

Association of Credit Portfolio Managers

 – Visiting Professor in Practice in the Finance Department, 

London School of Economics

Contribution to the Board:
Lena contributes significant knowledge and experience to the Board 
drawn from a broad executive and non-executive career. She has 
extensive transformation and development skills, with experience in 
enterprise, internationalisation, stakeholder management, ESG and 
general management.

As a former Chair of the NatWest Group Colleague Advisory Panel, 
Lena provides valuable insights into customer and people issues 
in particular.

Relevant experience:
Lena has a portfolio of Chair roles in the listed, private equity 
and professional services sectors. She has been a FTSE 100 
non-executive director for over 10 years and previously served 
on the boards of Scottish Power Renewables Limited and Intertek 
Group plc. Lena was Chief Executive of Scottish Enterprise 
(2009-2017) and prior to that was Senior Investment Advisor  
to The World Bank in Washington DC.

Lena was a member of Scotland’s Financial Services Advisory 
Board and Chair of Scotland’s Energy Jobs Taskforce. In June 2015 
she received a CBE for services to economic development in Scotland.

Current external appointments:
 – Chair of Picton Property Income Limited
 – Visiting Professor, University of Strathclyde Business School
 – Member of the European Advisory Board of Workday Inc.

Date of appointment:
5 August 2019

Contribution to the Board:
Jan works closely with the Chairman to ensure effective and 
efficient functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment and 
information flows between the Board and its Committees. She is 
responsible for advising the Board and individual directors on all 
governance matters, and also facilitates Board induction and 
directors’ professional development.

Relevant experience:
Jan is a chartered company secretary with over 20 years’ 
corporate governance experience. She was appointed Chief 
Governance Officer and Company Secretary in 2019, and prior 
to that held various roles in the legal and secretariat functions, 
including Head of Board and Shareholder Services.

Jan has a law degree and is a Fellow of the Chartered Banker 
Institute. She is also an Associate of The Chartered Governance 
Institute and has an INSEAD Certificate in Corporate Governance.

Former directors:
Mike Rogers stood down as a director 
on 25 April 2023.

Alison Rose stood down as a director  
on 25 July 2023.

Morten Friis stood down as a director  
on 31 July 2023. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Chairman’s 
introduction

Letter from Howard Davies,

Chairman of the Board

89

91

92

95

Governance at a Glance

UK Corporate Governance Code

Our governance framework

Principal areas of Board focus

88

I am also delighted that Geeta Gopalan will join the Board 
as an independent non-executive director on 1 July 2024.

Given the significant changes in the leadership of NatWest 
Group, across 2023 and into the first part of 2024, the 
Board agreed that the 2023 annual evaluation of Board 
and committee effectiveness will be deferred until 2024 and 
undertaken by an external facilitator.

The Board maintained its close oversight of the business of 
NatWest Group through the year. Regular reports included 
spotlights on cost of living challenges and how the bank has 
been supporting colleagues and customers. Data on the 
impact of changes in the macro-economic environment on 
customer behaviour was considered regularly. The Board 
also oversaw the preparation for and implementation of the 
Consumer Duty requirements, which became effective on 
31 July 2023.

The Board held a two-day strategy session in June 2023 
which was focused on the impact of technological advances 
on the financial services sector.

Following the announcement that the UK Government will 
explore a potential retail share sale in 2024 as part of its 
plans to reduce its shareholding in NatWest Group plc, 
a Board Oversight Committee was established. This 
Committee is responsible for considering all matters and 
taking any necessary decisions in connection with a retail 
share offering.

Details of the Board’s principal areas of focus and operations 
during 2023 are set out on pages 95 and 97 respectively.

I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their 
contribution, commitment and dedication during 2023 
and also throughout my time as Chairman. I will hand 
over my chairing responsibilities to Rick Haythornthwaite 
on 15 April 2024.

Howard Davies
Chairman of the Board

15 February 2024

Dear Shareholder,

Welcome to the 2023 Corporate governance report.

It has been a challenging year for the Board with a 
number of changes to directors and committee structure 
and composition.

The most significant change was the departure of Alison 
Rose as Group CEO in July 2023. The Board, supported by 
the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, had 
considered Group CEO succession plans in February 2023. 
We were therefore ready to move quickly when she left. 
Paul Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO in July 2023 
for an initial period of 12 months. We are grateful to Paul 
for stepping up at short notice, and to Katie Murray for 
her continued support as Group CFO. Following a robust 
recruitment process the Board appointed Paul as Group 
CEO on a permanent basis with effect from 16 February 
2024. Further information on this process is available on 
page 109.

Other changes to Board membership during the year were 
Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepping down as directors on 
25 April and 31 July 2023 respectively. I would like to record 
our thanks to Mike and Morten for their significant 
contributions to the Board during their tenures.

Stuart Lewis was appointed as a director on 1 April 2023, 
succeeding Morten Friis as the Chair of the Group Board 
Risk Committee on 1 August 2023.

In September we announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite as the next Chair of NatWest Group. You 
can read more about the process undertaken by the Group 
Nominations and Governance Committee to recruit Rick on 
page 108. The Board’s role in the process is also described 
in our section 172 statement on page 24.

I also want to take the opportunity to thank Graham Beale 
who stepped down from the NWH Sub Group Boards, and 
his role as NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director, on 
31 August 2023. We welcomed Mark Rennison to the NWH 
Sub Group Boards on 1 September 2023 and Ian Cormack 
is now the NWH Sub Group Senior Independent Director.

During the year the Technology and Innovation Committee 
was retired, and the remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee (SBC) was expanded to include technology, data 
and innovation matters. Yasmin Jetha became Chair of 
SBC, succeeding Mike Rogers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Governance at a glance

Key activities in 2023

Chair appointment
We announced the appointment of Rick 
Haythornthwaite to succeed Howard Davies 
as Chair, following a rigorous search process.

Consumer Duty
Roisin Donnelly became our Consumer Duty Board 
Champion, and the Board reviewed Consumer Duty 
implementation across the bank.

Read more on page 108.

Read more on page 24.

Change in Group CEO
When Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the 
Board to step down as Group CEO, we implemented 
agreed contingency plans to appoint Paul Thwaite as 
Group CEO for an initial period of 12 months.

Risk management
The Group Board Risk Committee reviewed, and 
the Board approved, NatWest Group’s Enterprise-
Wide Risk Management Framework (EWRMF) and 
the annual refresh of risk appetite.

Read more on page 104.

Read more on page 117.

Streamlining Board committees
The remit of the Group Sustainable Banking 
Committee was expanded to include technology, 
data and innovation matters, and the Technology 
and Innovation Committee was retired as a 
standalone Board committee.

Read more on page 122.

Board diversity
We maintained our focus on Board diversity, with 
reference to our Boardroom inclusion policy, as 
a number of changes were made to Board and 
committee composition.

Read more on page 107.

Board Oversight Committees
We set up two Board Oversight Committees (BOCs) 
to support Board review and oversight of key areas 
of focus for the bank – the Customer Exit BOC and 
the Retail Share Offering BOC.

Supporting directors’ professional development
We provided dedicated induction programmes for 
new directors and supported existing directors’ 
transitions into new committee roles, alongside 
a bespoke training programme for all directors.

Read more on page 92.

Read more on page 98.

89

Board changes during 2023
1 April

Stuart Lewis joined the Board as an independent 
non-executive director and joined GAC and BRC. 
Roisin Donnelly joined SBC.

25 April

Mike Rogers stepped down as a non-executive 
director and SBC Chair.

26 April

Yasmin Jetha succeeded Mike Rogers as SBC Chair.

25 July

Alison Rose agreed by mutual consent with the Board 
to step down as Group CEO and Paul Thwaite was 
appointed as Group CEO for an initial period of 
12 months.

31 July

Morten Friis stepped down as a non-executive 
director and BRC Chair.

1 August

Stuart Lewis succeeded Morten Friis as BRC Chair 
and joined N&G.

Board changes during 2024
8 January

Rick Haythornthwaite joined as an independent 
non-executive director and Chair Designate.

16 February

Paul Thwaite becomes permanent Group CEO

15 April

Rick Haythornthwaite will succeed Howard Davies as 
Chair of NatWest Group plc, and Howard will step 
down from the Board.

1 July 

Geeta Gopalan will join the Board as an independent 
non-executive director.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

125

Technology, 
data and 
innovation 

Sessions focused on innovation and partnerships, payments, and artificial intelligence (AI) and automation.

The committee received an overview of our new, bank-wide innovation framework which was being used to catalyse 
bank-wide growth through structured Innovation which would scale and deliver initiatives through the core bank.

The committee considered new payment initiatives intended to stem the disintermediation of payments income, 
including Take Payments and Tap to Pay.

AI and automation is a key area of focus developing at pace, and the committee considered AI use cases being 
deployed across NatWest Group for customer benefit, noting how they could enhance the existing automation 
strategy. The committee noted progress made in evaluating the areas of potential value for leveraging AI and 
associated risks. The committee acknowledged the importance of risk management and controls and discussed 
the use of model risk governance. Andrew Rogoyski, a member of the Technology Advisory Board and AI expert, 
joined the session and provided an external perspective. A number of other Board members also joined the session.

The committee was keen to understand how 
partnerships were used in the innovation ecosystem 
and encouraged management to consider the use of 
accelerator hubs and universities to support innovation 
initiatives. The committee considered the programme 
to encourage colleagues to bring forward potential 
future initiatives and discussed how capabilities could 
be enhanced to drive more innovation at all levels 
across the bank.

The committee requested that the SBC MI Report 
be enhanced with new metrics relating to technology, 
innovation and data to allow it to monitor progress.

The committee wanted to understand how payments 
initiatives progress and requested a future update on 
the underpinning payments technology architecture 
to understand risks and opportunities in this area.

The committee was keen to understand how 
improvements and benefits as a result of AI 
were being measured.

The committee considered the approach to AI 
in various jurisdictions and amongst regulators.

The committee emphasised the importance of 
management’s approach to AI being sufficiently 
customer focused to ensure stakeholder trust 
was maintained.

Enterprise

The committee received an update on NatWest Group’s Enterprise activity, including the strategy and partnership 
approach. The committee heard feedback from customers on the importance of the support provided to them by 
the accelerator hubs.

The committee discussed both the growth opportunity 
and challenges in relation to NatWest Group’s 
Enterprise ambitions.

The committee discussed the SME (small and medium-sized enterprises) banking market context and NatWest 
Group’s position. The session reflected on our broad proposition that enables us to serve all customers in this 
segment with distinctive elements, including FreeAgent, Mentor, and Enterprise support.

The committee discussed the changing competitive 
landscapes and the entrance of alternative finance 
providers to the sector and activities.

The update included a spotlight on the work undertaken internally and in partnership with Aston University 
to measure the impact and outcome of NatWest Group’s interventions on its Enterprise activity. The analysis 
demonstrated improved survivability and growth rates of those customers involved in accelerator hubs versus a 
control group. Professor Mark Hart (Enterprise Research Centre, Aston University) presented the findings of work to 
date and noted that the impact measurement results were interim and would continue to develop. He commended 
the results achieved given the external context of the business environment.

The committee was keen to understand how the 
accelerator hubs compared to other programmes 
across the industry and how they could be scaled 
without reducing impact to ensure greater support 
for customers.

The committee noted the innovative approach 
presented in relation to measuring impact, which 
should provide robust analysis and metrics upon 
which stakeholders could measure NatWest Group.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsCorporate governance continued

Theme

Principal areas of committee focus

Outcomes

Supporting 
long term 
value creation

The committee supported the Board in overseeing the initial work to reflect on the purpose and understand how 
this might evolve. This included consideration of the desktop research, and internal and external stakeholder 
perspectives. The majority of Board members joined the committee for these discussions. Sarah Gillard, the CEO 
of the Blueprint for Better Business, provided her perspectives following interviews with stakeholders and colleagues, 
and highlighted the opportunity to bring purpose further into the core of the business.

The committee noted that using ‘purpose in practice’ 
is essential and it was important to link purpose with 
long-term sustainable performance. The committee 
was keen to understand all stakeholders’ views, 
including investors.

126

The committee discussed the meaning of Sustainable Banking to ensure a common understanding of the importance 
of running a business that is capable of generating long term value for its stakeholders. The committee considered 
how medium to longer term priorities could be measured through financial and non-financial metrics.

Following the presentation of the impact measurement work being undertaken by Aston University, the committee 
received an update on the broader impact measurement work underway across the bank, the proposed new bank 
wide impact measurement framework, and planned next steps for 2024.

SBC considered NatWest Group’s 7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement. The committee 
was provided with a comprehensive update on Human Rights including progress made in 2023 and the plan 
for 2024, and the approach to the first disclosure of NatWest Group’s Salient Issues.

As a founding signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), the committee was provided 
an update against the major milestones in the 4 year PRB journey, which were achieved by September 2023.

The committee considered and provided advice to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 
on the setting and assessment of performance against people and culture, customer, purpose targets.

The committee agreed it should focus on medium 
to longer term priorities driving the bank as a 
sustainable business through a multi-stakeholder 
lens and requested the inclusion of relevant financial 
and non-financial metrics in the data provided 
to it in future.

The committee welcomed the experimentation 
underway in relation to impact measurement, 
and encouraged management to ensure the 
measurements were objective given customers’ 
multi-variable behaviour.

The committee recommended NatWest Group’s 
7th Annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking 
Statement to Board for approval. It noted the value 
of the Colleague Advisory Panel engagement which 
had resulted in the clarification of roles described.

The committee supported and recommended 
the publication of disclosure on Salient Human 
Right Issues to Board.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDear Shareholder,

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
remuneration report for 2023. This has been a year 
of significant change for the organisation, with a new 
Group Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO), Paul Thwaite, 
now confirmed in role on a permanent basis after an 
initial appointment in July for a period of 12 months, and 
an announcement of a new Chair, Rick Haythornthwaite, 
who will succeed Howard Davies from 15 April 2024.

Performance highlights for 2023
In an uncertain economic environment, NatWest 
Group has performed well in 2023 delivering an 
operating profit of £6.2 billion and a RoTE of 17.8%.

Our capital generation has remained strong and 
we continue to deliver returns and distributions to 
shareholders. In 2023 £3.6 billion of capital was 
returned to shareholders including a proposed 
final dividend of £1.0 billion.

Board changes and impact on remuneration
The committee has been heavily involved in guiding the 
Board and overseeing management activity with regard 
to performance and remuneration matters through this 
period of change. The decisions made during this transitional 
period, in the context of remuneration, are summarised on 
the following page.

Directors’ remuneration  
report

Letter from Lena Wilson, CBE,

Chair of the Group Performance and 
Remuneration Committee

127 Chair’s introduction

131 Remuneration at a glance

134 Wider workforce remuneration and 

the directors’ remuneration policy

141 The Annual remuneration report

127

Colleague highlights

January 2023
 – A cash payment of £1,000 (adjusted for local 
salary levels) was made to approximately 
60,000 colleagues.

 – We launched our new Partner Leave policies, 
which introduced significantly enhanced pay 
and leave for eligible colleagues.

February 2023
 – We announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues, designed to reward One Bank 
behaviours and outcomes and align all colleagues 
across NatWest Group to our purpose and strategy.

April 2023
 – Nearly 90% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
received a salary increase of at least 7%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 8% or more, on top 
of the £1,000 payment in January. Salary ranges 
were also increased.

November 2023
 – We were certified as a Regional Living Wage 
Employer for our global operations by the 
Fair Wage Network.

December 2023
 – We announced Beyond, our changes to 

performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings 
from 2024 onwards.

From April 2024 onwards
 – Nearly 95% of our junior UK colleagues (A and B 
grades) covered by our negotiated pay approach 
will receive a salary increase of at least 3.5%, with 
almost two-thirds receiving 5% or more. In addition, 
our UK starting salary will move to £23,500 per 
annum, an increase of 15% since September 2022.

 – Our first award under our Sharing in Success 

scheme will be awarded in May 2024, with a share 
award of £1,000 for all eligible employees (adjusted 
for local salary levels), subject to shareholder 
approval of the recommended dividend.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Executive director changes
On 25 July 2023, Paul Thwaite was appointed as the Group 
CEO for an initial period of 12 months. The committee 
set Mr Thwaite’s annual base salary on original appointment 
at £1,050,000. Mr Thwaite has now been permanently 
appointed as Group CEO from 16 February 2024; details 
on pay for 2024 are on page 150. Mr Thwaite has been an 
active member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme that was available to all employees recruited at the 
same time as him. Other elements of his fixed and variable 
pay are in line with the standard terms of our approved 
directors’ remuneration policy (the Policy). Mr Thwaite has 
confirmed that, following his permanent appointment to the 
role of Group CEO, he will become a deferred member of the 
defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution 
pension arrangements. The committee agreed that his 2023 
variable pay awards would be pro-rated to reflect the time 
spent in his Group CEO role and in his previous role as CEO 
of the Commercial and Institutional business (Ring Fenced 
Bank). More details of Mr Thwaite’s remuneration 
arrangements are on page 141.

Alison Rose stepped down as Group CEO by mutual 
agreement with effect from 25 July 2023. In line with 
Ms Rose’s service agreement, she will continue to receive 
her fixed pay for her contractual notice period, which will 
end on 26 July 2024. In accordance with the terms of the 
Policy and our share plan rules, any awards due to vest 
after cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will lapse 
on that date. No bonus or variable remuneration will be paid 
to Ms Rose in respect of her service during 2023. Ms Rose’s 
shareholding requirement will continue to apply for a period 
of two years from the date of cessation of her employment. 
More details of payments made to and received by Ms Rose 
are on page 150 under ‘Payments for loss of office and 
payments to past directors’.

Joining arrangements for Rick Haythornthwaite
Mr Haythornthwaite joined the Board of NatWest Group as 
an independent non-executive director on 8 January 2024 
and following a handover period will take over as Chair 
on 15 April 2024, when Howard Davies will stand 
down from the Board. On assuming the role of Chair, 
Mr Haythornthwaite’s fee will be £775,000 p.a., which  
is the fee currently paid to Mr Davies.

Wider workforce
Following on from the extensive support provided in 2022 to help our 
colleagues with the cost of living, continued targeted action has been 
taken to help those colleagues most likely to be affected by the sudden 
spike in inflation. Payments of £1,000 (adjusted for local salary levels) 
were made in January 2023 to approximately 60,000 colleagues, with 
broad parts of the UK workforce receiving a further salary increase of 
at least 7% in April 2023. We will build on this in April 2024, continuing 
to target fixed pay spend to our A and B grade colleagues and further 
increasing our minimum rate of pay in the UK to £23,500 pro-rata. In 
December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would 
apply from 1 April 2024 for the Group CEO, who had been appointed 
for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. This compares to 
an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. Mr Thwaite 
has since been appointed permanently as Group CEO with effect from 
16 February 2024. Pay arrangements for the executive directors for 
the 2024 performance year are on page 150, including in respect of 
Mr Thwaite being appointed permanently as Group CEO.

Wider workforce considerations have remained a key focus of 
the committee throughout 2023. We believe it is imperative that 
we continue to monitor and discuss colleague sentiment with regard 
to both performance and pay matters, and I therefore attended the 
Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) in May 2023 to discuss colleague 
remuneration and benefits, as well as our approach to executive pay 
and its link to our strategy and purpose. These ongoing two-way 
discussions with colleagues are a valuable tool to deepen our 
understanding of colleague views and also to explain the alignment 
between our executive director and wider workforce pay policies. 
More details of our work with the CAP are on page 136.

After good committee discussion on what would further drive 
individual and organisational performance, in late 2023 we announced 
Beyond – our changes to performance management for all colleagues, 
including the removal of performance ratings for 2024 and onwards 
and a changing approach to managing goals, feedback and pay.

NatWest Group has been an accredited Living Wage Employer in the 
UK since 2014 and sets pay levels above the real living wage (RLW) 
rates. In 2023, we were also pleased to be certified as a Regional Living 
Wage Employer for our global operations, recognising that our rates 
of pay for our colleagues outside the UK are at or above the living 
wage threshold as defined by the Fair Wage Network.

In last year’s report I announced our new Sharing in Success scheme 
for all colleagues. The scheme is intended to recognise One Bank 
behaviours, drive a performance culture with purpose-led outcomes 
and further align colleagues with our strategic direction. The scheme 
is a welcome addition to our employee value proposition, alongside 
broader policy enhancements, which will help in light of market 

128

Performance 
highlights

Income growth

12.13%

2022: 26.15%

Attributable profit

£4,394 million

2022: £3,340 million

RoTE

17.8%

2022: 12.3%

Climate and sustainable funding 
and financing(1)

£29.3 billion

2022: £24.5 billion

Shareholder returns through 
dividends and buybacks

£3.6 billion

2022: £5.1 billion

(1)  Cumulative contribution of £61.8 billion towards 
£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end 
of 2025 target.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

competition for talent. For 2023, we measured success based on financial performance, our 
approach to risk, helping our customers thrive, living up to our climate targets and ambitions, 
and delivering value for shareholders. Our first award under our Sharing in Success scheme 
will be awarded in May 2024, with a share award of £1,000 to all eligible employees 
(adjusted for local salary levels), subject to shareholder approval of the recommended 
dividend at the April 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM). More details of our Sharing 
in Success scheme are on page 134.

I am also proud of our new Partner Leave policies launched in 2023 which support all eligible 
employees with significantly more time away from work to help their partner look after their 
new child. The policies introduce significantly enhanced pay and leave for eligible fathers and 
partners to share the caring responsibilities. The policy is open to both same-sex parents and 
heterosexual parents, ultimately championing the potential of both parents and promoting 
gender equality in the workplace. Colleague feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, 
with over 1,200 colleagues benefiting from the policy.

Financial wellbeing is vitally important, and colleagues are supported with access to pension 
and protection products, shopping discounts, as well as a comprehensive range of financial 
health initiatives. Over 20,000 colleagues contribute to our Sharesave scheme each month, 
which is available to approximately 97% of colleagues, with participants across the UK, 
Ireland, India and Poland. It provides an opportunity for colleagues to benefit from increases 
in the NatWest Group share price with limited risk, encouraging financial capability and 
aligning their interests with shareholders, and is particularly popular with colleagues at 
A-C grades. I am pleased that our 2023 Sharesave offer proved to be the most successful 
in recent memory, and this demonstrates colleagues are responding to our support for 
colleague share ownership and financial wellbeing.

Bonus pool for the wider workforce
The bonus pool is based on a balanced range of strategically important measures 
including; financial performance, customer outcomes, colleague experience and diversity, 
risk management, risk events and progress against our climate and purpose ambitions. 
The committee agreed a 2023 bonus pool of £356.0 million for those colleagues eligible 
to receive an award. This is around 3% lower than the 2022 bonus pool of £367.5 million, 
despite a larger bonus eligible headcount. The bonus pool outturn reflects the impact on 
shareholders this year due to missed guidance, despite increased group operating profit 
of 20.4% year-on-year.

Pay gap reporting
We are making good progress in building a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace 
and the committee reviews gender and ethnicity pay gap metrics as part of the process. 
This is the sixth year we have published ethnicity pay gap information on a voluntary basis.

Following our approach last year, we disaggregated our ethnicity pay gaps to compare 
Black, Asian, mixed and multiple and ethnic minority average hourly pay to that of White 
colleagues. We are confident that our colleagues are paid fairly, and our policies and 
processes are kept under review to make sure this continues to be the case. You can  
find full details of our pay gap reporting in the Strategic report and on natwestgroup.com.

Individual pay adjustments
In 2023, we concluded the accountability review into the events that led to the breaches of 
the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. None of the individuals in scope were found to be 
accountable on an individual level, but we recognise that the issues represent a collective 
failure. Colleagues who were bonus eligible in 2021 were impacted by a reduction in the 

129

bonus pool when the fine was handed down, likewise the relevant senior executive 
committee members had their awards reduced to reflect the bonus pool adjustment. No 
further adjustment was deemed necessary for these individuals. However, the committee 
determined that similar adjustments should be made to ten ex-colleagues who were not 
impacted by the adjustments made in 2021 as they had left the bank. Further details are 
provided on page 137.

Remuneration outcomes for 2023
The assessment of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% for Ms Murray, including the impact of 
downwards risk modifiers to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced by strong 
leadership behaviours. Mr Thwaite received a separate discretionary award in respect of the 
portion of 2023 when he was CEO of the Commercial & Institutional franchise. Further details 
of this award are not included within this report as it does not relate to his time as an executive 
director. The committee considered the outcomes for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair 
reflection of performance and felt no further discretionary adjustments were required.

Performance measures

Weighted outcome

Financial (60%)

25.2% out of 60%

Return on Tangible Equity (30%)

Income growth (10%)

Cost reduction (10%)

Medium-term capital target (10%)

Strategic (35%)

25.1% out of 35%

Climate (10%)

Customer (10%)

Purpose, culture and people (10%)

Enterprise and capability (5%)

Personal (5%)

Group CEO personal performance

Group CFO personal performance

Post application of risk modifier (0-100%)

CEO Outcome

CFO Outcome

14.2%

3.2%

2.8%

5.0%

7.8%

4.8%

8.3%

4.2%

4.0%

2.5%

53.6%

52.3%

Grant of 2024 Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The committee also approved that RSP awards for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray would be 
granted at maximum as satisfactory performance had been achieved over the year prior to 
award. The vesting of the RSP awards will be subject to assessment against pre-determined 
criteria that consider whether sustainable performance has been delivered over the three 
years after grant. Full details of the annual bonus and RSP performance assessments can 
be found on pages 143 and 148.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Vesting of long-term incentive (LTI) awards granted in 2021
LTI awards were granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray in March 2021. Prior to the awards being 
granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% respectively were applied to 
the maximum award as a result of the pre-grant performance assessment over 2020. In December 
2023, we considered whether anything had come to light since the grant which would change our 
original view of performance. Based on the pre-vest assessment, the committee concluded that 
there had been no material deterioration in financial, customer, risk, culture or purpose-linked 
performance since grant. Therefore, a sustainable level of performance had been achieved over 
the period and no further adjustments were necessary under the pre-vest test. The committee also 
considered carefully whether any windfall gain had taken place in relation to the grant in 2021 and 
determined that no adjustment should be made, noting in particular that there had been no material 
fall in share price compared to the prior year grant and pre COVID-19 level. The share price used 
to determine the number of shares subject to the award was in fact 9.7% higher on a like-for-like 
basis relative to the prior year grant and 18.8% lower relative to the level pre COVID-19. It was 
noted that both these figures are less than 20%, the level above which further consideration 
would typically be given to an adjustment. Further details of the performance assessment 
and consideration of windfall gains can be found on page 147.

Implementation of the Policy for 2024
Under our Policy, annual bonus awards, with formulaic weighted measures and purpose-led 
targets, are complemented by RSP awards that support longer-term performance and shareholder 
alignment. This construct provides restrained pay outcomes, alignment between the interest of our 
executive directors and shareholders and incentivises sound risk management.

In December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary increases would apply from 1 April 2024 
for the Group CEO, who had been appointed for an initial period of 12 months, and Group CFO. 
This compares to an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. The maximum bonus 
opportunity and RSP awards for executive directors in 2024 remains unchanged at 100% of salary 
and 150% of salary respectively. The committee reviewed the 2024 performance measures for 
annual bonus awards and the underpin criteria for RSP awards, as detailed later in this report, 
which remain unchanged and continue to align with our purpose-led strategy.

Mr Thwaite has subsequently been permanently appointed as Group CEO and the committee 
has reviewed his remuneration arrangements in accordance with the Policy. With effect from 
16 February 2024 his base salary will be £1,155,660 per annum, an increase of 10% from his 
current salary of £1,050,000 per annum which was set at the time of his appointment on 26 July 
2023 for an initial period of 12 months. His fixed share allowance will continue to be set at 100% 
of salary and he will also receive standard benefit funding of £26,250 per annum and standard 
pension funding of 10% of his salary. This sets Mr Thwaite’s fixed pay at the same level as the 
fixed pay previously paid for the Group CEO role prior to his appointment in July 2023.

The committee noted that pay of our executive directors continues to remain below the target 
total compensation opportunity of other major UK banks. The committee remains very aware 
of the importance of recognising good performance and the need to attract and retain highly 
talented colleagues.

New Employee Share Plan
At the 2024 AGM we will seek approval for the NatWest Group plc 2024 Employee Share Plan. 
This will replace, and largely replicates, the 2014 Employee Share Plan, which expires in June 2024. 
It is intended that all non-tax advantaged share awards granted after March 2024 to both senior 
executives and colleagues, including annual bonus and RSP awards, will be granted under the new 
2024 Employee Share Plan. Further details, including a plan summary, will be set out in the Letter 
to Shareholders.

130

Looking ahead
How we reward and support colleagues remains of critical importance. 
Our approach is to reward colleagues in a fair, sustainable and transparent 
way. In 2024 we will roll out Beyond, our redesigned approach for performance 
management including goals, feedback and pay. This will aim to drive a culture 
of high performance and create a better experience for colleagues. In 2024, 
the committee will also continue focus and discussion on wider workforce 
considerations.

Our executive directors’ strategic scorecard for the last ten years has evolved 
to include people, climate, enterprise and financial capability measures alongside 
established focus on delivering against key financial metrics and customer 
and risk considerations. ESG metrics are also a core part of our performance 
assessment for our bonus pool. We will continue to use ESG performance 
metrics for variable pay that are demanding, quantifiable and clearly linked 
to our strategy.

During 2023 we engaged with the current Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ consultation 
and will continue to contribute to the important discussion on how the pace of 
meaningful change in diversity and inclusion can be accelerated in financial 
services. In October 2023 the FCA/PRA published a revised policy statement 
announcing the removal of the variable pay cap for UK banks. NatWest Group 
has operated a variable pay cap of one times fixed pay since the regulations 
came into force in 2014. Whilst we do not anticipate making any immediate 
changes to our existing construct, we have increased our normal maximum 
variable to fixed pay ratio to 2:1, although this is expected to be used on a 
gradual and targeted basis. This should align NatWest more closely to peers, 
ensuring we have the flexibility to remain competitive. No changes are being 
made to the executive directors whose remuneration will be determined based 
on the terms of our Policy, approved at the 2022 AGM.

The three-year term of our current Policy comes to an end at the 2025 AGM. 
The committee will review our current approach and consider how it should 
evolve considering the need to have a market competitive pay to retain and 
attract talent, and maintain strong alignment with shareholders’ interests. 
The committee will also consider whether any changes are required to our 
approach noting the removal of the variable pay cap. We will engage with our 
large shareholders and proxy advisory bodies to understand their perspectives 
prior to bringing our new Policy for shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.

I hope this letter and the information that follows will explain our approach in 
2023 to remuneration. I am grateful for the support of our stakeholders during 
this process and would like to thank my fellow committee members for their 
valuable contribution.

Lena Wilson, CBE
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee

15 February 2024

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts131

Remuneration at a glance

Executive director remuneration outcomes (£000’s)

Paul Thwaite

Fixed Pay  Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

Pay outcomes

Awarded for 2023

Single figure 2023

951

951

245

245

1,216

508

2

2

Fixed pay

Annual Bonus

RSP award

2021 LTI

 Sharesave

Total

2,414

1,706

Alison Rose

Fixed Pay

1,452

1,452

Total

1,452

1,452

Katie Murray

Fixed Pay Bonus

RSP/LTI

Sharesave

1,673

1,673

409

409

1,173

859

3

3

Total

3,258

2,944

Fixed Pay (£000’s)

2023 Annual Bonus

2023 RSP pre-grant

2021 LTI vesting

Paul 
Thwaite 951

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

4.0% 
80% 
of max

53.6% of max

54.3% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

Katie 
Murray

1,673

Post risk modiﬁer

Scorecard assessment

25.2% 
42% 
of max

25.1%
72% 
of max

2.5% 
50% 
of max

52.3% of max

52.8% of max

150%

of salary (no adjustment 
at pre-grant)

Amounts for 
Mr Thwaite based 
on fixed pay since 
appointment as Group 
CEO on 25 July 2023.

Maximum

60%

35%

5%

Financial

Strategic

Personal

The maximum bonus award was based on 100% of salary earned over 2023. 
This equated to £458k for Mr Thwaite and £782k for Ms Murray. The assessment 
of performance against their annual bonus scorecards resulted in a scorecard 
outcome of 53.6% of maximum for Mr Thwaite and 52.3% of maximum for 
Ms Murray. A downwards risk modifier of 0.71% applied for the Group CEO and 
0.46% for the Group CFO to reflect risk performance against core goals, balanced 
by strong leadership behaviours. The committee considered the outcomes for 
Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray to be a fair reflection of performance and felt no 
further discretionary adjustments were required.

Award levels reflect Group 
and individual performance 
in 2023 and will be subject 
to a further assessment 
pre vesting. Awards are 
delivered in shares to align 
with long-term performance 
and shareholders. See page 
148 for further details 
of the pre-grant and 
pre-vest performance.

£900k

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

44.8% of 
max, £403k 

£508k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

£1,500k

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

45.5% of 
max, £682k 

£859k 

Maximum

Following 
pre-grant test

Following 
pre-vest test

Vesting value 
(including share 
price movement)

Prior to the awards being granted to the Group CEO 
and Group CFO, reductions of 55.2% and 54.5% 
respectively were applied as a result of the pre-grant 
performance assessment over 2020. In December 2023, 
after considering whether anything had come to light 
since the grant which would change the original view 
of performance, no adjustment was proposed. Vesting 
value reflects an increase in share price over the period.

Shareholding requirements for executive directors as at 31 December 2023

Paul Thwaite

128%

119%

Katie Murray

307%

0

100

200

300

209%

400

500

600

700

800

900

Shares held outright and performance-assessed unvested share awards that count towards requirement (net of tax)

Unvested share awards still subject to performance assessment (do not count towards requirement)

Shareholding requirement

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration at a glance continued

Summary of Policy and implementation in 2024

132

+1

+2

+3 

+4

+5

Years
+6

+7

+8

+9

+10

Summary of Policy and Implementation in 2024

Key 
elements

Performance 
year

Variable 
pay
grant
year

Salary

Paid over 
performance year

Pension

Benefits

Fixed 
Share 
Allowance

Paid over 
performance year

Paid over 
performance year

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Paid over 
performance year

Released in equal tranches over a five-year period

Bonus

Performance  
year

50% cash

50% shares

50%

Paid 
upfront

Share element subject to  
12 months retention period

Restricted 
Share Plan

Share 
ownership

Malus and 
clawback

Granted provided 
satisfactory 
performance 
over year

After three years, 
performance assessed 
against underpin criteria

20%

20%

20%

Vests pro-rata 
over years 3-7, 
subject to 
12 months’ 
retention period

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

Ongoing

Subject to malus prior to vesting 
Subject to clawbacks for seven years from grant

Clawback extended to 10 years 
in certain circumstances

Any increase will not normally be greater than the average salary increase for NatWest Group employees over the period 
of the policy. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the salary of an executive director will not increase by more than 
15% over the course of this policy.
Implementation in 2024: No salary increase is proposed for the Group CFO for 2024. The Group CEO’s salary will 
increase with effect from 16 February 2024 as result of his permanent appointment. 
Group CEO: £1,155,660 Group CFO:  £787,950

Pension contribution, aligned to the wider workforce, at 10% of base salary.
Mr Thwaite has been a member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. He is entitled to a pension 
allowance of 10% of salary. He exchanged this and a portion of his other fixed pay for participating in the defined benefit 
scheme. Mr Thwaite will become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable 
and can choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.

£26,250 standard benefit funding.
Other benefits can be paid within the terms of the Policy.

100% of base salary.
Shares released over five years.
Payable broadly in arrears over the performance year, currently in four instalments per year.

Maximum award: 100% of salary.

Operation: Awarded upfront with a 50/50 split of cash and shares.
Annual bonus assessed based on a weighted scorecard of strategic measures, as set out below.
A downwards risk modifier also applies.

Financial metrics
Group RoTE
Group underlying income excl. notable items
Group operating expenses excl.  
litigation and conduct costs
CET1 

Total

Maximum award: 150% of salary

Weighting Non-financial metrics
Climate
30%
Customer
10%
Purpose, culture and people
10%

10%

60%

Enterprise and capability
Personal
Total

Weighting
10%
10%
10%

5%
5%
40%

Operation: Delivered in shares, vesting in equal tranches over years three to seven with a 12-month holding 
period following each vesting.

Metrics: RSP awards subject to satisfactory performance before grant and an underpin after three years to 
check performance has been sustainable.
CEO: 500% of salary CFO: 300% of salary

On leaving, requirement to hold shares of a value equal to the lower of the shareholding requirement immediately 
prior to departure or the actual shareholding on departure, for a period of two years.

Any variable pay awarded is subject to malus prior to vesting and clawback for seven years from grant, 
extended to ten years in certain circumstances. See page 137 for further details.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsRemuneration at a glance continued

Linking executive and wider workforce pay to our strategy and 
ESG priorities

Our purpose

Annual bonus

RSP awards

Sharing in Success

133

NatWest Group champions potential, 
helping people, families and 
businesses to thrive.

Because when they thrive, so do we.

Performance 
measures for 
2023

 – Financial performance
 – Customer scores
 – Climate
 – Purpose, culture and people
 – Enterprise and capability
 – Risk

 – Sustainable performance required
 – Underpin criteria based on capital, 

shareholder distributions, risk 
and control environment

 – Long-term payment in shares to align 
with performance and shareholders

 – Financial performance
 – Helping our customers thrive
 – An intelligent approach to risk
 – Living up to our climate ambitions 

and targets

 – Delivering value for our shareholders

Stakeholders

Investors

Regulators

Customers

Communities

Colleagues

Suppliers

Strategic priorities

Supporting customers at every  
stage of their lives

Simple to deal with

Sharpened capital allocation

Powered by people, technology, 
innovation and partnerships

Climate
We have made helping to 
address the climate challenge 
and supporting our customers 
in their transition to net zero  
a key strategic priority.

Enterprise
Our ambition is to remove 
barriers to enterprise and to 
provide businesses in the UK 
the support they need to grow.

Learning
We are helping people to take 
control of their finances, to make  
the most of their money, safely and 
securely – now and in the future.

Alignment 
with our 
strategy and 
stakeholders 

 – Delivering on our strategy helps to support growth, makes a positive contribution to society and drives sustainable returns 

for our shareholders.

 – Linking performance with pay encourages everyone to work and think as One Bank.
 – Goals and measures for executive directors cascade to senior management and the wider workforce, based on our latest 

strategic priorities.

Alignment 
with our ESG 
priorities

 – While ambitions can stretch over several years, we set measures and targets for each year. For example, one of our focus areas 
is supporting our customers in their transition to net zero and you will see climate targets in our annual bonus and Sharing in 
Success outcome for 2023.

 – Having a balanced scorecard of measures and targets helps to incentivise strong financial and risk performance as well 

as purpose-led outcomes.

 – Pay is delivered in a way that aligns with the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
 – For those that receive higher amounts of remuneration, it is increasingly delivered in shares and subject to long holding periods.
 – Through malus and clawback, we can recover pay where new information comes to light.

 – People measures have featured in the performance and pay decisions of our executive directors for over ten years.
 – Our approach has evolved beyond employee engagement to include purpose and culture targets as well as creating a diverse and 

inclusive workplace.

 – For 2023, our climate focus included an increased target for climate and sustainable funding and financing as well as progressing 

our Climate transition plan.

 – There are also targets to build the financial capability of our customers, encourage youth participation in enterprise and provide 

support for harder to reach groups with higher barriers to entering and growing a business.

 – Turning to the wider workforce, the annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard which includes climate, enterprise, 

financial capability, purpose, culture and people measures, broadly aligning with the position for the executive directors.

 – Allocation from the pool depends on the performance of the business area and the individual.
 – Sharing in Success provides a further way for sustainable performance to be reflected in the pay outcomes throughout 

Read more on page 9.

the organisation.

Details of performance against the 2023 targets for executive directors can be found later in this report. You can also find information on how our executive director 
performance measures align with the five principles of a purpose-led business in our ESG Disclosures Report, available on natwestgroup.com.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134

Wider workforce support in 2023

Sharing in Success

Global Living Wage

Our new Sharing in Success 
scheme for all colleagues is intended to 
recognise One Bank behaviours, drive 
a performance culture with purpose-led 
outcomes and further align colleagues 
with our strategic direction.

For the 2023 performance year 

we measured success based on: financial performance, 
our approach to risk, helping our customers thrive, living 
up to our climate targets and ambitions, and delivering value 
for shareholders. The first awards will be delivered in May 
2024, subject to shareholder approval of the recommended 
dividend at the April 2024 AGM. This will be delivered to 
colleagues in NatWest Group shares at a value of £1,000 
per colleague (adjusted to local levels of £575 for Poland 
and £375 for India). For 2024, we will measure success 
based on financial performance, our approach to risk, 
being brilliant for our customers, and delivering value 
for shareholders.

We are proud to be accredited as a Living 
Wage Employer by the Living Wage Foundation, 
demonstrating our commitment to paying wages 
that meet the true cost of living in the UK. Our rates 
of pay continue to exceed the Living Wage Foundation 
benchmarks. This commitment also includes our 
contractors and suppliers across the UK.

For our hubs outside the UK, we continue to pay 
above the minimum and living wage rates. In 2023, 
we furthered our commitment to fair pay by achieving 
accreditation as a Regional Living Wage Employer 
from the Fair Wage Network and 
are now recognised as a Global 
Living Wage Employer.

Ongoing 
enhancements to 
employee benefits

We offer a comprehensive 
range of benefits to 
employees to support our 
aim of being a truly inclusive organisation.

As part of our private medical cover benefits, 
we introduced a new ‘Neuro-developmental 
Pathway’ from October 2023. This is an 
expert-led service, which provides initial 
assessment and diagnosis of Attention Deficit 
Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Autism Spectrum 
Disorder (ASD) and Tourette’s syndrome. The 
cover has been specially designed to provide 
short-term support following diagnosis, either 
through adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy 
(CBT) and/or prescription and stabilisation of 
medication for ADHD. 

How the committee oversees wider workforce remuneration

Each year 
the 
committee:

1

2

3

4

5

Approves the remuneration 
policy principles, which are 
applied consistently across 
NatWest Group, and reviews 
the policy’s implementation.

The committee is supported 
by Subsidiary Performance 
and Remuneration 
Committees which review 
whether the policies and 
practices are appropriate 
at the respective legal 
entity level.

Considers a report on how 
pay has been distributed 
across the workforce 
during the year.

The report includes analysis 
by grade and diversity 
categories, and there are 
checks in place to ensure 
that decisions are 
made fairly.

Approves the bonus pool 
for bonus-eligible colleagues 
and the Sharing in Success 
payments across the 
wider workforce.

The bonus pool is 
determined after considering 
performance against a 
balanced scorecard of 
strategically important 
measures. Sharing in 
Success payments are 
based on the achievement 
of pre-defined measures.

Reviews the annual spend 
on fixed pay.

Fixed pay increases in recent 
years have been focused 
mainly on colleagues in A-B 
grades and those lowest in 
their salary range.

Reviews and approves 
share plan offerings 
for colleagues.

Sharesave is offered in the 
UK, Ireland, Poland and India, 
encouraging colleagues to 
think about their financial 
wellbeing with an option to 
buy NatWest Group shares.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts135

Wider workforce support in 2023 continued

Wider workforce remuneration

How we align wider workforce and executive directors’ remuneration

We have invested significantly in colleague(1) pay over the last few years to help large parts of 
the workforce with the cost-of-living crisis, as well as to deliver on our commitment to deliver 
fair levels of pay throughout the organisation. The remuneration policy supports a culture 
where individuals are rewarded for sustained performance and demonstrating the right 
behaviours. The same principles apply to everyone, adjusted to comply with local 
requirements. The principles are designed to:

1

2

3

support a performance culture – we recognise colleagues’ skills and experience, 
the responsibilities of their job and their geographic location. Ultimately, we pay 
for performance, underpinned by a robust performance management process;
be market facing – we benchmark ourselves against peers and ensure our pay is fair, 
competitive and affordable; and

ensure compliance and governance – our reward design must be within policy, 
meet the expectations and requirements of our regulators and be appropriately 
aligned with the expectations of our shareholders and customers.

All colleagues

Certain colleagues depending on location, grade or job

Senior executives only

Base salary & pension funding

Sharing in Success

Benefits and share plans

Role–based allowances

Annual bonus share plans

RSP awards

A competitive level of salary paid 
in cash and reviewed annually. 
Set to reflect the talents, skills 
and competencies that the 
individual brings to the business.

Additional funding is provided 
which colleagues can use to save 
in a company pension scheme. 
UK colleagues receive pension 
funding at 10% of base salary. 
Rates in other locations reflect 
local market practice.

We launched our new Sharing 
in Success scheme in 2023, to 
recognise the contribution of 
all colleagues to our success 
and the achievement of our 
purpose-led strategic goals.

Subject to performance criteria 
being met, awards will be 
delivered to colleagues in 
NatWest Group shares. Awards 
will have a maximum value of 
£1,500 per colleague (adjusted 
for local salary levels).

Some colleagues receive funding 
which they can use towards the 
cost of benefits or take as cash.

Role–based allowances reflect 
the skills and experience 
required for certain jobs.

We reward individuals for 
delivering superior performance 
in line with risk appetite.

Benefits offered include life 
assurance, critical illness 
protection, private medical 
cover and childcare vouchers.

Individuals in some jurisdictions 
can also join share plans, 
providing an efficient way 
to buy NatWest Group 
shares and align their 
interests with our shareholders. 

These are part of fixed 
remuneration for regulatory 
purposes. They are delivered in 
cash and/or shares depending 
on the level of the allowance and 
the seniority of the recipient.

Shares are released in 
instalments over a minimum 
three-year period with a 
five-year period applying 
to executive directors. 

The bonus pool is based on a 
scorecard of measures across 
our core strategic areas and 
our purpose.

Allocation from the pool depends 
on the performance of the 
business area and the individual.

Awards are made in cash and/or 
shares with larger amounts paid 
out over several years. 

Encourages sustainable 
long-term performance. Awards 
are delivered entirely in shares to 
align with shareholders’ interests.

Checks take place before grant 
and again after three years to 
ensure sustained performance 
has been achieved.

Awards are paid out over 
eight years in total to encourage 
long-term thinking when 
making decisions.

RSP participants are also subject 
to shareholding requirements.

Fixed pay

Variable pay

Salary and 
pension funding 

Benefit funding 

Role-based allowances

Sharing in Success

Annual bonus

RSP

Provided to all colleagues

Applies to certain jobs

Provided to some Material 
Risk Takers (MRTs) only

All colleagues are eligible 
under the scheme

Mainly manager grade 
and above including 
executive directors

Executive directors 
and members of senior 
executive committees 

Pay for executive directors is aligned with the wider workforce, with two main differences: (i) the use of RSP awards; and (ii) a requirement to maintain a holding of shares in NatWest Group, 
both during and after employment. These differences are deliberate and recognise that it is in the best interests of our stakeholders for executive directors to have a significant proportion of 
their remuneration paid in shares and subject to long-term shareholding requirements.

(1)  Colleagues mean all permanent employees and, in some instances, members of the wider workforce e.g. temporary employees and agency workers.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts136

Wider workforce support in 2023 continued

Engaging with our colleagues and wider stakeholders

We listen to our colleagues and 
shareholders regularly, and use their 
feedback to inform our approach 
to remuneration.

Regular engagement with colleagues
 – Our colleague opinion survey (Our View) allows 

people to have a say on what it feels like to work 
at NatWest Group. 84% of our colleagues took 
part in the latest survey, our highest ever 
participation rate.

 – Colleague sentiment on reward remained 

strong in 2023, with improvements in all reward 
questions from 2022 scores. The overall category 
‘Total Reward’ in Our View increased by four 
percentage points to 77 percentage points – 9% 
above the Global Financial Services Norm (GFSN) 
and 3% above the Global High Performance Norm 
(GHPN). Specifically, there was an increase of 
seven percentage points from 2022 of colleagues 
who felt they are paid fairly for the work they do, 
taking NatWest Group 7% above the GFSN and 
1% above the GHPN for that question.

 – Regular question and answer sessions take 

place between colleagues and senior executives 
throughout the year.

 – Feedback from colleagues forms part of the 
purpose, culture and people measures that 
impact pay.

 – We also consult with our employee representative 
bodies on remuneration at relevant points during 
the year.

Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP)
Our CAP continues to be an effective way to strengthen 
the colleague voice in the Boardroom, by enabling our 
colleagues to directly engage in two-way discussions 
on topics important to them. By connecting colleagues 
directly with the Board, this deepens our understanding 
of colleague sentiment.

The CAP is chaired by Roisin Donnelly, one of our  
non-executive directors, and she is joined by at least 
two additional board members in every CAP meeting. 
CAP membership is refreshed regularly and it currently 
comprises 28 colleagues who are self-nominated and are 
representative of the bank’s population e.g., business area, 
level, location, working pattern and employee-led networks. 
Following each CAP session, a report summarising the key 
points discussed is presented at the next Board meeting. 
Roisin will then hold a follow-up call with CAP members to 
share highlights and feedback from the Board discussion.

In 2023, CAP meetings were held in May and November. 
Topics are either chosen by CAP or are requested by 
Board, and in 2023 have included ESG, Consumer Duty, 
human rights and our standing annual item: executive and 
wider workforce remuneration. Short presentations are 
held on each topic, followed by smaller group discussions 
between CAP members and Board members to allow for 
questions and debate.

The May 2023 meeting included our annual standing 
agenda item focusing on executive and wider workforce 
remuneration. Lena Wilson, non-executive director and 
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration 
Committee, gave a presentation to the CAP covering the 
directors’ remuneration policy as well as the latest colleague 
sentiment on reward, a summary of the support provided 
by the bank during the cost-of-living crisis, the alignment 
of wider workforce and executive pay and how it supports 
our strategy. Lena also highlighted our Fair Pay Charter 
which sets out our commitment to pay all our colleagues 
competitively and transparently, and noted our reward 
policy is updated according to the current and future 
needs of the business.

Discussion was also held on how remuneration covers more 
than just pay and includes employee benefits and schemes 
such as Sharing in Success. CAP members asked questions 
about the new Sharing in Success scheme, such as how 
colleagues contribute to the bank’s goals. Members also 
suggested some additions for future Sharing in Success 
communications to make the scheme clear for all colleagues 
and were also interested in the progress being made on our 
gender pay gap.

The CAP confirmed the presentation from Lena was well 
received, and the panel felt better informed and had an 
increased understanding of executive pay and its link 
to wider workforce pay.

Stakeholder engagement outcomes
Every year we undertake an engagement programme with 
our major shareholders and other stakeholders before the 
committee makes its final decisions on pay. In late 2023 and 
early 2024, we engaged with a number of our institutional 
shareholders, UK Government Investments, proxy advisers 
and the UK regulators and discussed our approach to 
remuneration for the year.

The meetings were generally positive with the committee 
Chair and senior members of management explaining our 
pay philosophy and no material concerns were raised. 
Stakeholders were interested to hear NatWest Group’s 
reflections on the UK government’s removal of the bonus 
cap for UK banks and noted we do not propose any 
immediate changes to our executive director pay in 
response to it. Wider workforce initiatives were also 
discussed, including the first year of operation of the 
Sharing in Success scheme and the changes to NatWest 
Group’s approach to performance management.

Other recurring topics in meetings included our treatment 
of potential windfall gains, the measurement of bonus pool 
performance, the use of ESG metrics in remuneration and 
the retention and recruitment of talent. Investors also 
continued to stress the importance of clear disclosures 
to assist their view of our approach to pay.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsSummary of the Policy for executive directors continued

Purpose and link to strategy  Operation

Maximum opportunity

Alignment with Provision 40 of the Code

139

 –  financial measures account for between 50% 
and 60% of the annual bonus opportunity.
 – non-financial measures account for at least  
30% and personal measures may be used 
up to a maximum of 10% of the scorecard.

 – awards will be delivered 50% in shares 

and 50% in cash.

 – awards will be deferred in combination with 

RSP awards to meet regulatory requirements.
 – a post-vesting retention period will apply to the 

amount delivered in shares (currently 12 months).

 – malus provisions apply prior to vesting and 
clawback applies for seven (and potentially 
up to ten) years from the date of award.

Annual bonus

Supporting a culture where 
individuals are rewarded 
for the delivery of superior 
performance, with measures 
and targets reflecting 
NatWest Group’s strategic 
priorities and purpose.

Performance is assessed 
based on a range of financial 
and non-financial measures 
that encourage long-term 
value creation.

Awards are subject to malus 
and clawback adjustments 
to support long-term 
decision making.

RSP awards

 – an award will be granted provided performance 

Supporting sustainable 
performance over a  
multi-year period.

Awards are delivered entirely 
in shares over many years to 
create simple and effective 
alignment with shareholders 
over the long term.

Malus and clawback 
provisions discourage 
excessive risk-taking 
and other inappropriate 
behaviours.

has been satisfactory over the prior year.

 – after three years, performance will be assessed 

against pre-determined underpin criteria.
 – awards will vest in combination with annual 

bonus awards to meet regulatory requirements 
for deferral (currently between three to seven 
years after grant).

 – a post-vesting retention period will apply 

(currently 12 months).

 – malus provisions apply prior to vesting and 
clawback applies for seven (and potentially 
up to ten) years from the date of award.
 – the number of shares for RSP and bonus 

awards may be calculated using a price that 
is discounted to reflect the absence of the right 
to receive dividends or dividend equivalents 
during the vesting period.

Bonus awards will be granted up to a maximum 
value of 100% of base salary. The value of awards 
can also reflect a discount for long-term deferral, 
in line with regulatory guidelines.

The level of the award can vary between 10% 
for threshold performance and 100% for maximum 
performance. Target performance will pay out 
at 50% of maximum.

You can find the proposed performance 
measures and weightings for the 2024 
financial year on page 151.

Clarity

There is clarity on how performance will 
be assessed and the expected behaviours. 
We provide transparency through detailed 
disclosure and engage with shareholders as well as 
the workforce on our approach to executive pay.

Simplicity

Most of the remuneration for executive directors is 
share-based and subject to deferral and retention 
requirements, which creates simple and significant 
alignment with our shareholders.

RSP awards will be granted up to a maximum 
value of 150% of base salary. The value of awards 
can also reflect a discount for long-term deferral, 
in line with regulatory guidelines.

Subject to the underpin criteria, the vesting level 
of RSP awards can vary between 0% and 100% 
of the original number of shares granted.

The expected vesting level is 100% of maximum 
with safeguards in place to ensure there are no 
payments for failure. See page 152 for further 
information on RSP awards to be granted for 
the 2024 financial year.

Risk

We take risk into account at various stages of the 
performance assessment process, with underpins 
and malus and clawback provisions to adjust 
awards if necessary.

Predictability

RSP award levels are intended to be more 
predictable and linked to long-term performance, 
helping to support prudent risk management.

Proportionality

Variable pay cannot be awarded above the  
level of fixed pay. We believe this is a restrained  
and proportionate approach to executive 
remuneration.

Alignment to culture

Variable pay is subject to sustainable performance 
and progress against our purpose-led strategic 
goals. Payments are made over many years to 
encourage long-term thinking.

Shareholding requirements further align the 
interests of executive directors with the returns 
to shareholders.

Shareholding requirements

 – shares and unvested awards count on a 

CEO – 500% of salary.

Executive directors must 
build and continue to hold a 
significant shareholding both 
during and after employment.

net-of-tax basis towards the requirement once 
any performance assessment has taken place.

 – on leaving, shares must be held for a period 
of two years and procedures are in place 
to enforce the requirement.

CFO – 300% of salary.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFees

Competitive fees that reflect 
the skills, experience and time 
commitment required for 
the role.

Fees are set at an 
appropriate level to attract 
individuals with the attributes 
needed to oversee the 
Board’s strategy.

Benefits

Providing a level of benefits 
in line with market practice.

Summary of the Policy for executive directors continued

Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors

Purpose and link to strategy  Operation

Fees can be paid in cash, shares or a combination of the two. From 2023, a portion of fees are used to 
purchase shares under a new shareholding policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors. 
Further details are set out on page 152.

The level of fees is reviewed regularly. Additional fees may be paid for new Board Committees provided 
these are not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees. No variable pay is provided 
so that the Chairman and non-executive directors can maintain appropriate independence.

140

Maximum opportunity

The rates for the year ahead are set out in the 
Annual remuneration report.

Any increases to fees will not normally be greater 
than the average inflation rate or salary increases 
for the wider workforce. Other than in exceptional 
circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 
15% over the course of the Policy.

The Chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to travel assistance in connection with company 
business including the use of a car and driver. NatWest Group will meet the cost of any tax due on the 
benefit. Other benefits may be offered in line with market practice.

The Chairman is entitled to private medical cover and life insurance cover provided the Board considers 
the costs to be reasonable.

The value of the private medical and life insurance 
cover for the Chairman, as well as other benefits, 
will be in line with market rates and disclosed in 
the Annual remuneration report.

Other policy elements for Directors

Element

Operation

Recruitment policy

When recruiting new directors, the Policy aims to be competitive and to structure pay in line with the framework applicable to current directors, recognising 
that some adjustment to quantum may be necessary to secure the preferred candidate. A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or payments 
forgone, which is in line with regulatory requirements.

Notice and termination 
provisions

Under service contracts, NatWest Group or the executive director is required to give 12 months’ notice to the other party to terminate the employment.  
There is discretion for NatWest Group to make a payment in lieu of notice (based on salary only). The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have 
notice periods and no compensation will be paid in the event of termination, other than standard payments for the period served up to the termination date.

Non-executive directors have letters of appointment instead of service contracts and are appointed for three years initially. At the end of this term, a further 
three-year term may be agreed, and non-executive directors may be invited to serve beyond six years, up to a maximum tenure of nine years. The Chairman  
is subject to the Code’s requirements relating to the maximum tenure period for chairs. All directors stand for annual election or re-election by shareholders at 
the AGM.

Effective dates of 
appointment for directors

Howard Davies – 14 July 2015
Frank Dangeard – 16 May 2016
Yasmin Jetha – 21 June 2017

Paul Thwaite – 25 July 2023
Roisin Donnelly – 1 October 2022
Stuart Lewis – 1 April 2023

Katie Murray – 1 January 2019
Patrick Flynn – 1 June 2018
Mark Seligman – 1 April 2017

Rick Haythornthwaite – 8 January 2024 
Lena Wilson – 1 January 2018

Treatment of outstanding 
share plan awards on 
termination

On termination, we will treat awards in accordance with the relevant plan rules or other terms on which they were granted. Any deferred annual bonus 
awards that are unvested will normally lapse on leaving unless good-leaver circumstances apply, in which case the awards will normally continue to vest on the 
original vesting dates. In good-leaver circumstances, individuals will be eligible to be considered for an annual bonus award for their final year of employment.

RSP awards that are unvested will normally lapse on leaving unless specified good-leaver circumstances apply. For good leavers, awards are pro-rated for time 
served during the three-year performance period and will normally continue to vest on the original vesting dates. Individuals will not be eligible to be considered 
for an RSP award for their final year of employment. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts141

Annual remuneration report

Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors for 2023 (audited)

Base salary
Fixed share allowance
Benefits
Pension
Total fixed remuneration
Annual bonus
Long-term incentive
Sharesave 
Total variable remuneration
Total remuneration

Paul Thwaite (1)

Alison Rose (2)

Katie Murray

2023

£’000
458
458
34
0
951
245
508
2
755
1,706

2022

£’000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2023

£’000
647
647
92
65
1,452
–
–
–
–
1,452

2022

£’000
1,117
1,117
82
112
2,428
643
2,178
n/a
2,821
5,249

2023

£’000
782
782
30
78
1,673
409
859
3
1,271
2,944

2022

£’000
761
761
30
76
1,628
416
1,597
n/a
2,013
3,641

(1)  Mr Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO on 25 July 2023. Remuneration above includes fixed pay since appointment as Group CEO and annual bonus in respect of period as Group CEO, together with the estimated vesting value of the full 2021 LTI award, 

including the value relating to the performance period prior to appointment.

(2)  Reflects fixed remuneration paid to Ms Rose for the period to 25 July 2023, the date she stepped down from her role. In line with Ms Rose’s service agreement, payment of her fixed pay elements are being made for her contractual notice period, which will end 

on 26 July 2024. See page 150 for further details.

Notes to the single figure table
Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he will now become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can 
choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.
Fixed share allowance: The fixed share allowance is based on 100% of salary and, as part of fixed remuneration, is not subject to any performance conditions.
Benefits: Includes standard benefit funding at £26,250 per annum. The 2023 values reflect updated methodology for benefit calculations for travel assistance. For Mr Thwaite this includes travel assistance in 
connection with company business (£21,113) and assistance with home security (£1,700). For Ms Murray it includes travel assistance in connection with company business (£405) and assistance with home 
security (£3,349). For Ms Rose it includes travel assistance in connection with company business (£67,956) and assistance with home security (£9,618).
Pension:
The executive directors receive a monthly pension allowance of 10% of base salary.
Mr Thwaite has been an active member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. For participating in this scheme, he was required to exchange part of his fixed pay. This was equivalent to 23.6% of 
his salary in respect of his services as Group CEO for FY23. This equated to £108,383 (made up of his 10% pension allowance £45,833 plus an additional amount of £62,549 of fixed pay). He also made member 
contributions to the scheme of 1.7% of salary, equivalent to £7,643 in respect of his services as Group CEO for FY23.
The value of the defined benefit pension for the period Mr Thwaite was an executive director is based on the capitalised pension accrual (net of CPI inflation) during the period less the direct employee contribution 
referenced above (£7,643). Due to the limit applied to increases in pensionable salaries and the CPI inflation figure required to be used in the calculation, the outcome of this calculation was negative £111,562.
As the aggregate value of these elements is negative, in line with the DRR regulations, the amount included within the single figure is zero.
Annual bonus: In determining bonus awards for 2023, the committee assessed performance against financial, strategic and personal measures as set out on page 143.
Long-term incentive: The 2023 value relates to LTI awards granted in 2021. Ms Rose voluntarily confirmed she did not wish to receive a LTI award for the 2020 performance year to signify that NatWest Group 
was aware of the need to demonstrate responsibility on pay, due to the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19. For Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, the committee assessed performance prior to vesting and also 
considered whether the outcome could represent a windfall gain, as set out on page 146 and 147.
Sharesave: Figures represent our employee share plan Sharesave. For Mr Thwaite this includes a gain when shares under options were exercised and sold. For Ms Murray, options were exercised but not 
sold and the value therefore represents the notional gain based on the difference between the closing share price on the date of exercise and the exercise price. Sharesave options are not subject to 
performance conditions.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

142

 – a dependant’s pension of 50% of the member’s 
pension entitlement at death had they not given 
up any for a lump sum at retirement less a state 
pension offset from the recipient’s State Pension 
Age; and

 – children’s pensions totalling up to 50% (or 100% 

if no other dependant) of the member’s 
pension entitlement.

 – Pensions in payment will increase each year by 

the lower of 3% and the increase in the Retail Price 
Index other than where legislation requires a 
higher amount.

 – Members must contribute 2% of their Contribution 
Salary to the Fund. For Mr Thwaite this equated to 
1.7% of salary.

Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his 
permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he 
will become a deferred member of the defined benefit 
scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can 
choose to join NatWest Group’s defined contribution 
pension arrangements.

Pension – additional disclosure to the single total 
figure table
Mr Thwaite has been an active member of the Main Section 
of the NatWest Group Pension Fund and his membership 
predated his Board appointment. He joined the Fund from 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Staff Pension Scheme (RBSSPS) 
as part of a 2002 merger with the National Westminster 
Bank Pension Fund. The RBSSPS was a defined benefit 
pension arrangement and was available to all employees 
recruited by the Royal Bank of Scotland at the same time 
as him. The Main Section is a funded defined benefit pension 
scheme that was closed to new joiners in 2006 and the 
future service contribution rate is currently 47.2% of salary. 
Since 2009, increases to pensionable salaries have been 
subject to a maximum annual increase of the lower of the 
increase in CPI, 2% and the member’s basic salary increase.

 – On death in service, the following benefits are payable 

to dependants:

 – a lump sum of four times the lower of basic salary and 
the Earnings Cap (£205,200 for the tax year starting 
6 April 2023 and increases annually broadly in line with 
increases in RPI) plus a refund of any voluntary pension 
contributions paid to the Fund;

 – a dependant’s pension of 50% of the member’s pension 
entitlements based on service to Normal Pension Age 
less a state pension offset from the recipient’s State 
Pension Age; and

 – children’s pensions totalling up to 50% (or 100% if no 

other dependant) of the member’s pension entitlement.

 – On death after retirement, the following benefits are 

payable to dependants:

The terms applicable to Mr Thwaite, in line with the terms 
applicable to all other employees who joined the Royal 
Bank of Scotland at the same time, were as follows:

 – if within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum 
equal to the balance of five years’ instalments of the 
pension in payment;

 – Normal Pension Age is age 60 unless members have 
chosen a Normal Pension Age of 65. For Mr Thwaite, 
the Normal Pension Age is 60 which normal retirement 
date is 20 September 2031.

 – On retirement at Normal Pension Age, members are 
entitled to a pension, based on their service, up to a 
maximum of two thirds of final pensionable salary (subject 
to an Earnings Cap which is £205,200 for the tax year 
starting 6 April 2023 and increases annually broadly in 
line with increases in RPI) less a state pension offset 
from their State Pension Age.

 – Mr Thwaite’s pensionable salary as at 31 December 2023 
was £140,042 and his accrued pension as at this date 
was £62,047.

 – Members retiring on the grounds of ill-health are normally 

entitled to an unreduced pension based on service to 
Normal Pension Age.

 – From age 55, members are entitled to leave the bank 
and with the consent of the bank receive a pension 
reduced to reflect its early payment (unless this was 
at the request of the bank, in which case there will be 
no reduction).

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts143

Annual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance assessment 
for 2023
The committee considered performance against financial 
and strategic non-financial measures set to reflect our 
purpose-led strategy as well as personal performance by 
the executive directors. Bonus awards of 50% of maximum 
would be expected to be made for the achievement of 
target performance. The outcome of the assessment 
against the measures and targets under the bonus 
scorecard is set out in full on the next page.

In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, 
no bonus will be paid to Ms Rose in respect of service 
during 2023.

Mr Thwaite received a separate discretionary award in 
respect of the portion of 2023 when he was CEO of the 
Commercial & Institutional franchise. Further details of this 
award are not included within this report as it does not 
relate to his time as an executive director.

In respect of his bonus for the CEO role, the committee 
noted that Mr Thwaite quickly and effectively took 
leadership of NatWest Group and provided stability in 
challenging circumstances. He successfully handled business 
as usual matters as well as complex risk events over the 
second half of the year. Mr Thwaite has also successfully 
established relations with regulators and investors since his 
appointment. The committee also noted his support for and 
from his direct reports.

Ms Murray was also considered to have delivered good 
overall performance with strong engagement with investors 
throughout the year, and building a viable yet ambitious 
financial plan for 2024. The committee noted that good 
progress had been made on key programmes this year, 
which resulted in a clear plan for 2024 earlier than normal, 
and constructive engagement in challenging existing 
commitments. There had also been progress on 
building bench-strength in Finance.

The bonus scorecard takes into account the context 
in which performance was delivered. The committee 
considered a downward risk modifier which enables 
risk performance to be assessed and awards reduced, 
potentially to zero. Downward adjustments of 0.71% were 
applied to Mr Thwaite and 0.46% to Ms Murray to reflect 
risk performance against core goals, balanced by strong 
leadership behaviours. The committee believed the final 
outcome reflected the considerable achievements by 
the executive directors through a challenging year and 
therefore no further discretion was applied to the 
resulting award levels.

As the transition period for the Policy has ended, the 
maximum bonus award was set at 100% of base salary. 
The final bonus amounts are set out below and awards 
will be made in early 2024, spilt equally in cash and shares. 
Malus and clawback provisions apply to the awards and 
the shares will be subject to a 12-month retention period.

Paul Thwaite
Alison Rose
Katie Murray

Maximum award
£458,333
–
£782,213

Final bonus award
£245,438
–
£409,097

Award level %
53.55%
–
52.30%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts144

Weighted  
outcome

14.17%

3.16%

2.84%

5.00%

5.00%

2.75%

30%

10%

10%

10%

5%

5%

Annual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2023

Annual bonus measures
Financial (60%)
Group RoTE (1) (3)

Minimum  
(10% payable)

14.0%

On target  
(50% payable)

15.7%

Achieved 15.6%

Group underlying income excluding notable items (2) (3)

£13.8 billion

£14.8 billion

£15.8 billion

Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct costs

Achieved £14.3bn

£7.7 billion

Achieved £7.64bn

£7.6 billion

£7.5 billion

Progress to medium-term capital target (4)

n/a

CET1 target range of 13-14%

n/a

Achieved 13.4%

Maximum  
(100% payable)

Weighting

17.4%

Strategic (35%)
Climate 
Climate and sustainable funding and financing 
(£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and end of 2025)
Implementation of the initial Climate transition plan (6)

Customer
Aggregated view of Net Promoter Score (NPS) and Customer Touchpoint Rating 
for our brands (7)
Purpose, culture and people
Purpose score (Our View)

Culture score (Our View)

Percentage of females in top three layers of the organisation (globally) (8)

Percentage of colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds in top four layers (UK) (8)

9%

£24.5 billion

£25.3 billion

£26.2 billion
Achieved £29.3bn in 2023

Four sectors on target plus one of two AUM and Retrofit milestones

Implementation on target

Meet target on average

10%

4.80%

Target met on average

74

71

39%

Achieved 41%

87

80

42%

12.5%

Achieved 13.0%

89
Achieved 90
82
Achieved 83
44%

14.5%

3.33%

3.33%

1.67%

1.67%

3.33%

3.33%

0.62%

1.05%

Enterprise and capability
Supporting diverse enterprise, prioritising support for harder to reach groups (9) 

Support 35,000 businesses through enterprise programmes with 275,000 
customer interactions to start, run and grow a business. 

1.66%

1.35%

Number of young adults engaged in enterprise and entrepreneurship activity

47,800

Number of financial capability interactions which require active engagement, 
give knowledge or skills or change behaviour (10)

3.72 million

45,263 businesses supported  

300,771 customer interactions

50,000

4 million

57,500

Achieved 57,155

4.6 million

1.66%

1.66%

1.62%

1.24%

Achieved 4.3m interactions  

from key initiatives

Personal measures (5%)
Discretionary assessment at year end for both Mr Thwaite, Group CEO and  
Ms Murray, Group CFO
Downward risk modifier (0-100%)
Downward risk modifier of 0.71% applied for Mr Thwaite, Group CEO, and 0.46% for Ms Murray, Group CFO, to reflect risk performance against core 
goals, balanced by strong leadership behaviour

Strong performance by both directors was recognised across core areas.  

5%

4.0% (CEO)
2.5% (CFO)

Final outcome 
post risk modifier

53.55% (CEO) 
52.30% (CFO)

Performance achieved in 2023

The reconciliation to the reported figures and footnotes for the table above is set out on the next page.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
145

Annual remuneration report continued

Reconciliation to reported figures and footnotes

Reported figure
Gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships and own credit adjustments
Timing of FX and/or conduct losses
Deferred tax asset and tax rate 
Figures used in bonus scorecard 

Amount

£77 million (5) 
 £256 million (5) 
£225 million 

Group RoTE
17.8%
(0.2%)
(1.0%)
(0.9%)
15.6%

Group underlying 
income excluding 
notable items 
£14.3 million

£14.3 million

(1)  For the purpose of assessment under the bonus scorecard, adjustments are made to the published RoTE to exclude material factors outside management’s control. Items will only be adjusted if this results in an impact of at least 0.25% to the RoTE figure. 

For performance year 2023, these include:
a.  Gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships, own credit adjustments, and the timing of FX and litigation and conduct charges; and
b.  Deferred tax asset and effective tax rate changes.

(2)  For income, no adjustments are required to the reported figure for gains from interest and FX risk management derivatives not in accounting hedge relationships, own credit adjustments, and FX losses as notable items are already excluded from the definition of 

the reported figure.

(3)  For RoTE and income, the impact of changes in base rate from that assumed at the beginning of the year net of associated changes in customer behaviour resulting in a deposit balance mix shift is below the materiality threshold for adjustment.
(4)  Capital has been assessed on a qualitative basis against the range.
(5)  Amounts quoted are pre tax whereas RoTE impacts are post tax.
(6)  Minimum (10% payable) – three sectors on target. On target (50% payable) – four sectors on target with one of the two Assets Under Management (AUM) and Retrofit milestones achieved. Maximum (100% payable) – five sectors on target with both of the two AUM 
and Retrofit milestones. Achieved – Four sectors on target and both milestones (AUM and Retrofit). As a result we have exceeded our target. Recognising the relative importance of the sectors element of the target, 55% (of the 5%) has been awarded. For more 
information on climate metrics please refer to our Climate-related Disclosures Report, sections 5.3 and 7.1.

(7)  As NPS is not available for NatWest Markets, an internal Customer Touchpoint Rating (CTR) is applied to assess NatWest Markets’ customer performance. The aggregated view reflects the contribution of each franchise to NatWest Group’s income. Targets: 

Consumers: Improve NatWest Retail Main Bank NPS to +23 or 3rd (from +22 and 3rd). Businesses: Improve NatWest Business Banking £0-750k NPS to -6 or 3rd (from -8 and 3rd) and maintain NatWest Commercial Mid-Market £750k+ NPS at +17 or 1st. Wealth: Improve 
Premier NPS to +31 or 3rd (from +29 and 3rd). Achieve Coutts NPS (12MR) of +36 (from +38) or Coutts NPS (3MR) of +49 (from +28). RBSI: Maintain NPS of +35. NatWest Markets: maintain average CTR of 72%. We met or exceeded 5 out of the 7 customer goals set 
for 2023. The weighted average rating across these 7 targets mean that the Customer outcome is 4.80%.

(8)  NatWest Group’s management structures were revised during 2023. For the purpose of remuneration reporting, the representation targets were set based on the management structures in place at the start of the FY2023 with performance assessed at  

31 December 2023.

(9)  Enterprise target aimed at supporting the recovery and prioritising support for harder to reach groups with higher barriers to entering and growing a business. The support was to be distributed as follows: 75% support to UK regions outside London & South East, 50% 

support to females, 20% support to individuals from ethnic minority backgrounds, Minimum target: 32,550 businesses and 269,000 interactions, Maximum target: 40,250 businesses and 316,250 interactions (same percentage distribution as target).

(10) Key initiatives are: MoneySense, Financial Health Checks, Spending Feature and Know My Credit Score. Please see page 8 of the ESG Disclosures Report for Spending Feature measurement approach.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

2021 LTI award – Pre-vest performance assessment framework

LTI awards were made in early 2021 following an assessment of performance over the 2020 financial year. Before vesting, the committee carries out a further review to consider whether 
anything has come to light which might call the original award into question. Internal control functions and PwC, as independent advisers, the Group Board Risk Committee (BRC) and the 
Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC) support the committee in this assessment, with the outcome set out below.

Looking back to performance for 2020 and ‘knowing what we know now’, has NatWest Group

146

Core  
questions

1. Remained safe and secure, taking 
into account financial results and the 
capital position?

2. Been a good bank for customers 
taking into account customer and 
advocacy performance?

3. Operated in an environment in 
which risk is seen as part of the way 
we work and think?

4. Operated in a way that reflects its 
stated values and Purpose?

Has NatWest Group 
breached a minimum 
capital ratio over 
the period?

Has there been a 
material fall in the 
NatWest Group share 
price over the period?

Has Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) fallen 
across the business?

Evidenced 
by…

Have there been 
indicators of a material 
deterioration in the risk 
culture or profile, taking 
into account annual 
assessments by the Risk 
function and the BRC?

Has the culture  
index from Our View 
fallen materially?(1)

Has there been a 
material deterioration 
in Purpose-linked 
indicators since the 
performance year 
in question?

NO

NO

Analysis

NatWest Group 
has remained well 
capitalised since 2020.

The share price has 
risen since the end 
of 2020.

Some declines

Declines in certain 
limited areas which are 
driven by external 
factors.

NO

NO

No material 
deterioration in 
risk culture or profile 
since 2020.

No material 
deterioration in culture 
scores, with scores 
maintained since 2020.

NO

No material 
deterioration in 
purpose-linked 
indicators.

YES

NO

Potential 
under- 
performance?

Where the answer is ‘Yes’, three further questions are considered:
1. Is the underperformance due to factors within management’s reasonable 

control in the circumstances?

2. Can the underperformance be linked back to the performance year to which 

the award relates, rather than to performance developments since?

3. Is it appropriate to reflect the underperformance in the current pre-vest test 
(i.e. if the underperformance has not been adequately reflected in other 
ways such as subsequent pre-grant tests and awards in the interim)?
If the answer to each of these questions is “Yes”, the committee may decide 
that a reduction on pre-vest is appropriate, and it has the discretion to decide 
the amount.

Further analysis
Whilst some customer metrics have declined since 2020, these are due to 
market factors and are not related to 2020 performance. Given this, there was 
no deterioration in financial, customer, risk and culture performance that would 
merit a reduction prior to vesting. The committee noted the investigation of 
Financial Crime and CDD remediation had resulted in adjustments to prior LTI 
vestings through the risk underpin. Since the timeline for financial crime return 
to appetite had not worsened over the course of 2023, no further adjustments 
were considered necessary as part of the 2021 LTI pre-vest assessment.
(1)  As disclosed in 2022, the LTI pre-vest culture assessment is now assessed using ‘Our View’, 
NatWest Group’s internal colleague opinion survey, following the closure of the FSCB and its 
survey. Achievement of ‘threshold level of sustainable performance’ has been evidenced.

No adjustment proposed, 
subject to underpins to consider 
any significant risk, stakeholder 
or reputational matters not 
already captured in the 
performance assessment, 
with advice from the BRC 
and the SBC. The underpins 
also allowed the committee to 
consider events arising during 
the period between grant and 
the end of year 3.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts147

Windfall gains
As previously disclosed in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, the committee has 
implemented a framework for the assessment of windfall gains when assessing the vesting 
of the 2021 LTI gains prior to the vesting of our LTI awards. The committee considered the 
following factors:

 – the level of the grant price in comparison to pre COVID-19 levels – A pre-COVID reference 
price of £2.30 was used based on the price on the average share price across November 
and December 2019. Relative to this date the like-for-like(1) grant share price of £1.866 
was 19% lower. It was noted this is less than 20%, the level above which further 
consideration would typically be given to an adjustment. It is also worth noting that the 
like-for-like grant share price was 10% higher than the price used for the 2020 grant.

 – the level of share price appreciation (if any) over the period up to vesting – During 
the pre-vest period following the grant of the 2021 LTI award, NatWest Group’s 
share price rose by 16%, which in our review did not give rise to a windfall gain to 
the executive directors.

 – consideration of whether share price appreciation was unique to NatWest Group and 
indicative of strong management performance – Share price growth of 16% over this 
period in our view largely reflects the improvement in the financial performance of 
NatWest Group as reflected in the profit and RoTE performance during the pre-vest 
performance during the pre-vest period.

 – whether any reduction had been applied to award levels at pre-grant. The NatWest Group 
LTI construct was different to a more traditional LTIP construct as the main performance 
assessment took place prior to grant. Under this assessment, the March 2021 LTI grants 
to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray(2) for performance year 2020 were reduced to 44.8% and 
45.5% of maximum respectively. The reduction reflected both performance during the year 
and significant further pay restraint to reflect the impact of COVID-19. The committee 
considered this was another important consideration in making any windfall gain assessment.

Considering the above, the committee concluded that no windfall gain had arisen and that no 
further adjustment was required to be made to the 2021 LTI awards prior to vesting.

(1)  The 2021 LTI grant price was discounted for the first time to reflect the absence of dividends or dividend equivalents over the 
vesting period, in line with the Policy. For the purpose of the above analysis the ‘like-for-like’ grant share price of £1.866 used 
in the analysis represents the share price undiscounted for the lack of dividends.

(2)  Ms Rose confirmed she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 performance year which the committee determined 

Annual remuneration report continued

Vesting of 2021 LTI awards (audited)
Ms Rose had informed the Board she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 
performance year, recognising the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19. LTI awards 
were granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray in March 2021 in respect of performance year 
2020. Prior to the award being granted to Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, reductions of 55.2% 
and 54.5% respectively were applied to the maximum award as a result of the pre-grant 
performance assessment with a further reduction to reflect the impact of COVID-19 on 
our pay decisions that year. This resulted in LTI awards of £403,000 for Mr Thwaite and 
£682,000 for Ms Murray. The pre-grant performance reductions were made as risk, 
customer and enterprise performance in 2020 were not fully at the desired level.

At the end of 2023, a further assessment took place to review whether anything had come 
to light which might call into question the original award. The pre-vest assessment found that 
there had been no material deterioration in financial, customer, risk and culture performance 
since grant. Overall, the data indicated that the required level of sustainable performance 
had been achieved and no further reductions were made to the 2021 LTI awards under the 
pre-vest test. The committee also considered the potential application of risk and stakeholder 
perception underpins, which included a detailed discussion of whether the vesting outcome 
could result in potential windfall gains. The committee used our pre-disclosed framework and 
a range of other factors to assess windfall gains and believed there was a strong rationale 
for not making any adjustment.

A summary of the position from grant to vest is set out below along with the estimated vesting 
values for the 2021 LTI award, which is used in the single total figure of remuneration table. 
The shares will vest in equal amounts between 2024 and 2028, followed by a 12-month 
retention period. Malus and clawback provisions also apply.

Alison Rose

Paul Thwaite 

Katie Murray

Shares

Value

Shares

Value

Shares

Value

537,442

£900,000

895,737 £1,500,000

296,787
240,655

£497,000
£403,000

488,475
407,262

£818,000
£682,000

2021 LTI Award
Maximum 
opportunity
Reduction for 
pre-grant test
Award granted
Reduction for 
pre-vest test
Amount post 
performance tests
Increase in value 
due to share price
Estimated vesting 
value

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

–

–
–

–

–

–

–

(1)  Share price used to determine the number of awards was £1.6746. This was determined using the share price at grant of 

£1.866 which was discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting 
period, in line with the shareholder approved Policy. The estimated vesting value was based on share price of £2.1089, the 
average over the three-month period from October to December 2023.

–

–

–

–

to be £899,000 as noted in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report. 

240,655

£403,000

407,262

£682,000

–

–

£104,518

£507,518

–

–

£176,876

£858,876

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts148

Annual remuneration report continued

Scheme interest – RSP awards granted during 2023 (audited)

Grant date

Face value

Award price (1)

Shares awarded (2)

Vesting levels

Performance requirement

Paul Thwaite

07-Mar-23

£937,501

Alison Rose (3)

07-Mar-23

£1,395,627

Katie Murray

07-Mar-23

£951,565

£2.2055

£2.2055

£2.2055

425,074

632,794

431,451

Between 
0% – 100% 
with no set 
minimum vesting

The award was subject to a pre-grant assessment of performance over 2022. The 
committee will make a further assessment at the end of the three-year performance 
period for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray (covering financial years 2023 to 2025) to 
determine whether sustainable performance has been achieved. Before vesting, 
the outcome will be reviewed by the committee using the underpin criteria below, 
as well as their broader discretion.

(1)  The award price shown is calculated as the average share price over the five days prior to the grant date, discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in line with the Policy. For reference, the full 

market price of NatWest Group shares at the time of grant for the 2023 RSP awards was £2.9216.

(2)  The conditional share awards granted to Mr Thwaite relate to his remuneration arrangements as CEO C&I, prior to becoming an executive director. For Ms Murray, the award of conditional shares equated to 125% of base salary. The number of shares was calculated 

taking into account performance and the maximum potential award. The award price was based on the average share price over five business days prior to grant. Subject to the pre-vest assessment, these awards will vest in equal amounts between years 2026 and 
2030. Service conditions and malus provisions apply up until vest, and clawback provisions apply for a period of at least seven years from the date of grant.

(3)  In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, all RSP awards granted during 2023 will lapse on the cessation of Ms Rose’s employment. 

RSP awards to be granted for 2023 (audited)
RSP awards are granted provided the committee considers performance over the prior 
year has been satisfactory, based on an assessment against our internal performance 
management framework. The determination of whether satisfactory performance has been 
achieved is based on our internal ratings scale (1 to 5) with a rating of 3 or above normally 
resulting in the RSP award being granted at maximum. A 3 rating means performance goals 
have been fully achieved throughout the year and behaviours have been demonstrated at 
the required level. Performance against regulatory accountabilities is also considered.

The maximum RSP award under the Policy is limited to 150% of base salary. Mr Thwaite 
and Ms Murray both received ratings of 3 for 2023, meaning performance goals were 
fully achieved or exceeded and behaviours were demonstrated at the required level. 
All regulatory responsibilities were also met. Noting the achievements by both executive 
directors over the year and the subsequent performance ratings, the committee agreed 
that RSP awards would be granted at maximum, in line with the Policy.

As a result, Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray will receive RSP awards of £1,215,774 and 
£1,173,319 respectively. The awards will be delivered entirely in shares and subject to 
conditions before vesting as well as significant holding periods to create long-term alignment 
with the experience of shareholders. Malus and clawback provisions will also apply.

In line with leaving arrangements disclosed on page 150, no RSP award will be granted to 
Ms Rose in respect of service during 2023.

Pre-vest underpin
The committee will make an assessment at the end of the three-year performance period 
(covering financial years 2024 to 2026) to determine whether sustainable performance has 
been achieved. Before vesting, the outcome will be reviewed using the underpin criteria 
below. Following the assessment, RSP awards may vest in full, in part or lapse in their 
entirety, with discretion to consider other factors and apply discretion before deciding the 
final vesting outcome. This will mitigate any potential unintended outcomes that might arise 
and ensure that there is a fair outcome.

A sustainable level of performance over the period will be considered with reference to:

2023

2024

Criteria before vesting

Pre-grant 
performance

Year of 
grant

1
The level of capital held relative to 
the maximum distributable amount.

2
Total distributions paid relative to 
our distribution policy.

3
Any material deterioration in the 
risk or regulatory compliance 
profile or control environment of 
NatWest Group, or a serious 
conduct or reputational event.

2027

Start of vesting 
Vests in equal amounts between 2027 
and 2031, with a 12-month retention 
period after each vesting.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Remuneration for the Chairman and non-
executive directors in 2023
The Chairman’s composite fee was increased from 
£750,000 to £775,000 per annum and the basic Board fee 
was increased from £82,000 to £85,000 per annum from 
1 May 2023. The increases were made after considering 
the fees paid by other major UK banks as well as salary 

increases for the wider workforce. The increases of 3.33% 
and 3.66% respectively were lower than the 6.4% average 
salary increase applied across our global workforce from 
April 2023, and broadly aligned with the executive directors’ 
3% salary increases in April 2023. All other fee increases are 
detailed in the table below. A greater percentage increase 
was introduced for the Group Sustainable Banking 

Committee (SBC), reflecting the SBC’s expanded remit from 
1 May 2023 following the disbandment of the Technology 
and Innovation Committee. The Colleague Advisory Panel 
(CAP) fee was unchanged at £15,000. All changes were 
within the scope of the Policy approved by shareholders 
and no directors were involved in decisions regarding 
their own remuneration.

149

Chairman – composite fee
Basic Board fee
Senior Independent Director (SID) (1)
Chair – GAC, BRC and RemCo
Chair – SBC 
Member – GAC, BRC and RemCo
Member – N&G (2)
Member – SBC 
NatWest Markets plc Chair – composite fee (3)

2022 fees
£
£750,000
£82,000
£34,000
£73,000
£60,000
£34,000
£15,000
£30,000
£270,000

2023 fees
£
£775,000
£85,000
£36,000
£75,000
£65,000
£35,000
£16,000
£32,000
£280,000

Increase  
£
£25,000
£3,000
£2,000
£2,000
£5,000
£1,000
£1,000
£2,000
£10,000

Increase  
%
3.33%
3.66%
5.88%
2.74%
8.33%
2.94%
6.67%
6.67%
3.70%

GAC (Group Audit Committee), BRC (Group Board Risk Committee), RemCo (Group Performance and Remuneration Committee), N&G (Group Nominations and Governance Committee), SBC (Group Sustainable Banking Committee).

(1)  The SID fee was increased to reflect additional responsibilities relating to Chair succession and to align more closely with market comparators.
(2)  The fees for N&G members were increased in light of increased Board recruitment activity.
(3)  For the Chair of NatWest Markets plc, the fees were increased at a broadly equivalent rate to the basic Board fee increase in percentage terms.

For NatWest Group plc Board directors who also serve on the boards and committees of NatWest Holdings Limited, National Westminster Bank Plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the 
fees below reflect membership of all four boards and their respective Board Committees. Directors may also receive fees for membership of other subsidiary company boards and committees, 
the value of which would be included below. No variable pay is provided to the Chairman and non-executive directors. You can find further details of board and committee members and their 
attendance at meetings in the Corporate governance report on page 97.

Total remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors in 2023 (audited)

Chairman (composite fee)
Howard Davies 
Non-executive directors
Frank Dangeard 
Roisin Donnelly
Patrick Flynn 
Morten Friis (2)
Yasmin Jetha 
Stuart Lewis (3)
Mike Rogers (4)
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson (5)

 Fees 

2023

£’000

767

277
118
219
121
158
139
61
204
278

2022

£’000

750

268
21
232
202
171
–
179
198
205

Benefits (1)

2023

£’000

6

2
6
3
9
5
5
3
5
11

2022

£’000

14

3
6
5
44
4
–
15
5
17

Total

2023

£’000

772

279
124
222
130
163
144
64
209
289

2022

£’000

764

271
27
237
246
175
– 
194
203
222

(1)  The benefits column for Howard Davies, Chairman, includes private medical 

cover, life cover and expenses in connection with attendance at Board meetings. 
There was a COVID-19-related private medical cover refund of premiums in 
2023 due to a reduction of services in prior years, which resulted in a drop in 
the cost of the benefit, although this is expected to return to more typical rates 
in 2024. Non-executive directors are reimbursed expenses incurred in 
connection with travel and attendance at Board meetings.

(2)  Morten Friis stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2023.
(3)  Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2023.
(4)  Mike Rogers stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2023.
(5)  Fees for Lena Wilson include a one-off additional fee of £37,500 for undertaking, 
at the request of the Board, an additional oversight and coordination role in 
relation to matters arising from the account closure arrangements at Coutts and 
associated events. This included holding extensive additional meetings between 
July 2023 and November 2023 with management and other stakeholders to 
review and discuss relevant matters and overseeing the preparation of proposals 
for consideration by the board committees. This is a one-off payment for 2023 
reflecting the exceptional events of 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Payments for loss of office and payments to 
past directors (audited)
Alison Rose stepped down as Group CEO by mutual 
agreement with effect from 25 July 2023.

In line with Ms Rose’s service agreement, she will 
continue to receive her fixed pay elements for her 
contractual notice period, which will end on 26 July 
2024 in line with the terms of our approved Policy. For 
this purpose, her fixed pay elements consist of salary 
of £1,155,660 per annum, fixed share allowance 
of £1,155,660 per annum, pension allowance of 
£115,566 per annum, and contractually agreed 
benefits of £26,250 per annum.

In accordance with the terms of the Policy and 
our share plan rules, any awards due to vest after 
cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will 
lapse on that date. There is no change to the vesting 
schedule of her awards. Details of outstanding share 
awards are included in the scheme interests table of 
page 148. The value of unvested share awards, as at 
31 December 2023, was £5,147,914. This value differs 
from that previously disclosed in the Section 430(2b) 
Companies Act 2006 Statement on 10 November 
2023 as it is based on an updated share price. The 
final value of any lapsed share awards will depend 
on the share price on 26 July 2024.

In addition, no bonus or variable remuneration will be 
paid to Ms Rose in respect of service during 2023.

Ms Rose’s shareholding requirement will continue 
to apply for a period of two years from her date of 
cessation of employment.

In accordance with the terms of the Policy, under 
the settlement agreement contributions towards 
Ms Rose’s legal fees and outplacement support 
were agreed. This was £395,000 plus VAT for legal 
fees and £60,000 plus VAT for outplacement support. 

150

Implementation of remuneration policy in 2024
Pay arrangements
Both executive directors will receive annual bonus and RSP awards in March 2024 in respect of the 2023 performance 
year. You can find details of these awards on pages 143 and 148. In December 2023, the committee agreed that no salary 
increases would apply from 1 April 2024 for the Group CEO, who had been appointed for an initial period of 12 months, 
and Group CFO. This compares to an average salary increase for the global workforce at 4%. Mr Thwaite has since been 
appointed permanently into the Group CEO role with effect from 16 February 2024. His salary element was reviewed 
in accordance with the Policy and set at £1,155,660. This sets Mr Thwaite’s fixed pay at the same level as the fixed pay 
previously paid for the Group CEO role prior to his appointment in July 2023. Pay arrangements for the 2024 performance 
year are set out below.

Paul Thwaite
Katie Murray

Salary  
(1 Jan 2024)
£1,050,000
£787,950

Salary  
(1 Apr 2024)
£1,155,660 
£787,950

Standard 
benefits (1)
£26,250
£26,250

Pension (2)

Fixed share 
allowance (3)
10% of salary 100% of salary
10% of salary 100% of salary

Maximum bonus 
award for 2024 (4) 
£1,142,243 
£787,950

Maximum RSP 
award for 2024 (5)
£1,713,364 
£1,181,925

(1)  Amounts shown relate to standard benefit funding. Executive directors are also entitled to benefits such as travel assistance and security arrangements in line with the Policy. 
We will disclose the value of benefits received each year. Executive directors are eligible to participate in all-employee share plan arrangements on the same basis as colleagues.

(2)  Mr Thwaite was a member of NatWest Group’s defined benefit pension scheme prior to becoming an executive director and continued to participate on the same terms as 
applicable to him in his previous role based on the legacy provisions of the Policy, see page 141 and 142 for more information. Mr Thwaite has confirmed that, following his 
permanent appointment to the role of Group CEO, he will become a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme as soon as reasonably practicable and can choose to 
join NatWest Group’s defined contribution pension arrangements.

(3)  Fixed share allowance is payable broadly in arrears, currently in four instalments per year. The shares will be released in equal amounts over a five-year period.
(4)  The maximum bonus award under the Policy is set at 100% of base salary and is calculated on salary earned over the year. The award is expected to vest at 50% where 

on-target performance is achieved across the scorecard.

(5)  The maximum RSP award under the Policy is set at 150% of base salary and is calculated on salary earned over the year. The award is normally expected to vest in full, 
subject to underpin criteria that will ensure there is no payment for failure. The maximum value of the RSP award receivable by the Group CEO and Group CFO for 2024 
would increase to £2,570,046 and £1,772,888 respectively in the event there was a 50% increase in the NatWest Group plc share price over the RSP three-year period 
from grant to vest.

Annual bonus performance assessment for 2024
The annual bonus scorecard will be based on weighted performance measures and appropriately stretching targets across 
financial and non-financial areas that align with our purpose-led strategy.

For 2024, financial performance will represent 60% of the scorecard with target ranges set in line with the budget.  
Non-financial measures will be focused across climate, customer, purpose, culture and people, and enterprise and capability. 
These measures represent an aggregate of 35% of the scorecard and reflect our ESG priority areas as well as the importance 
of good customer outcomes. The remaining 5% will be assessed on Personal measures based on a discretionary assessment 
of the performance of each executive director over the year. A downward Risk modifier will also apply, enabling risk 
performance to be assessed and awards reduced, potentially to zero.

Threshold and maximum targets will be disclosed retrospectively at the end of the performance period in the 2024 Directors’ 
remuneration report, alongside the actual level of performance achieved and associated narrative. No award will be made 
if threshold performance, as determined by the committee, is not achieved. The level of the award to be paid will vary 
between 10% for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. Target performance will pay out at 50% 
of maximum opportunity.

All assessments of performance are subject to the committee’s judgement to determine the appropriate outcome. Discretion 
will only be used by the committee when the application of the formulaic performance outcome drives an unrepresentative 
outcome or when it is necessary to take into account strategic, economic or societal impacts that were not or could not 
have been accounted for at the point of agreeing the bonus scorecard.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Annual bonus performance measures and targets for 2024

151

Performance measures

Target

Weighting 

Category

Financial

Financial  
60%

Group RoTE.

Group underlying income excluding notable items.

Target will be set with appropriate reference to our external guidance for RoTe. The targets set and 
the extent of their achievement will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual Report as the committee 
considers them to be commercially sensitive at this point in time.

Target will be set with appropriate reference to our external guidance for income excluding notable 
items. The targets set and the extent of their achievement will be disclosed in the 2024 Annual 
Report as the committee considers them to be commercially sensitive at this point in time.

Group operating expenses, excluding litigation and conduct costs.

Target to be in line with our external Group operating expenses guidance.

CET1.

Non-Financial

CET1 target range of 13-14%.

Strategic  
35%

Climate 

Climate and sustainable funding and financing.

Target of £25.8 billion towards the £100 billion target. 

Implementation of the Climate transition plan.

1. Volume of customer engagement through carbon tracking, energy and retrofit journey tools;
2. Number of large customers for which the Customer Transition Plan Assessment (CTPA) is 

Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) and Customer Touchpoint 

Rating (CTR) for our brands.

Purpose, 
culture 
and 
people

Enterprise 
and 
capability

Progress against purposeful leadership targets.
Progress against culture targets.
Number of females in senior roles.
Number of colleagues from ethnic minority 
backgrounds in senior roles.

Support the sustainable growth ambitions of our 
customers through our wrap around support, 
knowledge and expertise.
Prioritise support for harder to reach groups with 
higher barriers to entering and growing a business.

undertaken; and

3. % of in-scope AuM which align to a net zero trajectory.

Consumers: Maintain NatWest Retail Main Bank NPS at +22. Businesses: Maintain NatWest Business 
Banking £0-750k NPS at -6 and maintain NatWest Commercial Mid-Market (£750k-£250m) NPS at 
+11 and maintain NatWest Large Corporate >£250m NPS at +19. Wealth: Maintain Premier NPS at 
+17. Improve Coutts NPS (12MR) to +34. RBSI: Improve NPS by 2 points on the new baseline to +43. 
NatWest Markets: Maintain average CTR of 75%. Also: Maintain RBSI NPS for Institutions to +44 and 
shared targets of Commercial Mid-Market NPS +11 and Large Corporate NPS +19.

Purposeful leadership target from Our View = 84.
Culture target from Our View = 83.
Increase percentage in the top three layers to 43% on aggregate.
Increase percentage in the top four layers in the UK to 13.5% on aggregate.

Support UK businesses through enterprise programmes with 350,000 interventions to start, run 
and grow a business. In-person support (where measurement is possible; excluding digital) being 
distributed as follows: 75% to UK regions outside London & South East; 50% to females; 20% to 
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic individuals.

To help 10 million people, per year, manage their financial 
wellbeing by 2027.
To improve the financial wellbeing of young people and 
help them feel more confident about their future.

To help 7 million people to manage their financial wellbeing by the end of 2024.

To reach 1 million young people in 2024.

Personal  
(5%)

Discretionary assessment at year end for both executive directors.

Group CEO performance is based on recommendation from Chair taking into account additional 
individual performance factors.
Group CFO performance is based on recommendation from CEO taking into account individual 
performance goals.

Risk  
(0 – 100%)

Risk performance assessment based on Group, NatWest Holdings, 
Functional (CFO only) and individual risk performance.

Discretionary downwards modifier.

30%

10%

10%

10%

10%

10%

10%

5%

5% 

0-100%

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsFees for NatWest Group plc Board (1)
Chair (composite fee)
Non-executive director basic fee
Senior Independent Director

Fees for NatWest Group plc Board Committees (1)
Group Board Risk Committee
Group Audit Committee
Group Performance and Remuneration Committee
Group Sustainable Banking Committee
Group Nominations and Governance Committee

Other fees for NatWest Group plc Board directors
Chair of NatWest Markets plc 
(composite fee to cover all boards and committees)
Chair of the Colleague Advisory Panel

152

Rates from
1 January 2024
£775,000
£85,000
£36,000

Member
£35,000 
£35,000 
£35,000 
£32,000 
£16,000 

Chair
£75,000 
£75,000 
£75,000 
£65,000 
–

Rates from
1 January 2024

£280,000
£15,000

(1)  No additional fees are payable where the director is also a member of the boards and respective board committees of NatWest 
Holdings Limited, National Westminster Bank Plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. Where appropriate, directors receive 
additional fees for membership of other subsidiary company boards and committees including NatWest Markets Plc. 
If applicable, we will disclose the value of fees received in this report each year.

Other external directorships
The Board must approve any additional appointments undertaken by directors outside 
NatWest Group. Steps are in place to make sure that directors comply with regulatory limits 
on the number of directorships held. The Board also considers whether it is appropriate for 
executive directors to retain any remuneration from any new external roles, depending on 
the appointment. You can find details of current external appointments in the biographies 
section of the Corporate governance report.

Annual remuneration report continued

RSP performance assessment for 2024
RSP awards are granted entirely in shares creating simple and effective alignment with 
the returns that shareholders receive over the long term. This is supported by annual bonus 
arrangements, which ensure that executive directors are also incentivised to deliver on the 
key strategic priorities of NatWest Group, with robust weighted performance measures as 
set out on the previous page. After the application of the pre-grant test and the pre-vest 
underpin, the RSP would be expected to pay out at 100% in the vast majority of cases to 
deliver the expected value under the Policy.

Pre-grant test
Executive directors will be granted an RSP award in 2025 provided the committee considers 
performance over 2024 has been satisfactory, based on an assessment against our 
performance management framework.

Pre-vest underpin
RSP awards will not be subject to further performance conditions. However, before vesting, 
the committee will review the outcomes of the business against the underpin criteria. Details 
of the underpin criteria for the RSP award to be granted in respect of 2023 performance 
as well as the broader discretion available to the committee can be found on page 148.

Chairman and non-executive directors’ shareholding policy 
and annual fees for 2024
From 1 January 2023, the Board introduced a formal shareholding policy for the Chairman 
and non-executive directors. The policy did not apply to directors who were due to step 
down from the Board within 12 months of 1 January 2023. Under the shareholding policy, 
NatWest Group retains a portion of the net monthly basic fees (10% for the Chairman and 
25% for non-executive directors) which is used to purchase shares every quarter. The 
Chairman is required to build towards a shareholding equivalent to four times the basic 
annual Board fee (currently £340,000) and for non-executive directors the target is one 
times the basic annual Board fee (currently £85,000). Once the target is achieved, monthly 
deductions and quarterly purchases will continue at a reduced percentage of net monthly 
fees (5% for the Chairman and 10% for non-executive directors). The shares purchased 
under the shareholding policy are held in a nominee account with dividends reinvested 
and shares retained until the director steps down from the Board.

We believe this is a progressive and proportionate approach to shareholder alignment that 
will provide consistency and ultimately higher levels of shareholdings for this cohort. It will 
also ensure there is a continuous element of shareholder alignment as the Chairman 
and non-executive directors will continue to acquire shares over their entire tenure.

The annual fees applicable from 1 January 2024 are set out in the tables, with the fees 
delivered in a combination of cash and shares in line with the shareholding policy above.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Annual change in directors’ pay compared to 
average change in employee pay
Remuneration for employees is based on salary, benefits 
and annual bonus. Executive directors receive fixed share 
allowances and, from the 2022 performance year onwards, 
annual bonus awards. The Chairman and non-executive 

directors receive fees rather than salary and do not receive 
annual bonus awards. We regularly review membership of 
Board Committees and changes in membership will impact 
the level of fees paid to non-executive directors from one 
year to the next. The benefits figures for non-executive 
directors can also change significantly year on year 

depending on the amount of travel undertaken in 
connection with Board meetings. The data for non-
executive directors below reflects the value of benefits 
mainly falling in 2020 and 2021, due to less travel during 
the COVID-19 restrictions, before returning to more typical 
levels in 2022.

153

2021 to 2022

2020 to 2021

2019 to 2020

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

6.34%

42.48%

Salary

2.02%

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

4.68%

35.24%

Salary

2.86%

Benefits (1)

Annual Bonus

1.70%

-32.40%

Annual percentage change

UK employees (2)

Executive directors

Paul Thwaite (3)
Alison Rose (3)
Katie Murray

Chairman and 
non-executive directors

Howard Davies (4)
Frank Dangeard
Roisin Donnelly (5)
Patrick Flynn
Morten Friis (5)
Yasmin Jetha (5)
Stuart Lewis (5)
Mike Rogers (5)
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson

Salary

8.11%

–
-42%
3%

Fees

2%
3%
462%
-6%
-40%
-8%
–
-66%
3%
36%

2022 to 2023

Benefits

Annual Bonus

9.65%

7.13%

–
-43%
0%

–
-100%
-2%

Salary

5.20%

–
1.50%
1.50%

–
0%
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

Fees

Benefits

Annual Bonus

-57%
-33%
0%
-40%
-80%
25%
–
-80%
0%
-35%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

0%
2%
–
2%
3%
1%
–
4%
4%
5%

8%
200%
–
400%
100%
300%
–
–
400%
240%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

–
0%
0%

Fees

0%
1%
–
0%
17%
33%
–
1%
1%
8%

–
0%
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

8%
0%
–
-67%
214%
100%
–
-100%
0%
25%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

–
–
0%

Fees

0%
0%
–
2%
14%
–
–
0%
-4%
16%

–
–
0%

n/a
n/a
n/a

Benefits

Annual Bonus

9%
-75%
–
-70%
-80%
–
–
-83%
-88%
-64%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

(1)  Standard benefit funding for executive directors has remained unchanged. The figures above exclude any other benefits to executive directors such as travel assistance in connection with company business, the value of which is disclosed each year in the single total 

figure table.

(2)  NatWest Group plc is a holding company and is not an employing entity. The disclosure above compares the change in directors’ pay with all employees based in the UK. The data is based on the average full time equivalent salary and benefit costs of UK-based 

employees of NatWest Group, excluding the CEO and the CFO. This is considered to be the most representative comparator group, as it covers the majority of employees and the CEO and CFO are based in the UK. The average percentage change relates to 
salaries and benefits awarded in the respective financial years for UK employees and therefore may differ from figures quoted elsewhere in the report, for example, the proposed salary increases announced in December 2023 to be awarded from April 2024.

(3)  Paul Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO on 25 July 2023 and therefore the annual change comparison to 2022 is not applicable. Alison Rose stood down with effect from 25 July 2023.
(4)  The benefits column for Howard Davies, Chairman, includes private medical cover, the cost of which fell in 2023 due to a reduction of services in prior years but is expected to return to more typical rates in 2024.
(5)  Stuart Lewis joined the Board on 1 April 2023, Roisin Donnelly joined the Board on 1 October 2022 and Yasmin Jetha re-joined the Board on 1 April 2020, so there are no prior year comparisons. Mike Rogers and Morten Friis stepped down from the Board with effect 

from 25 April 2023 and 31 July 2023 respectively.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

CEO to employee pay ratios
The ratios below compare the total pay of the CEO, as 
set out in the single figure of remuneration table in this 
report, against the pay of three employees whose earnings 
represent the lower, median and upper quartiles of the UK 
employee population. A significant proportion of the CEO’s 
total remuneration is delivered through long-term incentive 
arrangements, linked to performance and share price 
movements, which means this part of the ratio can fluctuate 
significantly from one year to the next. None of the three 
employees identified this year received equivalent long-term 
incentive arrangements. Information based on salary only is 
included as a further comparison.

The pay ratios reflect the diverse range of roles and pay 
levels across NatWest Group as a large financial services 
company. For the total remuneration comparison, the 

CEO to employee pay ratios

154

median employee for 2023 works in Digital and the median 
pay ratio is consistent with the pay and reward policies for 
UK employees as a whole. We are determined to pay each 
individual a fair rate for the role performed, using consistent 
reward policies and offering opportunities for progression. 
We set out further information on our fair pay approach on 
natwestgroup.com. The change in the median pay ratio 
since 2018 is largely driven by the more volatile nature of 
performance-related pay for the CEO. In April 2020, Ms 
Rose decided to forgo 25% of her fixed pay for the rest of 
the year which contributed to the ratio falling in 2020 before 
rising in 2021. The median pay ratio then increased further 
in 2022 primarily due to Ms Rose receiving an annual bonus 
award for the first time under the new Policy and a higher 
vesting value for the LTI award, as a result of strong share 
price performance.

As there was a change in Group CEO during the year, 
the data for 2023 is based on remuneration earned by 
Ms Rose and Mr Thwaite, as set out in the single figure of 
remuneration table. As the single figure table only includes 
the pro-rated amount of Mr Thwaite’s annual bonus award, 
the ratio may vary next year, depending on outcomes. Also, 
as Ms Rose voluntarily declined a LTI award in 2021, in 
relation to the magnitude of events relating to COVID-19, 
there was no vesting amount to include in her single 
figure of remuneration and this contributed to the pay 
ratio falling in 2023. The total remuneration and salary only 
for employees at the lower, median and upper quartiles 
has either remained stable or increased year-on-year.

Pay ratios 

Remuneration values (£000)

Year 

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Methodology 

P25 (LQ)

P50 (Median)

P75 (UQ)

Calculation 

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

A Total remuneration

Salary only

143:1
44:1
175:1
44:1
99:1
46:1
130:1
44:1
177:1
42:1
95:1
38:1

97:1
30:1
118:1
30:1
66:1
31:1
87:1
29:1
119:1
28:1
64:1
25:1

56:1  Total remuneration
Salary only
19:1
Total remuneration
69:1
Salary only
19:1
Total remuneration
39:1
Salary only
20:1
Total remuneration
51:1
Salary only
20:1
Total remuneration
71:1
19:1
Salary only
39:1 Total remuneration
17:1 Salary only

CEO

3,578
1,000
4,517
1,017
2,615
1,100
3,588
1,100
5,249
1,117
3,158
1,106

Y25 (LQ)

Y50 (Median)

Y75 (UQ)

25
23
26
23
26
24
28
25
30
27
33
29

37
33
38
34
40
36
41
37
44
40
50
44

64
51
66
52
66
54
70
55
74
58
81
63

Supplementary information on the pay ratio table:

(1)  The data for 2023 is based on remuneration earned by Mr Thwaite and Ms Rose, as set out in the single figure of remuneration table in this report which details the pro-rated amount of Mr Thwaite’s annual bonus, together with the estimated vesting value of the full 

2021 LTI award, including the performance period prior to appointment.

(2)  The employees at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles (lower, median and upper quartiles) were determined as at 31 December of the relevant year, based on full-time equivalent remuneration for all UK employees. This includes fixed pay (salary, pension funding and 

where relevant benefit funding and other allowances) and also any variable pay (based on the amount to be paid). For employees who work part time, fixed pay is grossed up to the full-time equivalent.

(3)  ‘Option A’ methodology was selected as this is considered the most statistically accurate method. UK employees receive a pension funding allowance set as a percentage of salary. Some employees continue to participate in the defined benefit pension scheme. 

For simplicity and consistency with prior years, we have included the pension funding allowance value in the calculation for all employees.

(4)  The data for the three employees identified has been considered and fairly reflects pay at the relevant quartiles among the UK employee population. Each of the three individuals was a full-time employee during the year and none received an exceptional award that 

would otherwise inflate their pay figure.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and AccountsAnnual remuneration report continued

Summary of remuneration levels for employees in 2023

1.34%.

9.31%

20.92%

68.42%

48,178 employees earned total remuneration up to £50,000
xx,xxx employees earned total remuneration up to £50,000

14,731 employees earned total remuneration between £50,000 and £100,000
xx,xxx employees earned total remuneration between £50,000 and £100,000 

6,555 employees earned total remuneration between £100,000 and £250,000
x,xxx employees earned total remuneration between £100,000 and £250,000

946 employees earned total remuneration over £250,000
xxx employees earned total remuneration over £250,000

The disclosure of remuneration levels for employees includes anyone employed by NatWest Group during the year. 

155

Remuneration of Material Risk Takers (MRTs) in 2023
Each year, we disclose the remuneration paid to individuals whose activities have a material 
influence over NatWest Group’s performance or risk profile, known as MRTs. The disclosures 
are made in line with regulatory requirements and full details can be found in our Pillar 3 
reports on natwestgroup.com. The tables below summarise the total pay for colleagues 
identified as MRTs for one or more entities across NatWest Group along with the number 
of individuals earning more than €1 million for the year. Note that the number of MRTs 
excludes colleagues who left NatWest Group prior to 31 December 2023 in line with 
regulatory requirements.

Number of MRTs
Remuneration (£millions)
Total fixed pay
Total variable pay
Total remuneration

686

£201.06
£103.98
£305.05

Number of >€1m earners (1)
€1.0 million to below €1.5 million
€1.5 million to below €2.0 million
€2.0 million to below €2.5 million
€2.5 million to below €3.0 million
€3.0 million to below €3.5 million
€3.5 million to below €4.0 million
€4.0 million to below €4.5 million
Total

49
15
5
5
–
1
–
75

(1)  This information is disclosed in Euros in line with the 

requirements of the regulations.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts156

Annual remuneration report continued

Directors’ interests in NatWest Group plc shares (audited)
Under the shareholding requirements, the Group CEO and Group CFO need to build up and maintain shares to the value of 500% of salary and 300% of salary respectively. The requirements 
apply both during employment and for two years after leaving, in line with best practice. Procedures are in place to enforce the shareholding requirements, and you can find further details on 
page 139.

Shares held – beneficially owned (1)
Shares held – performance assessed unvested shares (2)
Total shares held counting towards requirements (3)
Shareholding requirement
Position against requirement (4)

Paul Thwaite (5)
571,862
42,232
614,094
500% of salary
128% of salary

Alison Rose (6)
2,516,174
228,807
2,744,981
500% of salary
596% of salary

Katie Murray 
763,090
340,582
1,103,672
300% of salary
307% of salary

(1)  Shares owned beneficially as at 31 December 2023 or at the date of stepping down from the Board if earlier. Includes shares held by persons closely associated with the directors.
(2)  Share awards are also included for the purposes of the shareholding requirement once any performance assessment has been completed. All share awards are included net of taxes due to be paid on vesting.
(3)  As at 16 February 2024, there were no changes to the shares held as shown above for Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray. Ms Rose has received additional shares in respect of her fixed share allowance awards since stepping down as Group CEO.
(4)  For Mr Thwaite and Ms Murray, the position against the requirement was calculated as at 31 December 2023 based on the closing price of £2.1940 on 29 December 2023. For Ms Rose the position is calculated based on the closing price on the date of stepping down, 

25 July 2023, of £2.5120.

(5)  On 25 July 2023, Mr Thwaite was appointed as Group CEO for an initial period of 12 months and was appointed permanently as of 16 February 2024.
(6)  For Ms Rose shares held are as at 25 July 2023 from when she stepped down from her role. The position against requirement for Ms Rose includes unvested share awards with a vest date up to 7 March 2024 only. Under the post-employment shareholding 

requirement, Ms Rose will be required to hold shares for a period of two years from her date of leaving, 26 July 2024, which will be calculated on this date.

Share interests held by Chairman and non-executive directors
As set out on page 152, the Chairman and non-executive directors are also subject to a 
separate shareholding policy from 2023.(5) Under the shareholding policy, NatWest Group 
retains a portion of the net monthly basic fees (10% for the Chairman and 25% for non-
executive directors) which is used to purchase shares every quarter. The shareholding 
requirement for the Chairman is four times the basic annual Board fee and for non-executive 
directors the target is one times the basic annual Board fee. Once the target is achieved, 
monthly deductions and quarterly purchases will continue at a reduced percentage of net 
monthly fees (5% for the Chairman and 10% for non-executive directors).

The shares purchased under the shareholding policy are held in a nominee account with 
dividends reinvested and shares retained until the director steps down from the Board.

The shareholding requirement is expressed as a number of shares, which is calculated at 
the beginning of each year. This is the first year of the policy and the progress being made 
towards the shareholding requirement is in line with expectations. A number of the directors 
held shares prior to the policy’s introduction which has accelerated their progress. 

Howard Davies

Frank Dangeard

Roisin Donnelly

Patrick Flynn

Morten Friis (4)

Yasmin Jetha

Stuart Lewis (3)

Mike Rogers (4)

Mark Seligman (4)

Lena Wilson

Shares held (1) 119,382

9,182

Shareholding 
requirement (2)

4x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

11,858

1x basic
annual 
Board fee 

23,111

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

18,570

N/A

32,063

3,879

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

18,571

N/A

59,363

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee

31,910

1x basic 
annual 
Board fee 

97% of target

29% of target

38% of target 

75% of target

N/A

104% of target

12% of target

N/A

193% of target

104% of target

Position 
against 
requirement

(1)  Shares owned beneficially as at 31 December 2023 or at the date of stepping down from the Board if earlier. Includes shares 

(4)  Mike Rogers stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2023, and Morten Friis stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2023. 

held by persons closely associated with the directors. As at 16 February 2024, there were no changes to the shares held as 
shown above.

The shareholding policy does not apply to directors who stepped down from the Board within 12 months of 1 January 2023. 
The share interest for Mr Friis held is over 9,285 American Depositary Receipts representing 18,570 ordinary shares.

(2)  Shareholding requirement for 2023 equates to 122,617 shares for Howard Davies and 30,654 for other non-executive 

directors. These amounts were calculated based on the Board fee at the start of the year (£82,000) and a share price of 
£2.1675 on 28 December 2022.

(5)  36,585 shares are held in the name of M Seligman & Co Limited, of which Mr Seligman and Louise Seligman are shareholders.
(6)  For the Chairman and non-executive directors, a final share purchase under the shareholding policy for 2023 was made on 

2 January 2024 and this has been included in the table above as it related to deductions from 2023 fees.

(3)  Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2023.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts157

Annual remuneration report continued

Share awards under share plans

Paul Thwaite
Sharesave (3)
Sharesave (3)
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI and RSP awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

Alison Rose (6)
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI and RSP awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

The footnotes for the tables above are set out on the next page.

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
31-Dec-23

Expected vesting dates

2017
2018
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2023

2,643
3,169
17,487
38,871
90,377
240,655
410,492

803,694

425,074
63,764
488,838

2.27
1.89
2.66
2.64
1.70
1.67
1.82
2.21
2.82

2,643
3,169
17,487
19,437
30,127

63,764
136,627

1.87
2.23
2.92
2.92

–
–
–
19,434 (1)
60,250 (1)
240,655 (2)
410,492 (2)
425,074 (2)
–
1,155,905
79,684 (1)
1,076,221 (2)

07.03.24 
07.03.24 – 07.03.25
07.03.24 – 07.03.28
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
25-Jul-23

Expected vesting dates

2017
2018
2019
2020
2022
2023
2023

111,838
276,420
429,276
881,679
877,781

2,576,994

632,794
113,820
746,614

2.41
2.66
2.64
1.70
1.82
2.21
2.82

55,920
92,140
107,319
176,336

113,820
545,535

2.23
2.92
2.92

07.03.24
07.03.24 – 07.03.25 
07.03.24 – 07.03.26
07.03.24 – 07.03.27
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

55,918 (1)
184,280 (1)
321,957 (1)
705,343 (1)
877,781 (2)
632,794 (2)
–
2,778,073
1,267,498 (1)
1,510,575 (2)

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts158

Annual remuneration report continued

Katie Murray
Deferred award (4)
Deferred award (4)
LTI award
Sharesave (3)
LTI award
LTI award
RSP award
Annual bonus/Deferred award (4)

Total LTI, RSP and deferred awards subject to service
Total LTI and RSP awards subject to performance and service

Year

Awards held 
1 Jan 2023

Awards granted  Award price £ (5)

Full market value 
at grant £ (5)

Awards vested

Awards lapsed

Awards held
31-Dec-23

Expected vesting dates

2018
2019
2020
2020
2021
2022
2023
2023

26,795
167,155
646,565
3,200
407,262
580,885

1,831,862

431,451
73,596
505,047

2.66
2.64
1.70
1.12
1.67
1.82
2.21
2.82

26,795
41,790
129,313
3,200

73,596
274,694

1.87
2.23
2.92
2.92

07.03.24 – 07.03.26
07.03.24 – 07.03.27

07.03.24 – 07.03.28
07.03.25 – 07.03.29
07.03.26 – 07.03.30

–
125,365 (1)
517,252 (1)
–
407,262 (2)
580,885 (2)
431,451 (2)
–
2,062,215
642,617 (1)
1,419,598 (2)

(1)  Performance assessment has taken place and awards remain subject to deferral and employment conditions before vesting. These awards count on a net-of-tax basis towards meeting the shareholding requirement.
(2)  Awards are subject to the pre-vest performance assessment along with deferral and employment conditions before vesting. See earlier in this report for the pre-vest assessment of the 2021 LTI award. The first vesting of this award is due to take place in March 2024, 

which will be reflected in next year’s table together with any shares lapsed for performance.

(3)  Sharesave options enable colleagues to save from their salary with an option to buy shares at the end of the savings period. The award price is the price at which shares can be bought. Sharesave options are normally exercisable for a period of six months from the 

maturity date at an option price that is discounted by up to 20% of the market value around the time of the award.

(4)  For annual bonus, shares were granted as an element of the up-front bonus awarded in March 2023 and vested in June 2023, in line with the Policy. For Mr Thwaite deferred awards from 2018 to 2023 relate to annual bonus awards granted for performance prior to 

becoming an executive director, with payments deferred in line with regulatory requirements. Similarly, for Ms Murray deferred awards from 2018 and 2019 relate to annual bonus awards granted for performance prior to becoming an executive director.

(5)  The award price shown from 2021 onwards is discounted to reflect the absence of the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in line with the Policy. For reference, the full market price of NatWest Group shares at the time of grant is 

also shown.

(6)  For Ms Rose figures are based on 25 July 2023. In line with leaving arrangements for Ms Rose as disclosed on page 150, any awards due to vest after the cessation of her employment on 26 July 2024 will lapse on that date. 

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts159

249

Relative importance of spend on 
pay £m (% change on 2022)

242
(-2.81%)

1,456
(+20.83%)

2023

249

1,205

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,348
(+5.32%)

Distributions to holders of preference

3,179

shares and paid-in equity

1,205

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,179

Distributions to holders of preference
shares and paid-in equity

3,348
(+5.32%)

249

2022

5,249

2023

1,706
1,205
1,452

Remuneration paid to all employees(1)

2022

Distributions to holders of ordinary shares(2)

3,179

Distributions to holders of preference
shares and paid-in equity

(1)  Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff 

expenses as per Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, 
exclusive of social security and other staff costs.

(2)  Reflects distributions to shareholders through dividend payments 
during the financial year. The Board has confirmed its intention to 
pay a dividend of 11.5p per ordinary share in respect of financial 
year 2023, which will be paid in 2024 subject to approval by 
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 

Annual remuneration report continued

Shareholder dilution and share sourcing
NatWest Group can use new issue, market-purchase or treasury shares to deliver shares that are required for employee 
share plans. Best practice dilution limits are monitored and govern the number of shares that may be issued to satisfy share 
plan awards.

Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
The graph compares the TSR performance of NatWest Group with companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index over the last 
10 years. We have selected this index because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies. We have added the 
TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period as a further comparison.

NatWest Group

FTSE 100

FTSE UK Banks

250

200

150

100

50

0

242
(-2.81%)

1,456
(+20.83%)

2023

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

CEO pay over the same period

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

242
(-2.81%)
2021

Total 
remuneration 
(£000s) (1)

Annual bonus 
against maximum 
opportunity

LTI vesting rates 
against maximum 
opportunity

PT
AR
RM 

PT

AR
PT
AR
RM

1,878

3,492

3,702

3,487

3,578

1,401
4,066

1,456
2,615
(+20.83%)

3,588
2023

73%

62%

56%

89%

41%

60%
78%

82%

83%

78%

3,348
(+5.32%)

68%

54%

– (2)
45%
– (3)

(1)  CEOs are Paul Thwaite (PT), Alison Rose (AR) and Ross McEwan (RM) with figures based on the single figure of remuneration for the relevant year.
(2)  In line with leaving arrangements as disclosed on page 150, Ms Rose did not receive a bonus in respect of service during 2023.
(3)  Ms Rose informed the Board she did not wish to receive an LTI award for the 2020 performance year, recognising events relating to COVID-19.

Statement of shareholder voting
The resolutions to approve the Policy at the 2022 AGM and the Annual remuneration report from the 2023 AGM received 
strong levels of support, as set out below.

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

Annual Remuneration Report

Vote

For
Against
Withheld

Number of shares

33,883,943,928
2,649,384,392
126,953,196

Percentage

Vote

92.75%
7.25%
–

For
Against
Withheld

Number of shares

32,683,776,892
891,030,920
142,525,464

Percentage

97.35%
2.65%
–

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts160

Jan

Feb

April

Sept

Dec

Annual remuneration report continued

The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee

Principal areas of focus of 2023

Wider workforce

Approving and overseeing the NatWest Group-wide Remuneration Policy.

Considering how pay has been allocated across the workforce, 
including analysis by colleague level, geography and diversity.

Reviewing fixed pay proposals.

Approving Sharesave offers to colleagues.

Reviewing performance over the year and approving bonus pools 
for the business areas.

Reviewing gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting.

Executive remuneration

Reviewing performance assessments and remuneration arrangements 
for the committee’s ‘in-scope’ population.

Setting performance objectives for senior executives for the year ahead.

Approving the outcomes of variable pay awards.

Approving remuneration for senior hires and arrangements for any leavers.

Engaging with stakeholders on our remuneration proposals.

Reviewing and approving the Directors’ remuneration report.

Receiving benchmarking data on executive pay and peer practice.

Governance and regulatory

Approving agenda planners and ensuring the committee is meeting 
all its obligations under its terms of reference (ToR).

Considering matters escalated by other Board Committees 
and subsidiary Performance and Remuneration Committees.

Overseeing the MRT identification process.

Receiving accountability review updates and approving accountability 
decisions for the population within its governance.

Carrying out the annual evaluation of their performance as a committee.

The Committee also approves submissions made throughout the year to the UK regulators outside the formal meetings, as required.

STRATEGIC REPORTFINANCIAL REVIEWGOVERNANCERISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTFINANCIAL STATEMENTSADDITIONAL INFORMATIONNatWest Group 2023 Annual Report and Accounts