Non-financial information statement continued

Policies1

Employees

The Code of Conduct3 (Code) 
aims to ensure that Halma 
maintains consistently high 
ethical standards globally, 
while recognising that our 
companies operate in markets 
and countries with cultural 
differences and practices. It is 
issued to all Halma employees 
and published on our website.

Halma has a group-wide 
Whistleblowing Policy2,4 
which applies to all employees 
and Halma operations as well 
as joint venture partners, 
suppliers, customers and 
distributors relating to 
our companies. 

Our Health and Safety Policy2 
requires companies to manage 
their activities in a way which 
avoids causing unnecessary or 
unacceptable risks to health 
and safety and provides clear 
guidelines for our companies 
on managing health and safety 
risks to ensure a safe work 
environment. 

Our Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy3 sets out 
our commitment to building 
inclusive and diverse companies. 

Our Equal Opportunities 
Policy2 is a Group policy which 
promotes equal opportunity 
for all employees and job 
applicants and aims to create 
a working environment in 
which all individuals are able 
to make the best use of their 
skills, free from discrimination 
or harassment. 

Due diligence, implementation and outcomes

Code of Conduct
Each officer or employee who joins the Group is required to acknowledge that they have read 
the Code and understood its importance. The Code was refreshed in 2023 and is being rolled out. 
Please see page 65 for further details regarding the new Code. 

Whistleblowing
All whistleblowing reports are appropriately investigated and concluded. The Audit Committee 
receives details of any reports relating to financial misconduct and the Board receives an 
overview of reports relating to people and culture. 

We have an independent third-party reporting line, NavexGlobal, for individuals to raise 
concerns that they are either not able to do so through other channels or would prefer to raise 
anonymously. Details about the confidential reporting service are available in our Code (which is 
available on our website, www.halma.com) and SharePoint sites, and are prominently displayed 
on posters within all of our Group and company locations.

Health and Safety
The Board monitors health and safety performance, which is collected through the central 
financial consolidation system, at every meeting. 

In the event of any accident, the company in which the accident occurred is to review the relevant 
root cause and ensure that preventative measures are taken, including further training and 
education of their employees. 

In line with Halma’s autonomous structure, operational responsibility for compliance with 
local health and safety regulations, including that of suppliers, resides with the board of each 
company. However, we routinely monitor health and safety performance across the Group and 
companies are encouraged to seek continuous improvement and to promote a strong health 
and safety culture. Companies are required to carry out an independent health and safety review 
every three years to assess compliance and to ensure that there is a consistent and adequate 
level of reporting and investigation of health and safety incidents across the Group. In addition, 
our lead global insurer reviews employee and third-party safety and controls at four to five 
properties per year as part of their rotational assessments.

During the year ended 31 March 2023 over 800 employees completed our Group online health 
and safety training programmes. 

Based on available data reported by our companies, approximately 17% (2022: 15%) of the 
Group’s sites are covered by ISO 45001 or BS OHSAS 18001 accreditation, a minimum standard 
for occupational health and safety management best practice. These sites currently contribute 
approximately 17% (2022: 16%) of the Group’s revenue and we continue to encourage our 
companies to certify to the ISO 45001 standard.

Diversity and Inclusion
We have identified Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) as a key societal issue in which Halma 
can have a strong positive impact. DEI is one of our key focus areas within our Protecting our 
people sustainability pillar.

Further information on health and safety, employee wellbeing and engagement, diversity and 
inclusion, gender pay gap and training and development, including metrics, can be found in 
the Our people and culture section on page 66. 

Page 21 details Halma’s cultural genes and DNA. 

Risk: 
•  Talent and Diversity – page 91

Non-financial KPIs:
•  Accident Frequency Rate
•  Employee Engagement %
•  Company board gender balance 

100 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Policies1

Social

Halma has a group-wide Data 
Protection Policy2 and 
Guidance which requires our 
companies to comply with six 
key data protection principles, 
which are Lawfulness, Fairness 
and Transparency, Purpose 
Limitation, Data Minimisation, 
Accuracy, Storage Limitation 
and Integrity and Confidentiality.

The Group has a policy on 
Competition Law2 which is 
applicable to all employees.

We have a Conflict Minerals 
Policy2 which gives guidance 
to all companies on how to 
determine whether any of 
the four minerals, or their 
derivatives, classified by the 
US government as “conflict 
minerals” are contained in 
any product.

Code of Conduct3, 
as detailed above.

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Due diligence, implementation and outcomes

Code of Conduct
We expect our external business partners and suppliers to be aware of the Code of Conduct 
and apply similar ethical standards in their operations. Each of our companies is responsible 
for monitoring the standards of their business partners and suppliers. 

Data Protection
Under the Data Protection Policy, all companies are required to have their own Privacy Policy in 
place which is tailored to their business and local law, relating to the categories of individuals 
whose personal data they process. Privacy Policies and security measures are required to be 
reviewed at least annually and tested where appropriate. Our companies are also required to 
ensure appropriate and robust clauses are included in any contracts with third parties where 
personal data will be disclosed.

Competition Law
Our companies must confirm that the relevant people in their business are familiar with 
the Competition Compliance manual as part of the half year and year-end control process. Online 
anti-competition compliance training is mandatory for senior management, all company board 
directors and other key business personnel. Over 400 employees completed competition law 
training during the year ended 31 March 2023.

Conflict Minerals
Our companies are responsible for managing their own supply chains, which includes complying 
with conflict mineral due diligence requests from their customers where applicable, supported 
by Group guidance to do so. A number of our companies already confirm that their supply chains 
are conflict mineral-free, including a number of our largest companies. Historically, we have not 
collated data on these policies or procedures centrally.

Product safety
Our companies take pride in the quality of their work and are committed to the highest levels 
of quality and safety standards at every stage of the product life cycle. Given the significant 
diversity of types of products and end markets, responsibility for complying with relevant product 
safety and quality requirements and obtaining relevant accreditations and certifications sits with 
the local, legally constituted company boards. For the year to 31 March 2023, based on available 
data reported by our companies, we estimate that approximately 62% of the Group’s sites, 
contributing approximately 75% of revenue, were covered by an ISO 9001 quality management 
accreditation (2022: 60% of sites; 70% of revenue). 

Further information on the positive role we play in society can be found in the following sections of 
this Report.

•  Sustainability - page 72.
•  Our people and culture, including Water for Life global campaign - page 66.
•  Business reviews - page 46.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 101

Non-financial information statement continued

Policies1

Human rights

Halma is committed to 
conducting its business ethically 
and in line with all relevant 
legislation including human 
rights laws. Halma has 
published seven Modern 
Slavery Act Statements3 since 
September 2016, which detail 
the progressive steps taken 
annually to tackle modern 
slavery and human trafficking. 

Halma’s Human Rights and 
Labour Conditions Policy4 
reflects the core requirements 
of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the Group 
observes the International 
Labour Organization (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work, 
including the conventions 
relating to forced labour, child 
labour, non-discrimination, 
freedom of association and 
right to collective bargaining.

Due diligence, implementation and outcomes

The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for ensuring that human rights considerations 
are integral to the way in which existing operations and new opportunities are developed and 
managed. Compliance with, and respect for, these fundamental principles are integrated 
throughout our organisation. 

All companies have been provided with a detailed guidance note to raise awareness of the Modern 
Slavery Act and the issue of modern slavery in business and supply chains. Each company is required 
to consider the potential issue of modern slavery and human trafficking within their business and 
supply chain and may take varying approaches, such as supplier due diligence, questionnaires and 
the use of terms and conditions, according to their specific circumstances.

Online compliance training on the Modern Slavery Act has been rolled out to senior management, 
all company board members and other relevant employees across the Group. Over 550 employees 
have completed this training during the year ended 31 March 2023. This is an important tool in 
assisting our business management in raising awareness of the issues and understanding their 
responsibilities in their operations. 

We have onboarded 35 suppliers onto the EcoVadis platform, which assesses suppliers against all 
aspects of their treatment of their people, and will give additional support over time, particularly 
to our smaller companies, as they continue to manage modern slavery risks going forward. 

Our Modern Slavery Act Statement can be found at www.halma.com. 

Managers and supervisors must provide leadership that promotes human rights as an equal priority 
to other business issues. All employees are responsible for ensuring that their own actions do not 
impair the human rights of others, and are encouraged to bring forward, in confidence, any 
concerns they may have about human rights.

Risk: 
•  Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations – page 96

1 

In addition to the Code of Conduct having been refreshed, the following policies referenced in this section have also been refreshed: Whistleblowing, Health and 
Safety, Data Protection, Competition and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. The main changes have been to streamline and simplify the policies in order to enable easier 
compliance by Halma’s companies, whilst also continuing to meet all applicable legal requirements. The updated policies will come into effect in FY24 at the same 
time as the new Code of Conduct.

2  Available to all employees of Halma and our companies. Not published externally.
3  Available both on our website at www.halma.com and to employees of Halma and our companies.
4  Included within our Code of Conduct. 

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 15 June 2023 and signed on its behalf by:

Marc Ronchetti
Group Chief Executive

Steve Gunning
Chief Financial Officer

Cautionary note: this Strategic Report has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Board’s strategies and their potential to succeed. It should not 
be relied on by any other party, for other purposes. Forward looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until 
the date that they approved the Report. Forward looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and 
business risks.

102 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Introduction to governance

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Good governance supports 
sustainable growth

Dame Louise Makin
Chair

Priorities for 2023/24 
The Board’s priorities for 2023/24 are to:

• Embed Halma’s DNA throughout the Group, 
aligning our culture through the refreshed 
Executive Board, to maintain our collegiate, 
purpose-led and growth-orientated 
management teams.

• Keep supporting our companies to identify, 
assess and capitalise on sustainability-linked 
growth opportunities.

• Continue to review Growth Enabler investments 
to ensure that they are appropriately utilised 
by our companies and deliver strong returns.
• Revisit our APAC strategy to inform our capital 

allocation priorities in the region.

• Maintain our focus on purpose-aligned M&A.
• Evolve our ongoing portfolio review to optimise 
each component for long-term sustainable 
value creation.

This Report outlines the governance framework within 
which the Company operates, how it has supported 
the Board’s strategic activities during the year and 
how the Principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 have been applied. 

Last year the Board set the following priorities for 
the year ahead: 

• To keep the talent pipeline under review at 
Executive Board level and one level below.

• Support M&A activity that is aligned to our purpose.
• Further embed sustainability into our business and 
monitor progress against our non-financial targets.

• Refocus on the Medical Sector strategy, following 

changes to the leadership structure. 

I am pleased to report that we have made good 
progress against all of these priorities, as follows: 

• Appointed Marc Ronchetti as Group Chief Executive 

from 1 April 2023, to succeed Andrew Williams.

• Appointed Steve Gunning as Chief Financial Officer 

in January 2023, in place of Marc. 

• Completed seven purpose-aligned acquisitions 

in the year. 

• Reviewed climate risks and opportunities and 
performance against our non-financial KPIs. 

• Reviewed the work undertaken to estimate 

our Scope 3 emissions.

• Agreed our reporting as aligned to the Taskforce 

for Climate Related Disclosure (TCFD) Framework. 
• Renamed our Medical Sector to Healthcare, to more 
closely align with our purpose and reflect our wider 
growth ambitions. 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 103

Corporate governance statement
The Company reports against the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 
(the Code), which is available at www.frc.org.uk. 

The Board considers that it has applied all Principles, 
and complied with all Provisions of the Code for the 
year ended 31 March 2023, with the exception of 
Provision 38, which requires that pension contribution 
rates for Executive Directors, or payments in lieu, are 
aligned to those available to the wider workforce. As 
reported last year, the Company undertook a review 
of its UK pension provision in 2021 and consulted with 
employees. As a result, the pension offering moved 
from a trust-based plan to a Master Trust arrangement 
which offered members more competitive management 
charges, more options at retirement and improved 
member communications and retirement planning 
tools. We also took this opportunity to improve the 
employee and employer contribution structure which 
meant that all UK employees could receive more for 
lower employee contributions and all employees could 
receive up to 10.5% of their salary as an employer 
contribution. To align with the Code, the Executive 
Directors voluntarily agreed for their cash-in-lieu of 
pension to be reduced to 10.5% of salary from 1 January 
2023, which equalises the pension offering across all 
employees in the UK. Therefore, whilst we were not 
fully compliant for the full financial year, we have been 
compliant for the three month period to 31 March 2023 
and will be fully compliant for the year to 31 March 2024. 

Conclusion
I hope that you will find the information in this Report 
helpful in understanding our approach to governance 
and how we have applied the Principles of the Code. 

We believe that our organisational structure and 
governance framework enables our companies to 
operate effectively and with agility – which means we 
can continue to deliver value through our sustainable 
growth, returns and positive impact for the benefit of 
all of our stakeholders.

Dame Louise Makin
Chair

15 June 2023

Introduction to governance continued

Board changes
We announced in June 2022, that Andrew Williams 
would be retiring as Group Chief Executive on 31 March 
2023. Prior to Andrew’s formal decision to retire, the 
Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, had 
conducted a thorough selection process to identify 
Andrew’s successor as Group Chief Executive. The 
Board were delighted to announce Marc Ronchetti’s 
appointment as CEO Designate and from 1 April 2023, 
as Group Chief Executive. I would like to thank Andrew 
for his tremendous contribution to Halma’s growth 
during his 18-year tenure and congratulate Marc on 
his appointment. 

As part of the fulfilment of the executive succession 
plans, and following a robust selection process led 
by the Nomination Committee, Steve Gunning was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 16 January 
2023. On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to 
welcome Steve to Halma. 

The planning and execution of these succession plans 
have provided a smooth transition and continuity 
in a year of change. As at 31 March 2023 the Board 
comprised seven non-executive Directors and 
four Executive Directors. 

Shareholder engagement
Following the below 80% vote received on our 
Remuneration Report and the below 80% vote 
received on the reappointment of our Remuneration 
Committee Chair, Jo Harlow, we engaged with our 
major shareholders and the proxy agencies to better 
understand the reasons for their votes (if it was against) 
and any comments or concerns that they held on these 
two resolutions. Further details on the Remuneration 
Report vote can be found on page 138 of the 
Remuneration Report but, from my engagement 
with shareholders and proxy agencies on the specific 
objection to the re-election of Jo, the reason that 
a number of investors voted against her re-election 
was simply as a result of her position as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, which linked directly to 
their concerns on the Remuneration Report for the 
year ended 31 March 2022. I am confident that our 
engagement – and in particular, an explanation of 
the rationale for the remuneration decisions made in 
2022 which could not refer to the imminent succession 
plans that were to be executed – has addressed these 
concerns. The Board is most appreciative of Jo’s 
leadership of the Committee and engagement with 
shareholders, and unanimously supported all decisions 
that were made. I, along with my fellow Directors, 
have absolutely no concerns on Jo’s performance as 
a Director of the Company or in her role as Chair of 
the Remuneration Committee.

104 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

The Company’s application of the Code

Links

Board Leadership and Company Purpose 
Halma is a purpose-driven company – growing a safer, cleaner, 
healthier future for everyone, every day – and is led by an effective 
and entrepreneurial Board, whose objective is to promote the long-
term success of the Company by generating value for shareholders 
and benefitting our wider stakeholders. The Group achieves this 
through its autonomous, decentralised operating model and 
maintains effective engagement channels with its stakeholders 
to consider their needs and the impact of decisions when realising 
strategic objectives. 

The Board leads by example in promoting the desired culture, 
values and purpose-aligned strategy and has put in place 
policies and practices to support this. 

The Board operates within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls, which complements its autonomous structure. The Board 
annually reviews and approves the Budget and monitors capital 
allocation throughout the year.

Division of Responsibilities 
The Board has clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chair, 
who was independent on appointment, and continues to retain 
objective judgement, monitors the effectiveness and independence 
of Board members, whilst fostering an open culture of debate. 

• Sustainable Growth Model p18
• Roles and Responsibilities p120
• Board Governance Structure p110
• Our stakeholders, s.172(1) 

compliance statement and 
Board decision-making p56-p65

• Company purpose, values 

and culture p20

• Engagement with our people p56

• Resources, governance and control 

frameworks p111

• Board Governance Structure p110
• Audit Committee Report p128
• Risk management and 
internal control p88

• Roles and Responsibilities p120
• Board Governance Structure p110
• Board of Directors p166
• Independence and objective 

judgement p121

Composition, Succession and evaluation 
The Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, has an 
established approach for succession and for evaluating candidates 
for Board positions – which ensures that there is an appropriate 
mix of diversity, skills and experience on the Board. 

• Nomination Committee Report, 
including Board and Committee 
evaluations, skills matrix, 
appointment and induction 
processes and diversity p122

Audit, Risk and Internal Control 
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the emerging and principal risks faced 
by the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the risks 
it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. The Board 
has undertaken a robust assessment of the Group’s emerging and 
principal risks during the year under review and up to the date of 
this Report. The Board continues to improve and embed controls 
and to keep systems under review to ensure that the internal 
control and risk management framework remains fit for purpose. 

Remuneration 
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee which 
has delegated responsibility for setting the policy for executive 
remuneration, to support the strategy and long-term sustainable 
growth of the Company. The Board exercises independent judgement 
when authorising remuneration outcomes. The Remuneration 
Committee Report describes the work of the Committee during 
the year and sets out how executive remuneration is aligned to our 
purpose and supports our strategy. The Report also describes how 
the Committee has considered workforce remuneration and how 
executive remuneration aligns with wider Group pay policies. 

• Risk management and internal 
control, including principal and 
emerging risks p88

• Audit Committee Report, including 
fair balanced and understandable 
assessment p128

• Remuneration Committee 

Report p136

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 105

Board of Directors

Dame Louise Makin
Chair 

Appointed: February 2021 
(July 2021 as Chair)

Louise is an experienced executive and 
board director, having led businesses 
across multiple sectors. She was the 
Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, 
the international specialist healthcare 
company, from 2004 to 2019. Louise 
led the transformation of the company 
through a combination of organic growth 
and acquisitions, and significantly 
increased its market capitalisation before 
its sale in 2019. She previously served as a 
non-executive Director of Premier Foods 
plc, Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 
and Intertek Group plc, and as a director 
of several not-for-profit organisations. 
Louise brings a wealth of leadership and 
international experience to the Board.

 N

 R

Marc Ronchetti
Group Chief Executive

Appointed: July 2018  
(April 2023 as Group Chief Executive)

Marc joined Halma in 2016 as Group 
Financial Controller. He was promoted 
to the plc and Executive Board as Chief 
Financial Officer in July 2018 and became 
Group Chief Executive in April 2023. 
Marc brings a proven ability to drive 
business growth. He has played a vital 
role in evolving the Groups Sustainable 
Growth Model, purpose and culture and 
has overseen a significant number of 
acquisitions whilst supporting Halma’s 
companies to grow. Marc was previously 
Finance Director of the UK operations of 
Wolseley plc (now Ferguson plc) and prior 
to that held various group and divisional 
roles at Inchcape plc.

Steve Gunning
Chief Financial Officer

Appointed: January 2023

Steve joined Halma in 2023 as Chief 
Financial Officer. He was previously CFO 
of International Airlines Group and prior 
to that held several senior commercial and 
finance roles within IAG, including CFO of 
British Airways and Chief Executive of IAG 
Cargo. Steve was also a non-executive 
Director at FirstGroup plc. Earlier in his 
career, Steve worked in range of finance 
and audit roles in the UK and US 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Andrew Williams
Executive Director

Appointed: July 2004  
(February 2005 as Group Chief Executive)

Andrew joined Halma in 1994 as 
Manufacturing Director of a Halma 
company, becoming its Managing Director 
in 1997. He joined Halma’s Executive Board 
in 2002 and served as Group Chief Executive 
between February 2005 and March 2023. 
Andrew has proven his ability to grow and 
acquire companies globally while evolving 
the Group portfolio for sustainable growth 
and high returns. He brings clear strategic 
leadership to the Board and has a deep 
understanding of our companies and the 
Group’s stakeholders. He is a Chartered 
Engineer. Andrew served as a non-executive 
Director of Capita plc from January 2015 
until May 2021. Andrew will step down 
from the Board on 30 June 2023. 

Jennifer Ward
Group Talent, Culture and 
Communications Director

Appointed: September 2016

Jennifer joined the Halma Executive Board 
in March 2014 and has global responsibility 
for talent and culture as well as internal 
and external communications and brand 
across Halma. She became a Board member 
in September 2016. Prior to joining Halma 
as Group Talent Director, Jennifer spent 
over 15 years leading Human Resources, 
Talent and Organisational Development 
for divisions of PayPal, Bank of America 
and Honeywell. Jennifer brings a wealth 
of experience to the Board to ensure we 
secure and develop talent ahead of our 
growth needs and build a sustainable 
culture of high performance.

External appointments:
Diploma plc

Tony Rice
Senior Independent Director

Appointed: August 2014  
(July 2015 as Senior Independent Director)

Tony was Chief Executive Officer at 
Cable & Wireless Communications plc and 
Tunstall plc and held a number of senior 
roles at BAE Systems plc. Tony was Chair 
of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc, Dechra 
Pharmaceuticals plc and served as a non- 
executive Director of Spirit Pub Company 
plc, where he was Senior Independent 
Director and Remuneration Committee 
Chair. Tony brings a wealth of board 
level experience at UK listed companies, 
internationally and in regulated industries 
to his role as Senior Independent Director.

 A

 N

 R

106 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
 
Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Jo Harlow 
Independent non-executive Director

Roy Twite
Independent non-executive Director

Dharmash Mistry
Independent non-executive Director

Appointed: October 2016

Appointed: July 2014

Appointed: April 2021

Jo has significant international experience, 
gained most recently as Corporate Vice 
President of the Phones Business Unit 
at Microsoft. She previously worked at 
Nokia as Executive Vice President of 
Smart Devices. Before her move into 
consumer electronics, Jo worked in 
strategic marketing at Reebok and 
Procter & Gamble. Jo brings a wealth 
of expertise to the Board in digital, 
technology, sales and marketing. 
Jo was previously a Member of the 
Supervisory Board at Ceconomy AG.

External appointments:
InterContinental Hotels Group plc 
J Sainsbury plc 
Chapter Zero

 A

 N

 R

Roy is Chief Executive of IMI plc, having 
been appointed to the IMI Board in 
February 2007. During his career with IMI, 
Roy has held several senior management 
roles including Managing Director of IMI 
Norgren UK (2001), President of IMI 
Hydronic Engineering (2004), President 
of Retail Dispense (2007) and President 
of IMI Precision Engineering (2009) and 
Divisional Managing Director of IMI Critical 
Engineering (2011). Roy brings wide-ranging 
knowledge of the engineering sector along 
with extensive management and 
operational experience.

External appointments:
IMI plc, Executive Director

Dharmash is an experienced technology 
venture capitalist, entrepreneur and 
non-executive director. He was formerly 
a Partner at Balderton & Lakestar, an 
executive at Emap PLC and worked earlier 
in his career at The Boston Consulting 
Group and as a Brand Manager at Procter 
& Gamble. Dharmash was formerly a 
founder of blow LTD, which he chaired, 
and has served as a non-executive 
Director at The British Business Bank, 
BBC, Hargreaves Lansdown PLC and 
Dixons Retail PLC.

External appointments:
The Premier League 
Rathbones Group plc

 A

 N

 R

 A

 N

 R

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE
Independent non-executive Director

Carole Cran
Independent non-executive Director

Appointed: December 2021

Appointed: January 2016

Carole was Chief Financial Officer of 
Aggreko plc until December 2017, prior 
to which she held a number of senior 
finance roles within that group. Previously, 
she worked at BAE Systems plc in a range 
of senior financial positions, which included 
four years in Australia. Carole commenced 
her career in the audit division of KPMG 
where she qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant. Carole has extensive 
financial experience and has a 
strong focus on governance and risk.

External appointments:
Forth Ports Limited, Executive Director

 A

 N

 R

Sharmila has sectoral specialisms in health, 
media and sustainability. She served with 
the BBC for 15 years, latterly as Chief 
Operating Officer of BBC New Media, 
and most recently was Chief Executive 
of Wilton Park an ambassador level policy 
development role in the UK Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office focused on global 
health, climate risk and national security. 
Her other executive board positions include 
Medical Research Council, the Association 
of Medical Research Charities and the NHS 
and she was appointed OBE for services to 
medical research. She is a qualified 
chartered accountant. 

External appointments:
ITV plc 
Severn Trent plc 
Coutts & Co 
National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence

 A

 N

 R

Committee Membership
A  Audit Committee
N  Nomination Committee
R  Remuneration Committee

  Chair of Committee
  Member of Committee

Note: unless otherwise stated all 
external appointments are non-
executive roles.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 107

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Board

01

04

02

03

05

01  
Steve Gunning
Chief Financial Officer

See page 106 for biography

02  
Jennifer Ward
Group Talent, Culture and 
Communications Director

See page 106 for biography

03

Steve Brown
Sector Chief Executive, Healthcare

Steve joined Halma in 2015 and was 
appointed to the Executive Board in 
November 2021. Prior to his appointment, 
Steve was Divisional Chief Executive of 
Halma’s Environmental & Analysis Sector, 
Divisional Chief Executive for the Safety 
Sector and Managing Director of Apollo, 
one of Halma’s largest companies.

04

Catherine Michel
Chief Technology Officer

Catherine joined Halma as its first Chief 
Technology Officer in September 2019. She 
has global responsibility for fostering the 
digitalisation of our companies’ products 
and our underlying business operations.

05

Constance Baroudel
Sector Chief Executive, 
Environmental & Analysis

Constance was appointed to the Executive 
Board in April 2021. She joined Halma as 
Divisional Chief Executive, Medical & 
Environmental in August 2018.

06

Funmi Adegoke
Group General Counsel & 
Chief Sustainability Officer

Funmi joined Halma’s Executive Board 
in September 2020. She has global 
responsibility for the Group’s legal, 
risk and compliance affairs, oversees 
the company secretariat function 
and has principal responsibility for 
our sustainability activities. 

108 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

07

06

08

10

09

11

07

09

11

Aldous Wong
President of Halma Asia Pacific, 
Adviser to the Executive Board

Aldous was appointed as President 
of Halma Asia Pacific in January 2022, 
becoming the senior leader for the region 
and an adviser to the Executive Board.

Inken Braunschmidt
Chief Innovation and Digital Officer

Wendy McMillan
Sector Chief Executive, Safety

Inken joined Halma and was appointed 
to the Executive Board in July 2017 and is 
responsible for driving Halma’s Digital 
and Innovation Strategy. 

Wendy was appointed to the Executive 
Board in April 2021. She joined Halma 
as a Divisional Chief Executive in the 
Safety Sector in February 2018.

08

Andrew Williams
Executive Director

See page 106 for biography

10

Marc Ronchetti
Group Chief Executive

See page 106 for biography

 Please see our website,  
www.halma.com, 
for full biographies

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 109
  109

Corporate Governance Report

Board Governance Structure

Board
Sets the Group’s purpose and provides strategic leadership to the Group within a framework of robust 
corporate governance and internal control, monitors diversity, culture and the values that are embedded 
throughout our business to deliver long-term sustainable growth for the benefit of our shareholders and 
other stakeholders.

Board Committees

Nomination Committee
•  Reviews the size, balance of skills 
and diversity and composition 
of the Board and Committees.

•  Leads the Board’s succession 
planning and keeps the senior 
leadership needs of the Company 
under review.

•  Oversees the development of 
a diverse succession pipeline.

•  Oversees the Board and 
Committee evaluations.

Audit Committee
•  Monitors the integrity of financial 
statements, including significant 
financial judgements or estimates 
and ensures that the Annual Report 
is fair, balanced and understandable.

•  Oversees the system of internal 
control and risk management.
•  Monitors the effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function.

•  Reviews external Auditor 

independence and performance.

•  Leads the audit tender process.

Remuneration Committee
•  Keeps under review the framework 

and Policy on Executive Director and 
senior management remuneration 
(including benefit arrangements).

•  Recommends to the Board the 

design, targets and framework for 
senior management performance-
related pay and share awards.
•  Approves service contracts for 

Executive Directors.

•  Reviews workforce remuneration 

policies and alignment with culture.

To learn more see page 122

To learn more see page 128

To learn more see page 140

Share Plans Committee
•  Actions and administers share 
award grants and vestings, 
following approval by the 
Remuneration Committee.

Bank Guarantees and 
Facilities Committee
•  Agrees and approves arrangements 
for issuing guarantees, indemnities 
or other support for bank loans 
and other financing facilities.

Acquisitions and 
Disposals Committee
•  Reviews and approves the final 

terms and structure of acquisitions 
or disposals which have been 
agreed in principle by the Board.

Management Committees

Executive Board
•  Develops strategy and monitors 
operational, financial and non-
financial performance – including 
sustainability matters.

•  Drives the strategic priorities across 
all sectors and functional areas, 
such as finance; talent, culture 
and communications; legal and 
compliance; innovation and 
digital; technology and IT.
•  Leads group-wide initiatives.
•  Reinforces the Group’s operational 
and governance structures and 
acts as a forum for management 
decisions.

•  Reports back to the Board via 
the Group Chief Executive.
•  Biographical information for 

each Executive Board member 
is available on our website  
www.halma.com

110 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Sustainability 
Management committee
•  Provides oversight and strategic 
and operational direction into 
sustainability-related workstreams.

•  Reviews and recommends 
appropriate sustainability-
related governance.

•  Takes primary responsibility for 

identification and management 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities at a Group level.

•  Reports back to the Executive Board 
via the Group General Counsel & 
Chief Sustainability Officer.

Investment committee
•  Provides governance, support 

and challenge to Halma Ventures 
and advises on Group strategy for 
making minority investments and 
other opportunities that offer 
Halma access to new technology 
and capabilities.

•  Reviews and approves investment 
proposals for up to £10m (being 
the Group Chief Executive’s 
delegated authority limit).

•  Reviews financial performance 

and strategic value of investments 
against established criteria and 
considers the exit or acquisition 
strategy, as appropriate.

•  Reports back to the Executive 
Board via the Group Chief 
Executive.

 
Corporate Governance Report
The role of the Board and value creation
The Board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership, 
within a framework of prudent and effective controls, 
that promotes the interests of the Company over 
the long term for the benefit of its stakeholders. 
The Board sets the Group’s strategic goals and has 
ultimate responsibility for its management, direction 
and performance. The Company’s Articles of Association 
set out the Board’s powers and the Board has adopted 
a formal schedule of matters reserved solely for its 
decision and certain decision-making and monitoring 
activities are delegated to Board Committees or 
management committees. The full list of matters 
reserved for its decision can be found at 
www.halma.com. 

Halma has a primary duty to generate and preserve 
value over the long-term for its shareholders whilst 
considering its wider stakeholders and positively 
contributing to society. Details of the Company’s 
strategy and business model, together with its 
stakeholder considerations can be found in the 
Strategic Report. The activities of the Board during 
the year are set out on the following pages. 

Resources, governance and control frameworks
As a decentralised organisation, it is critical that 
Halma’s governance and control framework is robust, 
clearly defined, well communicated and operating 
effectively to support the Company in the delivery 
of its strategy. The Board has established three 
principal Committees (Audit Committee; Nomination 
Committee; Remuneration Committee) which review 
and monitor specific areas on behalf of the Board and 
make recommendations for its approval. Each Board 
Committee operates under written terms of reference 
which are approved by the Board and are made 
available at www.halma.com. The Chair of each 
Committee reports to the Board on their activities 
after each meeting and once the minutes have been 
approved by the Committee, they are circulated to 
all Board members. Further information on the 
composition, role and activities of each Committee 
is set out in the respective Committee Reports. 

There are additionally three topic specific committees, 
typically chaired by the Group Chief Executive, to which 
it has delegated certain powers to negotiate, review 
and administer matters (Share Plans Committee; 
Bank Guarantees and Facilities Committee; Acquisitions 
and Disposals Committee) and three management 
committees (Executive Board; Sustainability 
Management committee; Investment committee) 
which have been established to review and make 
decisions on strategic and operational matters. 

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

The Board sets the Company’s strategy, the execution 
of which is delegated to the Executive Board, chaired 
by the Group Chief Executive, which monitors progress 
against the Group’s strategic objectives and reviews 
operational and business performance. A summary of 
the responsibilities of the Board, each Board Committee 
and for each management committee is set out on 
page 110.

The foundation of our business model is the autonomy 
that our businesses enjoy. To support this autonomy, 
while retaining oversight and control from a Group 
perspective, companies must comply with Halma’s 
suite of financial and non-financial policies and 
procedures and provide confirmation of compliance 
with key controls half yearly. The Group’s policies set 
out our requirements in the areas of financial reporting 
and internal control, health and safety, ethics, human 
resources, IT, data privacy, and legal and compliance. 
These policies are made available to all employees via 
a dedicated SharePoint site. 

An authority matrix sets out the matters that are 
reserved for decision by the Board, those that can be 
approved by the Group Chief Executive and the financial 
authority that has been delegated to Executive Board 
members, the Divisional Chief Executives (DCEs) and 
to company managing directors. This approach ensures 
that companies have a clear framework within which 
they can operate and balances autonomy with the 
need for oversight and control. 

Each company in the Group has its own board of 
directors which meets regularly to fulfil its legal duties 
and to maintain operational and financial management 
of the company’s affairs. Each DCE chairs the company 
board in their subsector portfolio and meets with the 
Executive Board at least three times per year. The 
DCEs also provide a written report on the financial 
and business performance, including areas such as 
talent, culture, diversity and sustainability, to the 
Executive Board members and Halma’s Chair on a 
regular basis.

The Sector Chief Executives (SCEs) hold regular sector 
board meetings, attended by the sector’s DCEs and 
finance, legal, talent and M&A leads, which provide 
a valuable forum for review of sector wide strategy, 
financial and operational performance, talent and 
culture, diversity, sustainability, M&A, and legal 
and compliance. The governance structure of our 
companies, sectors and Board is set out on page 3.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 111

Corporate Governance Report continued

Board operations and activities
The Board schedules six meetings per year but will 
meet or pass resolutions, as required, to deal with 
urgent matters and event-driven items such as 
acquisitions and trading updates. All Directors receive 
an agenda and meeting papers in the week prior 
to the Board meeting. Papers are delivered via an 
electronic board portal for security and efficiency. 

Board meeting attendance
During the year, attendance by Directors at scheduled 
Board meetings was as follows:

Board attendance

Dame Louise Makin

Marc Ronchetti¹

Steve Gunning²

Andrew Williams

Jennifer Ward

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE

Tony Rice

Roy Twite

Eligible

Attended

6

6

2

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

5

2

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

6

Timeline of key Board activities

2022

1  Marc was unable to attend one meeting as he was on the residential executive 

programme at Stanford Graduate School of Business.

2  Steve joined the Board on 16 January 2023.

April
•  Acquisition of  
Deep Trekker.

June
•  Full year results.
•  Announcement of 

retirement of Andrew 
Williams and appointment 
of Marc Ronchetti as 
CEO Designate.

•  Recommendation of 

final dividend.

2023

January
•  Steve Gunning 

appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer.

•  Board and 
Committee 
evaluation 
process agreed.

July
•  Annual General Meeting.

September
•  Strategy meeting.
•  Trading update.
•  Acquisition of IZI Medical.

November
•  Half Year results.
•  Declaration of 

interim dividend.

October
•  Acquisition of WEETECH.

February
•  Acquisition of 
Thermocable.

March
•  Trading update.
•  Annual Budget 

approved.

•  Board evaluation 

feedback.

•  Acquisition of FirePro.

May
•  Acquisition of 
Sewertronics.  

June
•  Full year results.
•  Recommendation 
of final dividend.

112 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

How the Board supports our companies through our Growth Enablers
The Board supports the evolution of Halma’s growth strategy and the development of its Growth Enablers, 
which help to allocate human and capital resources, to ensure that our sectors and companies continue 
to invest organically and through acquisition to deliver sustainable growth over the long term.

Mergers and 
Acquisitions (M&A)

• The Board sets a clear strategy which includes a significant growth element 

being delivered through standalone M&A and bolt-on acquisitions to 
our companies. 

• Through the annual Budget process, key resources, both in terms of people 

and financing, are made available by the Board to ensure that we can 
deliver on this strategic priority. 

• The M&A pipeline is reviewed at each Board meeting and all material 

acquisitions (those with a maximum consideration in excess of £10m) are 
subject to its approval. Prior to approval, the Board will review the proposed 
value creation strategies and, post-acquisition, it receives insight on the 
financial and operational performance of newly acquired businesses.

International 
Expansion

• All major changes, material financial commitments or new business 
developments – such as significant expansion into a new territory – 
are considered by the Board and are matters reserved for its decision.

Talent and 
Culture

Finance, 
Legal and Risk

• The Board receives regular updates from Jennifer Ward, Group Talent, Culture 
and Communications Director on areas including the talent pipeline, diversity, 
equity and inclusion initiatives and employee engagement. 

• Talent discussions are a key feature at each Nomination Committee meeting 

and monitoring the Group’s culture, diversity, equity and inclusion is an 
important role for the Board.

• The Board has established a clear and robust framework to control financial 
investment, oversee financial performance and reporting, and to manage 
risks and opportunities. It annually assesses risk management and internal 
control systems. 

• The Board has an established legal and compliance framework to enable 
companies to maintain their autonomy and agility while leveraging the 
scale of Halma to get consistent, quality advice at competitive rates 
through a panel of preferred external law firms.

Digital Growth

• The Board takes a close interest in Halma’s desire to expand its digital 
capability and supports R&D within our companies through Board 
presentations and non-executive Director interactions with management. 
Our companies can leverage the skills and experience from our non-executive 
Directors with digital expertise.

Innovation  
Network

• The Board share their deep and diverse knowledge and experience with senior 
management and company personnel throughout the year, through both 
formal and informal events and interaction – enabling our companies to 
leverage the breadth of their network and obtain support, guidance and 
contacts in areas which are new to them.

Strat Comms 
and Brand

Strategic 
Communications 
and Brand

• A key focus in the Board’s Budget approval process is to allocate capital to 

resource the central and sector teams to support our companies in developing 
market-leading positions by connecting with customers through their brand, 
marketing, product positioning and the effective use of all media channels.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 113

Corporate Governance Report continued

Governance in action

1.

Talent and 
leadership 

2.

Strategy 
and growth 

In June 2022, we announced that after 18 years of 
outstanding leadership, Andrew Williams would retire 
as Group Chief Executive on 31 March 2023. Supported 
by the Nomination Committee, the Board executed 
its succession plans and, following a rigorous selection 
process, appointed Marc Ronchetti as CEO Designate 
and ultimately as Group Chief Executive from 1 April 
2023. During the appointment process the Board 
considered factors such as alignment with Group 
culture and the evolution of Halma’s Sustainable 
Growth Model, as well as the impact on employees, 
investors and wider stakeholders.

The Board reviewed and considered significant 
acquisition opportunities (those with a consideration 
of over £10m) throughout the year, resulting in the 
successful completion of five acquisitions, namely 
FirePro, Thermocable, WEETECH, IZI Medical and Deep 
Trekker, details of which can be found in the Strategic 
Report. A further two acquisitions completed during 
the year, which did not require Board approval. The 
Board assessed the alignment of each target acquisition 
with the Group’s purpose and strategy and, following 
approval and completion, will continue to monitor 
the integration of these companies into the Group. 

The Board sets and approves its priorities at the start 
of each financial year. The Board’s priorities for 2023 
included M&A, talent, sustainability, investment in 
R&D and infrastructure. These priorities are driven by 
the Executive Board across all sectors and functional 
areas and the Board monitors their progress at 
each Board meeting. 

In September 2022, the Directors attended the 
Company’s annual strategy meeting, which brings 
together the Board and Executive Board to undertake 
an in-depth review of Company strategy, considering 
both past performance, future trends and opportunities, 
as well as macroeconomic and geopolitical influences. 

To enable an orderly transition from the role of 
Chief Financial Officer to Group Chief Executive, 
Steve Gunning was appointed in January 2023 
as Chief Financial Officer. Further details of the 
appointment and induction process can be found 
in the Nomination Committee Report. 

The Directors attended the Accelerate Halma 
conference in October 2022, which was held in 
person for the first time since the COVID pandemic. 
The conference brought together our top 350 leaders, 
under the theme of “connected for growth”. The event 
showcased our companies and provided opportunities 
for our companies to understand our business model, 
connect with other companies, leverage skills from 
other leaders and explore challenges and 
opportunities together. 

Additionally, during the year, and as an output to 
the 2022 Board evaluation, a targeted process to 
facilitate the way in which our companies can access 
and leverage the specialist skills of the non-executive 
Directors was developed and implemented. This further 
enhances the role the Board plays in supporting the 
Innovation Network Growth Enabler. 

114 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

3.

4.

Risk, legal 
and finance  

The Board received regular reports on risk, finance and 
legal matters throughout the year and, following the 
appointment of the Director of Risk & Compliance, 
and the subsequent separation of the Internal Audit 
and Risk functions, closely monitored the evolution of 
these responsibilities. 

The Board received several risk updates and deep dives 
throughout the year particularly in light of the current 
geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, see page 
89. Development of our Risk and Compliance function, 
as well as details of our Internal Audit activities can be 
found on page 134. 

In discharging its duty to ensure adequate resources are 
in place, the Board reviewed and approved the annual 
Budget for 2024, and monitored progress against the 
2023 Budget, ensuring capital allocation remained 
appropriate against our strategic priorities. 

Governance 
and 
stakeholders

The Board received regular updates on governance 
practices and approved matters such as the Group’s 
annual Modern Slavery Act statement, as well as 
financial matters such as the Group’s going concern 
and viability statement during the year. The Board 
reviewed and approved a refreshed Code of Conduct 
“Just be a good person” in March 2023, which is being 
rolled-out across the Group. 

The Board conducted its annual Board and Committee 
evaluations by way of internal questionnaires and 
discussed outputs and agreed actions for the year 
ahead, whilst monitoring progress against actions 
identified in the prior year. Full details of the Board 
evaluation can be found in the Nomination Committee 
Report and the Committee evaluations are covered 
in their respective Reports. Additionally the Board’s 
independence and conflicts of interest were 
considered and approved in the year. 

The Board places great importance on its relationships 
and interactions with its various stakeholders, as 
detailed on page 56. Board members held numerous 
engagement sessions with shareholders during the 
year and, having considered internal and external 
factors and implications, has recommended a final 
dividend for approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 115

Corporate Governance Report continued

Company purpose, values and culture 
Our strategy is powered by our purpose of growing a 
safer, cleaner, healthier future for everyone, every day 
and is focused on acquiring and growing businesses 
in global niche markets, in the areas of safety, health 
and the environment (further details are set out in 
the Strategic Report). 

Our corporate culture is an essential component of 
our strategy and is embedded within Halma’s DNA 
through our cultural and organisational genes. Our 
inclusive culture across our business brings competitive 
advantage to the Group and is encapsulated within 
our Talent & Culture Growth Enabler. It is vital that 
we protect the unique cultural genes that we have 
in order to grow our business sustainably and deliver 
on our purpose (see page 21 for more information on 
Halma’s DNA and cultural and organisational genes). 

It is essential that the Board and executive management 
act in a constructive and respectful manner, exhibiting 
the tone that we expect across our Group. We consider 
that this culture promotes good governance across our 
companies and empowers people to make good and 
ethical business decisions.

Establishing and promoting culture
The Board ensures that the Company’s purpose and 
DNA are aligned to its culture and strategic objectives. 
Our employees are key to delivering our success and 
by fostering a collaborative and inclusive culture our 
people are unified by our purpose and aspire to 
deliver our strategic ambitions. Our positive culture 
is demonstrated through the 76% overall employee 
engagement score achieved from our annual 
engagement survey this year and the strong 
leadership and talent at Halma. 

Our robust risk and governance framework provides a 
base from which our culture can be embedded across 
all levels of our business and the Board periodically 
reviews workforce policies and our Code of Conduct. 

Our Code of Conduct is underpinned by our culture 
and stipulates the expected behaviours and corporate 
culture that we require all employees to display. It 
provides a plain language summary on anti-bribery 
and corruption, insider dealing, conflicts of interest, 
modern slavery and human trafficking. It also sets 
out information on how employees can raise concerns 
via management or the independent third party 
confidential reporting service, operated by NavexGlobal. 
Halma’s Code of Conduct must be signed by every 
employee when they join the company and signed again 
periodically thereafter. We recently refreshed our Code 
of Conduct, which was approved by the Board in March 
2023, and is being rolled-out. The Code of Conduct is 
available from our website at www.halma.com.

The Board takes health and safety matters very 
seriously and accident statistics are reported to the 
Board at each meeting. This enables the Board to 
assess the effectiveness of health and safety practices 
and behaviours within the Group. Health and safety 
is one of our non-financial key performance indicators 
(see page 31 for more information). The Board approved 
a revised Health and Safety Policy, applicable to both 
the Group and our companies in the year under review, 
which is currently being rolled-out. The Directors made 
a number of business site visits during the year, which 
provides them with a first-hand experience of the 
workplace environment and culture, particularly around 
health and safety. Directors report their observations 
from all site visits to the Board and the relevant Sector 
Chief Executive and Divisional Chief Executive. 

Find out more information on our website  
www.halma.com/who-we-are

p66

Find out more information in the  
Our people and culture section

116 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

How the Board has engaged with employees to monitor culture

Engagement mechanism

How the Board monitored culture and insight gained

Outcomes in 2022/23

Company site visits 
and employee events

Annual employee 
engagement survey

Throughout the year our executive and non-executive Directors 
have undertaken a total of 65 site visits to our companies, which 
have provided invaluable insight into how our culture permeates 
throughout our decentralised, autonomous structure. Directors 
engaged with employees on matters such as executive and wider 
workforce remuneration, company culture, purpose, health and 
safety and diversity, equity and inclusion, and provided feedback 
to the Board and management following each visit. 

In October 2022 we held our first in-person Accelerate Halma 
conference since the COVID pandemic. The event provided 
an opportunity for our non-executive Directors to interact with 
colleagues in an informal setting, which included a non-executive 
Director hosted breakfast with company-wide employees. 
Read more on page 58.

The Group’s annual engagement survey results are a good 
indicator of sentiment across the Group and provide insights 
at a company and Group function level. A summary of 
the survey results is reviewed by the Board and areas for 
improvement discussed. The results are shared and focus 
sessions with employees are held to discuss the results and 
gather feedback on areas for improvement - which helps 
to shape and drive company/function specific action 
plans. Employee engagement is one of our non-financial key 
performance indicators (see page 30 for more information).

We developed a non-executive 
Director company visit guidance 
document, which sets out areas 
which Directors might engage 
on during their visit. This was 
implemented and embedded 
successfully during the year and 
provided a useful framework 
and objective to each site visit. 

We were pleased to achieve a 
76% overall engagement score 
in 2023. Read more on the 
outcomes of our employee 
engagement survey on page 66.

Board, Committee 
and strategy meetings 

The Board receives reports throughout the year on whistleblowing, 
talent and retention, employee engagement survey results, health 
and safety matters as well inviting senior employees to present at 
the Board or attend events with the Directors, all of which provide 
insights into employee sentiment and culture. 

The Board kept under review 
talent and retention, employee 
engagement, and concerns of 
the workforce during the year.

Whistleblowing

Policies and practices

Investing in and 
rewarding employees

The Board has put in place procedures for employees to confidentially 
raise matters of concern, either with management or through our 
dedicated confidential reporting hotline. All workforce concerns 
that have been raised are reviewed at each Board meeting, 
including updates on previous investigations and the action 
that has been taken where reports are founded.

The Board have continued to 
monitor all workforce concerns 
raised throughout the year, 
which provide useful insights 
into the culture across the Group.

Our workforce policies and Code of Conduct are underpinned by 
our values and culture. Each of our employees is required to read 
and sign the Code of Conduct upon joining and to adhere to our 
workforce policies. The Board periodically reviews these policies to 
ensure they remain appropriate and aligned with our purpose, 
values and culture. 

The Remuneration Committee regularly considers wider workforce 
remuneration, including gender pay gap data across the UK and 
the US. A particular focus has been on how our companies are 
supporting employees during the cost-of-living crisis (see further 
details in the Remuneration Report).

Our employee share schemes and bonus/profit sharing plans 
are designed to benefit the wider workforce and incentivise 
our employees to contribute to the success and performance 
of the Company. 

Non-executive Directors engage with employees on areas 
of executive remuneration at company visits, and continue 
to offer employees the opportunity to discuss remuneration 
matters further. Feedback from such visits is reported to 
the Board for discussion. 

During the year the Board 
approved refreshed policies, 
including the Code of Conduct 
and Health and Safety Policy. 

The Board received updates 
on initiatives put in place locally 
to assist employees in the cost 
of living crisis and on the 
implementation of the UK 
Real Living Wage across our 
UK companies.

Non-executive Directors engaged 
with employees during the year, 
on remuneration and other 
matters, through site visits 
and at the Accelerate 
Halma conference. 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 117

Corporate Governance Report continued

Engagement with employees
The Code sets out three prescribed ways in which 
the Board should engage with its workforce, or, where 
one of these methods is not adopted, an explanation 
must be provided on the alternative engagement 
methods used and the reasons for adopting that 
approach. Due to the Company’s decentralised 
operating model and the geographic spread of 
our companies, we have implemented alternative 
engagement methods, which we believe are more 
fitting, and effective, for our structure and culture – 
as outlined below. 

The Board utilises a number of different methods 
of engagement, both directly and indirectly, with 
employees to foster and promote a two-way dialogue 
and to provide a critical means of monitoring culture, 
as set out below. 

There are frequent opportunities for the employee voice 
to be relayed to the Board via company management, 
the annual engagement survey, through site visits, 
company events and reporting of workforce 
concerns raised via the confidential reporting 
service with NavexGlobal. 

In addition, we consider that engagement by the local 
company board with their own workforce, as well as the 
engagement by the Board through these mechanisms, 
provides an effective platform for clear and open 
communication with our global employee base. 
To support this, we have also put in place reporting 
mechanisms such that concerns and feedback raised 
at the company level is fed back to the Board. 

The Board strongly believes that its mechanisms 
for engaging with our employees are appropriate 
for our decentralised structure and are an effective 
means of bilateral engagement with our colleagues. 

Engagement with other stakeholders
The Board considers its investors, debt holders 
and other stakeholder groups in its decision-making 
and our interaction with key stakeholders is set 
out on pages 56 to 62 of the Strategic Report.

Our employee engagement framework

Board
The Board employs both direct and indirect methods of engagement with 
employees, which include company site visits, attending employee events such as 
Accelerate conference, DCE/company chair reports, presentations and reports to the 
Board on matters such as workforce concerns and the employee engagement survey, 
and regular updates from the Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director. 

Executive Board and Sector Chief Executives (SCE)
The SCEs are Executive Board members with operational responsibility 
for all of our companies. They provide a vital link between the 
Board and our companies, by ensuring that there are close 
channels of communication.

Halma companies and Divisional Chief Executives (DCE)
The DCEs chair their respective sub-sector company boards and meet with the 
Executive Board at least three times per year and with the Board annually. 
This facilitates regular dialogue on employee-related matters.

Employees
Through our established communication channels our employees 
are able to effectively communicate with both their local company 
board as well as directly and indirectly with the Board.

118 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Case study

Non-executive  
Director site visit 

In June 2022, our Senior Independent Director, 
Tony Rice, visited Ramtech, based in Nottingham. 
Ramtech joined the Group in August 2021 and sits 
within the Safety Sector as a provider of wireless 
solutions designed to save lives, protect assets 
and gain insight. 

Hosted by the Ramtech board of directors, Tony 
received a tour of the offices, where he met with 
colleagues, and gained insight into the day-to-
day operations and culture of the business. 

Tony received presentations on growth, product 
innovation and operations, following which he 
facilitated a roundtable discussion, comprised 
of a group of employees across HR, marketing, 
engineering, logistics and customer services. The 
group were keen to provide background to their 
roles and life at Ramtech, and discuss wide-ranging 
matters including the benefits of becoming part 
of the Halma Group. Discussions were positive and 
highlighted the alignment of vision, values, purpose 
and culture between Ramtech and Halma, and, 
as a recently acquired business, provided employees 
with further background to Halma and how it can 
offer support. 

As is our usual process, following the event Tony 
reported back to the Board on his visit to Ramtech 
and noted that employees had been welcoming 
and engaging and that the visit had presented an 
excellent opportunity to experience first-hand the 
cultural fit with Halma and a better understanding 
of the business. 

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

My visit to Ramtech was informative 
and engaging, demonstrating the 
strengths of the business and its 
alignment with our vision, purpose, 
values and culture. I look forward to 
observing the capabilities that the 
company will bring to the Group.

Tony Rice
Senior Independent Director 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 119

Corporate Governance Report continued

Roles and Responsibilities
The executive and non-executive responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing and are regularly reviewed 
by the Board. The roles and responsibilities of Board members are set out below. 

Chair’s responsibilities

Governance
•  Promoting high standards of corporate 

governance.

•  Leading, chairing and managing 

the Board.

•  Ensuring all Board Committees are 

properly structured and operate with 
appropriate terms of reference.

•  Regularly considering the composition 
and succession planning of the Board 
and its Committees.

•  Ensuring that Board and Committee 

performance is evaluated on a 
regular basis.

•  Ensuring adequate time is available for all 
agenda items and that the Board receives 
accurate, clear and timely information.

Group Chief Executive

Strategy
•  Setting the strategy of the Group and 
monitoring its progress against its 
strategic objectives.

•  Promoting open and constructive 

debate in Board meetings.

•  Ensuring effective implementation of 

Board decisions with the support of the 
Group Chief Executive.

•  Ensuring that the Board manages 

risk effectively.

•  Consulting, where appropriate, with 
the Senior Independent Director on 
Board matters.

People
•  Chairing the Nomination Committee.
•  Identifying and meeting the induction 
and development needs of the Board 
and its Committees.

•  Developing a strong working 
relationship with the Group 
Chief Executive.

•  Ensuring a strong working relationship 
between Executive and non-executive 
Directors.

•  Setting clear expectations concerning 

the Company’s culture, values 
and behaviours.

•  Ensuring effective relationships are 
maintained with key stakeholders.

•  Providing coherent leadership and management of the Company.
•  Developing objectives, strategy and performance standards to be agreed by the Board.
•  Providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to achieve the agreed strategic priorities.
•  Maintaining an Executive Board of the right calibre and expertise, ensuring that succession plans are available and reviewed annually 

with the Chair and the non-executive Directors.

•  Monitoring, reviewing and managing key risks and strategies with the Board.
•  Ensuring that the assets of the Group are adequately safeguarded and maintained.
•  Building and maintaining the Company’s communications and standing with shareholders, financial institutions and other 

stakeholders and effectively communicating Halma’s investment proposition and purpose.

Executive Directors

•  Implementing and delivering the strategy and operational decisions agreed by the Board.
•  Making operational and financial decisions required in the day-to-day management of the Company.
•  Providing executive leadership to senior management across the business.
•  Championing the Group’s culture and values, reinforcing the governance and control procedures.
•  Promoting talent management and diversity, equity and inclusion.
•  Ensuring the Board is aware of the view of employees on issues of relevance to Halma.

Senior Independent Director

Independent non-
executive Directors

Company Secretary

•  Acting as a sounding board for the Chair.
•  Serving as a trusted intermediary for 

the other Directors.

•  Providing an alternative channel for 
shareholders and employees to raise 
concerns, independent of executive 
management and the Chair.

•  Contributing independent thinking and 

•  Acting as a sounding board for the 

Chair and other Directors.

•  Ensuring clear and timely information 
flow to the Board and its Committees.

•  Providing advice and support to 

the Board and its Committees on 
matters of corporate governance 
and regulatory compliance.

judgement and providing external 
experience and knowledge to the 
Board’s agenda.

•  Scrutinising the performance of 
management in delivering the 
Company’s strategy and objectives.

•  Providing constructive challenge 

to the Executive Directors.
•  Monitoring the reporting of 

performance and ensuring that 
the Company is operating within 
the governance and risk framework 
approved by the Board.

120 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Independence and objective judgement
For the year ended 31 March 2023, the Board was 
composed of 11 Directors, each bringing a variety of 
skills, knowledge and experience, in addition to diverse 
thinking. With four Executive Directors and seven 
non-executive Directors (including the Chair), there 
is a strong independent element to Halma’s Board 
which ensures that the balance of power rests with 
the non-executive members of the Board. 

Dame Louise Makin was independent on appointment 
as a non-executive Director in February 2021 and the 
Board considers that she retains objective judgement. 
To facilitate effective debate, the Chair ensures that no 
Director or group of Directors dominate Board meeting 
discussions and that the voice of all Directors is heard 
and respected. Halma’s culture of openness and 
transparency is apparent in how the Board members 
interact individually and collectively. The Executives 
genuinely value the insight, views and challenge that 
the non-executive Directors bring and the transparent 
reporting by the Executives ensures that all stakeholder 
interests can be considered and well-informed, 
collaborative decisions made. 

The Board has reviewed the independence of each 
non-executive Director and, following an assessment 
of any relationships or circumstances which are likely 
to affect a Director’s judgement, consider each to be 
independent for the year ended 31 March 2023. While 
non-executive Directors are not required to hold shares 
in the Company, the Board believes that any Halma 
shares held serve to align their interests with those of 
shareholders and do not interfere with their independence. 
Tony Rice was appointed Senior Independent Director in 
July 2015 and is available as an alternative channel of 
communication for shareholders, independent from 
executive management and the Chair.

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Time commitment 
Director availability and time commitment to the 
Company is essential for a properly functioning Board 
and no issues have been experienced during the year. 
In addition to the scheduled and ad hoc Board and 
Committee meetings, Directors also attend the Annual 
General Meeting and the annual strategy meeting. 
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to attend 
our Accelerate conference and undertake company site 
visits, both of which our Executive Directors attend. The 
Board must approve all significant external appointments 
prior to any Director accepting the position. Our 
appointments policy permits Executive Directors to 
accept one external appointment, provided that it is 
beneficial to the Company and the development of the 
individual. The Board must be satisfied that it does not 
present a conflict of interest with the Group’s activities 
or require a significant time commitment which could 
interfere with the performance of their executive duties. 

For non-executive Directors, the number of external 
directorships is an important consideration when 
recruiting and a preferred candidate must reassure 
the Nomination Committee that they can allocate 
sufficient time to the role (around 20 days per annum 
is anticipated plus additional time if they Chair 
a Committee) before they are recommended 
for appointment.

Prior to the Board’s approval of an additional role, an 
assessment is made of the combined time commitment 
required by their existing roles plus that required in the 
new role. If there is any concern over the time available 
to fulfil their role at Halma, the Board would not approve 
the appointment. However, where Directors are rotating 
off or rebalancing their portfolio of roles, consideration 
will be made of the sequence and timing of the roles 
and a pragmatic approach is taken (as opposed to an 
absolute numerical limit) in respect of any potential 
over-boarding concerns, whether temporary or otherwise. 
All Directors are subject to an annual review, at which 
time commitment and their personal contribution is a 
key focus.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 121

Nomination Committee Report

Committee composition and attendance

Eligible

Attended

Dame Louise Makin (Chair)

Andrew Williams¹

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry¹

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE

Tony Rice

Roy Twite

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

6

7

7

6

7

7

7

1  Andrew and Dharmash were unable to attend one Committee meeting, 
which was called at short notice, due to pre-arranged commitments.  

The Committee schedules three routine meetings a 
year but will meet more often as the work requires. 
Due to the level of activity during the year, the 
Committee formally met seven times. Attendance 
at each Committee meeting is set out in the 
table above.

Committee composition
The Committee comprises the Chair and the six 
independent non-executive Directors. For the year 
to 31 March 2023, the Group Chief Executive, Andrew 
Williams, was also a Committee member but since  
1 April 2023, his successor, Marc Ronchetti, has not 
been appointed as a member. Dame Louise Makin 
chairs the Committee but she would not chair a 
meeting which considers the appointment of 
her successor.

Only Committee members are entitled to attend 
meetings although the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director 
are regular attendees. External search consultants 
are invited to attend and present on specific items, 
when appropriate. Full biographical details of 
members of the Committee can be found on 
page 106.

Dame Louise Makin
Nomination Committee Chair

Principal role and responsibilities
• Reviewing the size, balance and composition 

(including diversity) of the Board and its Committees, 
ensuring that they have the appropriate skills, 
knowledge and resources to fulfil their duties.
• Making recommendations to the Board on any 
changes to the structure or composition of the 
Board and its Committees.

• Leading the process for new Board appointments.
• Leading succession planning discussions for Board 

and Executive Board positions, including the 
identification and assessment of potential 
candidates and making recommendations 
to the Board for its approval.

• Keeping under review the leadership needs of the 

Group, for both Executive Directors and other senior 
executives, including any recommendations made 
by the Group Chief Executive.

• Monitoring development and diversity at the 
Executive Board level and one level below, 
to maintain visibility of the pool of internal 
candidates for Board and Executive 
Board succession.

• Implementing and monitoring the Board’s 

own diversity policy.

• Ensuring that all new Directors undertake 
an appropriate induction programme.

• Reviewing the ongoing training needs for the Board.
• Assisting the Chair and the Senior Independent 

Director with the annual Board evaluation 
process and review of the time requirements 
from non-executive Directors.

The Committee operates under written terms of 
reference (available at www.halma.com) which 
are reviewed at least annually.

122 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Board and Committee Diversity Policy
Halma is committed to building a diverse and 
inclusive culture throughout the Group. Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion is one of our sustainability key 
focus areas as we believe it benefits the global 
economy and creates a fairer future for everyone, 
every day. The benefits of diversity across all levels 
of the organisation are clear and the unique culture 
that each of our businesses bring – through innate 
differences in our people – is the foundation for 
our success. Creating inclusive environments, 
where everyone has equal access, opportunity 
and treatment and can bring their full self to work, 
is fundamental to accelerating our growth and 
achieving our purpose.

The Board is committed that its composition, 
and that of each Committee, should cover a 
range of factors, such as gender, ethnicity, age, 

sexual orientation, disability and socio-economic 
background. The Board has agreed the following 
commitments in relation to gender and ethnicity:

• to maintain gender balance at Board, Committee 

and Executive Board level by ensuring that 
representation of both men and women is 
at or above a minimum 40% threshold; 
• by 31 December 2025, ensure a minimum 

representation of men or women one level below 
the Executive Board is at or above a 40% threshold;
• to have at least one woman in the Chair or Senior 

Independent Director role and/or one woman in the 
Group Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer role;
• to maintain at least two ethnically diverse Directors 

on the Board and Committees; and

• as a signatory to Change the Race Ratio, to increase 
racial and ethnic diversity at senior leadership level.

Board appointment process
The Board has an established approach for identifying 
and evaluating suitable candidates for Board positions, 
which was utilised most recently for the appointment of 
Marc Ronchetti for the role of Group Chief Executive and 
for Steve Gunning as Chief Financial Officer. The search 
for new non-executive Directors also follows the 
approach described below.

Prior to the Committee making a recommendation to 
the Board for a Director appointment, it undertakes 
the following steps:

• Agrees the skills, experience and knowledge required 

for, and complementary to, the role.

• Approves the role specification.
• Selects an independent global executive search firm, 

which understands Halma’s business model and 
culture, to prepare a long list of diverse external 
candidates and, for executive roles where there are 
internal candidates that have been identified through 
the Committee’s succession planning, to benchmark 
those candidates. For the year ended 31 March 2023, 
the Committee used the services of executive search 
consultancy, Lygon Group – who are not connected to 
the Company or any Halma Director – to benchmark 
the internal candidates identified for the Group Chief 
Executive role and to source external candidates for 
the Chief Financial Officer role.

• Reviews the long list of candidate profiles and, based 
on insight derived internally or from the search firm, 
creates a shortlist of diverse candidates for interview.
•  For non-executive positions, interviews are held with 
members of the Committee (including the Chair), 
the Group Chief Executive and the Group Talent, 
Culture and Communications Director. For executive 
positions, the Chair and non-executive Directors lead 
the interview process and seek input from other 
executives, as appropriate.

• The Committee members meet to share their feedback 
on each candidate and will compare their assessment 
against the role criteria, along with any reference 
information provided by the search firm. Maintaining 
a focus on gender and ethnic diversity, while ensuring 
that other elements of diversity are not overlooked, 
remains an important factor for the Committee. 
Where elements of diversity will be lost when certain 
Directors come to the end of their tenure, the 
Committee aims to ensure that it will remain diverse 
or will seek a replacement Director to maintain/
restore that element of diversity to the Board and 
its Committees.

• A preferred candidate is selected by the Committee 

and, following discussion with the candidate, a formal 
decision is taken to recommend their appointment to 
the Board.

•  If the Board approves the recommended appointment, 
then a regulatory news service announcement is issued.

Director induction process
Newly appointed Directors follow a tailored induction 
programme, which includes dedicated time with each 
Board and Executive Board member, the Company 
Secretary, DCEs and functional experts. A bespoke 
schedule of company visits across each of the three 
sectors is arranged for the Director and they are 
encouraged to attend the Accelerate conference 
and other Company events throughout the year. 
The induction aims for Directors to become swiftly 
acquainted with Halma’s strategy, business model, 
DNA (cultural and organisational genes) and 
governance structure prior to them building their 
understanding of each sector and our companies. 
In addition, a briefing on statutory duties and listed 
company regulation is provided to new Directors 
and updated at least annually and presented at 
the Board for the benefit of all Directors. 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 125

Nomination Committee Report continued

Case study

Induction of Marc Ronchetti  
as Group Chief Executive

Being Halma’s Chief Financial Officer since July 2018, 
Marc’s understanding of the Group, its culture and 
strategy was already well embedded – as were his 
relationships with colleagues, external advisers 
and significant shareholders. Therefore, the skills 
and knowledge required for his transition into his first 
CEO role required a tailored approach to his induction. 
Importantly, the programme focused on meeting 
and learning from a number of key internal and 
external stakeholders:

Halma company colleagues: in the period June 2022 
to April 2023, Marc visited over 50% of our companies 
across all three sectors, with the remaining companies 
scheduled through the year to 31 March 2024. These 
visits enabled Marc to not only discuss the business 
and strategy with the local board but also meet a 
wider group of colleagues who work daily to fulfil 
our purpose. 

Group and sector colleagues: a critical element of 
Marc’s induction was to shadow Andrew Williams 
for 10 months to leverage his 18 years of experience 
as Halma’s Group Chief Executive. Marc had regular 
one-to-one meetings with the Chair, Company 
Secretary, Executive Board members and Divisional 
Chief Executives which have given him greater insight 
into the role that each play in the Group and enabled 
him to develop deeper relationships with the senior 
leadership team. Marc attends the Group’s hybrid town 
hall meetings, where Halma colleagues – from the UK, 
the US, India and China – are updated on Company 
news, recognise individual and team achievements and 
have the opportunity to ask questions or share news.

Advisers and shareholders: while Marc had 
established relationships with these stakeholders, 
the focus of discussions and meetings were in 
the context of his leadership of the Group.

Network: a key element of Marc’s professional 
development was in the form of a residential executive 
programme at Stanford Graduate School of Business. 
This not only provided insights from the academics 
and industry speakers in areas such as leadership, 
accountability for results, and purpose and diversity 
but the delegates themselves comprised of a diverse 
and global network of executive leaders from which 
to learn and share experiences.

The structure and breadth of my induction programme  
has enabled me to transition seamlessly from Chief Financial 
Officer into the Group Chief Executive role – while it was  
an intense programme, it was incredibly rewarding and  
struck the right balance for me to learn from others,  
while permitting time and space for me to gather  
my own thoughts and ideas.

Marc Ronchetti
Group Chief Executive

126 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Executive Directors may undertake tailored professional 
development as part of their onboarding plan, such 
as business management, personal development 
or mentoring programmes.

2023 Committee evaluation
The Committee’s own evaluation for the year ended 
31 March 2023 concluded that: 

• The size and structure of the Committee, along 

The Chair reviews the training and development needs 
of the Board, and for each Director, at least annually. 

with the frequency and duration of the meetings 
was appropriate.

Annual Board and Committee evaluations
The Committee reviews the process and output from 
the annual Board and Committee evaluations. The 
formal evaluation process involves a review of the 
performance of each Director through individual 
meetings held with the Chair and for the Chair, an 
appraisal is undertaken by the non-executive Directors 
collectively and fed back via the Senior Independent 
Director. The Board undertakes an evaluation of its 
own performance and effectiveness, with the findings 
and proposed actions being presented at the Board 
by the Chair. 

Each Committee undertakes its own evaluation and 
the findings and proposed actions are formally reviewed 
at the relevant Committee meeting. Progress against 
agreed actions is monitored by the Company Secretary 
throughout the year and a formal review is undertaken 
ahead of the next evaluation cycle, to ensure that the 
actions have been, or will be, appropriately closed out. 
The results from the Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee evaluations are discussed in the respective 
Committee Reports and the results from the 
Committee’s own evaluation are set out below.

Evaluation type
The Committee normally utilises an external evaluator 
on a triennial basis and the Chair, with the support of 
the Company Secretary, formulates a bespoke internal 
questionnaire in the two years in between. The last 
externally-facilitated evaluation was undertaken by 
Independent Audit in 2021 and an internal evaluation 
was undertaken for 2022 and 2023. The internal 
evaluation exercise is thorough and allows directed 
questions to be asked on areas particularly relevant 
to Halma at that time or on topics that have been 
raised during the year – examples of topics covered 
over recent years include Board succession, Boardroom 
dynamics, strategic progress in specific areas and the 
level of challenge and support that has been provided 
by the non-executive Directors. These questions are 
supplemented by standing governance questions 
on Board and Committee structure, Director skills, 
experience and diversity, Board and Committee 
effectiveness, strategy and risk. For the year ending 
31 March 2024, an externally-facilitated evaluation 
will be carried out and the results will be reported in 
next year’s Report.

• The papers and presentations were of high quality.
• Meetings are chaired well. 
• Overall the Committee was operating effectively, 
with recognition that the Group Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officer succession plans had 
been well planned and well executed.

2023 Board evaluation
The Board’s 2023 evaluation questionnaire confirmed 
that the Directors believe that: 

• The Board is operating effectively. 
• The papers are clear and of a high standard. 
• The Board has healthy debates which lead to good 

decision-making.

• Strong relationships have been formed amongst 
the Board members, while independence of the  
non-executives from management is maintained.

The main areas for focus over the coming year and 
the proposed actions agreed are as follows:

• Rotational presentations from the Sector Chief 

Executives will include more coverage on evolving and 
potentially disruptive technology and business models, 
in addition to the regular sector strategy update and 
review of end-market trends.

• Insight on mega trends and the competitive landscape 
in which our companies are operating will be topics for 
fuller consideration at our annual strategy meeting.
• Following the success of the non-executive Director 

and the Divisional Chief Executives interactions over the 
past year, further opportunities for senior management 
to gain exposure to the Directors will be sought.

• M&A proposals will include a summary of the Executive 
Board’s appraisal of the opportunity, to provide further 
context to the Board, and additional information on 
the top M&A pipeline targets will provided at each 
Board meeting.

Following the annual evaluation, and the individual 
performance reviews undertaken by the Chair, all 
Directors that are standing for election or re-election 
are considered to be effective in their role, hold recent 
and relevant experience applicable for Halma’s business 
and they each continue to add value and demonstrate 
commitment to their role. Accordingly, the Board is 
recommending to shareholders the election or re-
election of the Directors standing at the 2023 AGM.

Dame Louise Makin
Committee Chair

For and on behalf of the Committee 15 June 2023

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 127

Audit Committee Report

Carole Cran
Audit Committee Chair

Committee composition and attendance

Eligible

Attended

Carole Cran (Chair)

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry¹

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE¹

Tony Rice

Roy Twite

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

4

3

3

4

4

Risk management
• Reviewing and providing oversight of the processes 

by which risks are managed.

• Reviewing the process undertaken, and the stress-
testing performed, to support the Group’s Viability 
statement and Going Concern statement.

Compliance, fraud and whistleblowing
• Monitoring compliance with the UK Corporate 

1  Dharmash and Sharmila were unable to attend one Committee meeting 

Governance Code 2018.

due to prior commitments. 

The Committee has four scheduled meetings per 
year, to coincide with the key events in the corporate 
reporting calendar and audit cycle. The attendance 
at each Committee meeting is set out in the 
table above.

Principal role and responsibilities
Financial reporting
• Reviewing significant financial reporting 

judgements and estimates, and the application 
of accounting policies, including compliance 
with accounting standards.

• Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements 

and compliance with UK company law and 
regulation.

• Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, 

balanced and understandable.

• Monitoring the integrity of announcements 

containing financial information.

• Assessing and approving disclosures made in respect 

of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) framework.

Internal control
• Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the 

internal controls and processes.

• Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of 

the Group’s compliance functions; monitoring the 
processes in place to prevent and detect fraud and 
receiving reports on fraud attempts or incidents; 
reviewing the adequacy of arrangements in place 
to enable employees to raise concerns in confidence.

Internal audit
• Reviewing and approving the audit work plan 

and charter.

• Reviewing reports from audits and monitoring the 

status of remedial actions; monitoring the structure, 
composition and resourcing of the function.

• Reviewing the role and effectiveness of the function 

and periodically engaging an independent third-
party review of internal audit’s effectiveness.

External audit
• Managing the relationship with the external Auditor.
• Monitoring and reviewing the independence and 

performance of the Auditor and leading the tender 
process or Senior Statutory Auditor change.

• Formally evaluating Auditor effectiveness.
• Reviewing the policy on non-audit services carried 

out by the Auditor.

• Negotiating and approving Audit fees, the scope 

of the audit and the terms of engagement.

• Making recommendations to the Board for the 
appointment or reappointment of the Auditor.

The Committee operates under written terms of 
reference (available at www.halma.com) which 
are reviewed annually.

128 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Committee composition and appointment
The Committee comprises six independent non-executive 
Directors. Carole Cran is Chair of the Committee 
and≈continues to have recent and relevant financial 
experience and competence in accounting, 
see page 107 for her biography. 

Only Committee members are entitled to attend 
meetings, although the Committee Chair invites 
the Board Chair, Executive Directors, Group Financial 
Controller, Group General Counsel & Chief Sustainability 
Officer, Director of Internal Audit & Assurance and 
representatives from the external Auditor to regularly 
attend meetings. Subject matter experts, including 
on Risk, Tax, Treasury Sustainability and Sector Chief 
Executives’ and Financial Officers’ are invited to present 
on a cyclical basis to keep the Committee updated.

Appointments to the Committee are made by the 
Board and the remuneration of the Committee 
Chair reflects the additional responsibilities and 
time commitment required in the role. As part of the 
induction process for new members of the Committee, 
they will meet separately with key individuals – including 
the Committee Chair, the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Director of Internal Audit & Assurance and the external 
Auditor. While each non-executive Director will largely 
manage their own continuing development, the 
Committee receives relevant updates throughout 
the year including from the external Auditor and other 
professional advisers on matters relevant to financial 
reporting, technical accounting and governance, 
internal control, tax, audit and risk, and may 
request additional information, as required. 

The Committee as a whole has competence relevant 
to the Group, with each member bringing valuable 

experience, diversity of thought and independent 
judgement. Biographies for each member of the 
Committee are set out on pages 106 and 107.

Governance
The Committee, and independently the Committee 
Chair, regularly meets with the Director of Internal Audit 
& Assurance and separately with the external Auditor, 
without any Executive Directors present. The Committee 
Chair maintains regular contact with management, 
particularly the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 
Controller and the Company Secretary.

All members of the Committee further their internal 
network and knowledge of the companies through 
company visits, corporate events and the 
Accelerate conference.

The Committee Chair sets the forward agenda for the 
year but also allows for flexibility in the timing and the 
schedule to ensure that new or unforeseen areas can 
be appropriately reviewed. The agenda and meeting 
papers are circulated in a timely manner, in 
accordance with the terms of reference.

The Committee Chair reports to the Board after each 
meeting on the key matters discussed. Minutes are 
circulated to all Board members and the external Auditor 
once they have been approved by the Committee. 
Internal Audit reports that identify any significant control 
or compliance weakness, or other risk that requires 
immediate management attention, are circulated to the 
Committee via the Company Secretary when the report 
is issued. At the same time, commentary from the Chief 
Financial Officer and Divisional Chief Executive on the 
background to the weakness, any mitigating controls 
and the actions being taken to address the findings is 
shared with Committee members.

Activities during the year
The Committee has a wide-ranging remit, covering reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial 
statements and other financial information, internal controls and risk management, the external and internal 
audit process and compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice. The Committee discharged 
its duties under its Terms of Reference for the year and key activities included: 

• Reviewing the Half Year Report and Annual Report 
and Accounts and considering the key accounting 
judgements and estimates that affect the 
application of the policies and reported values 
and approving the Group’s going concern and 
viability statements.

• Reviewing the risk and assurance processes.
• Monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing and 
compliance procedures and reports raised.

• Considering emerging external audit and governance 

topics.

• Reviewing the Group’s Principal and Emerging Risks.
• Considering the output of the annual Committee 

evaluation and agreeing appropriate actions.

• Receiving presentations on the controls environment 

in the Safety, Healthcare and Environmental & 
Analysis Sectors.

• Undertaking its annual review of whistleblowing 

• Agreeing the external Auditor fee and confirming 

and bribery procedures.

their independence and effectiveness.

• Approving the Internal Audit Charter and work plan.
• Receiving updates on TCFD and the reporting 

landscape from the Head of Sustainability, and 
reviewing and approving TCFD disclosures.

• Reviewing the output of the Financial Reporting 

Council report on Audit Quality Review. 

• Considering the output of the Internal Audit 

effectiveness review. 

• Reviewing the Committee’s Terms of Reference 

and Auditor Independence Policy.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 129

Financial statements and significant 
accounting matters 
During the year, and prior to the publication of the 
Group’s results for the Half Year ended 30 September 
2022 and the Full Year ended 31 March 2023, the 
Committee considered the significant risks and 
material issues, judgements and estimates made 
in relation to the Group’s financial statements. 

These issues were discussed with management 
at various stages during the year and during the 
preparation and finalisation of the financial statements. 
After reviewing the presentations and reports from 
management, the Committee is satisfied that the 
financial statements appropriately address the critical 
accounting judgements and key estimates, set out 
below, both in respect of the amounts reported and the 
disclosures made. The Committee is also satisfied that 
the significant assumptions used for determining the 
value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately 
scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust. The 
Committee has discussed these issues with the Auditor 
during the audit planning process and at the finalisation 
of the year-end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions 
are in line with those drawn by the Auditor in relation to 
these issues.

Audit Committee Report continued

Committee evaluation
An evaluation of the Committee’s own effectiveness is 
undertaken each year and the findings are reported 
to the Board. In 2023, this evaluation took the form 
of a tailored internal questionnaire. The feedback was 
provided to the Committee Chair and a summary of 
the output and proposed actions is reviewed by the 
Committee. The 2023 evaluation demonstrated 
that the Committee is working effectively and the 
Committee members considered it to be exercising 
good oversight of the reporting environment and 
effectively supporting and overseeing the work of 
the internal and external auditors. Some areas for 
improvement were identified which the Committee 
Chair discussed with the Chair, Group Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer and the external Auditor to 
form a collective view on how best to address these 
points. A proposal was presented at the June 2023 
Committee meeting and the actions to address each 
area were agreed. These included reviewing additional 
training areas required in relation to the Committee’s 
ongoing role in the changing regulatory landscape.

Financial Reporting Council review of 2021/22 
Annual Report and Accounts
In November 2022, the Company received a letter from 
the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in connection with 
their review of the Halma Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 31 March 2022. The Committee were 
pleased to note that the FRC had no questions arising 
from their review of this Report, and that they had 
two areas of observation for consideration in our 2023 
Annual Report and Accounts, relating to TCFD Scope 3 
emissions disclosures and share-based payments 
disclosures. Each of these observational areas have 
been addressed in this Report. We have acknowledged 
and thanked the FRC for their observations.

130 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Significant risks and material issues, 
judgements and estimates

Value of goodwill, due to the 
significance of the amounts 
recorded on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, and the 
judgements and estimates 
involved in assessing goodwill 
for impairment.

How the Committee addressed each area and conclusion

• Focusing on, monitoring regularly, and constructively challenging the reasonableness 
of the assumptions used in impairment calculations by management, in particular 
discount rates, growth rates, the level of aggregation of individual cash generating 
units (CGUs) and methodology applied.

• Considering the appropriateness and reasonableness of stated judgements 

and conclusions included in the disclosures in note 11 to the Accounts.

• In particular, during the year, considering the CGU groups to which the Group’s 

seven acquisitions were attributed, the treatment of inflation within assumptions 
given the significant increase seen and assessing the reasonable of sensitivities 
applied and considered to be reasonably possible. 

Carrying value of acquired 
intangibles across the Group 
and the adequacy of future 
cash flows.

• Focusing on and challenging the assessment of the presence of impairment 

indicators that warrant an impairment test of an asset. 

• Constructively challenging the reasonableness of assumptions used in impairment 

calculations by management, in particular discount rates and asset specific 
growth rates.

Risk that acquisitions are 
not accounted for correctly 
in line with IFRS 3 “Business 
combinations”. 

Valuation of contingent 
consideration arising on 
acquisitions in current and 
prior periods.

Judgements and estimates 
involved in valuing defined 
benefit pension plans.

• Challenging the appropriateness of assumptions used in determining the 

fair value of the acquired intangible assets and residual goodwill identified, 
and the reasonableness of the disclosures included in note 25 to the Accounts. 

• The fair value of acquired intangible assets and carrying values arising on the 

seven acquisitions in the year, particularly in relation to the acquisitions of FirePro, 
WEETECH, IZI Medical and Deep Trekker.

• Assessing treatments of contingent consideration payment arrangements against 

the requirements of IFRS 3 and IFRS 13.

• Considering assumptions made around forecasts used in calculations. 
• In particular, at 31 March 2023, the treatment and valuation of the contingent 
consideration provisions in relation to Visiometrics, IZI Medical and Infinite Leap.

• Assessing the assumptions in determining pension obligations, particularly given 
market volatility, and determining whether key assumptions were reasonable, 
particularly the assumptions around mortality, discount rate and inflation that 
are most material to the Group’s plans and resulted in retirement benefit assets 
being recognised for the Group at 31 March 2023.

• The recognition of the plan surpluses in accordance with IFRIC 14. 

Compliance risks with existing 
and evolving tax legislation, 
and judgements around 
uncertain tax positions 
including the recoverability 
of the tax receivable balances.

• Assessing the position taken with regards to tax judgements.
• The judgements around the carrying value of tax provisions and uncertainties, 
in particular, the potential impact on the Group of the European Commission’s 
decision against the UK Government relating to the UK Controlled Foreign 
Company partial exemption being illegal State Aid.

• Understanding the evolving BEPS Pillar 2 and UK Transfer Pricing legislation 

and the likely compliance impact on the Group.

Carrying value of investments 
(Company only).

• Constructively challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions used in 
impairment calculations by management, in particular discount rates and 
future cashflows.

Going concern status of the 
Group and any impact to 
future viability.

• The evidence supporting the going concern basis of accounts preparation, 
the Viability Statement and the risk management and internal control 
disclosure requirements.

Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 

• The work undertaken to continue to assess and manage the climate-related 

risks and opportunities for the Group and the associated reporting in accordance 
with the TCFD framework

In addition, the Committee considered the presence of any significant product failures in the period that would 
warrant the inclusion of a significant warranty provision, and assessed the capitalisation and carrying value of 
Capitalised Development Costs in line with the accounting policy and standards. 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 131

Audit Committee Report continued

External Auditor
The external Auditor is appointed to give an opinion 
on the Group and Company financial statements. 
The audit includes the review and testing of the data 
contained in the financial statements to the extent, 
and materiality level necessary for expressing an audit 
opinion as to whether they present a true and fair 
view of the Group and parent company affairs as 
at 31 March 2023.

Whilst the Committee remains satisfied that PwC 
are effective and independent, the next external audit 
tender will occur in 2026, with a recommendation put 
to shareholders at the 2027 AGM. The proposed tender 
date is in the best interests of shareholders and the 
Company as PwC has a detailed knowledge of our 
business, an understanding of our industry and 
continues to demonstrate that it has the necessary 
expertise and capability to undertake the audit. 

The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the 
external Auditor throughout the year and annually 
conducts an evaluation of the external audit, by way 
of a tailored online questionnaire, further details are set 
out on page 133. The assessment highlighted no major 
concerns and the insights from the questionnaires have 
been discussed both internally and with PwC, to assist 
with the planning of future work. The Committee 
concluded that it was satisfied with the auditor’s 
performance in discharging the Full Year audit and 
the Half Year review; the independence and objectivity 
of the auditor; the robustness of the audit process, 
including how the auditor demonstrated professional 
scepticism and challenged managements assumptions 
and the quality of service and delivery of the audit. 
Accordingly, the Committee recommends that PwC 
are reappointed as Auditor at the 2023 Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). 

Audit tendering
The Committee has primary responsibility for 
recommending to the Board the appointment or 
reappointment of the external Auditor before it is 
put to shareholders at the AGM. The Committee will, 
at the appropriate time, lead the audit tender process. 
This process will be carried out at least every 10 years 
and, unless it is undertaken earlier, it is the Committee’s 
policy to consider whether a tender is appropriate every 
five years – to coincide with the change in Senior 
Statutory Auditor.

Following a tender process, PwC were appointed Auditor 
to the Company at the AGM in 2017. In accordance with 
our Auditor Independence Policy, which requires us to 
change our audit partner every five years, Christopher 
Richmond was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor for 
the financial period commencing 1 April 2022. 

In 2021, prior to any decision on the rotation of the 
Senior Statutory Auditor, the Committee considered 
the possibility of re-tendering the external audit 
function and concluded that it was satisfied that PwC 
was effective and remained independent in accordance 
with our Auditor Independence Policy and the FRC’s 
Ethical Standard, and that a tender process was not 
appropriate at that time. 

132 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Statement of compliance
The Company confirms that it complied throughout 
the year with the provisions of the Competition and 
Markets Authority’s Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014.

Auditor objectivity and independence  
(including non-audit fees)
The Group has adopted a Policy on “Auditor 
Independence and Services provided by the External 
Auditor” which sets out the limited services that the 
external Auditor can provide to Group companies, 
which do not conflict with the Auditor’s independence. 
The Policy was updated in 2020 to align with the FRC’s 
revised Ethical Standard which applied from March 2020. 
The Committee continues to monitor changes in 
legislation related to auditor independence and 
objectivity and annually reviews the Policy. 

In addition to Halma’s Policy, the Auditor runs its own 
independence and compliance checks, prior to accepting 
any engagement, to ensure that all non-audit work is 
compliant with the Ethical Standard in force and that 
there is no conflict of interest. 

During the year, three pieces of permitted audit-related 
services work (in addition to the Half Year review) were 
undertaken by PwC. These were in respect of a liquidity 
test pertaining to a dividend distribution in Belgium, 
which must be performed by an auditor, an annual tax 
audit in India, which is a statutory requirement, and a 
required audit for HWM-Water Limited relating to its 
Queens Innovation Award, with total fees of c.£12,000. 
It was deemed appropriate to use PwC in respect of 
these three items of work given their understanding 
of the business and involvement in the Group audit. 
Additionally, PwC provided access to their technical 
guidance toolkit, for a total fee of c.£1,000. All work 
was pre-approved by the Committee Chair and 
reported to the Committee in accordance with  
our Policy.

The audit fees payable to PwC for the year ended 
31 March 2023 were £2.5m (2022: £2.1m) and permitted 
audit-related service fees were £0.1m (2022: £0.1m). 
Other non-audit services totalled less than £0.1m 
in both the current and preceding year. The total of 
audit related and non-audit related services for the 
year totalled c.6% of three year average audit fees, 
significantly below the limit of 70% required by 
the Policy. 

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

• Interaction with Auditor – the Committee Chair, the 
Chief Financial Officer and management have regular 
communication with the Auditor throughout the year 
and are able to raise issues and discuss key deliverables 
as the year progresses. The Committee recognises that 
PwC have appropriately challenged management on 
key judgements and estimates throughout the year, 
as detailed in the significant risks and material issues, 
judgements and estimates table above. 

• Audit tender and rotation – in accordance with our 
Auditor Independence Policy, the Committee reviews 
the appropriateness of tendering the external audit 
function every five years and, in conjunction with this, 
will rotate statutory audit partner at least every five 
years, the most recent rotation of which took place in 
2022, with a new audit partner in place for FY23. 
• Annual internal effectiveness survey – a tailored 
on-line questionnaire is circulated and completed by 
Committee members, other senior management and 
company CFO’s who are engaged in the audit process, 
the outcomes of which are reported to the Committee 
and the Board. A summary of the process and key 
findings is set out below.

Evaluation of the effectiveness and  
quality of the External Auditor
The effectiveness of the External Auditor is monitored 
throughout the year, including through: 

• FRC’s Audit Quality Inspection and Supervision 

report 2021/22 – the Committee reviewed the results 
of the FRC’s Audit Quality Inspection and Supervision 
report 2021/22 during the year and noted an 
improvement on rating from the prior year and that 
good practice in respect of professional scepticism, 
high quality reporting and audit documentation 
had been highlighted. 

• Progress against audit plan and strategy – the 
Committee continually evaluated and monitored 
progress against the agreed audit plan and strategy 
and any issues or reasons for variation from the plan 
were identified, discussed and agreed with the Auditor. 
Additionally, the Committee reviewed, benchmarked 
and latterly agreed to the auditors fees for the year 
under review, which had primarily increased due to 
the additional requirements under the revised auditing 
standard ISA315 and inflationary increases. 

• Auditor reports to the Committee – through PwC’s 
formal reports to the Committee at each meeting the 
Committee track and consider the work undertaken 
by the Auditor during the year. 

External audit evaluation process

Bespoke questionnaire covering

Questionnaire completed by

• External audit partner time commitment.
• Quality of the team.
• Accounting, technical and governance insight.
• Policies for compliance with the revised 

Ethical Standards.

• Quality and timeliness of reporting.
• Clarity and authority of communications.

• Committee members.
• Group Chief Executive.
• Chief Financial Officer.
• Director of Internal Audit & Assurance.
• Company Secretary.
• Company CFOs.
• Sector CFOs.
• Group Financial Controller.

Results

Outcome

• Results of the questionnaire are collated centrally 
by the Group Financial Controller and a summary 
of the findings and the FRC’s AQR Report on 
PwC as a firm, are provided to the Committee 
and PwC.

• Following a review by the Committee of the 
output from the 2023 questionnaire and the 
AQR Report findings, the Committee confirmed 
that PwC is effective as external Auditor to the 
Company and recommended to the Board 
their reappointment as Auditor be proposed 
to shareholders at the 2023 AGM.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 133

Audit Committee Report continued

Risk management and internal controls
The Committee maintains oversight of the risk 
management and internal control framework and 
systems (including financial, operational and compliance 
controls) and monitors its effectiveness, reporting back 
to the Board, who has ultimate responsibility to the 
shareholders for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management. While not providing absolute 
assurance against material misstatements or loss, this 
system is designed to identify and manage those risks 
that could adversely impact the achievement of the 
Group’s objectives. The Group’s risk management 
structure and process is detailed on pages 88 and 89. 
The Group’s emerging risks are detailed on page 90 
and the principal risks and uncertainties are 
detailed on pages 91 to 97.

The Committee regularly reviews the ongoing process 
in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
emerging and principal risks faced by the Group and 
for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is 
willing to take in achieving its strategic priorities. This 
risk framework is in accordance with the Guidance 
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting. 

Our governance model was strengthened in 2022, 
with the appointment of a new Director of Risk & 
Compliance, separating the Risk and Internal Audit 
functions and enhancing the assurance framework. 
This enhancement of our risk management and 
internal controls framework will allow each function 
to continue to evolve and strengthen. 

Regular reporting to the Committee by the Director of 
Internal Audit & Assurance, as well as findings of internal 
audits by circulation between meetings, ensures that 
there is a good understanding of any non-compliance 
that arises and the swift action being taken to close any 
gaps. The Group’s external Auditor, PwC, has audited 
the financial statements and has reviewed the financial 
control framework to the extent considered necessary 
to support the audit report.

The Committee is satisfied that the risk management 
and internal control framework remains robust and 
effective, while still allowing autonomous and agile 
decision-making which is essential to Halma’s 
decentralised structure and an integral part of Halma’s 
growth strategy. No significant failings or weaknesses 
have been identified in the internal controls. 

Whistleblowing 
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the 
adequacy and security of the Group’s arrangements 
for employees and contractors to raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in financial reporting, fraud or 
other financial or ethical misconduct.

134 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Halma has appointed an external third-party provider, 
NavexGlobal, to operate a confidential, multilingual, 
telephone and web reporting service, 24/7, through 
which concerns can be raised. Further details are set 
out in the non-financial information statement on 
page 99.

The Director of Risk & Compliance receives and reviews 
all reports to ensure that they are appropriately 
investigated and all allegations of fraud or financial 
misconduct are reported to the Committee. In line 
with many listed companies, most matters reported 
through the NavexGlobal service relate to personnel/
HR matters and, while these are not areas for review by 
the Committee, such matters are duly investigated in 
the same manner and reported directly to the Board 
in its role of monitoring culture and workforce concerns.

Following a review during the year, the Committee 
is satisfied with the adequacy and security of the 
arrangements in place for concerns to be raised.

Climate-related disclosures
The Committee has overall responsibility for approving 
the disclosures made under the climate-related Listing 
Rule 9.8.6R(8). The Committee has continued to receive 
updates throughout the year on progress made against 
reporting on the climate-related disclosures. These are 
consistent with the TCFD recommendations and the 11 
recommended disclosures under TCFD, as required by 
the Listing Rules.

Internal Audit
The Internal Audit & Assurance function comprises the 
Director of Internal Audit & Assurance and five audit 
managers – two based in the UK, two in the US and one 
in China. External co-source is also utilised for certain 
specialist areas as required, such as Cyber risk. A risk-
based audit work plan is agreed by the Committee 
annually and takes account of the rotational visits 
undertaken by the external Auditor under their audit 
programme. Progress against the work plan is reviewed 
at each Committee meeting, in order that any changes 
in priorities or resourcing can be discussed and agreed. 
Pulse checks were successfully introduced as part of 
the 2022/23 annual audit plan to provide an additional 
assurance snapshot. These are shorter verbal assurance 
touchpoints that take place mid-way between full 
audits. Pulse checks are also used for companies 
acquired and are performed six months after the 
date of acquisition to check progress, followed by a 
full audit at 12 months.

The Committee has oversight of the Internal Audit & 
Assurance budget and resources available and it has 
satisfied itself that the Internal Audit & Assurance 
function has the appropriate level of resources and 
funds available to undertake its role. All Internal 
Audit reports are issued to management and the 
external Auditor. 

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Any reports which contain high priority findings which 
require immediate management action are circulated 
to the Committee with commentary from the Chief 
Financial Officer on the underlying issues and remedial 
or mitigating actions being taken to address 
the findings.

Evaluation of the effectiveness and quality of the 
Internal Audit function
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is 
monitored throughout the year, including through: 

• Progress against the Internal Audit plan – the 

Committee review and discuss progress made against 
an agreed Internal Audit action plan at each meeting.

Internal audit evaluation process and outcome

• Internal Audit reports to the Committee – 
Internal Audit reports are presented at each 
Committee meeting for review and discussion. 

• Annual review of the Internal Audit & Assurance 

charter – the Committee annually review and approve 
changes to the Internal Audit & Assurance charter. 
• Annual internal effectiveness survey – a tailored 
on-line questionnaire is circulated and completed by 
Committee members and other senior management 
who are engaged in the audit process, the outcomes 
of which are reported to the Committee and the Board. 
A summary of the process and key findings is set 
out below.

Bespoke questionnaire covering

Questionnaire completed by

• The functions’ position and reporting lines.
• Internal audit scope and its relevance to 

our business.
• Audit approach.
• Quality of the team.
• Reliability and quality of reporting.
• Use of technology and communication.

• Board members.
• Executive Board members.
• Sector CFOs.
• Group Financial Controller.
• Managing Director for Halma IT.
• Divisional Chief Executives.
• Company Secretary.
• PwC Audit Partner.

Results

Outcome

• The responses from the questionnaire are 
collated centrally and a summary of the 
findings is provided to the Committee to 
consider the overall effectiveness of the 
function and any action required.

• Following a review by the Committee of the 

output from the 2023 questionnaires and direct 
feedback from the Chief Financial Officer and 
the Chair, the Committee concluded that the 
quality, experience and expertise of the 
Internal Audit function is effective.

Fair, balanced and understandable
To ensure that the report and accounts are fair, 
balanced and understandable, the Committee considers 
the output from a series of focused exercises that take 
place during the Annual Report and Accounts production 
process. These can be summarised as follows:

• A qualitative review, performed by the Group’s Finance 
and Secretarial functions, of disclosures and a review of 
internal consistency throughout the Annual Report and 
Accounts. This review assesses the Annual Report and 
Accounts against objective criteria drawn up for each 
component of the requirement (individual criteria that 
indicate ‘fairness’, ‘balance’ and ‘understandability’ as 
well as criteria that overlap two or more components).
• A risk comparison review which assesses the consistency 
of the presentation of risks and significant judgements 
throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in the 
Annual Report and Accounts.

• A formal review of all Board and Committee meeting 
minutes by the Company Secretary to ensure that all 
significant issues are appropriately reflected and 
given due prominence in narrative reporting.

• Availability to the Committee of the key working 

papers and results for each of the significant issues 
and judgements considered by the Committee in 
the period.

The Directors’ statement on a fair, balanced and 
understandable Annual Report and Accounts is set 
out on page 168.

Carole Cran
Committee Chair

For and on behalf of the Committee 15 June 2023

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 135

Remuneration Committee Report

Jo Harlow
Remuneration Committee Chair

Principal Role and Responsibilities
The Committee is appointed by the Board and 
operates under written terms of reference, which 
are available at www.halma.com.

The primary responsibilities of the Remuneration 
Committee are to:

• Make recommendations to the Board on the 
framework for Executive Director and senior 
executive remuneration based on proposals 
formulated by the Group Chief Executive.

• Determine and agree with the Board the policy and 
framework for the remuneration of the Chair, Group 
Chief Executive, other Executive Directors, members 
of the Executive Board and the Company Secretary.
• Have oversight of the remuneration arrangements 

of the management tier below Executive Board level.
• Ensure alignment between incentives and company 

culture.

• Approve the design of, and determine targets for, 
any performance-related pay plans operated by 
the Company and agree the total annual payments 
made under such plans.

• Review the design of all share incentive plans for 
approval by the Board and shareholders, and 
determine, each year, whether awards will be made, 
and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the 
individual awards to Executive Directors, other senior 
executives and the performance targets to be set.

• Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension 

arrangements for each Executive Director and other 
senior executives.

Committee composition and attendance

Eligible

Attended

Jo Harlow (Chair)

Carole Cran

Dame Louise Makin

Dharmash Mistry¹

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE¹

Tony Rice

Roy Twite

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

6

6

7

7

1  Dharmash and Sharmila were unable to attend one Committee meeting 

due to prior commitments.

Committee Composition
The Committee schedules four routine meetings a 
year but will meet more often, if required. Due to the 
level of activity during the year, the Committee met 
formally seven times. Attendance at each Committee 
meeting is set out in the table above.

Only members of the Committee have the right 
to attend Committee meetings. The Group 
Chief Executive, the Group Talent, Culture and 
Communications Director and Head of Total Rewards 
attend Committee meetings by invitation but are not 
present when their own remuneration is discussed. 
The Committee also takes independent professional 
advice as required. 

The Committee comprises of the non-executive 
Directors set out in the table above, with Jo Harlow 
as Chair. All members of the Committee are 
considered independent within the definition set 
out in the Code. No member of the Committee has 
any personal financial interest in Halma (other than 
as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising from 
cross directorships or day-to-day involvement in 
running the business.

136 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 March 2023. This statement sets out the work of 
the Committee during the year and provides context 
for the decisions taken.

The context of remuneration in 2023
Our performance 
Our Sustainable Growth Model (delivering sustainable 
growth, consistently high returns and positive impact) 
and in particular our DNA (combination of our 
decentralised organisational model and culture), 
continue to be critical in delivering our strong 
performance, as Halma reports its 20th consecutive 
year of profit growth, delivering 44 consecutive years 
of dividend per share growth of 5% or more. 

Over the last year, we delivered continued high returns 
and strong growth. Revenue and adjusted profit grew 
by 21% and 14% respectively and Adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 17%. Return on Sales of 19.5% was 
within our KPI target range of 18-22% and Return on 
Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) of 14.8% remained well 
above our Weighted Average Cost of Capital estimated 
at 8.9%. Our total shareholder return has continued to 
outperform the FTSE 100 index, with an investment of 
£100 in Halma shares on 28 March 2013 worth £485.6 
on 31 March 2023, compared to £174.1 for a similar 
investment in the FTSE 100 index.

These results have been delivered despite challenging 
markets, the continuing conflict in Ukraine and the 
resulting energy crisis, demonstrating the resilience 
of the Halma business model.

Our people 
Halma’s people remain its most important asset and we 
continue to believe that our people should be rewarded 
appropriately. The Committee reviews various aspects 
of the wider workforce’s remuneration and considers 
such information when determining the approach to 
executive pay. Many Halma employees have been, and 
continue to be, impacted by inflationary pressures and 
the cost-of-living crisis and we are proud of the support 
that Halma companies have given their employees 
during this time. Halma also continues to pay the Real 
Living Wage across its UK operations and this will be the 
third year that we have published details of our mean 
gender pay gap for the employees across two of our 
largest regions (the UK and the USA), with a reduction 
to 18.7% from 20% disclosed last year. Examples of cost 
of living support and details of Halma’s mean gender 
pay gap can be found on pages 66 to 71 in the section 
on Our people and culture.

As part of the Committee’s commitment to workforce 
engagement, my non-executive Director colleagues and 
I held sessions with a cross-section of employees on site 
visits to some of our companies. A breakfast meeting 
was also held with select employees at Accelerate 
Halma, our group-wide leadership conference, held in 
October 2022. At these sessions we had productive 
conversations on the role of the Remuneration 

Committee, executive and employee remuneration 
and a range of other topics including job satisfaction 
and company culture. Employees were candid and 
constructive in their views which gave us insight into 
the effectiveness of Halma’s approach to remuneration 
and employee satisfaction.

Remuneration outcomes for 2023
Bonus 
Bonuses for 2023 were based on three metrics below: 

• Economic Value Added (EVA) – Performance against 
a weighted average target of EVA for the past three 
years, representing 90% of overall bonus opportunity.
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) – Gender balance 

on the boards of individual Halma companies, 
representing 5% of overall bonus opportunity.

• Climate Change – Annual improvement in 

energy productivity (Revenue / energy consumed), 
representing 5% of overall bonus opportunity.

The Committee considered the targets to be demanding, 
appropriate and material to stakeholder value-creation. 
The formulaic outcomes across all three metrics are set 
out below, with one third of the total payout deferred 
into shares which will become available after two years:

Metric
(Weighting)

2023 achievement as 
a % of maximum 
outcome for CEO

EVA 
(90%)

DEI
(5%)

Climate
Change
(5%)

Total

 71.8%

0%

100%

69.7%

The Committee believes that the EVA formulaic 
outcome was appropriate and payout reflects the 
robust performance of the business through the 
previous three years. The Committee also reviewed the 
Climate Change outcome carefully and we are satisfied 
that Halma’s underlying performance justifies the 
payout in respect of this metric. There will be no payout 
in respect of DEI. You will find further details of all the 
performance metrics on page 145 of the report.

Executive Share Plan (ESP)
For the 2020 ESP award, the two performance metrics, 
measured over a three-year period are:

• Growth in Adjusted earnings per share (EPS), 

with a 50% weighting.

• Average Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), 

with a 50% weighting.

The targets were set to reflect the impact of the COVID 
pandemic and details can be found on page 146.

The three-year performance for average ROTIC (14.67%) 
and Adjusted EPS growth over the three-year period 
(10.16%) have been strong and are reflected in 
94.79% vesting. 

Metric
(Weig h t i n g)

Vesting 

Adjusted 
EPS Growth
(50%)

ROTIC
(50%)

Total

50.00% 44.79% 94.79%

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 137

Remuneration Committee Report continued

The Committee reviewed the topic of windfall gains for 
the 2020 grant and it determined that as a result of the 
share price increase at the time of grant, there was no 
windfall gain concern. It was therefore the view of the 
Committee that the formulaic vesting should proceed 
without any adjustments. 

As has been highlighted since the 2020 grant, the 
Committee considers the targets for this award to 
be stretching.

In line with the 2018 Corporate Governance Code 
(Code), the Committee reviewed the outcomes of the 
individual incentive plans (annual bonus and ESP) as well 
as the overall levels of remuneration to ensure that they 
remained consistent with the underlying performance of 
the business. The Committee is satisfied that the total 
remuneration received by Executive Directors in respect 
of the year ended 31 March 2023 is a fair reflection of 
performance over the period and no use of discretion 
is warranted. 

Pension
The maximum employer pension contribution rate for 
UK employees is 10.5% of salary, along with a generous 
contribution structure that encourages our employees – 
especially our lowest paid – to save for their retirement. 
In line with prior commitments made by the Company, 
company pension contributions for the Executive 
Directors were reduced on 31 December 2022 to align 
with the UK wider workforce rate of 10.5% of salary. 

Executive Director changes
Andrew Williams stepped down as Group Chief 
Executive on 31 March 2023. He will retire and step down 
from the Board on 30 June and will continue to be paid 
in line with the Remuneration Policy until his retirement. 
On this basis, Andrew remains eligible to receive a bonus 
payable in June 2023, in respect of the 2023 financial 
year, that has just concluded. No bonus will be accrued 
or paid for the 2024 financial year and he will not receive 
an ESP award in June 2023. Further details of Andrew’s 
leaving arrangements are set out on page 144. 

Marc Ronchetti began his role as CEO Designate on 
16 June 2022 and became Group Chief Executive 
effective 1 April 2023 with a salary of £900,000. The 
Committee’s decision on salary reflected that Marc’s 
total remuneration for the next few financial years will 
be substantially lower than Andrew Williams, had 
Andrew remained in post, assuming the same level of 
performance. This is the case as Marc’s inflight share 
awards and deferred bonus shares are lower and 
reflective of his previous Chief Financial Officer role. 
Marc will also not be eligible to receive a salary increase 
until June 2024. The Committee’s decision was discussed 
with shareholders as part of the consultations outlined 
below. They agreed the package was not excessive and 
no concerns were raised. You can find details of his 
package on pages 148 and 149. 

Steve Gunning began employment with Halma 
on 16 January 2023 as Chief Financial Officer 
and he received an ESP award in February 2023. 

138 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Steve’s package is set out on page 144. His annual bonus 
and ESP opportunity are in line with our Policy, with the 
annual bonus for 2023 pro-rated to reflect his period 
of employment. 

Salary
The table below sets out the position for the Executive 
Directors over the 2023 financial year. 

Executive Director

Group Chief Executive 

CEO Designate

Chief Financial Officer

Base Salary

£900,000

£673,750

£600,000

Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director

£460,000

Chair and non-executive Director Fees
The Committee carried out a benchmarking review of 
the Chair’s fees and the Committee was unanimous in 
approving an inflationary increase of 3.2% and you will 
find details of this on page 149. 

Following a review, the Board agreed to leave the fees 
for the non-executive Directors unchanged and you will 
find more details of this on page 149. The next review will 
be carried out in late 2023 and any change effective 
from 1 January 2024. 

Shareholder engagement
At the July 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM), 67.14% 
of shareholders voted in support of the Remuneration 
Report resolution. In accordance with Code requirements, 
as more than 20% of votes were cast against the Board 
recommendation for this resolution, an interim update 
was announced and we consulted with our shareholders 
to understand the reasons behind the voting outcome. 
I set out below further key points on that shareholder 
consultation process:

• After the AGM, we wrote to shareholders representing 
over 55% of issued share capital to understand their 
perspectives on the AGM outcome. We met shareholders 
representing circa 30% of the share capital. The 
shareholders we met represented a cross-section 
of investors – diverse by voting outcomes, size of 
shareholding, geography and investor type (index funds 
vs active managers), including a good number of ESG 
focused funds. We are pleased that we saw a mix that 
is broadly reflective of the types of holdings on our 
wider register. 

• At these meetings, we outlined Halma’s continuing 
strong profit and valuation growth over the past 
twenty years. We explained that succession risk was 
an important part of the rationale for the variable pay 
reset in the 2021 policy and salary reset implemented 
over two years, in 2021 and 2022. We also shared details 
of how the Committee’s decision-making, leading up to 
the 2022 salary increase implementation, was informed 
by the Executive Director succession planning process. 
Specifically, the decisions made supported the 
Committee’s need to ensure that Halma had the 

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

necessary remuneration tools to recruit in the external 
market and the urgency of this goal was not disclosable 
to shareholders at the time.

• We discussed the use of the FTSE 100 (excluding 

financial services) as the appropriate benchmark for 
establishing a competitive pay offering. We highlighted 
the difficulty of defining a specific comparator group 
that would cover the Safety, Environmental & Analysis 
and Healthcare sectors in which Halma competes for 
business and talent. Positioning Halma Executive 
Director remuneration at the median of the FTSE 100 
(excluding financial services) continues to ensure Halma 
maintains the level of pay that supports the current 
talent retention needs as well as the company’s current 
size and future growth ambitions. 

• The outcome of having achieved market alignment on 
pay in 2022 was that Halma was able to hire Steve 
Gunning, an experienced FTSE 100 CFO to replace the 
Chief Financial Officer role vacated by Marc Ronchetti. 
Improving the competitiveness of executive pay was a 
major factor in being able to execute an effective 
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
transition plan. The details of the remuneration of our 
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were 
shared with shareholders. We highlighted that these 
individuals would not receive salary increases in the 
2024 financial year, with their next review effective 
1 June 2024 (see table to the right), demonstrating 
Halma’s return to restraint following the remuneration 
reset. We also flagged that Marc’s total remuneration 
for the next few financial years will be substantially 
lower than Andrew Williams, had Andrew remained 
in post, assuming the same level of performance. 
Shareholders acknowledged that the remuneration 
packages were competitive but not excessive and 
appreciated the Company’s commitment to return to 
restraint. No further concerns or suggested changes 
were raised in relation to this.

• We had open and constructive conversations with 

shareholders on the voting outcome. The shareholders 
we spoke to were able to appreciate that succession risk 
was best addressed by the two-year phased approach 
we adopted to salary changes. The feedback received 
was that the rationale was better understood and 
shareholders were appreciative of the additional 
context the Committee was able to provide in relation 
to the Group Chief Executive succession process, 
understanding that it was not possible to communicate 
this to shareholders until the Group Chief Executive 
succession was publicly announced in June 2022. 

Remuneration arrangements for 2024
Salary
In line with our historically conservative approach to 
remuneration and the timings of appointments, salaries 
for our Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
will remain unchanged through the 2024 financial year. 
A salary increase of 3% has been awarded to our Group 
Talent, Culture and Communications Director, which is 
lower than the average wider workforce increase.

Role

Current position

Position with
 effect from 
1 June 2023

Group Chief Executive 

Chief Financial Officer

Group Talent, Culture and 
Communications Director

£900,000

£900,000

£600,000

£600,000

£460,000

£473,800

Annual Bonus 
Financial metrics – Halma is focused on sustaining 
our companies’ growth and returns over the longer 
term, while delivering strong performance in the 
shorter term. As such, we will continue to use EVA as 
the performance metric for the annual bonus as it is 
aligned with our business model. This will represent 
90% of the overall bonus opportunity.

Non-financial metrics – Positive impact is at the 
heart of our business model and this is why we will 
also continue to use Climate Change and DEI as non-
financial metrics, each representing 5% of the overall 
bonus opportunity. 

The Policy provides flexibility to include non-financial 
measures in both the ESP and the annual bonus, with up 
to 20% of the overall opportunity available to be utilised 
for non-financial measures. Reflecting the continuing 
development of our sustainability approach, we have 
chosen to maintain the 10% weighting on these non-
financial metrics and we will continue to review this 
over the financial year. 

ESP
The 2024 ESP share awards will be granted as normal, 
using Adjusted EPS growth and ROTIC as the performance 
metrics based on stretching performance conditions. 

We will continue to review whether sustainability-linked 
remuneration can be extended to the ESP over time. 

Closing remarks
The Committee’s performance was assessed as part 
of the annual Committee evaluation. I am pleased to 
report that the Committee is regarded as operating 
effectively and that the Board takes assurance from 
the quality of the Committee’s work.

In closing, I would like to thank the Committee for its 
work and support during the year and our shareholders 
for the level and quality of engagement over this last 
year. Thanks also to our executive team for their decisive 
leadership and continued efforts to deliver exceptional 
value to our stakeholders. As Andrew retires on 30 June, 
I would like to thank him for the invaluable support 
he provided in my role as Committee Chair. He will 
be greatly missed and I wish him the very best for 
the future.

I hope that you find this report helpful and look forward 
to your support of the Remuneration Report resolution 
at the AGM. 

Jo Harlow
Committee Chair

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 139

Remuneration at a glance

We have a strong pay for performance culture 
that is aligned to our business model, focused 
on sustaining our companies’ growth and 
returns over the longer term, while delivering 
strong performance in the shorter term.

The components of our Executive Remuneration

Fixed Pay

Short-term 
incentive

Long-term 
incentive

Total Pay

Salary, benefits & pension
• A fair, fixed remuneration 
reflecting the size of the 
executive’s responsibilities 
which attracts and retains 
high calibre talent 
necessary for the delivery 
of the Group’s strategy.

Annual Bonus
• To incentivise and focus 
management on the 
achievement of objective 
annual targets, which are 
set to support the short 
to medium-term strategy 
of the Group.

Executive Share Plan
• To incentivise executives to 
achieve superior returns to 
shareholders over a three-
year period rewarding them 
for sustained performance 
against challenging 
long-term targets.

Our performance metrics

Short-term incentive

Long-term incentive

Economic 
Value Added 
(EVA)

•  The use of EVA (profit less a charge for 

capital employed) reinforces the Group’s 
business objective to double every five 
years through a mix of acquisitions and 
organic growth. Performance is measured 
against a weighted average target of EVA 
for the past three years.

Diversity, 
Equity 
and Inclusion 
(DEI)

•  Our focus on DEI is the right thing to do 
and a critical driver of growth. Following 
our success in increasing gender diversity 
at the Halma and Executive Boards, our 
current focus is on increasing gender 
diversity on our company boards.

Climate 
Change

•  Action on climate change is an important 
part of us delivering on our purpose to 
grow a safer, cleaner, healthier future for 
everyone, every day. Reducing our own 
emissions is a key priority for us with 
year-on-year improvement in energy 
productivity as our target. 

Adjusted 
EPS Growth

•  EPS growth provides a disciplined focus 

on increasing profitability and 
thereby provides close shareholder 
alignment through incentivising 
shareholder value creation. 

ROTIC

•  ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital 

efficiency and delivery of strong returns, 
thereby further strengthening the 
alignment of remuneration with the 
Group strategy.

Maximum bonus opportunity: 200% of Salary 
(Group Chief Executive), 180% of Salary 
(Chief Financial Officer and GTCC Director)

Maximum award: 300% of Salary (Group Chief Executive), 
250% of Salary (Chief Financial Officer), 
200% of Salary (GTCC Director)

140 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

How actual performance compared to targets
Short-term incentive – Annual Bonus

Metric

Weighting

Threshold

Actual

Maximum

2023 CEO Achievement
(% of maximum)

Economic Value Added

90%

£281.7m

£317.8m

£327.7m 

71.8%

DEI

Climate Change

5%

5%

33%

4%

29%

10%

–

7%

Overall annual bonus outcome (% of max)

0%

100%

69.7%

Long-term incentive – Executive Share Plan

Metric

Weighting

Threshold

Actual

Maximum

2023 Achievement
(Vesting %)

Adjusted EPS growth over 
a three-year period

50%

2%

10.16%

10%

50.00%

Three-year average ROTIC

50%

9.5%

14.67%

15.5%

44.79%

Vesting percentage (2020 Award)

94.79%

Executive Directors’ earnings in 2023
The following charts set out the aggregate emoluments earned by the Executive Directors in the year ended 
31 March 2023.

Element

Fixed Pay

Salary

Benefits

Pension supplement

Short-term incentive

Annual Bonus

Long-term incentive

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

1,101

879

28
194

796

666

21
109

147

128

6
13

548

449

24
75

1,254

845

188

577

Executive Share Plan and Share Incentive Plan

1,249

694

0

476

Total Pay

3,604

2,335

335

1,601

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 141

Annual Remuneration Report

The Annual Remuneration Report sets out details of how the Policy was implemented in the year to 31 March 2023 
and the proposed implementation for the next financial year.

Activities during the year
The Committee discharged its duties under its Terms of Reference for the year. During the year, the Committee 
met formally seven times and the Committee’s main activities through the financial year are set out below:

• Reviewed the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report, 

• Discussed shareholder consultation plans and 

including narrative on the Real Living Wage, 
Gender Pay Gap and the Chief Executive Pay ratio.

reviewed materials to be sent to proxy agencies 
and shareholder organisations.

• Approved the 2022 remuneration elements – 

• Reviewed details of performance award to be 

annual bonus payout and ESP vesting.

• Approved 1 June 2022 merit increases for the 

Executive Board.

• Approved the 2023 Remuneration elements – 

Annual Bonus and ESP target-setting.

• Reviewed and confirmed the remuneration package 
for the Chief Executive Designate and termination 
package for Group Chief Executive.

• Reviewed the 2023 Remuneration elements – 

annual bonus payout and ESP vesting estimates.

• Approved the US taxpayers schedule to the ESP.
• Confirmed the reduction in cash-in-lieu pension 

supplement for the Executive Directors with effect 
from 1 January 2023.

• Reviewed and confirmed the remuneration package 

for the Chief Financial Officer.

made to Chief Financial Officer in February 2023. 
• Discussed wider workforce remuneration, including 
a cost of living update and non-executive Director 
engagement with employees. 

• Received executive remuneration governance 
and market updates from our remuneration 
consultants, WTW.

• Reviewed the Committee’s Terms of Reference.
• Discussed the 2024 annual bonus targets.
• Reviewed a draft of the Committee Chair’s letter.
• Considered the output of the Committee 

effectiveness review.

• Commenced discussions on the 2024 Remuneration 

Policy review.

• Discussed agenda items for the Committee 
meetings to be held through to June 2024.

External advisers
In June 2020, after a thorough and competitive tender process, WTW was appointed by the Committee as the 
independent remuneration adviser and continued in this capacity through the year.

WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and voluntarily operates under the Remuneration 
Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. This is based 
upon principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality by executive 
remuneration consultants. WTW has confirmed that it has adhered to that Code of Conduct throughout the 
year for all remuneration services provided to the Company. Therefore, the Committee is satisfied that the advice 
from WTW is independent and objective. The Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct is available at 
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. 

WTW’s fee for the year with respect to executive remuneration matters was £97,300 (2022: £120,766) based on an 
agreed fee. WTW also provided services to the Company globally which comprise remuneration benchmarking and 
other consultancy advice.

Compliance statement
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and 
Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and subsequent amendments.

The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and 
describes how the Board has applied the Principles relating to Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. No changes are proposed to the Policy, which was approved at the 2021 Annual General 
Meeting, but the Directors’ Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the 
2023 Annual General Meeting.

142 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Shareholder vote at 2021 and 2022 Annual General Meetings
The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the Policy at the 2021 Annual General Meeting held 
on 22 July 2021 and the advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2022 Annual General Meeting. 
The Policy can be found on pages 122 to 128 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts, which can be found on our 
company website, www.halma.com and a summary is set out in this Report on pages 156 to 163.

Remuneration Policy (2021)

Total number of votes

% of votes cast

Directors’ Remuneration Report (2022)

Total number of votes

% of votes cast

For

Against

Total

Withheld

176,723,996

116,952,309 293,676,305

7,547,634

60.18%

39.82%

100%

196,844,865

96,326,858 293,171,723 12,719,326

67.14%

32.86%

100%

On pages 138 and 139, you will find details of the extensive shareholder engagement that was carried out in relation 
to results of the 2022 vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The feedback received was that the rationale 
of the 2021 policy changes was better understood and shareholders were appreciative of the additional context 
the Committee was able to provide in relation to the Group Chief Executive succession process. Shareholders 
acknowledged that the remuneration packages were competitive but not excessive and appreciated the 
Company’s commitment to return to restraint. 

Remuneration for 2023
Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received by Executive Directors for the years 
to 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2023. 

Andrew Williams
£000

Marc Ronchetti1
£000

Steve Gunning1
£000

Jennifer Ward
£000

Salary

Benefits2

Pension3

Total Fixed Pay

Annual Bonus4

Executive Share Plan – 
Awards5

Share Incentive Plan6

Total Variable Pay

2023

879

28

194

1,101

1,254

2022

759

27

197

983

1,553

1,245

826

2023

666

21

109

796

845

690

2022

482

20

90

592

887

458

4

3

4

3

2,503

2,382

1,539

1,348

Total Pay

3,604

3,365

2,335

1,940

2023

128

6

13

147

188

–

–

188

335

2022

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2023

449

24

75

548

577

472

2022

386

25

72

483

711

313

4

3

1,053

1,027

1,601

1,510

1  Marc Ronchetti became Chief Executive Designate on 16 June 2022. Steve Gunning joined Halma as Group Chief Financial Officer on 16 January 2023. 
2  Benefits: mainly comprises company car /car allowance and private medical insurance.
3  Pension: value based on the Company’s pension contribution, or cash supplement in lieu of pension, during the year.
4  Annual bonus: payment for performance during the year; two thirds is payable in cash and one third is deferred into shares which vest two years from award without 

any performance conditions. Table shows total bonus including amounts to be deferred. 

5  ESP: Figures relate to awards vesting based on performance to the years ended 31 March 2023 and 2022. For the award vesting for the year ended 31 March 2023, 

as the share price on the date of vesting is currently unknown, the value shown is estimated using the average share price over the three-months to 31 March 2023 
of 2156p. For the award vesting for the year ended 31 March 2022, these figures have been revised from last year’s report to reflect the actual share price on the 
vesting date of 2011p. Table shows total vestings and dividend equivalents in 2023 and 2022 respectively for: Andrew - £37,349 and £20,477, Marc - £20,707 and 
£11,352, Jennifer - £14,167 and £7,767.

6  SIP is based on the face value of shares at grant.

Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments were made in the year.

On his retirement from the Board in July 2021, Adam Meyers retained the following interests under the ESP, which 
vested during the year:

• 18,039 time pro-rated 2020 ESP shares vesting at 94.79% based on performance to 31 March 2023.
• 3,618 deferred bonus awards granted in 2021 will vest on 28 June 2023.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 143

Annual Remuneration Report continued

Joining arrangements for Steve Gunning
Steve Gunning began employment with Halma on 16 January 2023 as Chief Financial Officer and details of his 
remuneration, which are in line with our Remuneration Policy are set out below:

• He was granted a Performance Share Award in February 2023 under the ESP, which will vest in February 2026, 

subject to performance conditions. The award is also subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
• His annual bonus for the 2023 financial year, that has just concluded is pro-rated to reflect his period of 

employment and his deferred bonus award will be calculated as one-third of the bonus earned.

Leaving arrangements for Andrew Williams
Andrew Williams stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 31 March 2023 and he will retire and step down 
from the Board on 30 June 2023 (“Retirement Date”). On this basis and in accordance with his service agreement, 
Andrew Williams will continue to be paid in line with the Remuneration Policy until his retirement and he will:

• continue to be paid a salary of £900,000 until Retirement Date.
• remain eligible to receive a bonus payable in June 2023, in respect of the 2023 financial year, that has just 

concluded with one-third granted as a deferred bonus award to vest in June 2025, with no attaching further 
performance conditions.

• not be paid a bonus for the 2024 financial year. 
• not receive an ESP award in June 2023. 
• be treated as a good leaver as he is retiring and hence his outstanding ESP awards that are unvested in June 2023 

will be time pro-rated to Retirement Date and vest, subject to performance, at their normal vesting date.
• have automatic good leaver reason under the Share Incentive Plan (SIP) rules and as such all SIP shares held 

in trust will be transferred at retirement, free of tax and national insurance.

• continue to receive benefits through to the Retirement Date.
• be entitled to payment for any unused and accrued holiday days as at Retirement Date.
• remain subject to the post-cessation shareholding requirements.

Incentive outcomes for 2023 (audited) 
Annual bonus in respect of 2023
In 2023, the maximum bonus opportunity for the Group Chief Executive was 200% and 180% of salary for the CEO 
Designate, Chief Financial Officer and the Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director. 

Annual bonus for all Executive Directors was linked to performance based on the three metrics below: 

• Economic Value Added (EVA) – Performance against a weighted average target of EVA for the past three years, 

representing 90% of overall bonus opportunity.

• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) – Gender balance on the boards of Halma companies, representing 5% of overall 

bonus opportunity.

• Climate Change – Annual improvement in energy productivity (Revenue / energy consumed), representing 5% of 

overall bonus opportunity.

The Committee felt that the targets were demanding, appropriate and material to stakeholder value. 

Operating company directors and other sector and central senior management participate in bonus arrangements 
similar to those established for senior executives.

144 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

EVA calculation:
Bonuses for the Executive Directors are calculated based on Group profit exceeding a target calculated from the 
profits for the three preceding financial years after charging a cost of capital, including on the cost of acquisitions. 
As the EVA for each year is utilised for a further three years in the comparator calculations, Executives must 
consider the medium-term interests of the Group otherwise there is the potential for an adverse impact on 
their capacity to earn a bonus.

Profit for 
each year at 
constant currency

Minus a 
charge on cost 
of acquisition

Minus a 
charge on working 
capital

Equals the EVA 
for each year

DEI and Climate Change:
The DEI target is based on progress towards our goal of reaching female representation on the boards of Halma 
companies of at least 40% by 31 March 2024. In 2023, maximum payout of 5% of bonus opportunity could have 
been achieved with a gender balance figure of 33% or above and nil payout with a figure lower than 33%.

The Climate Change target is based on achieving a stretching range of annual improvement in Energy Productivity. 
in 2023, there was a straight line payout between the minimum threshold of 4% (our published target) up to a 
maximum threshold of 7%.

Details of both of our non-financial targets for the 2023 financial year are set out in the tables below:

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Gender balance on the boards of Halma Companies

Performance

≥ 33%

% payout for performance against target

100%

On / Off Target

Climate Change

Annual improvement in energy productivity

Performance

% payout for performance against target*

Threshold

Maximum

4%

≥7%

*  Straight line payout between thresholds and maximum

25%

100%

Details of the bonuses payable (cash and deferred share awards) and performance against all three targets are 
provided in the tables below:

Metric

Weighting

Threshold

Actual

Maximum

2023 CEO Achievement
(% of maximum)

Economic Value Added

90%

£281.7m

£317.8m

£327.7m

DEI

Climate Change

5%

5%

33%

4%

29%

10%

–

7%

Overall annual bonus outcome (% of max)

71.8%

0%

100%

69.7%

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 145

Annual Remuneration Report continued

The deferred bonus awards across all three metrics are calculated as one-third of the bonus earned. The number 
of shares over which awards will be made will be determined by the share price for the five trading days prior to 
the date of award. The value of each individual’s award, relative to their bonus has been fixed as follows:

Executive Director

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning (joined the Board on 16 January 2023)

Jennifer Ward

Overall bonus
outcome
(% of salary)

Overall bonus
outcome 

(% of maximum) Bonus for 2023

Cash-settled

Value of 2023
deferred
bonus award

139%

125%

31%

125%

69.7% £1,253,955

£835,970

£417,985

69.7% £844,852

£563,235

£281,617

17.4% £188,093

£125,395

£62,698

69.7% £576,819

£384,546

£192,273

Deferred bonus awards will be granted under the ESP in June 2023. These awards will not be subject to any further 
performance conditions and will ordinarily vest in full on the second anniversary of the date of grant. Full details 
will be provided in next year’s Annual Remuneration Report.

Executive Share Plan (ESP): 2020 Awards (vesting at the end of the year to 31 March 2023)
In July 2020, the Executive Directors received awards of performance shares under the ESP. The performance targets 
for these ESP awards were set to reflect the impact of the COVID pandemic on business forecasts at the time of 
grant and are set out below. The vesting criteria are 50% EPS-related and 50% ROTIC-related.

Performance conditions for these awards are as follows:

Metric

Adjusted EPS growth1

ROTIC2

Total vesting

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

1  Adjusted earnings per share growth over the three-year performance period.
2  Average ROTIC over the performance period.
3  There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting.

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

<2%

0.0%

<9.5%

0.0%

0.0%

2%

10% or more

12.5%

9.5%

12.5%

25%

50%

15.5% or more

50%

100%

The three-year period over which these two performance metrics are measured ended on 31 March 2023. Average 
ROTIC was 14.67% (the average ROTIC for financial years 2021, 2022 and 2023) and adjusted EPS growth was 10.16% 
per annum for the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2023, resulting in vesting of 94.79% of the awards. 

The estimated vesting value included in the 2023 single figure of Total Remuneration for Directors is detailed in the 
table below:

Executive Director

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Jennifer Ward

Interest
held

Face value 
at grant

Vesting
%

59,083

32,756

22,411

1,335

740

506

94.79%

Three-month
average price
at year end

2156p

Interest 
vesting

56,005

31,049

21,243

Estimated
vesting
value
£000

1,207

669

458

of which value
 attributable to
 share price
 growth
£000

and value
attributable to
corporate
performance
£000

(58)

(33)

(22)

1,265

702

480

Vested awards are net settled, with the appropriate reduction in shares made to cover the employee tax and social 
security liability at vesting. Awards normally lapse if they do not vest on the third anniversary of their award. These 
awards are subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period. Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period 
and are paid in cash at the end of the vesting period, and only on those shares that vest. 

In line with regulations, the values disclosed above and in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 143 
capture the number of interests vesting for performance to 31 March 2023. As the market price on the date of 
vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the values are estimated using the average market value over the 
three-month period to 31 March 2023 of 2156p. The actual values at vesting will be trued-up in the next Annual 
Remuneration Report. 

146 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Incentive Awards granted during 2023 (audited)
Long-term incentive – Executive Share Plan: Performance Share Plan Awards  
(granted during the year to 31 March 2023)
On 29 June 2022, the Executive Directors, excluding Steve Gunning were granted awards and on 27 February 2023, 
Steve Gunning was granted an award under the ESP. All awards are subject to ROTIC and Adjusted EPS growth 
performance over a three-year period measured from 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2025. Specifically, the ROTIC element 
will be based on the average ROTIC for 2023, 2024 and 2025. The EPS element will be based on EPS growth from 
1 April 2022 to 31 March 2025. These two elements are equally weighted at 50% each. The performance targets 
applying to these awards are as set out in the table below:

Metric

Adjusted EPS growth1

ROTIC2

Total vesting

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

1  Adjusted earnings per share growth over the three-year performance period.
2  Average ROTIC over the performance period.
3  There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting.

Below Threshold

Threshold

Maximum

<5%

0.0%

<11%

0.0%

0.0%

5%

12% or more

12.5%

11%

12.5%

25%

50%

17% or more

50%

100%

The awards vest on the third anniversary of the dates of grant (27 February 2026 for Steve Gunning and 29 June 
2025 – For all other Executive Directors) and are subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period. 

Executive Director

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning (joined the Board on 16 January 2023)

Jennifer Ward

% of salary

300%

250%

250%

200%

Awards
made during
the year

138,904

89,965

68,181

47,208

Five-day
average market
price at
award date
 (p)

Face value at
award date
£000

1941

1941

2200

1941

2,696

1,746

1,500

916

Long-term incentive – Deferred Share Awards (granted during the year to 31 March 2023)
On 29 June 2022, the Executive Directors excluding Steve Gunning were granted deferred share awards under the 
ESP in respect of one third of the total bonus earned for the financial year ended 31 March 2022. Steve joined Halma 
in January 2023 and as such he was not entitled to a bonus or deferred share award in respect of the 2022 financial 
year. Awards are not subject to performance conditions as they are deferred awards relating to bonus earned for 
the year ended 31 March 2022. Awards vest in full on the second anniversary of the date of grant (29 June 2024).

Executive Director

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Jennifer Ward

Five-day 
average market
 price at 
award date

1941p

Awards 
made during
the year

26,667

15,237

12,208

Face value at
 award date
£000

Bonus to 
31 March 2022
£000

Proportion
 awarded 
in shares

518

296

237

1,553

887

711

33.3%

33.3%

33.3%

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 147

Annual Remuneration Report continued

Implementation of the Policy for the year to 31 March 2024
Base Salary, effective 1 June 2023
In line with our historically conservative approach to remuneration, salaries for our Group Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer will remain unchanged through the 2024 financial year, with next salary reviews carried out 
with effect from 1 June 2024. A salary increase of 3% (lower than the wider workforce increase) has been awarded 
to our Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director.

Andrew Williams retires and steps down from the Board on 30 June 2023.

Remuneration arrangements for Marc Ronchetti
Marc Ronchetti began his role as CEO Designate on 16 June 2022 on a salary of £700,000 and prior to that he was 
on a salary of £574,000 as Chief Financial Officer. On 1 April 2023, he became Group Chief Executive on a salary 
of £900,000 and he will not be eligible for a salary increase until June 2024. 

The Committee’s decision on salary reflected the fact that Marc’s total remuneration for the next few financial 
years will be substantially lower than Andrew Williams, had he remained in post, assuming the same level of 
performance. Marc’s remuneration was discussed with shareholders as part of consultation. They agreed the 
package was not excessive and no concerns were raised. 

Executive Director

Andrew Williams (until 30 June 2023)

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning (joined the Board on 16 January 2023)

Jennifer Ward

Salary for 
2024

£900,000

£900,000

£600,000

£473,800

Salary for 
2023

£900,000

£673,7501

£600,000

£460,000

1  This is a prorated salary allowing for Marc’s role as Chief Financial Officer for 2.5 months and as Chief Executive Designate for 9.5 months of the 2023 financial year.

Pension and benefits
The maximum employer pension contribution rate for UK employees is 10.5% of salary, along with a generous 
contribution structure, benefiting our lowest paid the most. 

Pension cash supplements for Executive Directors will be 10.5% of salary in line with the maximum rate offered 
to UK employees.

Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2024 is 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 180% of 
salary for the other Executive Directors. One third of the bonus earned will be deferred into a share award which 
vests in full after two years. Bonus payments will be subject to malus and clawback during a period of three years 
from the date of payment.

Bonuses for 2024 will be based on EVA performance against a weighted average target of EVA for the past three 
years. We will also continue to use the two non-financial targets on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) and Climate 
Change. The weightings for EVA performance, DEI and Climate Change will be 90%, 5% and 5% respectively.

For DEI, we remain committed to our stretch target of achieving at least 40% gender balance on our company 
boards by March 2024 and you can find more details on this on pages 67.

The Climate Change target is based on achieving a stretching range of Energy Productivity improvement, linked 
to our published target of 4% straight line annual improvement from the 2022 financial year. The target requires 
progress to be made from the 2023 result. Further details can be found on pages 78 and 79 of the Sustainability 
section and page 87 of the TCFD Statement.

As financial targets are commercially sensitive, they are not disclosed at this time but will be in next year’s 
Annual Report on Remuneration.

The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that Halma’s underlying performance over the financial year 
justifies the payout. When making this judgement the Committee has scope to consider such factors as it deems 
relevant. The Committee believes that this approach will ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.

148 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Long-term incentive – Executive Share Plan: Performance Share Awards (to be granted)
Under the ESP, performance share plan awards and deferred bonus awards will be made in June 2023, based on 
the Policy. The number of shares over which awards will be made is determined by the average share price for 
the five trading days prior to the date of award. The value of each performance share award is as follows:

Executive Director

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

Salary for 
2024

Performance
 Share Award

Value of 
Award

£900,000

£600,000

£473,800

300%

250%

200%

£2,700,000

£1,500,000

£947,600

The performance share awards will be subject to an Adjusted EPS growth performance target for 50% of the award 
and a ROTIC target for 50% of the award measured over the three financial years 2023, 2024 and 2025. In line with 
the current accounting treatment for Software as a Service (SaaS) investments under IAS 38, we will include the 
SaaS costs within the calculations as they fall. 

The full performance conditions are set out in detail below.

Metric

Adjusted EPS growth1

ROTIC2

Total vesting

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

Performance level:

% of award vesting3:

1  Adjusted earnings per share growth over the three-year performance period.
2  Average ROTIC over the performance period.
3  There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting.

Below Threshold

Threshold

<5%

0.0%

<9.5%

0.0%

0.0%

5%

12.5%

9.5%

12.5%

25%

Maximum

12% or more

50%

15.5% or more

50%

100%

Chair and non-executive Director fees
A review of the non-executive Directors’ fees was carried out in January 2023 and the Board made a decision not to 
make any changes. A market review was carried out in respect of our Chair’s fee, which was subsequently increased 
with effect from January 2023. Fees are subject to an annual review in January.

Fees

Chair

Base fee

Senior Independent Director

Audit Committee Chair

Remuneration Committee Chair

Committee Member

Annual fees for 2023

Annual fees for 2022

£419,000

£406,000

£75,000

£20,000

£20,000

£20,000

£nil

£75,000

£20,000

£20,000

£20,000

£nil

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 149

Annual Remuneration Report continued

Single figure of total remuneration for non-executive Directors (audited)
The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Chair and the non-executive Directors for the year end 
31 March 2023.

Non-executive Director1

Dame Louise Makin

Roy Twite

Tony Rice

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry 

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE 

1  Fees have been rounded to the nearest £1,000

2023
£000

409

75

95

95

95

75

75

2022
£000

297

63

75

79

75

63

24

Group Chief Executive Pay ratio
The following table sets out our Group Chief Executive’s pay ratios as at 31 March 2023. All figures are calculated 
using pay and benefits data for the year to 31 March 2023 and for part-time employees, the full-time equivalent 
salary and benefits are used.

Year

2023

Method

Option A

25th Percentile:
pay ratio, 
total pay and benefits,
(salary)

50th Percentile:
pay ratio, 
total pay and benefits,
(salary)

75th Percentile:
pay ratio, 
total pay and benefits,
(salary)

138:1

£26,155

(£23,360)

104:1

£34,781

(£30,882)

68:1

£53,343

(£46,789)

Historical Information

2022

2021

2020

Option A

Option A

Option A

145:1

141:1

183:1

110:1

110:1

139:1

70:1

68:1

86:1

25th Percentile:
pay ratio

50th Percentile:
pay ratio

75th Percentile:
pay ratio

Option A was chosen again this year as it is the most statistically accurate method, considered best practice by the 
Government, in line with shareholder expectations and is directly comparable to the Chief Executive’s remuneration. 
This method requires calculation of pay and benefits for all UK employees using the same methodology that is used 
to calculate the Group Chief Executive’s single figure per the table on page 143.

Commentary
We are satisfied that the median pay ratio reported this year is consistent with our wider pay, reward and 
progression policies for employees. 

The Group Chief Executive is remunerated predominantly on performance-related elements (bonus and share awards), 
based on the delivery of strong returns. Compared to last year, the Chief Executive’s single figure has increased as a 
result of the higher base salary and vesting percentage for the 2020 award, compared to the 2019 award. However, 
this increase has been partially offset by the lower bonus outturn. In contrast, there has been a higher increase of 
employee total pay at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles, resulting in lower Group Chief Executive pay ratio figures 
for the year, compared to last year.

150 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Directors’ pensions (audited)
Andrew Williams is the only UK Executive Director who is a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the 
Halma Group Pension Plan. This benefit is a funded final salary occupational pension plan registered with HMRC, 
providing a maximum pension of two thirds of final pensionable salary after 25 or more years’ service at normal 
pension age (60). 

Up to 5 April 2006, final pensionable salary was the greatest salary of the last three complete tax years immediately 
before retirement or leaving service. From 6 April 2011, final pensionable salary was capped at £139,185 and is 
increased annually thereafter by the increase in CPI (£174,586 for 2023). 

Bonuses and other fluctuating emoluments and benefits-in-kind are not pensionable nor subject to any pension 
supplement. The Plan also provides a pension in the event of early retirement through ill-health and a dependant’s 
pension of one-half of the member’s prospective pension. 

Early retirement pensions, currently possible from age 55 with the consent of the Company and the trustees of 
the Plan, are subject to actuarial reduction. Pensions in payment increase by 3% per annum for service up to 
5 April 1997, by price inflation (subject to a maximum of 5%) through to 31 March 2007 and 3% thereafter.

The Company closed the Defined Benefit section to future accrual with effect from 1 December 2014 and, in 
April 2014, Andrew Williams chose to cease future service accrual in the Plan in return for a pension supplement 
on his base salary. This supplement was equivalent to a 20% employer contribution plus an additional 6% 
compensatory payment, in line with the enhanced contribution rate offered to other members who were 
in the Defined Benefit section when future accrual was ceased. 

Marc Ronchetti and Jennifer Ward were not members of the Defined Benefit section but are entitled to join the 
Defined Contribution section of the plan. However, until 31 December 2022, due to annual allowance and lifetime 
allowance restrictions, both Jennifer and Marc opted to receive a pension supplement of 18.7% of salary, in lieu 
of the 20% employer contribution that the Company would otherwise pay into their pension.

With effect from 1 January 2023, Executive Directors’ voluntarily lowered their pension supplements to 10.5% 
of salary. 

Steve Gunning, our new Chief Financial Officer is entitled to join the Defined Contribution section of the plan 
but due to lifetime allowance restrictions, he receives a cash-in-lieu pension contribution of 10.5% of salary.

Andrew Williams accrued benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plan during the year as follows.

Executive Director

Andrew Williams

Years of
 pensionable
 service at 
31 March
2023

Increase 
in accrued
 benefits
£000

Increase
in accrued
 benefits net 
of inflation
£000

Accrued 
benefits at 
31 March
2023
£000

20

0.8

–

76

Age at 
31 March
2023

55

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 151

Annual Remuneration Report continued

Percentage change in Directors’ remuneration versus employees
The table below shows the percentage change in the salary/fees, bonus outcomes and benefits of the Directors 
for 2023, 2022 and 2021. This is compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other Halma plc 
employees over three financial years.

Other Halma plc  
Employees

Executive Directors

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning (joined the Board on 16 
January 2023)

Jennifer Ward

Non-executive Directors

Dame Louise Makin1

Roy Twite

Tony Rice

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE

Salary / fees 
(% change)

2023

7%

2022

6%

2021

0%

16%

38%

–

19%

19%

–

(5%)

(5%)

–

2023

8%

3%

7%

–

Benefits  
(% change)

2022

3%

Annual Bonus  
(% change)

2021

2023

2022

2021

(2%)

(36)% 230%

(43%)

(13%)

(17%)

(6%)

(19%)

218%

41%

(5%)

187%

(40%)

(40%)

–

–

–

–

–

16%

19%

(5%)

(3%)

4%

0%

(19%)

187%

(40%)

38% 3612%

-

19%

27%

20%

27%

20%

217%

13%

15%

13%

15%

–

–

(5%)

(16%)

(5%)

10%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1  Dame Louise Makin was appointed as non-executive Director on 9 February 2021 and became Chair at the AGM on 22 July 2021 as evidenced by the change in 

percentage in financial year 2022.

Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions 
(i.e. dividends and share buybacks) from the financial year ended 31 March 2022 to the financial year ended 
31 March 2023.

Distribution to shareholders

Employee remuneration (gross)

2023
£m

76.3

536

2022
£m

71.5

430

%
change

6.7%

24.7%

The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2023 of 12.34p per share (2022: 11.53p).

Pay-for-performance
The 10-year graph on the next page shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over the 
10 years to 31 March 2023 as compared to the FTSE 100 index. Over the period indicated, the Company’s TSR was 
386% compared with 74% for the FTSE 100. The table below the graph details the Group Chief Executive’s single 
figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period. 

The FTSE 100 has been selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies of this index are the 
most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected by similar commercial and economic factors to Halma.

152 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Halma was a constituent of the FTSE 250 until December 2017 when it became a constituent of the FTSE 100.

Total Shareholder Return
Graph as rebased to 100

750

600

450

300

150

0
31 March
2013

% increase

386%

74%

31 March
2014

31 March
2015

31 March
2016

31 March
2017

31 March
2018

31 March
2019

31 March
2020

31 March
2021

31 March
2022

31 March
2023

  Halma

FTSE 100

Andrew Williams’ 
single figure 
remuneration (£000)

Annual bonus 
outcome (% of 
maximum)

ESP vesting outcome 
(% of maximum)

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

£1,543

£2,006

£2,423

£2,337

£3,429

£3,954

£3,912

3,258

£3,365

£3,604

37%

53%

53%

34%

89%

100%

81%

48%

100%

70%1

74%

78%

95%

92%

90%

90%

91%

74%

61%

95%1

1  Rounded to whole percentage figures.

Directors’ interests in Halma shares(audited)
The interests of the Directors in office through the year ended 31 March 2023 (and their connected family members) 
in the ordinary shares of the Company at the following dates were as follows:

Current Directors

Dame Louise Makin

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

Roy Twite

Tony Rice

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE

31 March 
2023

31 March 
2022

10,000

10,000

763,286

736,199

67,225

15,731

44,590

4,000

20,000

2,000

2,000

2,563

–

51,621

–

33,412

4,000

16,939

2,000

2,000

2,000

–

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 153

 
Annual Remuneration Report continued

Directors’ interests in Halma share plans (audited)
Details of Directors’ outstanding deferred share awards (DSA), conditional share awards (ESP) and free shares under 
the SIP are outlined in the tables below:

Executive Share Plans

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

Date of 
grant

ESP

ESP

01-Jul-19

28-Jul-20

DSA

28-Jul-20

ESP

28-Jun-21

DSA 28-Jun-21

ESP

23-Jul-21

DSA 27-Jun-22

ESP

ESP

ESP

27-Jun-22

01-Jul-19

28-Jul-20

DSA

28-Jul-20

ESP

28-Jun-21

DSA 28-Jun-21

ESP

23-Jul-21

DSA 27-Jun-22

ESP

ESP

ESP

ESP

27-Jun-22

27-Feb-23

01-Jul-19

28-Jul-20

DSA

28-Jul-20

ESP

28-Jun-21

DSA 28-Jun-21

ESP

23-Jul-21

DSA 27-Jun-22

ESP

27-Jun-22

As at 
1 April 
2022

65,264

59,083

11,925

49,156

5,943

35,542

36,182

32,756

7,593

27,252

3,773

17,531

24,755

22,411

6,057

18,645

3,018

10,043

Granted/

(vested) 

in the year

(40,072)

(11,925)

26,667

138,904

(22,215)

(7,593)

15,237

89,965

68,181

(15,199)

(6,057)

12,208

47,208

Five-day
average share
 price on grant
(p)

2045.6

2259.6

2259.6

2715.9

2715.9

2787.8

1941.2

1941.2

2045.6

2259.6

2259.6

2715.9

2715.9

2787.8

1941.2

1941.2

2200.0

2045.6

2259.6

2259.6

2715.9

2715.9

2787.8

1941.2

1941.2

As at 
31 March
2023

–

59,083

–

49,156

5,943

35,542

26,667

138,904

–

32,756

–

27,252

3,773

17,531

15,237

89,965

68,181

–

22,411

–

18,645

3,018

10,043

12,208

47,208

The balance of ESP awards that did not vest during the year have lapsed.

The DSAs do not have any attaching performance conditions. The performance conditions attached to the 2019, 
2021 and 2022 ESP awards are described earlier in this Report, on page 147. The 2020 ESP awards have the different 
performance conditions as a result of the adjustment that was made (at the time of grant) to align targets with 
the changes to the business forecasts due to the COVID pandemic and these are set out on page 146 of this Report.

Share Incentive Plan

Andrew Williams

Marc Ronchetti

Jennifer Ward

Date of 
grant

01-Oct-20

01-Oct-21

01-Oct-22

01-Oct-20

01-Oct-21

01-Oct-22

01-Oct-20

01-Oct-21

01-Oct-22

As at 
1 April 
2022

150

127

150

127

150

127

Granted in the 
year

Share price 
on award
(p)

As at 
31 March
2023

2397

2820

2011

2397

2820

2011

2397

2820

2011

179

179

179

150

127

179

150

127

179

150

127

179

The SIP shares are held in trust and become the employee’s, subject to the rules of the plan, after three years. There 
are tax benefits for retaining the shares in the trust for at least five years from award date. Steve Gunning joined 
Halma on 16 January 2023 and will be due SIP shares with effect from 1 October 2023.

There have been no variations to the terms and conditions for share awards during the financial year.

154 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Share Ownership Guidelines
Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Company’s shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent 
to their ESP award maximum opportunity: 300% for Group Chief Executive, 250% for Group Chief Financial Officer 
and 200% for other Executive Directors. In addition, Executive Directors are required to hold shares after cessation 
of employment. The requirement is to hold shares to the value of the share ownership guidelines or actual 
shareholding (if lower) for a period of two years post cessation of employment.

The Executive Directors, excluding Marc Ronchetti and Steve Gunning each meet the Share Ownership Guideline 
of holding Company shares to the value of their award sizes. Until such time as this threshold is achieved, Steve 
and Marc are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any vested conditional share or deferred 
share awards. There are no other non-beneficial interests of Directors. There were no changes in Directors’ interests 
from 1 April 2023 to 15 June 2023.

Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining 
remuneration for Executive Directors. In addition to the employee engagement detailed on page 66, we have 
established a mean gender pay gap figure for our UK and US companies and the CEO pay ratio is available to 
employees. As part of Committee/workforce engagement, our non-executive Directors held sessions with a cross-
section of employees on site visits to our companies. A breakfast meeting was also held with selected employees 
at Accelerate Halma, our group-wide leadership conference, held in October 2022. At these sessions there were 
productive conversations on the role of Remuneration Committee, executive and employee remuneration and a 
range of other topics including job satisfaction and company culture. 

Consideration of shareholder views
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and ‘best practice’ 
guidelines set by shareholder representative bodies.

The Committee actively engaged with shareholders to understand the reasons behind our 2022 AGM voting 
outcomes. Letters were sent to our major shareholders, proxy agencies and shareholder organisations. Meetings 
were held with the shareholders representing circa 30% of share capital. A meeting was also held with Glass Lewis. 
See pages 138 and 139 for further details on these discussions.

The Remuneration Committee also seeks ongoing advice from its external advisers on wider shareholder views, 
to ensure that it is kept up to date with any changes in market practice and shareholder sentiment.

Jo Harlow
Committee Chair 

For and on behalf of the Board

15 June 2023

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 155

Directors’ Remuneration Policy

This section of the Report sets out our Policy in detail. The current Policy for Executive Directors came into effect 
from 22 July 2021, the date of the 2021 AGM and remains unchanged. The Committee intends that the Policy will 
operate for three years.

Principles underpinning our Policy
These principles are:

• A strong pay for performance culture, focusing on the long-term success of the organisation and the alignment 

to business strategy.

• A balance of focus on growth and returns ensuring the creation of shareholder value.
• A dedication to attracting, retaining and motivating the right quality of talent, acknowledging the Halma DNA.
• A focus on being a good corporate citizen in line with our culture, the 2018 Corporate Governance code and market 

best practice.

Policy Review Focus Areas
The areas which the Committee focused on in respect of the 2021 Policy review were:

Shareholder 
alignment
•  Increase to shareholding 
guidelines aligned to 
the increase in 
incentive quantum.

•  Introduction of a two-year 

post-cessation shareholding 
requirement and enhanced 
Malus and Clawback terms.

Pension 

Sustainability 

Quantum reset 

•  Benefit improvement for 

UK employees.

•  Alignment of Executive 
Director offering to the 
wider workforce.

•  No immediate change in 
performance metrics.

•  Flexibility incorporated into 
the Annual Bonus and ESP 
to introduce measures in 
the future.

•  Ensuring robust 

succession planning.
•  Addressing compression 
and retention issues.

How the Policy addresses the factors set out in provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below shows how the Policy addresses each of the factors set out in provision 40 of the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 

Clarity

Simplicity

We ensure pay for performance and our policy is designed to be logical and transparent. We believe this is clearly 
communicated to and understood by our stakeholders and participants.

Remuneration for Executive Directors is comprised of distinct elements: fixed pay, annual bonus award and the 
long-term incentive award.

Risk

A number of features within the Remuneration Policy exist to manage different kinds of risks; these include: 

•  Malus and clawback provisions operating across all incentive plans.
•  The introduction of a post-cessation shareholding requirement.
•  Deferral of remuneration and holding periods.
•  Remuneration Committee discretion to override formulaic outturns to ensure incentive pay-outs reflect 

underlying business performance and shareholder experience.

•  Limits on awards specified within the policy and plan rules.

Predictability

Target ranges and potential maximum payments under each element of remuneration are disclosed. 

The Committee regularly reviews the performance of the inflight awards, so it understands the likely outcomes.

Proportionality

The Committee believes that poor performance should not be rewarded. Therefore, a significant portion of 
remuneration is performance based and requires achievement against challenging performance targets.

Alignment 
to Culture

Our business is performance orientated and our remuneration structure is appropriately aligned to our culture, 
with performance measures for variable awards being aligned to the Company’s wider strategy.

156 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

The Remuneration Policy table
The table below summarises the key components of the Policy:

Fixed Pay: Salary

Purpose and link 
to strategy

A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope of the executive’s responsibilities which attracts 
and retains high calibre talent necessary for the delivery of the Group’s strategy.

Operation

Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities. Salary is benchmarked to market median 
levels periodically against appropriate comparators of a similar size and operating in a similar sector and is 
linked to individual performance and contribution.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.

Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual reviews (normally with effect from 
1 June). Salaries for the financial year under review (and the following year) are disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. Salary increases for Executive Directors will not normally exceed the average of the wider 
employee population other than in exceptional circumstances. Where increases are awarded in excess of the 
wider employee population, for example where there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity 
of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.

Performance metrics Not Applicable.

Fixed Pay: Benefits

Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market.

Benefits are appropriate to the location of the Director and typically comprise (but are not limited to) 
a company car, life insurance, permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation 
and tax advice for international assignments.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the role and circumstances of 
each individual Director. The maximum value will equate to the reasonable market cost of such benefits.

The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost of benefits in exceptional circumstances 
(eg. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc) or in circumstances where 
factors outside the Company’s control have changed materially (eg market increases in insurance costs).

The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant year’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration.

Performance metrics Not Applicable.

Fixed Pay: Pension

Purpose and link  
to strategy

To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the cash allowance equivalent, to provide the 
opportunity for executives to save for their retirement.

Operation

Executive Directors participate in a Group Defined Contribution pension plan.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be made to some individuals at a level 
dependent upon seniority and length of service. Cash supplements may be reduced to reflect the additional 
employer social costs thereon. To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, the 
contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to taxes and social charges.

Some executives are deferred members of the Group Defined Benefit pension plan, which closed to future 
accrual in December 2014

Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 10.5%.

Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 10.5% of salary. Defined Contribution/Money Purchase members 
whose contributions exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, on pensionable salary, 
as a cash supplement, net of employer social costs.

Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of 
final pensionable salary, up to a CPI-indexed cap: £169,337 for 2022 and £174,586 for 2023.

Performance metrics Not Applicable.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 157

Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Annual Bonus

Purpose and link  
to strategy

To incentivise and focus management on the achievement of objective annual targets which are set to 
support the short to medium-term strategy of the Group.

Operation

The structure of the Annual Bonus is reviewed at the start of the year to ensure that the performance measures 
and their weightings remain appropriately aligned with the Group’s strategy and are sufficiently challenging.

Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with reference to a range of relevant 
reference points including the annual budget agreed by the Board. At the end of the year, the Committee 
determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.

Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that is deferred for two years.

Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the 
end of the vesting period.

Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group and enhances the retentiveness of 
the policy. A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup overpayments either through 
withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount in the event of 
misstatement, error or misconduct; serious reputational damage to the business by the individual; and/or 
a breach of the company code of conduct.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Maximum opportunity: 200% of salary for Group CEO, 180% for other Executive Directors. Bonus payable 
at threshold: 0% of salary.

The Committee can exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the scheme 
where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders 
and participants.

Performance metrics The bonus is based on the achievement of financial performance targets, including Economic Value Added 

(EVA). Other financial measures may supplement EVA at the discretion of the Committee.

Such financial measures must comprise at least 80% of the overall bonus opportunity.

The balance of 20% may be utilised, at the Committee’s discretion, to support non-financial, but measurable, 
strategic growth priorities.

Long Term incentive: Executive Share Plan (ESP)

Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders over a three-year period rewarding 
them for sustained performance against challenging long-term targets; to retain key individuals and align 
interests with shareholders, reflecting the sustainability of the business model over the long term and the 
creation of shareholder value.

Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares or a cash equivalent where required by 
regulations as determined by the Committee; awards vest after a period of at least three years based on 
Group performance.

Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end 
of the vesting period, and only on those shares which vest.

A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup overpayments either through withholding 
future remuneration or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount in the event of misstatement, error 
or misconduct; serious reputational damage to the business by the individual; and/or a breach of the company 
code of conduct.

A mandatory two-year holding period applies for awards granted after the 2018 AGM.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Maximum opportunity: Up to 300% of salary for Group CEO, 250% of salary for Group CFO and 200% of salary 
for other Executive Directors.

The Committee can exercise discretion to override the formulaic ESP outcome within the limits of the scheme 
where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders 
and participants and will ensure formulaic outturns do not result in windfall gains.

Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the maximum award

Performance metrics Vesting of performance share awards is subject to continued employment and the Company’s performance 

over a three-year performance period.

Financial measures must comprise at least 80% of the overall ESP opportunity.

The balance of 20% may be utilised, at the Committee’s discretion, to support non-financial, but measurable, 
strategic growth priorities.

158 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Share Incentive Plan (SIP)

Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

Maximum  
Opportunity

To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees using HMRC-approved schemes

The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement. It entitles all eligible UK-based employees to receive Halma shares 
in a potentially tax advantageous manner.

Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time to time.

Performance metrics Not applicable.

Share Ownership Guideline

Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

Align Executive Directors’ interests with those of long-term interests of shareholders.

Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Company’s shares to a minimum value broadly 
equivalent to their ESP award maximum opportunity: 300% for CEO, 250% for CFO and 200% for other 
Executive Directors.

In addition, Executive Directors required to hold shares after cessation of employment. The requirement is 
to hold shares to the value of the share ownership guidelines or actual shareholding (if lower) for a period 
of two years post cessation of employment.

Maximum  
Opportunity

Progress towards the share ownership guideline is monitored on an annual basis.

No maximum holding but requirement to build to minimum value.

Performance metrics Not applicable.

Notes to the Policy Table
Differences in remuneration for employees
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable and share-based 
pay than for other employees, to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful delivery of business 
strategy. This aims to create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received 
by the Executive Directors.

However, the pension arrangements for the current Executive Directors are currently in the process of being aligned 
on the same terms as those offered to eligible UK employees. All UK-based employees have the opportunity to 
participate in the Share Incentive Plan.

Payments from Existing Awards
The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and Executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment 
from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the Policy. Details of these awards are disclosed 
in the Annual Report on Remuneration.

Selection of Performance Measures
The performance measures used in Halma’s executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are 
challenging and reinforce the Group’s strategy and align executive interests closely with those of our shareholders.

In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed (definition is provided 
on page 145) reinforces the Group’s business objective to double every five years through a mix of acquisitions 
and organic growth. Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic 
growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years. Ensuring 
that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit 
of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition. 
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.

Positive impact is at the heart of our business model and this is why we include Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and 
Climate Change as non-financial metrics in our annual bonus. Following our success in increasing gender diversity 
at the Halma and Executive Boards, our current focus is on increasing gender diversity on our company boards. 
Action on climate change is an important part of us delivering on our purpose to grow a safer, cleaner, healthier 
future for everyone, every day and reducing our own emissions is a key priority for us, with year-on-year 
improvement in energy productivity as our target. 

In the ESP, EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment 
through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of 
strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy. 

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 159

Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, considering the Company’s strategic priorities and the 
economic environment in which it operates. Targets are calibrated considering a range of reference points but are 
based primarily on the Group’s strategic plan.

Malus and Clawback
The Committee believes that it is appropriate for all variable pay awards to be subject to provisions that allow it to 
recover any value delivered (or which would otherwise be delivered) in connection with any variable award including 
annual incentive and ESP awards in exceptional circumstances, and where it believes that the value of those 
variable pay awards is no longer appropriate.

Malus provisions apply before payment and clawback provisions are in place following payment of the annual 
bonus (or vesting of any element of annual bonus deferred into an award over shares) or vesting of any ESP award.

The malus and clawback provisions can be used in certain scenarios. Such scenarios include but are not limited to:

• material misstatement of the Company’s financial accounts;
• a material failure of risk management by the Company or any Group company;
• an error in calculation of any awards based on false or misleading information;
• gross misconduct by the relevant participant; and
• any action or omission on the part of a participant resulting in serious reputational damage to the Company, 
any member of the Group; a serious breach or non-observance of any code of conduct, policy or procedure 
operated by the Group.

Illustrations of the application of the Policy
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for Executive Directors, and the 
potential split between different elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: “Fixed”,  
“On-target” and “Maximum”.

Andrew Williams retires and steps down from the Board on 30 June 2023 and as such his future rewards are not 
included in the charts below.

Potential reward opportunities are based on the Policy, applied to salaries as at 1 June 2023. The projected values 
exclude the impact of any share price movements and dividend equivalents.

The “Fixed” scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.

The “On-target” scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target level of 50% of the maximum under 
the annual bonus and vesting of 50% of a single year’s award under the ESP.

The “Maximum” scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum level of annual bonus and ESP awards.

Fixed

On-target

Maximum

Fixed

On-target

Maximum

Fixed

On-target

Maximum

Percentages

100%

31%

18%

28%

41%

33%

Marc Ronchetti, Group Chief Executive

100%

35%

21%

27%

38%

33%

Steve Gunning, Chief Financial Officer

100%

38%

24%

29%

33%

36%

Amounts (£000)
1,023

3,273

49%

5,523

690

1,980

46%

3,270

548

1,449

40%

2,349

Jennifer Ward, Group Talent, Culture and Communications Director 

  Fixed Pay 

 Short-term incentive (Total incentive award) 

  Long-term incentive (Award vests)

160 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Impact of share price
Long-term incentive awards in the ESP are granted in shares and as such the value can vary significantly depending 
on share price movement over the vesting and holding period. The table below shows how the maximum values 
above would change as a result of a 50% change in the share price over the vesting and holding period: 

Executive Director

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

50% increase 
in share price

6,873

4,020

2,823

External appointments
In the case of appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of 
remuneration, as follows:

Component

Approach

Salary

The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the 
individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a 
period of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individual’s development and performance in the role.

Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current Policy, as well as expatriation allowances 

and any necessary expenses relating to an executive’s relocation on appointment.

Pension

New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Company’s defined contribution/money purchase arrangements, 
receive a cash supplement or local equivalent.

Annual 
bonus

The scheme as described in the Policy Table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to 
reflect the proportion of the year employed.

ESP

SIP

New appointees will be granted performance awards under the ESP on the same terms as other executives, as described 
in the Policy Table.

New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.

In addition to the elements of remuneration set out in the Policy Table, in exceptional circumstances the 
Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an incentive award under a different structure in order to 
facilitate the recruitment of an individual or to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In making such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as 
closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached 
to these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the remaining vesting period of these awards.

Internal Appointments
Remuneration for new Executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in 
line with the policy for external appointees, as detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments 
made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour those commitments. Incentive 
opportunities for employees below Board level are generally no higher than for Executive Directors, and incentive 
measures vary to ensure they are appropriate.

Executive Director service contracts and exit payment policies
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing 
for a maximum of one year’s notice. The details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below. 
Contracts will be available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Company’s registered office.

Executive Director

Marc Ronchetti

Steve Gunning

Jennifer Ward

Date of service contract

July 2018

January 2023

January 2014

Notice period

One year

One year

One year

The Company’s policy is to limit payments on cessation to pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event 
that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any amount payable will be determined in accordance 
with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive 
plans. No predetermined amount is provided for in the Directors’ contracts. The UK Executive Director contracts 
enable the Company to pay up to one year’s salary in lieu of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other 
benefits, and, under the rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the individual’s leaving status for 
share plan vesting purposes.

If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 161

Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued

When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive 
outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants. The table below summarises how the 
awards under the annual bonus and share plans are treated in specific circumstances under the rules of the 
relevant plan and the extent to which the Committee has discretion:

Annual bonus

Deferred bonus

Reason for leaving

Timing of payment/vesting

Calculation of payment/vesting

Death, injury or disability, 
redundancy, retirement, or any 
other reasons the Committee 
may determine

After the end of the financial year, 
although the Committee has 
discretion to accelerate (eg in 
relation to death)

Performance against targets will 
be assessed at the end of the 
year in the normal way and any 
resulting bonus normally will be 
pro-rated for time served during 
the year

All other reasons

No bonus is payable

–

Death, injury or disability, 
redundancy, retirement, or any 
other reasons the Committee 
may determine

All other reasons

On the second anniversary of the 
Award

Awards vest in full

On the second anniversary of the 
award (unless the Remuneration 
Committee determines otherwise)

Awards vest in full

Share Plans

Injury or disability, redundancy, 
or any other reason the 
Committee may, at its 
discretion, determine

On the third anniversary of 
the award

Death

Immediately (unless otherwise 
determined by the Committee 
at its discretion)

Awards will normally be pro-rated 
for time to the date of cessation 
of employment and performance 
metrics assessed as at the third 
anniversary

Any outstanding awards normally 
will be pro-rated for time and 
performance up to the point 
of death

All other reasons

Awards lapse

–

External directorships
The Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive 
Directors of other listed companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these roles 
can broaden their experience and knowledge to Halma’s benefit.

Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chair. Approval 
will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Group’s activities and the 
wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual. Where fees are payable in respect of 
such appointments, these are retained by the Executive Director.

Chair and non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy

Chair and non-executive Director fees

Purpose and link  
to strategy

Operation

Maximum 
Opportunity

To attract and retain individuals with the requisite skills, experience and knowledge to contribute to the Board

Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may comprise a base fee, committee chair 
fee and Senior Independent Director fee. The Chair’s fee is determined by the Committee.
Travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be 
reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.

Fees are normally reviewed annually. Increases are typically effective from 1 January.
The fee paid to the Chair is determined by the Committee and fees to non-executive Directors are determined 
by the Board. The fees are calculated by reference to market levels and take account of the time commitment 
and the responsibilities of the non-executive Directors.
These fees are the sole element of non-executive remuneration and they are not eligible for participation in 
Group incentive awards, nor do they receive any retirement benefits.

Performance metrics Not applicable.

162 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Strategic 
Report

Governance

Financial 
Statements

Other 
Information

Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors have a specific three-year term of engagement, subject 
to annual re-election at the AGM, which may be renewed for up to two further three-year terms if both the 
Director and the Board agree. The remuneration of the Chair and the non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Committee and the Board respectively, in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders.

The contract in respect of the Chair’s services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six 
months’ notice.

The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of their services, which can be terminated without 
compensation, by either party, by giving not less than three months’ notice. Contracts are available for 
inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Company’s registered office. Summary details of 
terms and notice periods for non-executive Directors are included below.

Non-executive Director

Date of appointment

Dame Louise Makin

Roy Twite

Tony Rice

Carole Cran

Jo Harlow

Dharmash Mistry

February 2021

July 2014

August 2014

January 2016

October 2016

April 2021

End of next term

No fixed term

July 2023

August 2023

January 2025

October 2025

April 2024

Sharmila Nebhrajani OBE

December 2021

December 2024

Notice period

6 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

3 months

Non-executive Director recruitment
In recruiting a new Chair or non-executive Director, the Committee will use the policy as set out above.

Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023 

 163

Directors’ Report

The Directors present their report on the affairs of 
the Company, together with the audited financial 
statements and Independent Auditors’ Report, for 
the year ended 31 March 2023.

Activities
The Company’s principal activity is to act as a holding 
company. The Company is incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales. A list of its subsidiary companies 
is set out on pages 245 to 250. Subsidiaries of the 
Company have established branches in a number of 
different countries in which they operate. As permitted 
under section 414C (11) of the Companies Act 2006, 
the information set out below, which forms part of this 
Directors’ Report and is incorporated by reference, can 
be located in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102:

• Future developments in the Group’s business.
• Activities of the Group in the field of research 

and development.

• Environmental matters, including greenhouse 

gas emissions.

Dividends
The Directors’ recommend a final dividend of 12.34p per 
share and, if approved, the dividend will be paid on 
18 August 2023 to ordinary shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 14 July 2023. Together with 
the interim dividend of 7.86p per share already paid, this 
will make a total dividend of 20.20p (2022: 18.88p) per 
share for the financial year.

Political donations
In-line with our Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy, the Group did not make any political donations 
or incur any political expenditure during the year.

Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors of the Company as at the date of this 
Report, together with their biographical details, are 
shown on pages 106 and 107. The Remuneration Report 
on page 153 provides details of the interests of each 
Director in the shares of the Company.

Liability insurance and indemnities
The Company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent 
permitted by law, each of the Company’s Directors 
against any liability incurred in respect of acts or 
omissions arising in the course of their office. Each 
Director is covered by appropriate Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance, at the Company’s expense.

Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Disclosures relating to financial risk management 
objectives and policies are set out in note 27 to the 
financial statements and along with exposures relating 
to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk.

164 

  Halma plc |  Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Share capital and capital structure
Details of the share capital, together with details of the 
movements in the share capital during the year, are 
shown in note 23 to the accounts. The Company has 
one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to 
fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote 
at general meetings of the Company.

There are no other classes of share capital. There are no 
specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares, with both governed by the general 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation. No person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’s share capital and all issued 
shares are fully paid.

Rights and obligations of ordinary shares
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the Company and to 
appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares 
is a corporation, one or more corporate representatives. 
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who 
(being an individual) is present in person or (being a 
corporation) is present by a duly appointed corporate 
representative, not themselves being a member, shall 
have one vote, as shall proxies (unless they are 
appointed by more than one holder, in which case 
they may vote both for and against the resolution in 
accordance with the holders’ instructions). On a poll, 
every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by 
proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they 
are the holder.

Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received not later than 48 hours 
before the meeting.

A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to 
vote at general meetings where that holder has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide 
the Company with information concerning interests held 
in those shares. Except as set out above and as permitted 
under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on 
voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number 
of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.

The Company has established an Employee Benefit Trust 
and the trustee has waived its right to vote and its right 
to all dividends.

Restrictions on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a 
certificated share that is not fully paid, provided that 
the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 
Company from taking place on an open and proper 
basis or, where the Company has a lien over that share. 
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a 
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: 
(i) lodged, duly stamped (if necessary), at the registered 
office of the Company or any other place as the Board 
may decide accompanied by the certificate for the 
share(s) to be transferred and/or such other evidence as 
the Directors may reasonably require to show the right 

