Strategic progress.  
Sustainable profitable growth.

Annual report and accounts 2023

We are the 
world’s 
leading 
learning 
company

Strategic report
At a glance

Chair’s note

Chief Executive’s review

Divisional overviews

2023 highlights

Strategic priorities

Divisional spotlights

Stakeholder engagement

Business model

Key performance indicators

Financial review

Sustainability

ESG data

Risk

2

3

6

8

11

12

14

16

22

24

26

34

49

56

Governance report
Corporate governance

Directors’ remuneration report

Additional disclosures

Financial statements

Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Pearson plc

Consolidated financial statements

Company financial statements

Other information

Five-year summary

Financial key performance indicators

Additional information for  
US listing purposes 

Shareholder information

66

107

131

137

146

208

219

221

227

247

The strategic report, up to and including page 65, was 
approved for issue by the Board on 13 March 2024 
and signed on its behalf by:

Sally Johnson Chief Financial Officer

Use this QR code to visit our Pearson plc website 
where you can find the online version of this report.

https://plc.pearson.com/en-
GB/investors/2023-annual-
report-accounts

Strategic progress.  
Sustainable profitable 
growth.

Pearson is a strong company with excellent 
market potential, people committed to our 
mission, and a purpose that can genuinely  
help communities.
Omar Abbosh Chief Executive

At a glance

Corporate overview

At Pearson, we know few things matter to the 
world more than education. That’s why we’re 
all working together to support people on their 
learning journey, wherever that path takes them. 
We’re on a journey too, building a company that 
puts learners at the heart of everything we do.

The future of learning is vibrant, high quality 
learning experiences that help everyone realise 
the life they imagine. 2023 has been a critical 
year in Pearson’s progress toward achieving our 
vision. A changing global economy, a need for 
new and different skills within communities, and 
new technology like generative AI challenged 

Our sustainable business pillars

the education space. Our resilience and ability 
to capitalise on changing market dynamics 
reinforced confidence in our strategy, our 
people, and the strength of our underlying 
business. As we look ahead to 2024, we remain 
committed to our goal of delivering long-term 
profitable growth, while we evolve our strategy 
to seize emerging opportunities and accelerate 
our digital expansion.

This Annual Report showcases strong 2023 
growth, driven by our five divisions and our 
continued efforts to create interconnectivity 
between them. By delivering excellent financial 
results, driving a culture of performance, and 
leaning into new technology, like generative 
AI, we’re making progress every day toward a 
future of sustainable, profitable growth for 2024 
and beyond.

Our purpose

To add life to a lifetime  
of learning.

Our vision 

We want everyone to realise the life they 
imagine through learning.

Our mission 

Create vibrant and enriching learning 
experiences designed for real-life impact.

Driving learning for everyone  
with our products

Empowering our people  
to make a difference

Leading responsibly for  
a better planet

 Read more on Sustainability on page 34

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 2  

Strategic reportChair’s note

Our reshaped portfolio is 
more focused, we are firmly 
established as a digital-
first learning company and 
technology is opening up 
exciting opportunities that  
will drive growth for many  
years to come.
Omid Kordestani Chair

2023 full year dividend growth

6%

Return on capital in 2023

10.3%

Overview

I am delighted to report that Pearson colleagues around the 
world have delivered another strong performance in 2023.  
It has been a transformational year for the business, further 
testament to the strategy we launched three years ago that  
has fundamentally repositioned Pearson so that we can serve 
ever more people through their lifelong learning journey.  
Our reshaped portfolio is more focused, we are firmly 
established as a digital-first learning company and technology  
is opening up exciting opportunities that will drive growth for 
many years to come. 

Our culture has evolved significantly so that there is now a far 
greater sense of accountability across the global business and 
an increased focus on execution and delivery. There is also more 
interconnectivity across our divisions with growing collaboration 
underpinned by a shared belief in the important role Pearson 
plays in improving society through learning.

Financial and operational highlights

For a third consecutive year, Pearson has delivered a strong 
financial performance with sales of £3,674m (£3,841m in 2022), 
representing 5% growth on an underlying basis, excluding the 
OPM and Strategic Review businesses. Statutory operating profit 
was £498m (£271m in 2022), or £573m on an adjusted basis, up 
31% versus 2022. This was supported by our ongoing work to 
streamline the business and make it more efficient. During the 
year we successfully delivered £120m of cost savings, improving 
adjusted operating profit margin to 16%.

Pearson has continued to generate strong free cash flow 
enabling us to maintain a robust financial position whilst also 
supporting ongoing investment in the business. This is fuelling 
Pearson’s evolution, particularly in digital and generative AI which 
are changing the way that people learn for good.

Our strong cash generation enables us to deliver returns 
for shareholders, with a £300m share buyback programme 
commenced in 2023 supplementing our progressive ordinary 
dividend. We have also announced that we will be extending 
this programme by £200m in 2024. Reflecting the strong 
performance in 2023 and its confidence in the outlook for the 
business, the Board is recommending a 6% increase in the final 
dividend for a full year dividend of 22.7 pence per share.

This will be paid on 3 May 2024 to shareholders on the register 
on 22 March 2024. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 3

Strategic reportChair’s note continued

Learning for impact

With our purpose of adding life to a lifetime of learning, we are 
focused on delivering Learning for Impact. We take a considered 
approach to the adoption of technologies such as generative 
AI that have enormous potential but also entail new risks, and 
we are committed to the highest standards of data privacy and 
security. We empower our people to make a difference, making 
further progress on employee engagement in the year as we 
continue to invest in talent and drive a culture of belonging 
that aims for increasingly diverse representation throughout 
the company. We recognise our responsibility to reduce our 
environmental impact, and are on track to meet our target of 
halving our carbon emissions by 2030, having made excellent 
progress to date, with a reduction of 16% vs 2022. This is the 
product of many different initiatives across our operations and 
supply chain, with significant benefits coming from our strategy 
to become increasingly digital, reducing the footprint and 
impacts of our print operations.

The Board

We have a strong, diverse and highly experienced Board which 
continues to offer valuable perspective, insight and leadership. 
There were some changes to the Board during the year due to 
retirement, giving us the opportunity to welcome new talent and 
fresh thinking.

In June, we were delighted to welcome two new Non-Executive 
Directors, Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman. Alison has been 
Chief Financial Officer at Rightmove plc since 2020 and brings 
extensive commercial and operational finance experience, 
specifically in digital businesses. Alex currently serves as The New 
York Times’ Chief Product Officer and was previously at Facebook 
where she served as Head of News Products.

Tim Score, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, will 
step down from the Board at the AGM in April 2024 following 
a nine year tenure. His vast experience has been enormously 
valuable to Pearson and I would like to thank him hugely for 
the significant contribution that he has made to the business. 
I am pleased that Graeme Pitkethly will be taking over the role 
as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director once Tim has 
stepped down. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 4  

CEO succession

In September, we announced that Andy Bird would be retiring 
from his role as our Chief Executive. On behalf of the Board 
and all the Group’s stakeholders, I would like to thank Andy 
for his outstanding leadership, and his implementation of the 
ambitious vision and strategy that have successfully transitioned 
Pearson into the business we are today. During his tenure, 
adjusted operating profit has increased from £313m to £573m, 
and shareholders have benefited from a total 3-year return of 
53%. Andy has accelerated our digital proposition and capability 
so that 82% of our portfolio today is digital or digitally-enabled. 
The launch of Pearson+ in July 2021 has been an important 
contributor, bringing us meaningfully closer to consumers and 
the platform had grown to around 5m registered users by the 
end of the full calendar year. 

AI has been part of Pearson’s DNA for many years, and under 
Andy’s stewardship, we have leveraged advances in generative 
AI to enhance the value of our content with plans to make it 
available to millions more students across key titles in the year 
ahead. Having also put in place a strong management team, 
Andy leaves Pearson well-placed for the future.

Following a thorough selection process, which you can read 
more about on pages 83 and 91 respectively, the Board was 
delighted to appoint Omar Abbosh to succeed Andy. Omar is an 
inspirational, dynamic and growth-orientated leader with deep 
commercial, technology and operational expertise focused on 
delivering high-quality services and products across diverse 
markets and customer sets. He has extensive experience in 
creating and executing strategies to enable companies to 
harness technology and succeed in a world of disruptive change. 
He shares our values and our ambition and has a strong track 
record of execution. Omar joined us in January 2024 and the 
Board and I are enjoying working with him as we accelerate our 
strategy and continue to deliver value for all our stakeholders.

Strategic reportTotal 1-year 
shareholder return
5%

Our robust financial  
position and strong 
cash generation enable 
investment to strengthen 
our platform for the  
future while also funding 
attractive distributions  
to shareholders.

Governance

Through my face-to-face meetings with investors during the past 
year, I have heard first-hand views on a range of topics including 
strategy, succession, corporate governance, remuneration, 
environmental and social issues, as well as operational and 
financial performance. We have taken all their feedback and 
again sought to enhance our disclosures in this Annual Report.  
I look forward to hearing how we can continue to improve.

We have engaged extensively over the past year on 
remuneration with shareholders and their advisors, and 
executive remuneration remains a key area of focus for both 
the Board and the Remuneration Committee. The directors’ 
remuneration policy that was approved at last year’s AGM seeks 
to ensure that we can attract and retain the talent required to 
drive Pearson’s success; that our executives are appropriately 
incentivised to achieve stretching targets; and that the structure 
of such incentives best aligns with the interests of shareholders 
and supports the delivery of long-term, sustainable returns. It’s 
important to underline that incentives will only be realised in full 
if stretching annual and longer-term performance targets are 
met. Sherry Coutu CBE, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
sets out our approach on pages 107-109. 

Outlook

Our strong performance in 2023 underpins our confidence that 
we have the right strategy in place to drive continued sustainable 
growth. Our robust financial position and strong cash generation 
enable investment to strengthen our platform for the future 
while also funding attractive distributions to shareholders. We 
are excited about the experience and expertise that Omar brings 
to Pearson. Pearson is well-placed to make good progress in the 
year ahead and beyond. 

Omid Kordestani Chair

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 5

Strategic reportChief Executive’s review

Pearson is  
well positioned 
today, with  
a stable platform 
for continued 
growth.

Omar Abbosh Chief Executive

Sales

£3,674m

(2022: £3,841m) headline decrease of 4%

Statutory operating profit 

£498m

increase year on year of 84%

Underlying sales growth increase

Adjusted operating profit in 2023

5%*

£573m

increase year on year of 31%  
on an underlying basis

Dear Shareholders,
I want to start by sharing how delighted I am to join this very 
special company alongside this talented and passionate group  
of Pearson employees.

I’m pleased to report another year of strong financial 
performance with underlying sales growth of 5% and adjusted 
operating profit of £573m, up 31% compared to 2022. We have 
also improved the adjusted operating profit margin by 4% to 
16%. This has been driven by our strong execution and the 
combination of our unique capabilities in assessment, content, 
and services, all of which stand us in good stead going forward. 

Delivering for Growth

These results reflect exciting progress across the business  
and especially strong financial performance in Assessment  
& Qualifications and English Language Learning. Further,  
our commitment to cost efficiencies delivered £120m in savings 
for the Group. Our careful stewardship of shareholder funds 
means we launched a share buyback of £300m in 2023 and 
announced an extension of this by a further £200m in 2024.  
Our strong balance sheet and excellent cash flows help us  
invest in opportunities to drive growth and create further  
value for our stakeholders. 

Several strategic achievements in 2023 
also laid the foundation for our future:

 — In Assessment & Qualifications, we saw strong performance 
in Pearson VUE, particularly in the IT and healthcare sectors. 
We completed the acquisition of PDRI, a trusted provider 
of workforce assessment services. In this business, we are 
already seeing promising revenue generation and new 
contracts with the US federal government. 

 — In English Language Learning, we won recognition for the 

Pearson Test of English in Canada for student and economic 
migration visas. With English as the gateway to employment 
and study in Canada, this opens a significant new business 
opportunity for us. In partnership with Pearson VUE, we 
opened our largest test centre, to help serve the growing PTE 
market in India. We also launched workplace specific content 
as well as other enhanced features in Mondly. 

 * Taking portfolio adjustments and FX into account and excluding the OPM and Strategic Review businesses.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 6  

Strategic report — Generative AI was a major focal point in Higher Education as 
we began the beta of our AI tools in Mastering and Pearson+. 
With over 60,000 AI conversations in Mastering Chemistry 
alone, we are helping students learn the most complex 
concepts. The positive student reaction to the tools led us to 
expand the beta for 2024. What’s more, Pearson+ passed the 
milestone of one million paid subscriptions this calendar year. 
All of this taken together with improved platform stability and 
improvements in our sales teams, meant Pearson’s Higher 
Education division increased platform sales while making 
significant strides in its overall digital consumer experiences.

 — Within our Workforce Skills business, we evolved from a 

unified product approach to building a powerful technology 
stack that has enabled us to expose the core capabilities as 
modular offerings that can be tailored to our customers. This 
is just one element underpinning the solid sales figures we 
saw in 2023. 

 — Virtual Learning launched a new Connections Academy 

Career Pathways programme in five schools to offer students 
high school, university, and career credentials through an 
innovative tri-credit approach. We plan to roll out the initiative 
to more schools in 2024. 

 — Finally, in a major step toward the simplification of our 
portfolio, we completed the sale of our Pearson Online 
Learning Services business in June. 

This progress could not have happened without the leadership 
of Andy Bird. He paved the way for us, and I’d like to thank him 
for laying the groundwork for our bright days ahead. 

Looking Forward with Confidence

Since I joined Pearson, I’ve become even more confident  
about the reasons I came here. 

First, it’s clear to me that Pearson is a strong, stable company 
with many growth options. Second, we have a purpose that is 
unmatched and a genuine ability to help people on their learning 
journey which, quite literally, changes lives. Finally, our world is 
also at an inflection point with AI. The next decade will centre 
on the application of AI in business, in communities, and in our 
individual lives. 

The opportunities to use AI as a tool for better learning, while 
driving growth in our business are immense. With our vast, high 
quality data sets and our trusted IP, we are well positioned to 
lead on creating value from AI in the future.

It’s against this backdrop that I’m setting three strategic priorities 
for 2024. Firstly, we will deliver on our 2024 guidance with an 
intense focus on organic growth, execution, and the needs of 
our customers. Secondly, we are sharpening our focus on the 
enterprise market. This is a large and still forming market, with 
no dominant player and presents good opportunity for us. 
Thirdly, we’re optimistic about the possibilities that AI brings. We 
are increasing the energy by which we infuse our products and 
services with AI solutions that delight and support customers  
and consumers.

A Future Built on Our Strengths

At Pearson we do three things. We create and curate world class 
learning and assessment content. We distribute this content 
digitally and through physical materials to millions of users 
globally. And we help individuals, employers and institutions build 
and verify skills.

These activities are made possible by our unique strengths, 
such as our long term and diverse customer relationships; the 
global size and scale of our Pearson VUE business; the depth 
and quality of our content in textbooks, assessments, videos, and 
exams; our network of trusted authors; the differentiated Global 
Scale of English; our deep expertise in learning science; and 
above all, our trusted and well-respected brand.

These strengths are a testament to the wonderful people of 
Pearson, and I want to thank them for their contribution to our 
success in 2023. I am excited for their partnership as we evolve 
our company to meet the diverse needs of learners around  
the world. 

I believe Pearson is that rare type of company with an ability 
to deliver sustainable growth alongside a purpose that is 
meaningful to millions of people.

There is much more to come from Pearson. 

Omar Abbosh Chief Executive

The opportunities to use AI 
as a tool for better learning, 
while driving growth in 
our business are immense. 
With our vast, high quality 
data sets and our trusted 
IP, we are well positioned 
to lead on creating value 
from AI in the future.

Free cash flow in 2023

£387m

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 7

Strategic reportDivisional overviews

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

Sales
£1,559m

Sales
£616m

Following the sale of the Pearson Online Learning Services 
business in the first half of 2023 and the loss of the ASU contract, 
the Virtual Learning business now works with customers in  
three ways: Partner Schools (c.95% sales), District Partnerships 
(c.3% sales), and Pearson Online Academy (c.2% sales). 

The Partner Schools business provides tailored Virtual School 
solutions to public K-12 districts in the US, combining Pearson's 
courseware, instructional services, and support for high-quality, 
flexible online learning. Although providing much smaller  
revenue contribution, the District Partnerships channel  
offers customisable virtual education solutions for K-12  
districts, focusing on smaller student cohorts with a more 
disaggregated approach than Partner Schools, ensuring  
access to quality, adaptable remote learning for various needs. 
We also offer Pearson Online Academy, which while small, 
extends similar services to Partner Schools but as a private, 
globally accessible option. 

Virtual Learning launched a new Connections Academy Career 
Pathways programme in five schools for middle and high school 
students, where we are offering a tri-credit approach to career-
readiness courses in partnership with Coursera and Acadeum, 
amongst others. We saw encouraging enrolment trends in these 
schools and are planning to roll the initiative out to additional 
schools in 2024 to drive future growth. 

The Assessment & Qualifications division comprises four 
business units: Pearson VUE, Clinical Assessment, US Student 
Assessment, and UK & International School Qualifications. 
Pearson VUE excels as a global leader in scaled testing services, 
serving numerous industry sectors with its extensive test centre 
network and flexible delivery options. This line of business 
meets the critical need for workforce reskilling and professional 
certification, underpinning professional development at various 
stages. In Clinical Assessment, Pearson provides high-quality, 
research-backed assessment products for mental health and 
learning evaluations, serving professionals in healthcare  
and education. 

Pearson's US Student Assessment specialises in customised 
large-scale testing programmes for US K-12 education, focusing 
on state-specific criteria and enhancing education standards. 
Internationally, Pearson offers globally recognised UK curriculum 
based qualifications such as GCSEs and A-levels, as well as 
courseware for English speaking regions throughout the world, 
supporting foundational student progression worldwide. These 
qualifications, coupled with Pearson's content expertise and 
scale of delivery, make it a key player in shaping global education 
standards and student futures. 

In 2023, the division demonstrated strong financial performance, 
growth, and overall customer retention. 2024 will focus on 
maintaining strong competitive positions through contract 
renewals and new wins, while scaling value chain and adjacent 
market opportunities.

Select plans include VUE moving further up the technology 
certification value chain, UK & International Qualifications 
capitalising on the growing demand for international education 
and Clinical Assessment building out its international portfolio 
and creating new digitally-enabled business subscription models.

Assessments sit at the heart 
of the value we bring to 
customers. Our ability to 
deliver in large volumes, 
in multiple languages, and 
across countries all over the 
world, makes us a trusted 
provider of choice.

Art Valentine President – Assessment  
& Qualifications

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 8  

Strategic reportHigher Education

English Language Learning

Sales
£855m

Sales
£415m

Pearson is the market leader in providing world-class learning 
experiences in the post-secondary market. Renowned as a 
market leader in both eText and courseware products, including 
MyLabs, Mastering, Pearson+ and Revel, Pearson caters to 
millions of students worldwide.

Pearson’s goal is to scale teaching excellence, enhance learner 
outcomes, and to support faculty in their workflows. Pearson’s 
strength lies in its relationship with authors, its proprietary 
educational technology platforms, and deep understanding of 
learning science, all of which are evolving with the AI landscape. 
Pearson’s close relationships with instructors and faculty, 
who play a key role in adopting course materials, contribute 
significantly to its competitive edge.

In 2023, Pearson was the first major higher education publisher 
to integrate generative AI study tools into its propriety academic 
content. It also grew Pearson+ subscriptions, adding over 1 
million eTextbook subscriptions during the calendar year. In the 
upcoming year, the focus is on scaling AI-enhanced offerings and 
continuing to deliver outstanding value for learners and faculty 
with significant product upgrades.

Our vision is to become the world’s leading destination for 
committed learners to build and prove their proficiency in 
English, offering comprehensive English learning and assessment 
solutions, including the Pearson Test of English (PTE). Catering 
to a wide range of learners, including those in workplaces, 
schools (via institutional courseware and the Wizard platform), 
and individuals (through Mondly), Pearson provides diverse 
avenues for English proficiency. Central to Pearson's approach 
is the blend of leading pedagogical expertise in English language 
education with advanced technology. This strategy is geared 
towards delivering personalised, scalable English language 
learning for anyone seeking to use English for their personal or 
professional goals.

English Language Learning expanded partnerships and grew 
the PTE business in 2023, administering over 1 million tests. The 
2024 strategy includes scaling the PTE business in Canada and 
growing corporate assessment and study offerings, leveraging 
technological advancements.

What learners are demanding 
is evolving. We are listening 
to these changing needs and 
expectations, and enhancing 
our products to help students 
succeed in their learning goals.

Tom ap Simon President – Higher Education 
and Virtual Learning

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 9

Strategic reportDivisional overviews continued

Workforce Skills

Sales
£220m

The Workforce Skills division at Pearson includes both Vocational 
Qualifications (VQ) and Workforce Solutions. Pearson VQ 
is a global leader in career-focused qualifications, offering 
programmes that are rooted in real-world work scenarios. 
These qualifications enable hundreds of thousands of students, 
apprentices, and workers in the UK and globally to develop 
and apply knowledge, skills, and behaviours essential for 
employability. One in five working-age individuals in the UK 
holds a BTEC from Pearson, and its vocational qualifications are 
increasingly adopted by global ministries of education to advance 
skills reform.

Pearson Workforce Solutions addresses the evolving needs 
of businesses for skilled talent in a rapidly changing economy. 
Workforce Solutions assists companies in understanding and 
bridging their skills gaps, fostering genuine skills development 
aligned with commercial objectives. Pearson's corporate and 
employee solutions are modular and interconnected by a 
common skills framework, supporting organisations at various 
stages of their skills transformation journey and optimising their 
existing tools for maximum impact.

2023 saw us deliver a solid performance, with our qualifications 
performing well in institutional and corporate markets, and 
Workforce Solutions continuing to acquire new customers 
and expand existing relationships. The 2024 agenda includes 
driving market share gains, expanding addressable markets, and 
developing upskilling and reskilling solutions through  
key partnerships.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 10  

Strategic report2023 highlights

A year of strategic and 
operational progress

Sales

£3,674m

(2022: £3,841m) headline

decrease of 4%

Underlying sales growth 
increase of 

5%*

Statutory operating profit 

£498m

increase year on year of 84%

Adjusted operating profit

£573m

increase year on year of 31% 
on an underlying basis

 * Taking portfolio adjustments and FX into account and excluding the OPM and 

Strategic Review businesses

Acquired PDRI  
to drive additional 
growth in our biggest 
business: Assessment  
& Qualifications

 Read more on page 32

Delivered £120m cost 
savings, accelerating 
Group adjusted 
operating profit margin 
expansion to 16%

 Read more on page 3

Launched beta versions 
of generative AI tools 
in Mastering and MyLab 
and Pearson+

 Read more on page 9

Strong cash 
performance, with free 
cash flow of £387m, 
and launched a £300m 
share buyback 

 Read more on page 31

The success of Pearson+  
is proof we’re delivering on 
our commitment to give 
students the vibrant and 
enriching learning  
experiences they deserve.
Lynne Frank Chief Marketing Officer and Co-
President, Direct to Consumer

Passed milestone  
of 1m cumulative  
paid subscriptions  
for Pearson+

 Read more on page 15

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 11

Strategic reportStrategic priorities

An integrated strategy

Key

AQ

Assessment & Qualifications

WS

Workforce Skills

VL

Virtual Learning

HE

Higher Education

EL

English Language Learning

DC

Direct to consumer offering

Our corporate strategy is grounded in three primary objectives – 1) to deliver sustainable, profitable sales growth, 2) to focus on 
execution, quality, and trust across the business, and 3) to delight our customers and be obsessed with meeting their expectations. We 
will achieve these objectives through our continued dedicated commitment to building trusted relationships with consumers throughout 
their lifelong learning journey via an ecosystem of interconnected solutions. 

Realising this vision will require us to remain focused on increasing our scale and reach by investing in and deepening our institutional, enterprise, government, and direct to consumer relationships. We will 
continue to capitalise on synergies across our businesses and lean into our competitive strengths, most notably as a global leader in trusted learning content and assessments.

We believe that by enabling consumers with best-in-class, integrated tools for learning, along with the assessments and credentials to demonstrate their knowledge and skills, we will create lasting value for 
our customers, learners, and other stakeholders, whilst delivering outsized growth for our investors.

Strategic Priority #1: Pearson’s commitment to sustainable and profitable revenue growth yielded important achievements across its divisions, underlining the company’s market-leading capabilities  
and strategic execution. Looking to 2024, Pearson’s strategic focus remains steadfast on continuing to deliver profitable revenue growth, with each division poised to expand its market impact through 
targeted initiatives.

Strategic priority 

Progress in FY23

Objectives for FY24

AQ Acquired PDRI in March 2023, leading to major federal contract wins with the TSA and 

AQ Scale value chain and adjacent market opportunities across sub-divisions, with a 

US Air Force 

HE

Invested in product improvements and implemented new sales teams and processes, 
in addition to achieving a profitability increase of 3% driven by cost savings

Deliver 
sustainable 
and 
profitable 
revenue 
growth

EL Grew PTE volumes c.50% to over 1m tests administered and earned recognition for the 

Student Direct Stream and Migration in Canada

VL Launched and enrolled over 1k students in an innovative career readiness offering 

continued drive to grow within the federal market by providing secure and scalable 
testing services tailored to the government workforce

HE Pilot innovative courseware pricing models to drive competitiveness in the growing 
Open Educational Resources (OER) and Do-It-Yourself (DIY) market segments, whilst 
continuing to drive international market growth with targeted investments in the Higher 
Education sector

EL Further scale the PTE business and continue to gain market share in Canada, as well as 
expand the corporate offerings for assessment and study by leveraging the flexibility of 
the Mondly and Versant (mid-stakes assessment) platforms

VL Transform the enrolment funnel to bring down the lead-to-enrolment time to 1-2 
weeks, a c.75% reduction, aiming to improve student acquisition and retention

WS Expanded workforce reach to 66 of the Fortune 500 companies, achieving a growth rate 

WS

of 11%

Invest in skills intelligence, credentialing, and assessment solutions, and evolve 
corporate solutions from single to multi-product sales

DC Grew the Pearson+ platform to around 5m registered users by end of calendar year 
2023 and passed the milestone of 1m cumulative paid subscriptions for the same 
calendar year

DC Drive Pearson+ growth by expanding distribution and further scaling  

Channels subscriptions

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 12  

Strategic report 
 
 
 
 
Key

AQ

Assessment & Qualifications

WS

Workforce Skills

VL

Virtual Learning

HE

Higher Education

EL

English Language Learning

DC

Direct to consumer offering

Strategic Priority #2: Pearson’s focus on execution, quality, and trust across its business divisions led to significant achievements, reinforcing its position as a leader in educational services and products. 
Looking forward, Pearson is set to further strengthen this commitment across all business divisions, with a clear focus on innovation and strategic development.

Strategic priority 

Progress in FY23

Objectives for FY24

AQ Launched the Pearson Assessment for Learning Suite - a complementary set of services for 

AQ Invest in product and platform development to improve and expand go-to-market efforts 

US school districts

in 2024

Focus on 
execution, 
quality, and 
trust across 
the business

HE Retained the market-leading position within the Higher Education space driven by 
reaffirming commitment to sales leadership and enhancing execution capability

HE Continue to develop innovative AI features and product enhancements

EL Launched an enhanced e-commerce journey and fortified relationships with key PTE 

regional partners

EL

Invest in digital platforms and experiences, and utilise the Mondly platform as a versatile 
tool for trialling technology capabilities and propositions

VL Reduced marketing cost per enrolment by approximately 25% over the last year, significantly 

VL Target development of an additional 15 career programmes, up from five last year, and 

improving operational efficiency

scale to new schools and states

WS

Improved performance in qualification result delivery within Vocational Qualifications 
ensuring learners had their results when needed

WS Prioritise technology based strategic projects, such as leveraging AI in quality assurance 

within the enterprise qualifications businesses

DC Enhanced Pearson+ from primarily an e-reading platform to a more robust educational 

DC Expand course offerings available on the Channels platform, building on the 23 college 

resource by introducing Channels, delivering tutorial video content and practice problems

courses supported in 2023

Strategic Priority #3: Pearson’s dedication to delighting customers and providing exceptional educational experiences was evident across all divisions. Looking ahead, the divisions will continue to drive 
this strategic initiative, ensuring that customer satisfaction remains at the forefront of the company’s operations.

Delight our 
customers 
and be 
obsessed 
with meeting 
their 
expectations

AQ Improved standards of customer care across the A&Q businesses, with examples including 
shifting from a regional to global approach model, in addition to VUE opening its largest 
company-owned test centre in Chandigarh, India, with capacity to deliver 14k high-stakes 
tests per month

HE Piloted and launched AI-enhanced eText and Mastering titles, incorporating cutting-edge 

technology

EL

Improved the e-commerce journey for PTE, making it easier for customers to access and 
purchase products, enhancing the overall user experience and improving the NPS score 
from 52 to 55

AQ Expand VUE value chain capabilities into learning and test prep for the technology 

certification segment, and release major flagship revisions for the Clinical Assessment sub-
division that maintain brand promise but meet current market needs

HE

EL

Increase the selection of AI-enhanced titles and invest in the channels component of 
Pearson+ with diverse formats, including integrated videos

Implement more advanced Mondly content and expand reach to institutional and 
enterprise customers by harnessing synergies with the wider ELL portfolio

VL Created c.370k custom assessments since the start of the 2023/24 school year, exceeding 

VL

the initial target by more than 20x, enabling teachers to further improve the student learning 
experience and maintain a strong NPS score of +67

Improve overall customer satisfaction by integrating content directly onto the Virtual 
Learning platform, in addition to driving operational improvements and expanding 
programme offerings

WS Streamlined operations and implemented an improved go-to-market strategy for strategic 
accounts, utilising an integrated, team-selling approach to capitalise on strong traction with 
government entities and large organisations for Workforce Solutions

WS Develop customised solutions and professional services that align with enterprise 

requirements, and launch the Official GED App by Summer 2024

DC

Invested in AI and introduced AI-generated content summarisation, explanations, and 
practice quizzes to enhance the user experience within Pearson+

DC Leverage the interconnectedness of Pearson+ with Higher Education’s courseware to 

enhance personalisation and trial career-focused propositions

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 13

Strategic report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divisional spotlights

Assessment & Qualifications

Spotlight on Clinical Assessment: Business model innovation enabled 
by digital capability, driving growth and customer satisfaction in K-12 
Special Education

Opportunity

Our Clinical Assessment business represents one of the four 
sub-divisions within Assessment & Qualifications. We have been a 
longstanding leader in special education assessment, catering to 
the requirements of psychologists, educators, speech pathologists, 
and other professionals that support the special learning needs of 
students. Throughout our interactions, we always aim to match the 
evolving needs of the important customers we serve with our gold-
standard products and state-of-the-art capabilities. Our portfolio of 
intellectual property drives much of our competitive advantage as we 
offer hundreds of products to the market to support a broad array  
of needs.

Meeting the growing mental health and learning support needs 
of student populations has become increasingly complex, making 
resource planning for physical assessment products difficult at best. 
With our Digital Assessment Library for Schools (DALS) offering, 
we leverage our expertise and digital innovation to remove the 
guesswork from resource planning.

Progress so far

In 2017 we launched DALS, a subscription offering that provides 
unlimited access to an industry-leading set of testing instruments. 
Our Special Education customers are no longer forced to commit to 
specific evaluation products and diagnostic needs of an unknown 
student population and are freed from having to anticipate inventory 
and its cost implications during the budget season. Our customers 
are excited by the cost-predictability. But more importantly, the 
access to a broader set of instruments allows our professionals 
to tailor evaluations to the unique needs of individual students, 
improving responsible and efficacious use of Individualised Education 
Plan (IEP) funding. 

Since its inception, DALS has quickly become the preferred model for 
Special Education, which is outlined by its exceptional growth. In fact, 
other clinical assessment publishers have recognised the importance 
of DALS and we have begun offering optional DALS upgrades that can 
include competitor products.

DALS has achieved year-over-year growth of 23% and a five-year 
CAGR at nearly 80%, supported by exceptional renewal rates. It is 
now being used by districts servicing 25% of IEPs currently in place 
across the country. In 2023, we signed deals with some of the largest 
and most influential school districts in the US, including Chicago 
Public Schools, Miami-Dade, and Los Angeles Unified School District. 
These deals represent a strong endorsement of the value and quality 
of this offering, and we are honoured to be a trusted partner.

As we look ahead to 2024 and beyond, we are excited to expand the 
subscription model to new regions and markets, and are currently in 
the process of exploring expansion into the healthcare and private 
practice segments. In addition to this, we plan to introduce new 
features and functionalities that will further differentiate our offering 
from the competition. Some of the highlights include:

 — Expanding DALS in Canada, Australia, and the UK, where we 

have already introduced the model in 2023 and received positive 
feedback from customers. We will continue to market and 
promote DALS in these regions, as well as explore opportunities in 
other international markets.

 — Launching the Digital Assessment Library for University & College 
Counselling Centres, a new segment that has a high demand 
for mental health assessments and interventions, especially in 
the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have partnered with 
Titanium Schedule, a leading software provider for counselling 
centres, to integrate our offering into their platform and reach 
their existing customer base.

 — Adding new and revised assessments to the DALS portfolio, as 

well as complementary assessments from other test publishers, 
such as the MHS Education Library. This will ensure that our 
DALS customers have access to the most up-to-date and 
comprehensive selection of digital assessments available.

The Digital Assessment Library has been an important evolutionary 
step for Pearson, reinforcing our leadership by facilitating a 
virtuous cycle of innovation, customer feedback, and continuous 
improvement, as we leverage our digital platforms and data to 
enhance our products and services. We are confident that our 
offering will continue to drive growth and customer satisfaction for 
our business in 2024 and beyond.

The benefits of  
targeted investment, 
reshaping the  
portfolio, and delivering 
on strategy are 
reflected in our strong 
financial performance.

Sue Kolloru Chief Strategy Officer

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 14  

Strategic reportEnglish Language Learning

Spotlight on PTE, part of our high-stakes 
assessments business

Opportunity

Our business is centred on three key 
components which represent a c.£6bn 
addressable market: 

 — High Stakes Assessments: an addressable 
market upwards of £900m. Our flagship 
product PTE is a verified, secure 
certification of English proficiency for 
international migrants and students.

 — Institutional English Language Learning: 
an addressable market of c.£3bn. We 
offer digital and blended courseware 
solutions to academic institutions, private 
language schools and enterprises across 
the globe. 

 — Online Direct to Consumer: an 

addressable market of c.£2bn, which we 
have entered through our acquisition  
of Mondly.

Progress so far
Our high-stakes assessments business 
saw strong volume growth of c.50% in 
2023, driven by market share gains in key 
countries like India. The past year has also 
seen our PTE product earn key approval for 
the Student Direct Stream and Migration 
in Canada; these notable recognitions 
underscore the impact and extensive reach 
that our initiatives have had within the 
broader language learning sphere.

Our achievements in the broader high-stakes 
assessments space have been underpinned 
by a holistic comprehension of the 
challenges faced by test takers coupled with 
a commitment to solving their pain points. 
A key driver of our success lies in creating 
a better end-to-end experience for the test 
taker, from booking their test, preparing  
for it, and taking it in one sitting in our  
highly secure and convenient VUE  
test centres, to receiving their score in 
industry-leading return times, with bias  
and stress removed from the scoring 
process. Strategic collaborations with 
local partners in key markets have proven 
instrumental in scaling our operations and 
driving sales. Concurrently, our impactful 
hyper-local marketing campaigns have 
effectively heightened awareness of our 
distinctive offerings, further solidifying  
our market position.

We enter 2024 in a strong position, 
continuing the momentum from the prior 
year. We are poised to continue investing 
in our high-stakes assessment ecosystem, 
encompassing advancements in assessment 
technology, strategic partnerships, and 
test security and integrity. These initiatives 
are strategically aligned to elevate the 
overall customer experience, fostering 
increased market share gains. In addition, 
our commitment extends to the expansion 
and scaling of assessments within our 
portfolio, including our Versant suite of tests. 
These endeavours reflect our dedication 
to sustained growth and excellence in the 
dynamic landscape of mid- and high-stakes 
assessments. With our combination of 
technological capability and deep learning 
expertise, we will continue to bring real value 
to the language learning market.

Pearson+

Spotlight on the development of our  
Channels feature alongside user growth  
and monetisation

Opportunity

We are a frontrunner in the Higher Education 
courseware market, with our influence 
underscored by the millions of students 
currently enrolled in courses utilising 
Pearson eTextbooks.

Capitalising on this robust market position, 
our initiatives are outlined in two phases 
over the forthcoming year:

1.  Shift eTextbook consumption directly to 
Pearson+ and improve monetisation

2.  Engage and retain students with 

relevant and valuable services beyond 
eTextbooks, to improve average revenue 
per user, and ultimately consumer 
lifetime value

Pearson+ is currently monetised through 
paid access to eTextbooks by students 
after the faculty adopts content in their 
courses. Our existing Higher Education 
business provides a large, efficient customer 
acquisition funnel for Pearson+. Study 
features, such as Pearson+ Channels, will 
encourage further use of the application 
beyond the eTextbook. Over time, Pearson+ 
users can be further monetised through 
cross-selling other relevant Pearson 
products and services, such as Mondly.

Progress so far

Over 2023 we made significant progress 
advancing our Pearson+ strategy. Most 
notably, we added and enhanced what 
students want, including beta AI study 
features in three titles, improved search, 
simpler e-commerce, and an overall better 
user experience. 

By further developing Channels with video 
content and practice questions this year, 
Pearson+ is an increasingly valuable study 
tool for students in 23 college courses, 
including courses that do not require 
Pearson eTextbooks. To provide increased 
access, we have also bundled together 
Pearson+ eTextbooks and Channels in an 
affordable “Study and Exam Prep Pack”.

For the first time, we saw Pearson+ reach 
1m paid subscriptions in a calendar year, 
with the total number of Pearson+ registered 
users reaching around 5m by the end of the 
2023 calendar year, validating the platforms 
appeal and effectiveness in meeting the 
diverse needs of our audience.

Looking ahead to 2024, we aim to drive 
continued growth by expanding our 
distribution. Additionally, we plan to 
capitalise on the synergies between 
Pearson+ and Higher Education’s 
courseware, in particular the combined 
platform capabilities, and use this as a 
springboard to optimise personalisation  
and diversify our course offerings. As we 
continue to expand our reach and enhance 
the value proposition of Pearson+, these 
initiatives serve as a testament to our 
commitment to innovation and our ability to 
deliver products and services that resonate 
with our user base. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 15

Strategic reportStakeholder engagement

Learning from our stakeholders

As learning evolves into something more fluid and more necessary across our lifetime, the needs of learners are changing too. Our ability 
to meet them at this pivotal moment, depends in part on our ability to engage with and mobilise a diverse group of stakeholders. We are 
building a company that is digital-first and puts the consumer at the heart of all we do. 

Building strong relationships inside and outside Pearson means we can make an impact on the people and communities we serve. In return, all of these stakeholders - consumers, employees, shareholders, 
educators, employers, business partners, and government - can make a positive impact on our business. This year, more than ever, we’ve seen a renewed effort to partner with stakeholders to respond to the 
needs of people as they move through different life stages. 

We all benefit when a cross-section of stakeholders collaborate and come together to meet the needs of learners and to help to drive growth for the company. 

Consumers

Why and how we engage
With our efforts to engage more deeply with consumers, Pearson 
is bringing to life its commitment to put the consumer at the 
heart of everything we do. This helps us more fully understand 
how consumers use our products, perceive the company, and 
feel about the trends driving learning in a digital era. 

We research and engage with consumers holistically, by studying 
how they use our products, how they think, and the culture that 
shapes their behaviour. This includes conducting consumer focus 
groups and ethnographic research, trend and sentiment analysis, 
and competitive analysis. 

In some specific cases, this also includes surveying consumers 
directly via our products. This kind of engagement recently has 
been used in Pearson+ and in Mastering to gauge user opinions 
on the effectiveness of our new generative AI study tools. In 
those cases, students were asked if they believe that the tools 
were helpful in their studies and how likely they were to use 
them again. Product teams for both products have also been 
engaging indirectly with consumers by analysing layers of student 
usage data and testing enhancements based on that. 

Finally, we are making a concerted effort to push consumer 
insights further into the company, through newsletters, employee 
learning sessions, and other resources. This helps us cultivate an 
‘outside-in’ approach to understand the people who buy and use 
our products and services and generates greater awareness of 
the culture and trends impacting our business. 

Outcome of engagement 
Understanding our consumers allows us to be more effective 
in the design and creation of products, along with go-to-market 
strategies and ongoing implementation. 

Consumer feedback has been particularly critical as Pearson 
rolled out its beta of generative AI features in Pearson+ and 
Mastering. Student feedback early in the design process was 
clear in telling us that students wanted AI features that helped 
them obtain better grades. Designers were able to focus on 
the features that would be most effective in doing that. By the 
end of the Autumn 2023 semester, 75% of those using the AI 
study tools ranked them as helpful or very helpful. In Pearson+ 
and Mastering, product managers have been acting on other 
user feedback to improve AI experiences in real time, including 
adjusting tonality to meet student prompts and incorporating 
positive language to encourage students to succeed. Together, 
the feedback before and during the beta will lead to the expansion 
of AI study in at least 40 more Mastering and MyLab titles. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 16  

Strategic reportEducational institutions  
and educators

Why and how we engage
Educators are a cornerstone of our business and they maintain a 
close relationship with learners. Our engagement with educators 
helps to improve the teaching and learning experience, and often 
provides them with valuable professional development and gives 
Pearson insights on the needs of learners at all levels. 

In our Virtual Schools business, part of our Virtual Learning 
division, our annual teacher and school leader conferences bring 
together teachers, school staff, and Pearson teams to attend 
sessions facilitated by experts from across the learning and 
education industry. 

In our US Student Assessment business, we hold working 
sessions with educator committees in customer states as 
assessments are being developed. 

In our Higher Education business, we employ a full-time team of 
active faculty advisors dedicated to supporting instructors in the 
setup and use of our products. Our Higher Education business 
has also conducted two surveys with faculty this year, measuring 
and tracking educator sentiment on the use of generative AI in 
learning. The division runs an ongoing, weekly AI webinar series 
to serve as professional development opportunities for faculty, 
awarding them a Credly badge for their participation.

In the UK, we brought together the perspectives of over 6,000 
educators and 1,000 students to create and release the second 
Pearson School Report. The report takes an in-depth look at life 
in schools and how educators are pioneering change. It shares 
their invaluable insights on challenges, opportunities, diversity, 
equity and inclusion, plus sustainability and digital innovation. 
The report has reached a vast audience through accompanying 
media articles, free support and events. 

Outcome of engagement 
All of our educator engagement leads to a better understanding 
of how products are used in market and also raises the profile 
of Pearson in this important customer segment. Through our 
engagement, we build trust with educators and we help them see 
us as a true partner in their work. 

Many of our more than 2,000 Pearson authors are also educators, 
along with being experts in their fields. They give us valuable  
insights about how their own students use our products. And, they 
help us test new ways of using digital tools in the courseware  
they author. 

Across the board, our work with educators contributes directly 
to the quality of our products. Specifically, our engagement with 
educator committees at the US state level ensures that our US 
school assessments are aligned to state standards and free  
of bias. 

Our Virtual Schools’ conferences ensure that educators learn 
from one another in peer-to-peer engagement, tailoring 
solutions and exploring learnings that support the needs  
of students.

In our Higher Education business, our faculty engagement 
provides ongoing feedback on new AI product features such as 
generative AI and helps us understand how to best tailor those 
features to the needs of faculty and students, helping both 
become more effective users of AI. 

The Pearson Schools report is another example of how listening 
to and engaging with educators builds trust and visibility with this 
important customer group. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 17

Strategic reportStakeholder engagement continued

The Skills Outlook reports help with lead generation and also 
provides data and information to employers and HR managers 
looking to better understand today’s most in demand skills. 
English Language Learning also fielded a large piece of research 
in 2023, to be released in the coming year, that looks at the 
habits of English learners in five countries and how employers 
can better support them in the workplace.

Outcome of engagement 
Engagement with employers helps us create offerings that 
meet the needs of more technology driven labour markets 
and appeal to large enterprise customers. By doing that, we 
further expand our presence in the growing workforce learning 
market. Specifically, feedback from enterprise customers is 
helping us refine our offering and go-to-market approach-
including cross divisional sales to support the needs of these 
large accounts. For example, we identified a need for talent 
development assessments to support employees at a large 
telecommunications company. The team successfully matched a 
package of Pearson TalentLens, a Workforce Skills product, with 
our Versant language learning, an English Language Learning 
product, to meet the customer’s needs. 

Employers

Why and how we engage
Employers have always been a key stakeholder for Pearson 
and they are becoming even more important as the need for 
reskilling grows in our changing economy and jobs are being 
increasingly augmented by AI and other technology. Throughout 
our businesses, ongoing consultation and conversation with 
employers helps shape our offerings, with an eye toward the 
growth of our enterprise business. In addition, Pearson can 
provide useful insights and information that help employers 
understand the wider labour market and build important 
customer relationships. 

Our Workforce Skills division works with employers to design 
solutions that fit their unique place in the labour market and 
help learners progress in their career goals. In our Vocational 
Qualification business, Pearson’s BTEC qualifications are 
designed with relevant sector experts and employers, to ensure 
they cover the most relevant content. When expanding our 
Esports BTECs into Higher Nationals, we worked closely with the 
British Esports Federation to ensure that the qualifications offer 
students progression to entry-level jobs in the sector. We also 
created a bespoke BTEC qualification for opticians, specifically at 
the request of, and in consultation with, one of the UK’s largest 
eyeglasses and contact lens retailers. 

We also provide employers with data and thought leadership 
which helps them shape their decisions and helps to raise the 
profile of Pearson as a leader in workforce and career learning. 
In 2023, Pearson VUE completed its third Value of IT Certification 
report, which surveyed IT hiring managers and people managers 
in the US and India to understand their views on certification 
trends in the workplace. Not only does the research help inform 
the work of Pearson VUE, but it is also shared with employers so 
they can see the larger picture of the IT industry. The Pearson 
Skills Outlook, a thought leadership series that uses Faethm data 
to forecast skills trends, became an important outreach and 
engagement tool across the company with employers. 

Business partners

Why and how we engage
Working with partners who share our commitment to doing 
business responsibly strengthens our supply chain relationships 
and reduces risk. This helps Pearson improve our product 
offerings and make progress on our climate and diversity 
commitments. 

We continue to analyse the carbon performance of our major 
suppliers. We have also introduced new language in all of our 
supplier contracts, ensuring they have provisions for increasing 
carbon maturity and increased visibility of emissions reporting. 

We also engaged directly with a targeted pool of higher carbon 
impact suppliers, whose contracts don’t yet include sustainability 
requirements. This is an effort to make them aware that 
alignment with our carbon targets is now a differentiating factor 
in our sourcing strategy. 

In 2023 we spent £47.2m with diverse-owned suppliers (owners 
of businesses from historically underrepresented groups) and we 
are on track to meet our goal of spending £500m with diverse-
owned suppliers by 2030.

Outcome of engagement 
These actions are having a direct impact on how we execute 
our procurement strategies and help grow our reputation as a 
responsible business. 

By collaborating with partners across our supply chain, we can 
prioritise decarbonisation efforts where they can make the 
biggest difference and demonstrate community level benefits of 
supply chain decarbonisation efforts. 

Pearson’s sustainable procurement maturity score, assessed by 
EcoVadis, improved from good to advanced, outperforming the 
EcoVadis customer average across all industries. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 18  

Strategic reportGovernment and regulators

Communities

Why and how we engage
Pearson increases access to education around the world, 
ensuring our products and services enable more people to learn 
and develop new skills through a lifetime of learning. Learning 
is a key factor in empowering individuals and communities, 
improving social and economic outcomes, and creating a more 
equitable and sustainable world.

In addition to maintaining relationships with key organisations, 
we participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives to promote lifelong 
learning opportunities for all and ensure the lasting protection of 
our planet.

This year, we launched a skills-based social impact initiative for 
our employees, that focuses on learning, mobilising and building 
community. As part of the initiative, we evolved our volunteering 
policy to five days for causes aligned to our purpose and values, 
and award a Credly volunteering badge to recognise the skills 
learned while serving our communities.

Outcome of engagement 
We strive to make a positive and meaningful impact in the 
communities in which we operate. 

To support that, we gave over £477k in humanitarian aid support.

Additionally, our employees have given over 20,000 volunteer 
hours and supported 55 causes. You can find more detail on 
Learning for Impact on pages 34-43.

Why and how we engage
Government policymakers across the world are charged 
with implementing policies to grow and sustain productive 
economies, ensuring that individuals have the educational 
and skill-development opportunities to achieve their life goals. 
Pearson acts as an important partner with governments, schools, 
colleges, universities, and the business sector to help achieve 
those economic and educational goals within the countries 
in which we operate. Governments everywhere are focused 
on how to position themselves for the future of work, to take 
advantage of advancements in technology to provide residents 
with the requisite high-quality education and training to meet 
the needs of a rapidly evolving workforce. Increasingly, the rise 
of AI in society and in the labour market challenges governments 
to devise sound policies to take advantage of opportunities 
and mitigate against risks to the labour force. Pearson is 
well positioned to share its expertise and knowledge with 
governments as they look to enact policies to regulate AI in  
their countries.

Given governments’ need of support as economies face labour 
shortages, particularly in high-demand sectors, and students 
and workers seek accelerated learning opportunities and skill 
development, we engage, through meetings and presentations 
with elected and appointed government officials, discussing 
key concepts including skills-based hiring, certifications, and 
apprenticeships vital to their region. 

Outcome of engagement 
Our engagement helps inform policy decisions and share 
best practices on areas of focus for education, training, 
and recruitment. Many countries and students are looking 
to undertake English Language courses and proficiency 
assessments. Accordingly, we share our expertise and work with 
government leaders in key markets as they develop policies 
and programmes to meet this demand. In addition, AI, digital 
transformation, and energy transition are topics which countries 
from all regions are prioritising when developing policy and 
allocating investments on education and skills.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 19

Strategic reportStakeholder engagement continued

Employees

Investors / shareholders 

Why and how we engage
Pearson’s greatest asset is its people. Our business success and 
ability to positively impact society heavily rely on our colleagues. 
We also know that managers account for as much as 70% of the 
variance in employee team engagement. That’s why we continue 
empowering our managers with ongoing tools and training 
to support them and their teams, which is pivotal in driving 
engagement throughout Pearson.

At the enterprise level, we regularly communicated with our 
people through interactive forums, town halls, newsletters, and 
regular storytelling. 

Outcome of engagement 
Throughout 2023, we encouraged managers to hold regular 
one-to-one meetings with their direct reports. Additionally, 82% 
of employees actively participated in our engagement survey 
with a GrandMean score of 4.09 on a 5-point Likert scale. This 
is up from 72%.and 3.96 respectively in 2022 and is considered 
‘meaningful’ improvement by Gallup.

We are incredibly proud 
of the diverse talent we 
have within Pearson and 
believe that highly engaged 
employees act as a powerful 
driver for the business.  
We will continue to invest 
in our people, in attracting 
new talent, and in seeking 
ways to create a culture  
of belonging.

Ali Bebo Chief Human Resources Officer 

Why and how we engage
Our shareholders play an important role in both the monitoring 
and safeguarding of the governance of our company and in 
providing access to capital. Some are also employees who have a 
critical role to play in the continued success of our business.

We have strong and constructive relationships with our 
key institutional investors and shareholders and regularly 
communicate with them on key issues, including at our financial 
results, our AGM and at investor meetings and conferences. We 
held 505 meetings with 272 institutions over the course of 2023, 
both virtually and in person. We discussed financial, operational 
and strategic matters.

Outcome of engagement 
Our investors appreciate the time we spend with them to give 
them updates on our strategy and progress, and we continue to 
develop how we communicate effectively across a range  
of formats.

Our 2023 AGM was held as a hybrid (combined physical and 
electronic) meeting, enabling shareholders, should they so wish, 
to participate in the AGM, ask questions and vote on resolutions 
via a live webcast without being physically present at the AGM. 
The physical element of the meeting was held, for the first time, 
at our 80 Strand office in London.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 20  

Strategic report — how we have had regard to the need to foster the 
company’s business relationships with each of the 
stakeholder groups 

 — Understanding our stakeholders (pages 81-83),  

which summarises: 

 — how Directors have engaged with employees and 
shareholders, and had regard to their interests 

Section 172 of the Companies Act 

In summary, as required by Section 172 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a Director of a company must act 
in the way they consider, in good faith, would most likely 
promote the success of the company for the benefit of 
its shareholders as a whole. In doing this, the Director 
must have regard, among other matters, to: 

 — Sustainability (pages 34-55), which describes: 

 — the likely consequences of any decisions in the  

long term, 

 — the interests of the company’s employees, 

 — the need to foster the company’s business 

relationships with suppliers, customers and others, 

 — the impact of the company’s operations on the 

community and environment, 

 — the company’s reputation for high standards of 

business conduct, and 

 — the need to act fairly as between members of  

the company.

 — Initiatives through which we strive to enable more 

engaging learning experiences, that are accessible to 
more people, and with a smaller carbon footprint

 — Our commitment to creating a culture that prioritises 

human rights, our employees, DEI, and socially 
responsible sourcing 

 — How we align with widely accepted ESG reporting 

frameworks including GRI, SASB and TCFD. For further 
details on TCFD reporting, please see page 44 

A continued understanding of the key issues affecting 
stakeholders is an integral part of the Board’s decision-
making process. The insights that the Board gains through 
its engagement mechanisms form an important part of the 
context for all the Board’s discussions and decision-making 
processes. For an insight into how the Board has considered 
the interests of various stakeholders in its decision-making, 
and what matters the Directors considered when balancing 
various stakeholder perspectives, please see our case study 
on the Chief Executive appointment process on page 83. 

Directors’ duties statement 
In accordance with Section 172 of the Companies Act 
2006 (see box to the right), the Directors fulfil their duties 
to promote the success of the company through a well-
established governance framework. Typically, in large and 
complex businesses such as Pearson, this framework 
includes delegation of day-to-day decision-making to 
employees of the Group. 

This governance framework, summarised throughout this 
document, is far more than a simple delegation of financial 
authority, and includes the values and behaviours expected 
of our employees and business partners, including the 
standards to which they must adhere; how we engage 
with stakeholders, including understanding and taking 
into account their views and concerns; and how the Board 
ensures that we have a robust system of control and 
assurance processes in place. 

In this annual report, we provide examples of how the 
Directors promote the success of Pearson while taking into 
account the consequences of decisions in the long-term, 
building relationships with stakeholders (including our 
eight key stakeholder groups, as mentioned previously), 
and ensuring that business is conducted ethically and 
responsibly. 

While there are many parts of this annual report which 
illustrate how the Directors do this, with the support of the 
wider business, the following sections in particular  
are relevant: 

 — Learning from our stakeholders (pages 16-20),  

which outlines: 

 — how we serve and engage with each of our eight key 
stakeholder groups, listen to their key concerns and 
provide our responses 

 — how we have adapted our business to meet  

their needs 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 21

Strategic reportBusiness model

Creating value

Our foundations

Committed people and partners 
Our talented employees and fantastic partners share Pearson’s values and commitment to 
education. Our relationships with governments, customers, non-governmental organisations 
(NGOs) and other global organisations help us to amplify our positive impact on learners around 
the world.

R&D and product innovation
Our product team, with expertise in learning science, is committed to creating learning products 
which offer a great user experience and improved learning outcomes. Through ongoing 
innovation and Research and Development (R&D), we develop and incorporate the most advanced 
technologies, including generative AI, into our products and services. 

Financial assets 
Our shareholders entrust us with their capital in order to invest on their behalf for the long term. 

Our physical footprint 
Our products and services are available in most countries and territories around the world. At the 
same time we are progressing in simplifying our property portfolio and strengthening our digital 
and flexible ways of working. 

Data and insight
Through the effective and responsible use of data we are able to know our customers better and 
serve them more effectively. We are further building our capabilities in data analytics and AI such 
as those acquired through Faethm, which enable us to use data insights to help identify skill gaps 
and provide compelling solutions to workforce challenges.

Strong market fundamentals
We are well-placed to benefit from structural tailwinds in the global learning market including  
three big market opportunities:

1

2

3

Online and digital  
tools for schools  
and education

Solutions to evaluate 
and address workforce 
skills gaps

Academic and 
professional skills 
accreditation  
and certification

Workforce  
Skills

Virtual 
Learning

Assessment 
& Qualifications

Higher 
Education

Illustrative 
learner 
journey

English Language 
Learning

Pearson 
supports 
learners 
throughout 
their learning 
journey

WFS (GED) 
Pass GED to gain high school  
equivalency diploma

HE (Courseware / Pearson+) 
Access eTexts and college level 
materials through AI-enhanced P+  
and MyLab and Mastering  
homework platform 

WFS (Faethm) 
Through employer, identify skills gaps 
and develop a learning plan to upskill 
and access future opportunities

A&Q (VUE) 
Upskill, take practice tests and exams 
to obtain credentials in profession 
(e.g. tech) 

VL (Virtual Schools)  
Attend virtual K-12 school

ELL (Pearson Test of English) 
Apply for student visa using 
Pearson Test of English to prove 
English proficiency

WFS (TalentLens) 
Take ‘fit-to-role’ test as part of  
job application 

ELL (Mondly by Pearson, 
Workplace English) 
Refine language skills tailored to  
IT industry

WFS (Credly) 
Leverage new IT badge to 
demonstrate skills proficiency and 
enhance career prospects

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 22  

Strategic reportDirect to Consumer
Through initiatives across divisions we are expanding our offerings which go 
directly to consumers. This is in addition to our existing models whereby we reach 
the consumer via an educational institution, employer or other partner.

For example, we are scaling Pearson+, our digital learning service in Higher 
Education, expanding features such as Channels, to provide learners with tutorial 
videos and practice questions. We are also growing our Direct to Consumer 
language learning platform Mondly and introducing even more advanced AI 
features. Both of these services will be an important customer acquisition tool 
underpinning our direct to consumer offerings across the Group. 

Partners and support functions 
Technology is enabling consumers to learn virtually and in a more personalised 
and effective manner. This means we can improve accessibility to education,  
reach a larger market at a lower cost and be at the forefront of the evolving 
learning marketplace. This enables us to reach our ambition to be the leading, 
trusted provider of educational tools and services, and enhance learning 
outcomes globally.

We’ve made real progress building 
a tech strategy that supports a 
cross-functional approach to  
data, content delivery and  
product development.

MaryKay Wells  
Chief Information Officer

How we create long-term stakeholder value

Consumers 
We empower learners across the globe with high-quality, 
trusted learning products and services.

Governments 
We partner with local, federal and national government 
bodies around the world to develop learning solutions. 

Educators 
We work with educators, from teachers to institutions, 
across all stages of education to support their learners in 
achieving their goals. 

Communities 
We prize our role in shaping the future of education and 
its impact on society, and strive to meet the expectations 
that accompany this responsibility.

Employers 
We partner with employers to empower their employees 
to learn and succeed in the future of work.

Business partners
We nurture long-term collaboration with our business 
partners to create shared value, building on our deep 
relationships and mutual trust. 

Employees 
We unlock the potential of our human capital by investing 
in our people’s growth and providing opportunities to 
learn and progress. 

Shareholders 
We strive to deliver long-term value creation for  
our shareholders. 

Sustainability
As a learning company, creating a more sustainable world is part of everything we do. Starting with the millions of 
users who already trust our products, we want to help more people create a better life for themselves and a better 
world for society. We recognise our responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and are making progress on 
our Climate Action Plan (see page 42). Our sustainability strategy is shaped by our stakeholders, and in line with the 
outcomes of our 2022 materiality assessment (see page 34).

Measuring progress
We measure our progress against five non-financial KPIs:

Digital Growth
Consumer Engagement
Product Effectiveness
Culture of Engagement & Inclusion
Sustainability Strategy

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 23

Strategic reportKey performance indicators

Monitoring progress

Non-financial measures

Digital Growth

Objective: Drive digital revenue growth

Digital sales*

Underlying growth in group digital and digital-enabled sales 

+3%
(2022: +9%)

23

Digital: 40%
Total digital: 82%

22

Digital: 44%
Total digital: 79%

21

Digital: 43%
Total digital: 74%

20

Digital: 45%
Total digital: 73%

19

Digital: 36%
Total digital: 66%

+8%**

**Excluding OPM and  
Strategic Review

Digital-enabled: 42%

Digital-enabled: 35%

Digital-enabled: 31%

Digital-enabled: 28%

Non-digital: 18%

Non-digital: 21%

Non-digital: 26%

Non-digital: 27%

Partner Schools  
US enrolmentsa

PTE volume 

Higher Education US 
digital registrations

100k
(2022: 105k)

1,231k
(2022: 827k)

9.8m
(2022: 9.9m)

OnVUE volumes

2.7m
(2022: 3.0m)

Consumer 
Engagement 

Product 
Effectiveness

Objective: Create 
engaging and 
personalised consumer 
experiences

Objective: Improve the 
effectiveness of our 
products to deliver 
better outcomes

NPS for Connections 
Academy

PTE speed of score return

+67
(2022: +67)

NPS for PTE

+55
(2022: +52)

Mondly paid subscriptions

432k
(2022: 446k)

5.3m
(2022: 4.7m)

Pearson+ registered users

1.0 days
(2022: 1.3 days)

VUE Test volumesb

20.7m
(2022: 19.4m)

VUE partner retention

94%
(2022: 99.9%)

Workforce Skills number 
of enterprise customers

1,547
(2022: 1,503)

Workforce Skills enterprise 
customer net retention rate

Culture of Engagement & Inclusion

Objective: Build an inclusive culture and increase diverse representation

Employee 
Engagement

Investing in diverse 
talent

Pearson 
uses the 
Gallup Q12® 
survey  
to measure 
engagement, 
annually

4.09
grand mean 
on a 5 point 
Likert scale

(2022: 3.96)

The % of responses 
who agree or 
strongly agree  
to Gallup Q12® 
survey questions

In the last six 
months, someone 
at work has talked 
to me about  
my progress

73%
(2022: 67%)

This last year, I have 
had opportunities 
at work to learn  
and grow

76%
(2022: 72%)

Culture of inclusion index

Increasing diverse talentc

Objective: Increase BIPOC/
BAME representation at all 
manager levels and maintain 
overall gender parity

R

Representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level 
and above

22.0%
(2022: 20.7%)

Global % 
of female 
employees

59.1%
(2022: 59.0%)

The grand mean of 
3 Gallup Q12® survey 
questions

 — At work, I am treated 

with respect

 — My company 
is committed 
to building the 
strengths of  
each employee

 — If I raised a concern 
about ethics and 
integrity, I am 
confident my 
employer would do 
what is right

4.21
grand mean on a 5 
point Likert scale

(2022: 4.12)

3.03m
(2022: 2.83m)

66%
(2022: 74%)

Sustainability Strategy

Objective: Achieve net zero carbon by 2030

Higher Education Product 
usage - text units

4.5m
(2022: 4.8m)

Reduction in total tCO2e in 2023

Reduction in total tCO2e in 2022

16%

vs 2022d

3% 

vs 2021d

R

Progress against achieving  
net zero carbon by 2030, as 
measured through percentage 
carbon reduction

Digital-enabled: 30%

Non-digital: 34%

Workforce Skills new 
registered users

a. 

b. 
c. 
d. 

Measure definition has changed to number of government-funded student enrolments at partner schools within the US as of 30th September. Excludes private-pay students at Pearson Online Academy and district partnerships.  
This is more closely aligned to business processes.
VUE test volumes include PTE and GED tests but sales for each of these tests are reflected in the English Language Learning and Workforce Skills divisions respectively. PDRI test volumes are not currently included in this metric.
Previously reported ’Increasing diverse talent’ metrics retired and new strategic remuneration measures incorporated.
The net emissions reduction figures have been assured by an independent third-party, SLR Consulting Ltd. % reduction in total tCO2e above is calculated using a location-based methodology. Within the 2023 number, 4% is due to portfolio changes. These will be removed 
following the normal rebasing exercise in 2024. 

 *

Historical figures restated to exclude US K-12 Courseware (sold in 2019).

Please find further details on our Strategic KPIs here https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/company/our-targets-kpis

R

See how this aligns strategy to management reward: page 112

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 24  

Strategic report 
Financial measures

Salesb 

R

Adjusted operating 
profita

R

Operating profitb 

Net debta 

Adjusted earnings  
per sharea

R

Basic earnings  
per shareb

£3,674m

£573m

£498m

£744m

58.2p

53.1p

23

22

21

20

19

£3,674m

£3,841m

£3,428m

£3,397m

£3,869m

23

22

21

20

19

£573m

£456m

£385m

£313m

£581m

23

22

21

20

19

£498m

£271m

£183m

£411m

£275m

23

22

21

20

19

£744m

£557m

£350m

£463m

£1,016m

23

22

21

20

19

34.9p

28.7p

58.2p

51.8p

57.8p

23

22

21

20

19

53.1p

32.8p

23.5pd

43.7pd

34.0p

This is our revenue as 
reported in our  
income statement. 

A non-GAAP financial 
measure that enables 
management to consistently 
track the underlying 
operational performance of 
the Group.

This is our operating  
profit as reported in our 
income statement.

This is a non-GAAP financial 
measure and is used by 
management to assess the 
Group’s cash position. 

A non-GAAP financial 
measure used to  
evaluate performance.

A measure of the amount  
of profit that can be 
allocated to one share  
of our common stock.

Operating cash flow  
and cash conversiona

R

Net cash generated  
from operationsb

Dividend per share 

£587m

£682m

22.7p

23

22

21

20

19

587m (102%)

£401m (88%)

£388m (101%)

£315m (101%)

£418m (72%)

23

22

21

20

19

£682m

£527m

£570m

£450m

£480m

23

22

21

20

19

22.7p

21.5p

20.5p

19.5p

19.5p

Total shareholder  
returnsc

+5.39%

R

Return on Capitala 

10.3%

1 year
3 year

5 year

+5.39%

+53.09%

+17.64%

23

22

21

8.7%

7.9%

R

a.  See pages 221-226 for an  

explanation and reconciliation  
of these alternative  
performance measures  
and non-GAAP measures.

b. Statutory measure.

10.3%

c.  Source: Bloomberg.

This is our net cash 
generated from operations 
as reported in our cash  
flow statement.

This is the proposed full year 
dividend. Our dividend policy 
is to be progressive 
and sustainable.

This is a measure of financial 
performance of shares  
over time.

A non-GAAP measure of how 
efficiently we are generating 
returns from our asset base.

Operating cash flow is an 
adjusted measure and 
is presented in order to 
align the cash flows with 
corresponding adjusted 
operating profit measures. 

.

d.  Comparatives were restated 

in 2022

Note: See pages 221-226 for full 
reconciliation of the alternative 
performance measures to the 
equivalent statutory measure.

R

See how this aligns strategy  
to management reward: 
page 112

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 25

Strategic reportFinancial review

We’ve delivered another strong set of results 
in 2023. This continued progress underpins our 
confidence that we’re set for another good year 
in 2024 and on track to meet our 2025 objectives. 

Sally Johnson Chief Financial Officer

Financial Summary

£m

2023

2022

£m

2023

2022

Business performance
Sales 
Adjusted operating profit 
Operating cash flow 
Free cash flow
Adjusted earnings per share 

3,674
573
587
387
58.2p

3,841
456
401
222
51.8p

Statutory results
Sales
Operating profit
Profit for the year
Net cash generated from operations
Basic earnings per share

3,674
498
380
682
53.1p

3,841
271
244
527
32.8p

Throughout this section: a) Growth rates are on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated. Underlying growth rates exclude currency 
movements and portfolio changes; b) The ‘business performance’ measures are non-GAAP measures, and reconciliations to the 
equivalent statutory heading under IFRS are included in the financial key performance indicators section on pages 221-226;  
c) Constant exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average FX in the prior year prevailed through the current year.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 26  

Strategic reportGroup Financial Expectations

2024 expectations

Sales growth

Adjusted 
operating profit

Tax

Interest

Underlying sales 
3-year CAGR  
2022 to 2025*

2025 Margin 
expectations**

Expect to be in line with  
current market expectations

c.24%

c.£45m***

Mid-single digits

16-17%

 *

Excluding the OPM and Strategic Review businesses.

**  Adjusted operating profit margins.

*** Our interest charge will be c.£45m given our £300m share buyback and its extension by a further £200m.

NB: 2024 consensus on the Pearson website: underlying sales growth 3.7%, adjusted operating profit of £621m at £:$ 1.22, effective tax rate c.24%. For 
reference, each 1c move in USD FX rate equates to c.£5m of adjusted operating profit.

Operating results
On a headline basis, sales decreased by £167m or 4% from £3,841m in 2022 to £3,674m in 2023 and reported operating profit 
increased by £227m from £271m in 2022 to £498m in 2023. In addition, adjusted operating profit increased by £117m or 26% from 
£456m in 2022 to £573m in 2023 (for a reconciliation of this measure see page 28 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).

The increase in reported operating profit in 2023 is mainly due to increased trading profits and a reduction in the costs of major 
restructuring, partially offset by a net loss related to acquisitions and disposals compared to a net gain in 2022.

The headline basis simply compares the reported results for 2023 with those for 2022. We also present sales and adjusted operating 
profit on an underlying basis which exclude the effects of exchange, the effect of portfolio changes arising from acquisitions and 
disposals and the impact of adopting new accounting standards that are not retrospectively applied. Our portfolio change is calculated 
by excluding sales and profits made by businesses disposed in either 2022 or 2023 and by ensuring the contribution from acquisitions 
is comparable year on year. Portfolio changes mainly relate to the disposals of the Group’s interests in POLS, Pearson College, our 
international courseware local publishing business in India and businesses within Higher Education in 2023, the disposal of our 
international courseware local publishing businesses in Europe, French-speaking Canada, South Africa and Hong Kong in 2022, the 
acquisition of PDRI in 2023 and the acquisitions of Credly and Mondly in 2022.

On an underlying basis, sales increased by 5%, excluding OPM and Strategic Review, and by 1% in aggregate, in 2023 compared to 2022 
and adjusted operating profit increased by 31%. Currency movements decreased sales by £33m and decreased adjusted operating 
profit by £10m. Portfolio changes decreased sales by £175m and decreased adjusted operating profit by £8m. There were no new 
accounting standards adopted in 2023 that impacted sales or statutory or adjusted operating profits. 

2024 outlook
We expect Group underlying sales growth, adjusted 
operating profit and tax will be in line with current market 
expectations. Our interest charge will be c.£45m given  
our ongoing £300m share buyback and extension by a 
further £200m.

 — In Assessment & Qualifications we expect sales growth of 

low to mid-single digit.

 — In Virtual Schools we expect sales to decline at a similar 
rate to 2023, given the previously cited loss of a larger 
partner school for the 2024/25 academic year. We are 
pleased to have secured two new schools in the States 
impacting the 2023/24 and 2024/25 academic years and 
therefore expect the division to return to growth  
beyond 2024.

 — In Higher Education we expect to return to sales growth.

 — In English Language Learning we continue to expect high 

single digit sales growth.

 — In Workforce Skills we expect to achieve high single digit 

sales growth.

 — We expect a free cash flow conversion of 95-100%.

2025 ambition

We continue to expect the Group to achieve mid-single  
digit underlying sales 3-year CAGR from 2022 to 2025, 
excluding OPM and Strategic Review businesses, and remain 
on track to achieve our 16-17% adjusted operating profit 
margin guidance.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 27

Strategic reportFinancial review continued

All figures in £ millions

Operating profit
Add back: Cost of major restructuring
Add back: Property charges
Add back: Intangible charges
Add back: UK pension discretionary increases
Add back: Other net gains and losses
Adjusted operating profit

2023

498
-
11
48
-
16
573

2022

271
150
-
56
3
(24)
456

Adjusted operating profit includes the results from discontinued operations when relevant but 
excludes charges for intangible amortisation and impairment, acquisition related costs, gains and 
losses arising from disposals, the cost of major restructuring, certain property charges and one-off 
costs related to the UK pension scheme. A summary of these adjustments is included below and in 
more detail in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

In 2023, there are no costs of major restructuring. Property charges of £11m relate to impairments 
of property assets arising from the impact of updates in 2023 to assumptions initially made during 
the 2022 and 2021 restructuring programmes. In 2022, restructuring costs of £150m mainly related 
to staff redundancies and impairment of right-of-use property assets including the impact of 
updated assumptions related to the recoverability of right-of-use assets made in 2021.

Intangible amortisation charges in 2023 were £48m compared to a charge of £56m in 2022. This is 
due to decreased amortisation from recent disposals partially offset by additional amortisation from 
recent acquisitions.

UK pension discretionary increases in 2022 related to one-off pension increases awarded to certain 
cohorts of pensioners in response to the cost of living crisis. 

Other net gains and losses in 2023 relate largely to the gain on disposal of the POLS business and 
gains on the releases of accruals and a provision related to previous acquisitions and disposals, 
partially offset by losses on the disposal of Pearson College and costs related to current and prior 
year disposals and acquisitions. Other net gains and losses in 2022 largely related to the gain on 
disposal of the international courseware local publishing business in French-speaking Canada and a 
gain arising on a decrease in the deferred consideration payable on prior year acquisitions, offset by 
costs related to disposals and acquisitions. 

Divisional Results

£m 

2023

2022

Headline 
growth

CER 
Growth

Underlying
 growth

Sales
Assessment & Qualifications
Virtual Learning
Higher Education
English Language Learning
Workforce Skills
Strategic Review
Total
Total, excluding OPM1 
and Strategic Review2

Adjusted operating 
profit/loss

Assessment & Qualifications
Virtual Learning
Higher Education
English Language Learning
Workforce Skills
Strategic Review
Total

1,559
616
855
415
220
9
3,674

350
76
110
47
(8)
(2)
573

1,444
820
898
321
204
154
3,841

258
70
91
25
(3)
15
456

8%
(25)%
(5)%
29%
8%
(94)%
(4)%

36%
9%
21%
88%
(167)%
(113)%
26%

9%
(24)%
(4)%
32%
8%
(94)%
(3)%

36%
9%
22%
116%
(167)%
(107)%
28%

7%
(20)%
(3)%
30%
11%
(74)%
1%

5%

33%
(17)%
20%
112%
(400)%
94%
31%

Assessment & Qualifications

In Assessment & Qualifications, sales increased 8% on a headline basis and 7% on an underlying 
basis. Adjusted operating profit increased 33% in underlying terms due to operating leverage on 
sales growth and margin and opex cost efficiencies, partially offset by inflation and 36% in headline 
terms due to this, portfolio changes and currency movements.

Pearson VUE sales were up 10% in underlying terms with particularly strong growth in the IT and 
healthcare segments, alongside the commencement of new contracts. VUE test volumes grew 6% to 
20.7m. We maintained our high contract renewal track record, reporting a rate of 93.6% across the 
business for 2023. 

In US Student Assessment, sales increased 4% in underlying terms driven by the commencement of 
new contracts following new business wins.

1.  We have completed the sale of the POLS business and as such have removed from underlying measures 
throughout. Within this specific measure we exclude our entire OPM business (POLS and ASU) to aid 
comparison to guidance.

2.  Strategic Review is sales in international courseware local publishing businesses being wound down.  

There will be no sales or profits reported in the division going forwards. 

In Clinical Assessment, sales increased 5% in underlying terms supported by pricing, good 
government funding and continued focus on health and wellbeing.

In UK and International Qualifications, sales increased 6% in underlying terms driven by price 
increases and good international growth.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 28  

Strategic reportVirtual Learning

Workforce Skills

In Virtual Learning, sales decreased 25% on a headline basis and 20% on an underlying basis, 
primarily due to the expected decrease in our OPM business. Adjusted operating profit decreased 
17% in underlying terms due to trading performance partially offset by cost efficiencies and 
increased 9% in headline terms due to this and portfolio changes.

In Workforce Skills, sales were up 8% on a headline basis and 11% on an underlying basis. Adjusted 
operating profit declined by £8m in underlying terms due to investment in the business across our 
Workforce Solutions product suite partially offset by trading and decreased £5m in headline terms 
due to this and portfolio changes.

Sales in our OPM business were down 87% on an underlying basis, as expected, following the 
wind down of the ASU contract. Pearson Online Learning Services sales are no longer included in 
underlying measures following the completion of the disposal in the first half of the year.

Virtual Schools sales were down 2%, driven by lower enrolments and lower district partnership 
renewals, partially offset by good retention rates, improvements in funding and growth associated 
with the launch of our Connections Academy Career Pathways. Enrolments for the 2023/24 
academic year were down 5% due to the previously cited loss of a larger partner school. Excluding 
the impact of this school, enrolments were up 1%. 

Higher Education

In Higher Education, sales decreased 5% on a headline basis due to trading, currency movements 
and portfolio changes, and declined 3% for the full year on an underlying basis, in line with 
expectations. Adjusted operating profit increased 20% in underlying terms driven primarily by cost 
efficiencies, partially offset by trading performance and inflation, and increased 21% in headline 
terms due to this, currency movements and portfolio changes.

In the US, sales declines were driven by the loss of adoptions to non-mainstream publishers in 
the first half of the year, as well as pricing mix. There was strong growth in Inclusive Access with 
22% sales growth to not-for-profit institutions and the total number of institutions increasing to 
c1,250. We delivered 2% growth in platform units in 2023 enabled by changes we have made to our 
sales team and go to market strategy with the support of increasing platform stability. Pearson+ 
performed well in the Fall semester with 3.03m registered users and 516k paid subscriptions, 
representing 27% growth compared to the prior year Fall semester. Pearson+ passed the milestone 
of 1 million cumulative paid subscriptions for the calendar year.

English Language Learning

In English Language Learning, sales were up 29% on a headline basis and 30% on an underlying 
basis. Adjusted operating profit increased by 112% in underlying terms due to sales growth partially 
offset by increased investment in brand awareness and testing capacity and inflation, and was up 
88% in headline terms due to this and currency movements. 

PTE volumes were up 49% supported by favourable migration policy in Australia as well as market 
share gain in India. Our Institutional business performed well, with strong performance across Latin 
America and Middle East markets. Our Mondly business also contributed to growth with an increase 
in consumer billings. 

Sales growth was driven by solid performances in both the Vocational Qualifications and Workforce 
Solutions businesses. The Vocational Qualifications business grew by 10% in underlying terms. The 
Workforce Solutions business grew by 13% in underlying terms. Pearson has 1,547 enterprise clients 
in its Workforce Skills portfolio, up 3% on last year.

Strategic Review

Sales in our international courseware local publishing businesses under strategic review were down 
94% on a headline basis for the full year and declined 74% on an underlying basis. Operations in 
these businesses have now been wound down in line with our previous communications. There will 
be no sales or profits reported in this division going forwards.

Net Finance Costs

Net finance costs increased on a headline basis from a net income of £52m in 2022 to a net cost of 
£5m in 2023. The increase is primarily due to the release, in 2022, of £35m of interest recorded in 
respect of provisions for uncertain tax positions, a reduction in gains arising from mark to market 
movements on investments and derivatives, partially offset by additional finance income in respect of 
retirement benefits.

Net interest payable reflected in adjusted earnings in 2023 was £33m, compared to £1m in 2022. 
The difference is primarily due to the items noted above. In addition, in 2023, there were increased 
interest costs related to the drawdown during the year of the revolving credit facility, partially offset 
by reduced bond interest due to the bond repayments made in 2022.

Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits has been excluded from our adjusted earnings 
as we believe the income statement presentation does not reflect the economic substance of the 
underlying assets and liabilities. Also included in the net finance costs (but not in our adjusted 
measure) are interest costs relating to acquisition or disposal transactions, fair value movements 
on investments classified as fair value through profit and loss, foreign exchange and other gains 
and losses on derivatives. Interest relating to acquisition or disposal transactions is excluded 
from adjusted earnings as it is considered part of the acquisition cost or disposal proceeds rather 
than being reflective of the underlying financing costs of the Group. Foreign exchange, fair value 
movements and other gains and losses are excluded from adjusted earnings as they represent 
short-term fluctuations in market value and are subject to significant volatility. Other gains and losses 
may not be realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related instruments to 
maturity (for more information see the financial key performance indicators section on pages 221–
226). Interest on certain tax provisions is excluded from our adjusted measure in order to mirror the 
treatment of the underlying tax item.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 29

Strategic reportFinancial review continued

In 2023, the total of these items excluded from adjusted earnings was income of £28m compared to 
income of £53m in 2022. Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits increased from £9m 
in 2022 to £26m in 2023 reflecting the comparative funding position of the plans at the beginning of 
each year and there were higher prevailing discount rates. Interest costs in respect of deferred and 
contingent consideration are £4m in 2023 compared to £5m in 2022, these costs relate to recent 
acquisitions. Fair value gains on investments in unlisted securities are £13m in 2023 compared to 
£28m in 2022. In addition, there were losses year on year on long-term interest rate hedges and an 
interest charge on tax provisions of £5m was recognised in 2022 in relation to the EU State  
Aid matter. 

all figures in £ millions

Net interest payable

Finance income in respect of retirement benefits

Fair value movements on investments held at FVTPL

Other net finance costs

Net finance costs

Taxation

2023

(33)

26

13

(11)

(5)

2022

(1)

9

28

16

52

The reported tax charge on a statutory basis in 2023 was £113m (23.0%) compared to a £79m 
charge (24.5%) in 2022. 

The tax on adjusted earnings in 2023 was a charge of £124m (2022: £71m), corresponding to an 
adjusted effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax of 23.0% (2022: 15.6%). The increase in the 
effective rate from prior year is primarily due to the release of tax provisions following the expiry of 
the statute of limitations in the US driving a lower tax rate in 2022 which is not recurring in 2023. For 
a reconciliation of the adjusted measure see financial key performance indicators section on pages 
221–226.

In 2023, there was a net tax payment of £97m (2022: £109m). The overall amount decreased 
primarily as a result of one-off disposal events in 2022 that are not recurring in 2023. 

A net deferred tax liability of £11m is recognised in 2023 compared to a net £20m deferred tax asset 
in 2022. The overall amount decreased mainly due to the acquisition of PDRI during the year and 
ongoing utilisation of tax losses.

The current tax creditor principally consists of provisions for tax uncertainties. See note 34 to the 
consolidated financial statements for details of other uncertain tax positions.

Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share is 53.1p in 2023 compared to 32.8p in 2022. The increase in 2023 is mainly 
due to increased operating profits and a decrease in the number of shares following the share buy 
back, partially offset by increased interest and tax charges.

Adjusted earnings includes adjusted operating profit and adjusted finance and tax charges. The 
reconciling items between the statutory inputs to earnings per share and the adjusted inputs are 
discussed in the previous sections.

Adjusted earnings per share is 58.2p in 2023 compared to 51.8p in 2022 reflecting adjusted 
operating profit growth, normalisation of tax and interest charges and the reduction in issued shares 
as a result of share buybacks.

Other comprehensive income

Included in other comprehensive income are the net exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations. The loss on translation of £177m in 2023 compares to a gain in 2022 of £330m. The 
loss in 2023 arises from an overall weakening of the currencies to which the Group is exposed and 
in particular the US dollar. A significant proportion of the Group’s operations are based in the US 
and the US dollar weakened in 2023 from an opening rate of £1:$1.21 to a closing rate at the end 
of 2023 of £1:$1.27. At the end of 2022, the US dollar had strengthened from an opening rate of 
£1:$1.35 to a closing rate of £1:$1.21. The gain in 2022 was driven by this movement in the US dollar.

Also included in other comprehensive income in 2023 is an actuarial loss of £85m in relation to the 
retirement benefit obligations of the Group. The loss arises largely from returns on assets below the 
discount rate and changes in actuarial assumptions including the discount rate and inflation. The 
actuarial loss in 2023 of £85m compares to an actuarial gain in 2022 of £54m. 

Fair value gains of £1m (2022: £18m) have been recognised in other comprehensive income and 
relate to movements in the value of investments in unlisted securities held at FVOCI. 

In 2023, a gain of £122m was recycled from the currency translation reserve to the income 
statement in relation to the disposal of the POLS business. In 2022, a gain of £5m was recycled from 
the currency translation reserve to the income statement in relation to various businesses disposed.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 30  

Strategic reportCash flow and working capital

Liquidity and capital resources 

Net cash generated from operations, was £682m in 2023 compared to £527m in 2022. The increase 
is largely explained by the drop-through of increased trading profits, good cash collections and the 
impact of disposals, partially offset by increased restructuring cash outflows. 

The Group’s net debt increased from £557m at the end of 2022 to £744m at the end of 2023. 
The increase is largely due to the share buyback programme, cash outflows on acquisitions and 
disposals, dividend payments and tax payments, partially offset by strong operating cash flow. 

Our operating cash flow measure is an adjusted measure used to align cash flows with our adjusted 
profit measures. Compared to net cash generated from operations, this measure excludes 
restructuring costs and acquisition costs but includes regular dividends from associates. It also 
includes capital expenditure on property, plant, equipment and software, and additions to right-of-
use assets as well as disposal proceeds from the sale of property, plant, equipment and right-of-use 
assets (including the impacts of transfers to/from investment in finance lease receivable). In 2023, 
restructuring cash outflow was £63m compared to £35m in 2022. 

Operating cash inflow increased on a headline basis by £186m from £401m in 2022 to £587m in 
2023. The increase is largely explained by the drop-through of increased trading profits, good cash 
collections and reduced investment spend in Higher Education connected to the 2022 efficiency 
programme, as well as the impact of disposals. 

In 2023, there was an overall £234m decrease in cash and cash equivalents compared to a 
decrease of £394m in 2022. The decrease in 2023 is primarily due to payments for acquisitions of 
subsidiaries of £171m, dividends paid of £154m, share buyback programme of £186m, other own 
share purchases of £35m, tax paid of £97m, capital expenditure of £126m, and repayments of lease 
liabilities of £84m. These were offset by the cash inflow from operations of £682m.

all figures in £ millions

Net cash generated from operations

Dividends from joint ventures and associates

Purchase / disposal of PPE and software

Net addition of right-of-use assets

Net costs paid for major restructuring

Other net gains and losses

Operating cash flow

Tax paid

Net finance costs paid

Net cost paid for major restructuring

Free cash flow

2023

682

-

(121)

(41)

63

4

587

(97)

(40)

(63)
387

2022

527

1

(133)

(29)

35

-

401

(109)

(35)

(35)
222

The Group’s borrowings fluctuate by season due to the effect of the school year on working capital 
requirements. Assuming no share buyback prorammes, acquisitions or disposals, the maximum level 
of net debt normally occurs in the third quarter, and the minimum level of net debt normally occurs 
in December.

In May 2022, the Group repaid the remaining $117m (£95m) of its 2022 US dollar bond upon 
maturity. In December 2022, the Group repaid the remaining $94m (£76m) of its 2023  
US dollar bond. 

At 31 December 2023, the Group had approximately £1.0bn in total liquidity immediately available 
from cash and its Revolving Credit Facility maturing February 2027. In assessing the Group’s liquidity 
and viability, the Board analysed a variety of downside scenarios including a severe but plausible 
downside scenario where the Group is impacted by a combination of all principal risks, as well as 
reverse stress testing to identify what would be required to either breach covenants or run out 
of liquidity. The Group would maintain comfortable liquidity headroom and sufficient headroom 
against covenant requirements during the period under assessment in the severe but plausible 
scenario, even before modelling the mitigating effect of actions that management would take in the 
event that these downside risks were to crystallise. In all scenarios it is assumed that the Revolving 
Credit Facility is available and that the €300m bond with a maturity due within the going concern 
assessment period is refinanced ahead of time with a £250m bond or bank facility.  

At 31 December 2023, the Group was rated BBB- (positive outlook) with Fitch and Baa3 (stable 
outlook) with Moody’s.

Net debt

all figures in £ millions

Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

Overdrafts

Investment in finance lease

Derivative financial instruments

Bonds

Lease liabilities

Net debt

2023

312

(3)

100

5

(611)

(547)

(744)

2022

558

(15)

121

(6)

(610)

(605)

(557)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 31

Strategic reportFinancial review continued

Post-retirement benefits

Pearson operates a variety of pension and post-retirement plans. The UK Group pension plan has by 
far the largest defined benefit section. The Group has some smaller defined benefit sections in the 
US and Canada but, outside the UK, most of the companies operate defined contribution plans. 

The charge to profit in respect of worldwide pensions and post-retirement benefits amounted to 
£45m in 2023 (2022: £66m), of which a charge of £71m (2022: £75m) was reported in operating 
profit and income of £26m (2022: £9m) was reported in other net finance costs. In 2022, a charge  
of £3m related to one-off discretionary pension increases has been excluded from adjusted 
operating profit. 

The overall surplus on UK Group pension plans of £574m at the end of 2022 has decreased to a 
surplus of £491m at the end of 2023. The decrease has arisen principally due to the actuarial loss 
noted above in the other comprehensive income section. In total, the worldwide net position in 
respect of pensions and other post-retirement benefits decreased from a net asset of £520m at the 
end of 2022 to a net asset of £455m at the end of 2023. 

Businesses acquired 

In March 2023, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Personnel 
Decisions Research Institutes, LLC (‘PDRI’) for cash consideration of £152m ($187m). There is no 
contingent or deferred consideration. Net assets acquired of £91m were recognised on the Group’s 
balance sheet including £117m of acquired intangible assets. Goodwill of £61m was also recognised 
in relation to the acquisition. 

The cash outflow in 2023 relating to acquisitions of subsidiaries was £171m plus £4m of acquisition 
costs. In addition, there were cash outflows relating to the acquisition of associates of £5m and 
investments of £8m. 

The cash outflow in 2022 relating to acquisitions of subsidiaries was £228m arising primarily 
from the acquisitions of Credly and Mondly. In addition, there were cash outflows relating to the 
acquisition of associates of £5m and investments of £12m. 

Businesses disposed

In 2023, the Group disposed of its interests in its POLS businesses in the US, UK, Australia and India. 
The business disposed excludes Pearson’s contract with ASU. The consideration to be received is 
deferred and comprises a 27.5% share of positive adjusted EBITDA in each calendar year for  
6 years and 27.5% of the proceeds received by the purchaser in relation to any future monetisation 
event. The consideration has been valued at £12m and a pre-tax gain on disposal of £13m has  
been recognised.

In addition, £19m of losses arose from the disposals of Pearson College and the international 
courseware local publishing business in India, £12m of costs related to previous disposals were 
recognised and a gain of £9m has been recognised in relation to the release of a provision related to 
a historical disposal. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 32  

Strategic reportIn 2023, the cash outflow from the disposal of businesses of £38m mainly relates to the disposals 
described above. In 2022, the cash inflow from disposals of £333m mainly related to the disposal 
of the Group’s international courseware local publishing businesses and the receipt of deferred 
proceeds from the US K12 Courseware sale in 2019.

In addition, proceeds of £7m (2022: £17m) were received in relation to the disposal of investments.

Dividends

The dividend accounted for in our 2023 financial statements totalling £155m represents the final 
dividend in respect of 2022 (14.9p) and the interim dividend for 2023 (7.0p). We are proposing  
a final dividend for 2023 of 15.7p bringing the total paid and payable in respect of 2023 to 22.7p.  
This final 2023 dividend which was approved by the Board in February 2024, is subject to approval  
at the forthcoming AGM. For 2023, the dividend is covered 2.6 times by adjusted earnings.

Share buyback 

On 28 April 2023, the Group announced its intention to commence a £300m share buyback 
programme in order to return capital to shareholders. The programme commenced on  
21 September 2023. At 31 December 2023, approximately 20m shares had been bought back  
at a cash cost of £186m. The liability for the remainder of the £300m programme plus related  
costs has been accounted for in 2023. The nominal value of the cancelled shares of £5m has  
been transferred to the capital redemption reserve. 

The £300m share buy back programme completed on 7 March 2024 with a total of 32m shares 
repurchased across the programme. We intend to extend our share buy back programme  
by £200m.

Climate change

The Group has assessed the impacts of climate change on the Group’s financial statements. The 
assessment did not identify any material impact on the Group’s significant judgements or estimates, 
the recoverability of the Group’s assets at 31 December 2023 or the assessment of going concern 
for the period to June 2025.

Conclusion

We delivered another strong set of financial results, exceeding financial expectations in 2023 
and achieving cost savings of £120m. We are on track to meet expectations in 2024 and remain 
committed to our targets out to 2025. We have a strong balance sheet, providing optionality, and are 
extending our share buy-back programme by £200m. Free cash flow has improved and we expect 
95-100% conversion in 2024.

My colleagues across finance have once again helped the business successfully respond to 
opportunities and challenges that have arisen, through appropriate financial control, critical insights 
and value creation. I would like to thank them for their hard work and commitment throughout  
the year.

We have a strong balance sheet 
providing optionality and are 
extending our share buyback by 
£200m. We have improved our 
free cash flow and expect 95-100% 
conversion in 2024.

Sally Johnson Chief Financial Officer

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 33

Strategic reportSustainability 

Learning for Impact

Why sustainability matters  
to Pearson
Learning spurs human progression. It’s the greatest force for 
change in our world, and helping people gain knowledge and 
skills is, inherently, a way to improve our planet and  
our communities.

We recognise that Pearson can play a unique role in increasing 
access to education around our world. Not only can we reach 
learners at scale throughout their lifetime, but we also strive for 
all learning experiences to be high quality, vibrant and enriching, 
with greater representation. Our approach is learner-led, 
powered by technology and developed responsibly.

Learning for Impact framework

Our Learning for Impact framework, published in 2021, outlines 
our commitment to leading sustainably across three pillars: 

 — Driving learning for everyone with our products

 — Empowering our people to make a difference

 — Leading responsibly for a better planet

Our strategy is shaped by our stakeholders. Our 2022 materiality 
assessment incorporated a view of Pearson’s most significant 
impacts on people and the environment as well as the most 
material sustainability risks and opportunities for the company. 
The findings highlighted the importance of assessing and 
developing the skills of learners and colleagues, protecting our 
users’ data, and our role in driving positive change through 
climate action. For more information see: https://plc.pearson.
com/en-GB/purpose/our-esg-reporting. 

Our Learning for Impact framework is underpinned by Pearson’s 
robust corporate governance, strong culture, and effective 
policies to ensure we achieve our ambitions. 

The metrics used to track our performance against this 
framework are also our corporate non-financial KPIs as shown on 
page 24 of this report. 

This illustrates the connection between our corporate  
strategy and our mission to create learning experiences for  
real-life impact.

The Board reviews our non-financial KPIs regularly, and these are 
also linked to remuneration. 

Additionally, we maintain positive results in rankings  
and ratings, including Moody’s, MSCI, Sustainalytics, Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices (DJSI), and others. 

A strong governance structure 
Pearson has a strong governance structure that supports 
our sustainability strategy. Our Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee (RRC) is a standing Board Committee, and it works 
alongside other Board Committees to oversee a range of 
environmental and social impact topics, including climate-related 
risks and opportunities. Read more about our governance 
approach on page 66. We will continue to evolve how we govern 
sustainability matters, to ensure our structures remain fit for 
purpose in this fast-moving landscape. 

The RRC circulates its conclusions and minutes to the Board, and 
the Committee Chair is responsible for ensuring action points 
are followed up. In 2023, the RRC approved the introduction of 
a new sustainability data platform and received an update on 
sustainability regulation from its legal counsel. Priorities for 2024 
include submission of our net zero long-term targets to 2050 
to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for validation, the 
publication of a standalone climate transition plan in line with the 
Disclosure Framework of the UK Transition Plan Taskforce which 
expands on our existing Climate Action Plan, and overseeing 
the development of Learning for Impact initiatives and thought 
leadership, as well as strengthening the way we embed social 
impact in data. For more information see page 94. 

Our approach is learner-led, 
powered by technology and 
developed responsibly.

Cinthia Nespoli Chief Legal Officer and 
Executive Leader for Sustainability

Outlook 
For the coming year, our priorities are to continue with our 
decarbonisation journey including energy efficiency and paper 
procurement, evolve our skills-based volunteering programme, 
and undergo a double materiality assessment to further define 
our sustainability strategy alongside our corporate strategy.

More information on Directors’ remuneration reporting 
requirements can be found on page 107, and a link to our 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy can be found in our non-financial 
and sustainability information statement on page 55.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 34  

Strategic reportMeasuring progress on commitments

Our purpose — Add life to a lifetime of learning

Learning for Impact pillars

1

2

3

Driving learning for  
everyone with our products

Empowering our people  
to make a difference

Leading responsibly for  
a better planet

Achieved through:

Achieved through:

Achieved through:

consumer engagement*   product effectiveness* 

culture of engagement and inclusion* 

reducing our environmental impact*

digital growth*   affordability and access 

data privacy, cyber security, and safeguarding 

responsible and sustainable content 

investing with purpose

2023 progress

2023 progress

2023 progress

 — Continued to increase access to learning through the ethical 
use of technology. Regularly update and improve our data 
privacy and security systems.

 — Maintained our focus on employee engagement and made 

progress on our commitment to build a more diverse pipeline 
of talent

 — Advanced our Climate Action Plan by reducing our carbon 
emissions, and increased the use of 100% renewable 
electricity consumption

 Read more on page 36

 Read more on page 39

 Read more on page 42

Robust governance, a strong culture and effective policies

 * See our non-financial KPI section page 24 for more on how these link to our strategy.

Rankings and Recognition

The Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) linked to our ESG framework:

Sustainalytics
Received a negligible risk 
ranking and are ranked #1 in 
our industry.

FTSE 4 Good Index
Remain a constituent of the 
FTSE 4 Good Index Series.

Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI)
Included in both the DJSI World 
and DJSI Europe Indices. 

Moody’s ESG Solutions 

Award above sector average 
score performance.

MSCI ESG 

Maintained a rating of AA.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 35

Strategic reportSustainability continued

Driving learning for everyone  
with our Products

We believe that finding ways to safely introduce generative AI 
tools needs to involve regulation, training, policies and support 
for everyone. We need to ensure that when we use these tools 
they are truthful, reliable, safe, fair and can be trusted for the 
purpose we set. When thoughtfully developed and implemented, 
generative AI can have a positive impact on students and 
teachers. Its improvement over time can only benefit teaching, 
learning and assessment. You can learn more about how we’re 
approaching AI to safeguard learners here: https://plc.pearson.
com/en-GB/news-and-insights/blogs/bringing-ai-life-empowering-
students-their-learning-journey

We acknowledge that it’s our responsibility to tap our global 
expertise to inform policymakers around technology and 
education, as we all work to develop products that improve the 
lives of learners globally. Details on our approach are outlined 
in our Global Government Relations Policy, and our Code of 
Conduct references political activity guidance for employees and 
business partners. Both of these policies can be found here: 
https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies, along with our 
list of trade associations.

New technologies are shaping the way that students of all ages 
are learning and accessing information - and we believe that 
those technologies can have a positive impact on teaching and 
learning, and how we serve our customers. Digital product 
growth and the responsible application of technology also have 
the capacity to reach more learners. During the year, our Group 
digital and digital-enabled sales grew by 8%, excluding the OPM 
and Strategic Review businesses. 

Our differentiator in this space is the combination of deep 
subject matter expertise, teaching experience, and learning 
science knowledge that our authors, faculty, and content creators 
bring to the table. The structures, methods, and pedagogy 
behind our intellectual property make it unique. We also have 
proprietary content and data that we leverage to create rich 
learning experiences.

Access powered by technology
We have been using our deep experience with AI for many years, 
and embedding AI technology across key products in a way that 
enhances the teaching and learning experience and improves lives.

In 2023, we focused on developing beta versions of generative 
AI tools in select higher education Pearson+ eTextbooks that 
will support the learning process. This includes being able to 
summarise eTextbook content and generate practice quiz 
questions. In MyLab and Mastering, we are developing tools 
that provide practice questions that support teaching by guiding 
students through complex problems, moving them towards 
mastery of challenging concepts in a personalised way.

Pearson Test of English (PTE)

What is the societal opportunity?
There is a consistent need for English proficiency in global 
employment and education, a growing demand for online 
language learning, and renewed global mobility.

How does PTE help solve this?
For many, learning English unlocks access to better quality 
education and employment. PTE helps people learn and 
prove their English proficiency, which enables them to 
make progress in their lives, whether through study, work 
opportunities or migration.

What is our unique learning design?
PTE is the first completely computer-based English test, 
although we take a human approach to automated scoring. 
We use sophisticated algorithms based on tens of thousands 
of real-world data points to score each test. This allows us 
to match the expertise and accuracy of a human examiner, 
but with the precision, consistency, and objectivity that only 
machine learning can achieve. We’ve done extensive research 
to ensure the validity, reliability and fairness of the test.

What’s the impact?
More than 1m tests were administered in 2023. These tests 
allow test takers to study, work, or migrate, including taking 
part in academic courses with language requirements, 
applying for jobs with specific language requirements, 
and migrating to certain countries that have language 
requirements. The NPS score for 2023 is +55.

Learning English is vital in 
today’s global economy. 
With education now a 
lifelong pursuit, language 
skills are essential for both 
academic success, career 
advancement and achieving 
the life you imagine.

Gio Giovannelli President – 
English Language Learning

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 36  

Strategic reportPearson and Forage are teaming up to 
offer innovative virtual job simulations 
to millions of US college students who 
use MyLab and Pearson+. This first-of-its-
kind partnership is one more way we’re 
helping to bridge the gap between the 
college classroom and the workplace. 
Forage job simulations allow students to 
gain skills and explore careers while they 
study, helping level the playing field for 
students who are not able to obtain an 
internship or gain access to certain  
career fields.

For example, we are partnering with the IFRS Foundation, a 
public interest organisation established to develop unified 
and globally accepted accounting and sustainability disclosure 
standards. Working with the IFRS, Pearson has accredited 
thousands of professionals worldwide in the Fundamentals of 
Sustainability Accounting (FSA) Credential®.

Similarly, Credly partners with many other corporate 
organisations to issue a number of badges that recognise 
an understanding of current sustainability trends including 
the application of sustainability strategy within organisations, 
sustainable finance, regulatory policies, as well as the tools 
needed to achieve impact on a global stage.

Editorial guidelines 

We are committed to content that is grounded in fact, inclusive 
and free from discrimination, and is ethical and adheres to 
legal requirements. The Global Content Policy is at the heart 
of how we act on this commitment and provides clear and 
consistent guidance for our content contributors. It applies to all 
Pearson-owned content, whoever creates it, in any format. The 
Policy goes through a periodic review process designed to help 
content contributors keep pace with the latest developments 
in educational concepts, terminology, laws and regulations, 
technology, and best practices in diversity, equity and inclusion. 

Responsible and sustainable content 

Learning for sustainability equips learners with the confidence, 
values, knowledge, attitudes, capabilities, and skills that will 
enable us to contribute effectively to building socially just, 
sustainable, and equitable communities. 

This year, we have delivered learning and credentialing to our 
corporate customers, and we recognise the crucial role they play 
in the achievement of sustainable goals.

Generative AI has opened up some exciting 
opportunities in product development. With our unique 
IP and extraordinary talent, we want to build AI tools 
that help students learn and help teachers teach.

Tony Prentice Chief Product Officer and  
Co-President, Direct to Consumer

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 37

Strategic reportWe also provide all colleagues with training on our updated and 
strengthened data privacy and cyber security principles and 
processes and conduct monthly phishing exercises designed 
to educate employees to recognise malicious web links or 
attachments. We have created a product development playbook 
which will help us adhere to high standards of data management, 
and a consistently considered approach to the adoption and 
expansion of AI in our products and services.

Sustainability continued

Designing accessibility requirements into our products 
and services 

We strive to incorporate accessible thinking into everything we 
do, from ensuring accessibility is woven into our culture and 
training, to innovating and using technology to design and deliver 
our products. 

The work of Pearson’s Braille Services team provides an example 
of our commitment to creating learning experiences that build 
a more inclusive world. The team – some of whom themselves 
went through school using Braille – work to ensure that blind 
and visually impaired students have the best experiences 
possible to learn and succeed. They meticulously transcribe 
assessments into Braille, examining test questions to determine 
how they need to be modified. In addition to textual content, 
they consider how to transcribe any charts, graphs and images 
into tactile graphics, thinking critically, for example, about the 
elements of a map that might be essential to answer a question 
without compromising the integrity of what it might be assessing. 
Additionally, our GCSE English 2.0 and Level 2 Ext. Maths Cert 
qualifications have been designed to be accessible. Our focus is 
always to ensure that onscreen assessments are accessible. 

Data privacy and cyber security

In addition to ensuring our products are effective, we are 
committed to ensuring the personal data we hold on individuals 
worldwide remains safe and secure, and we continuously update 
and improve our standards of data management. In 2023, we 
evolved our security strategy to align to the NIST Cyber Security 
Framework (an industry-recognised framework of cyber security 
standards, guidelines and best practices) built around five 
key principles: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond and Recover. 
We have also started the process of aligning our data privacy 
programme to the NIST Privacy Framework both for consistency 
and to ensure that the business can effectively gauge its 
practices against a respected external framework which will also 
be recognised by external stakeholders. 

The governance structure originally created to support the 
data protection programme has been expanded into a wider 
framework for trust and safety at Pearson. Business leads are 
able to leverage holistic, real-time metrics that include data 
privacy, end-of-life hardware, phishing failure rates, vulnerability 
management, and audit compliance to prioritise and take actions 
that lower our risk. Our clear system of escalation gives senior 
management greater awareness and oversight of key areas and 
activities, and better visibility over managing data privacy and 
security risks. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 38  

Strategic reportEmpowering our People to make a difference

We recognise that our success and our ability to have a real-life 
impact on the world is highly dependent upon our colleagues. 
Our goal is to be a world class place to work, offering an inclusive 
environment where everyone can leverage their strengths to 
drive high performance. 

Our people strategy has three focus areas:

1.  Employee engagement: driving better employee engagement 

and high performance.

2. 

Investing in talent: providing continuous learning, growth, 
and progress for our people.

3.  Diversity, equity, and inclusion: driving a culture of belonging 

and aiming for increasingly diverse representation 
throughout the company.

These areas are reflected in our non-financial KPIs on page 24, 
which highlight the progress we made in 2023 on delivering on 
our people strategy. Key human resources policies, including our 
human rights statement and modern slavery statement, can be 
found here: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies

Our values

Our values begin with ‘we’ because they apply to all of 
us. They help guide how we show up every day for our 
customers, each other, and the communities we serve.

1. We ask ‘why’?
We challenge the status quo by challenging ourselves.

2. We ask ‘what if’?
We spark curiosity to innovate new possibilities  
for everyone.

3. We earn trust.
We build credibility by acting with integrity every day.

4. We deliver quality.
We hold our customers and consumers in the highest 
regard, and our work to the highest standards.

5. We make our mark.
We execute with speed and agility to leave a lasting 
impact on everyone we serve.

Employee engagement

We continued to prioritise employee engagement across our 
business, and we made progress in our mean scores for all 12 
questions in the engagement survey conducted on our behalf 
by Gallup. We also made a meaningful overall improvement, 
with our engagement GrandMean score increasing to 4.09 out 
of 5 (from 3.96 in 2022). As a result, we now rank in the 70th 
percentile in Gallup’s global company database for engagement.

We have 10 employee and business resource groups (ERGs) 
- voluntary, employee-led groups that aim to foster a diverse, 
inclusive and equitable workplace culture for Pearson employees. 
The ERGs support leadership to champion inclusive efforts and 
promote collaboration and community between all Pearson 
employees. More information on each group is provided on 
the Careers section of our website here: https://plc.pearson.
com/en-GB/careers/diversity-equity-inclusion. This year, as part 
of the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index, the UK chapter of 
our Spectrum ERG received a ‘High Commendation’ award in 
recognition of its work to make real, impactful change in support 
of LGBT+ colleagues, customers, and students as well as our 
suppliers and partners. 

In 2023, we launched a skills-based volunteering initiative for 
our people, that focuses on learning, mobilising, and building 
community. As part of the launch, we refreshed our volunteering 
policy to five days aligned to our purpose and values. We also 
launched a Credly by Pearson volunteering credential series, 
which recognises the impact that our employees make in their 
communities. Our employees around the world have participated 
in events at home, in the office, and on the road. To date, 
employees have completed over 20,000 hours of volunteering. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 39

Strategic reportSustainability continued

Investing in talent

We see upskilling managers as a priority because of the critical 
role they play in engaging our employees. In addition to offering 
new managers a formal development programme, over 700 
existing employees participated in our Coaching for Performance 
series community, which focuses on developing our managers as 
coaches. 96% of attendees reported identifying an opportunity 
to use the skills they learned with their teams. We also measured 
our progress using Gallup’s Coaching Index, which combines 
two questions from our database to assess the extent to which 
managers exhibit key coaching behaviours. Our coaching index 
score has improved to 3.95 from 3.75 in 2022 (out of 5) and this 
will again be a primary focus for us in 2024.

We also continued to enhance our workforce by bringing in new 
colleagues with critical skills that support our strategy. These 
skills included software development, sales and customer service. 
We also continued to offer alternative routes into Pearson such 
as internships and apprenticeships.

Our commitment to employee development is reflected in the 
increase in the percentage of employees who agree or strongly 
agree in the Gallup engagement survey that they have ‘had 
opportunities to learn and grow’. This rose to 76% from 72% 
in 2022. Our approach to employee learning is underpinned 
by our capabilities framework. We are continuing to evolve this 
using Faethm, our proprietary AI. Employees use the capabilities 
framework to plan their own learning journeys aligned to the 
skills needed to drive the company strategy and equip them for 
the future of work.

We organised a global summit for 100 leaders to align 
on strategy and performance priorities and respond to 
developments in consumer culture and generative AI. 

Following this in-person event, we looked at input from 
employees via the engagement survey about their learning and 
skills needs. We combined this needs assessment with content 
from the summit to produce 31 live, virtual, learning sessions  
via our global Learning at Work series for all employees. This 
series leveraged Pearson authors as well as Pearson leaders  
as teachers. 

In addition, we launched a new learning experience platform 
that integrates third-party content libraries, Pearson commercial 
content, bespoke learning content on a range of topics aligned 
to current priorities (e.g. generative AI), and digital credentials 
powered by Credly by Pearson. To date, 16,100 Pearson 
employees have earned a credential from Credly by Pearson.

Other Pearson commercial learning opportunities include 
our direct to consumer apps, Pearson+ and Mondly, and 
joint offerings with commercial partners, including Pearson 
eTextbooks via VitalSource, Golden Personality Profiler, 
Accelerated Pathways and Apprenticeships. These are all offered 
to employees free of charge. We offer reimbursement to US 
employees for tuition costs up to 18 credits, provided their 
education programme is related to a job or skills needed within 
Pearson. Tuition costs are reimbursed after pupils successfully 
complete a course with a grade C or above, or equivalent mark.

Diversity, equity and inclusion

We fully integrated a focus on inclusion into our manager 
development and continued to offer a learning experience to all 
employees designed to promote an inclusive culture. Training 
uptake was high at 92%, and feedback showed that it was highly 
effective in conveying the benefits to Pearson and catalysing 
individual action. As a result of its impact, this programme was 
recognised at the Women in Technology Excellence Awards UK 
as the best Diversity and Inclusion initiative 2023.

We continued our commitment to build a more diverse pipeline 
of talent via Board mentoring, coaching from Hult Ashridge 
Business School, the McKinsey Management Accelerator 
Programme and McKinsey Executive Management Programme. 
This year, we have seen some improvements in both female 
representation and in under-represented people of colour in the 
US and UK. 

More detailed information can be found on our performance 
section on page 49.

We have aligned metrics focusing on and incentivising  
increased diversity in our executive remuneration. Female 
representation at Board level has improved with the additions  
of Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman, counterbalancing Linda 
Lorimer’s retirement. Our Board diversity reporting can be found 
on page 53 and our gender pay gap reporting can be found on 
page 41. 

We also maintained the level of diverse representation on our 
Executive Management team. Notably we have maintained our 
position of having surpassed the FTSE Women Leaders Review 
target for 40% of leadership roles (defined as the Executive 
Committee and their direct reports) to be filled by women, well 
ahead of the end of 2025 deadline. This includes a 50:50 gender 
split on the Pearson Executive Management team.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 40  

Strategic reportIn March 2023, the Parker Review Committee launched a new 
ethnic diversity target for FTSE 350 companies. All FTSE 350 
companies were asked to set a percentage target for senior 
management positions that will be occupied by ethnic minority 
executives by December 2027 and to report on the target 
annually. Currently, 18% of our Executive Management and the 
senior leaders that report directly into them (SVPs and VPs) have 
self-identified as ethnically diverse – this includes only US and UK 
employees. We have set a global target of 20% ethnic diversity 
for the Executive Management team and the senior leaders that 
report directly into them (SVPs and VPs) by 2027.

The combined percentage of under-represented people of 
colour in the US and UK, at all levels, is 28%, a 0.1% decrease 
versus 2022, primarily due to the divestment of our POLS 
business. Investing in increasing recruitment of under-
represented people of colour at all career levels, and of women 
at senior levels, will continue to be a focus area in 2024.

We also give full and fair consideration to all applicants and 
support the continued employment of disabled persons, having 
regard to their aptitudes and abilities, and making reasonable 
adjustments to address individual needs. Recruitment, 
promotion, and training are conducted on the basis of merit, 
against objective criteria that avoid discrimination. We are also 
proud that ‘Disability:IN’ (https://disabilityin.org/what-we-do/
disability-equality-index/2023companies/) recognised Pearson as 
a Best Place to Work on its 2023 Disability Equality Index.

Workforce engagement

Our workforce includes regular and limited-term employees, 
(full-time and part-time), casual/seasonal employees (primarily 
for scoring), and contingent workers (individual contractors, 
consultancy workers, and agency workers). We follow local labour 
and human rights regulations, including works councils, in each 
jurisdiction in which we operate.

Most of our workforce is in the UK and US, and we communicate 
with our employees in several ways. They hear regularly from 
their divisional leaders and the CEO through virtual and  
in-person town halls. They also have access to regular 
CEO updates through the corporate intranet. 

Employees receive news on the company’s share price via 
the corporate intranet, and through regular communications 
and town halls with the CEO and their respective business 
leaders. You can learn more about how the Board engages with 
employees on pages 82, and our Employee Resources Groups  
on page 39. 

In 2023, our Group employee turnover was 34% (16% voluntary 
/ 18% involuntary). At a Pearson-wide level, this is in line with 
expectations and broadly comparable to the previous two 
years. However, as we continue to make progress with our 
three focus areas, our voluntary turnover is reducing, with the 
in-year increase in involuntary turnover largely due to strategic 
divestitures and sales, most notably Pearson Online Learning 
Services and Pearson College London.

Reward, benefits and wellbeing

At Pearson, our reward, benefits and wellbeing proposition 
stands in support of our ambition to become the destination for 
the world’s best talent, able to attract and retain talent to execute 
our digital-first strategy. To ensure this is the case, we make a 
significant investment in our people by offering a holistic Total 
Reward package, underpinned by our guiding pay principles. 

These principles ensure that our people know that there is a 
consistent approach to how pay and benefits are managed 
and understood at Pearson – no matter where they are, with 
consistent and robust reward structures and clear guidelines 
for determining and rewarding individuals’ contributions. We are 
committed to providing fair and equitable pay and benefits for 
our employees across the world. 

Our commitment to pay equity was the guiding force behind the 
decision to publish Pearson’s first Fair Pay Report and ethnicity 
pay gap data on a voluntary basis in April 2023. This is initially 
focused on the UK from a data perspective, but the report aims 
to tell a more holistic story of the ways that we lead on diversity 
and honour our commitments as an inclusive employer. We are 
committed to greater transparency and want this to be a reason 
the best talent joins, and stays at, Pearson. We released our 2023 
Fair Pay Report as part of our transparency efforts, and plan to 
continue making this analysis available on an annual basis. 

We evaluate our benefit programmes annually to ensure they 
are meeting the needs of a diverse range of demographics and 
life stages. In 2023, we added several benefits for our employees 
in the UK in an effort to align with our commitment to inclusivity. 
These new benefits include: (i) a Mental Health Pathway which 
provides assessment, support and, if necessary, referrals to the 
appropriate clinical setting with either outpatient or inpatient 
treatment under the care of a treating mental health specialist, 
(ii) menopause support including expert guidance from trained 
health professionals, (iii) gender affirmation services to support 
a patient’s journey from assessment pre-surgery up to and 
including gender confirmation surgery, and (iv) fertility and family 
planning services that reimburses members up to £20,000 for 
the costs of a wide range of fertility treatments.

In addition, we have continued to strengthen our strong culture 
of employee share ownership. Over 1 in 4 of our employees 
now choose to save to purchase Pearson shares via our 
savings-related employee share plans (‘Save For Shares’ and the 
‘Employee Stock Purchase Plan’). This enables them to become 
shareholders and owners of Pearson, and share in the value they 
help to create.

Health and safety

Our employee health and safety KPIs are reflected in the nine 
standards in our policy here: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/
careers/diversity-equity-inclusion, and performance on those 
standards is reported to the Board’s Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee (RRC). Our strategy has been modelled against 
ISO 45001 standards and other relevant regional and national 
standards, and our 80 Strand headquarters holds ISO 45001 
certification. Over the past year, our health and safety approach 
has evolved in line with our risk profile and strategic business 
changes, with our Protective Services team reporting on its 
activities to the Reputation & Responsibility Committee. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 41

Strategic reportSustainability continued

Leading responsibly for a better planet

We recognise our responsibility to reduce our environmental 
impact and are making progress on key commitments, aided by 
our transition from one of the world’s largest print publishers 
to becoming a digital-first organisation. We are making 
progress on our Climate Action Plan and our response to the 
TCFD recommendations can be found on page 44. Our latest 
materiality assessment, conducted in 2022, ensures our areas of 
environmental focus align with our stakeholders’ concerns.

Climate Action Plan
In 2018, we set ambitious carbon targets which include a 
reduction commitment approved under the Science Based 
Targets Initiative to reduce scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 50% by 
2030 against a 2018 baseline; and another target of becoming a 
net zero company by 2030. 

Central to our decarbonisation strategy is our shift towards a 
more environmentally beneficial product portfolio. Our Climate 
Action Plan is underpinned by three main areas of work:

 — Achieving a decrease in the overall quantity of paper 
purchased and increasing the share of ethically  
sourced material.

 — Increased the use of 100% renewable electricity consumption, 
while reducing reliance on renewable energy certificates to 
achieve this target.

 — Engaging with our suppliers in the climate transition.

Environmental impact targets are assigned to the business 
divisions and central functions, with progress reviewed internally 
on a quarterly basis and validated by an external third party once 
a year. Our headquarters, as well as three major sites in the UK, 
are also ISO 14001:2015 certified.

We believe that the most meaningful and important contribution 
that Pearson can make to society’s journey to net zero is by 
focusing on reducing our absolute emissions as described in the 
following sections.

We will also continuously review our long-term decarbonisation 
plans and net zero targets to ensure they remain aligned with 
global best practice, the latest climate science, and reflect 
continual improvements in our data quality. That’s why this year 
we are considering options for revising the company’s long-term 
science-based targets.

Emissions reduction
Pearson achieved a 16.3% reduction during 2023 compared to 
2022, which led to a 44% reduction of our GHG emissions overall 
(vs a market-based target of 50% reduction in 2030 against a 
2018 baseline). 

Our progress was ahead of expectations, partly due to portfolio 
changes below our rebaselining threshold (5%), and the knock on 
effect of cost reductions reflected in our carbon accounting.

These reductions also highlight the work that we have been 
building to achieve better data quality across the business. In 
2024, we will continue to prioritise data accuracy and plan to 
rebaseline our figures as we bring on board a new data collection 
system, as detailed on page 43. 

In 2023, actual emission reductions were driven by an 
accelerating demand for our digital solutions; and operational 
efficiencies in our properties, workforce, and paper-related 
purchasing, including transport and distribution.

Resource use
Responsible environmental stewardship helps to create a  
healthy and sustainable planet for our learners and all of society. 
Our biggest direct impacts are carbon emissions from our  
use of energy, so we need to ensure we manage our own 
operations responsibly.

Energy 

Improving the energy efficiency of our buildings is a key 
component of our Climate Action Plan. In 2023, we began a 
programme of decommissioning utility-intensive buildings – 
with a reduction in our physical footprint of 8% – and have 
implemented ESG guidelines on the selection of new buildings. 
Since 2016, over 100% of our electricity has been purchased 
through green tariffs, onsite generation, or renewable energy 
certificates (RECs). 

Next year, we are seeking to reduce our use of RECs as pricing 
has been volatile and they do not necessarily support the 
development of new renewable capacity. While they will continue 
to have a role to play – for example where we do not expect to 
be long-term occupiers of a building – we will focus our efforts 
on reducing energy consumption and driving procurement from 
sustainable and renewable sources. 

As we continue to invest in technology and innovation, renewable 
energy technology will be increasingly important for us. We are 
committed to designing our products and services to be as 
eco-friendly as possible, as this has a direct influence on the 
emissions generated in our own operations. 

This year, we assessed the carbon footprint of our English 
Language Learning app, Mondly, to better understand the 
environmental impact of our digital products. Our findings 
confirmed what we had already suspected – that emissions from 
digital products such as Mondly are much lower than traditional 
print language learning books. 

Most of Mondly’s use-phase emissions come from the 
consumption of energy from end-user devices, which is difficult 
for us to control. Therefore, we will need to establish the correct 
partnerships to drive change as an industry going forward. 

However, another significant portion of emissions are held in 
data centres used by Mondly. This is an area where we can 
have more direct influence. For example, during the year, we 
streamlined the number of data centres we use, including closing 
six, opening two new more efficient centres, and optimising two. 
We are also moving to cloud-based data centres that provide 
more efficiency on resource use, where possible.

Waste and water

As reported last year, we saw a sharp upward trend during 
2022 in total water and waste consumption partly due to the 
estimation methodology used. Even though our office-based 
operations have a limited impact on water use and waste, we 
continue to focus on data improvements by using more accurate 
methodologies of calculation for estimations. 

Next year, we are planning a water risk assessment and the 
continued certification of our largest offices. For example, the 
Berger Tower, one of Pearson’s main Indian offices has been 
certified LEED Platinum which is the highest rating and awarded 
only to the best-in-class properties in terms of sustainability 
management.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 42  

Strategic reportIn terms of our indirect impacts, we are increasing our 
investment in print-on-demand services, instead of holding 
paper-based inventory. This helps us to reduce the risk of 
out of date content and enables us to become more efficient 
in managing our waste resources. As well as this drive to be 
‘inventory free’, we are also promoting the expansion of print 
service agreements to expand local printing and avoid the 
environmental impacts of shipping product to different locations. 
As a result, we have achieved a reduction of approximately 15m 
book miles. 

We are also prioritising a reduction in goods we transport by 
air. By consolidating orders (regrouping orders from different 
locations into single shipments) and shifting to an ocean-freight-
first strategy, we have reduced the quantity of goods shipped 
by air. Next year, we will intensify our efforts alongside our key 
logistics partners.

We are also exploring options to shift to sustainable fuel for our 
ocean freight.

Building sustainable supply chains 
In 2023 we purchased over £1.4bn of goods and services. 
Around 80% of our global spend is represented by 190 large-
scale suppliers. We believe in doing business with partners who 
share our commitment to human rights and the environment 
— strengthening our supply chain through shared values 
and commitments such as carbon reduction and diverse 
representation. We conduct detailed analysis of our larger 
suppliers through a third-party sustainability ratings platform 
(EcoVadis) as well as our own maturity criteria for carbon 
reduction and diversity practices based on publicly available data.  

Supplier engagement

The great majority of our GHG emissions come from our indirect 
emissions that occur in upstream and downstream activities, 
which represent over 95% of our total market-based emissions. 
Our Global Procurement team has resources dedicated to 
developing our ethical and sustainable procurement practices. 

Working with and providing education to our business divisions, 
they have implemented an end-to-end process to engage 
suppliers in assessment, growth and accountability to accelerate 
our decarbonisation journey. 

This year, we have updated our Responsible Procurement policy 
to further strengthen the minimum standards we expect of our 
suppliers and third parties. We continue to review and update 
our ways of working to embed carbon maturity considerations 
into every stage of the supplier lifecycle from sourcing through to 
ongoing governance, and we seek diverse perspectives to enrich 
Pearson’s products and services.

Paper sourcing and nature-related impacts

While we have a growing technology-enabled supply chain 
reflecting our increasing shift to digital, some of our customers 
still require traditional paper-based products, and will continue 
to do so for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we continue to 
manage the use of paper and print production to minimise any 
potentially negative environmental impacts further down our 
supply chain. 

During 2023, our overall paper consumption decreased (2023: 
22,859 tonnes; 2022: 24,187 tonnes), due to our digitalisation 
strategy. We are also maintaining our commitment to source 
100% of our paper from ethically certified papers. This year, we 
sourced 69% (2022: 62%) of our paper from certified sources 
(FSC, PEFC and SFI). 

In addition to purchasing ethically sourced papers, which put an 
emphasis on banning deforestation, enhancing biodiversity and 
protecting nature, we maintain strong due diligence procedures 
in our direct supply chain, as this is a key component in how we 
manage nature-related risks. 

We rate suppliers as medium or high-risk based on a Book Chain 
tool designed specifically to help companies identify labour and 
environmental risks in the supply chain. We use Book Chain’s 
Forest Sourcing and Chemicals & Materials tools to reduce the 
likelihood of purchasing paper from sources associated with 
endangered species, reduce our exposure to deforestation and 
ensure our suppliers are complying with safety legislation. The 
audits are carried out by third-party auditors and shared via the 
Book Chain platform. In 2024, we will conduct a third-party audit 
of nature-related risks to include our wider supply chain, beyond 
paper sourcing.

Strengthening data and reporting
Following a rigorous and comprehensive selection process,  
we will implement a new data management system in 2024.  
The internationally recognised, best-in-class, integrated  
platform covers emissions tracking and reporting, and we  
expect that the adoption of the system will provide us with 
significantly enhanced visibility and a more accurate view of our 
footprint. This is supported by the system’s ownership of the 
CEDA multi-regional input-output (MIRO) database of emissions 
factors, which covers over 95% of global emissions. It will also 
support our emission-reduction initiatives within our operations 
and along our value chain.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 43

Strategic reportSustainability continued

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Below we set out our climate-related financial disclosures 
consistent with the four Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, and 11 recommended 
disclosures in the 2017 report ‘Recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures’, together with 
its subsequent annex and implementation guidelines. The 
statement includes the climate-related financial disclosures 
required by section 414CB (A1) and (2A) of the Companies Act 
2006. Additional information on climate-related issues (beyond 
the recommended TCFD disclosures)” can be can be found 
in other parts of this document. Where this is the case, it is 
referenced within the relevant paragraphs.

Governance

Board oversight

The Board continues to have ultimate oversight of Pearson’s 
climate change strategy and achievement of our targets.  
Day-to-day responsibility for Pearson’s environmental, social 
and governance issues is delegated to the Board’s Reputation & 
Responsibility Committee (RRC). The RRC receives updates  
on emissions on a regular basis and met four times  
in 2023 to develop plans for delivering and embedding the 
Learning for Impact strategy across the Group (including the 
climate strategy), monitor and track progress against plans, 
support management, Group leadership and functions on 
sustainability-related matters, and discuss recommendations  
for the wider Board. 

As a group, the RRC brings a deep understanding of climate 
and sustainability. For information on the Board’s composition 
and skills profile please see page 68. Pearson’s other Board 
Committees work alongside the RRC on several ESG topics, 
for example, the link between climate and remuneration 
and reporting compliance and audit. Read more about our 
governance structure and approach, including our organisational 
structure on climate governance on page 94. 

Strategy management and implementation

The role of assessing and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities is a shared responsibility across Pearson. 
Our Chief Legal Officer is the Executive sponsor of our ESG 
strategy and chairs the environmental steering group, which 
includes our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Strategy Officer. 
She also participates in the RRC. The steering group meets 
quarterly and directs the implementation of our overall carbon 
reduction plan, oversees climate-related risks and opportunities 
and communicates objectives to the rest of the Executive 
Management team.

Each business division and corporate function has appointed 
senior representatives to lead sustainability actions and ensure 
that risks and opportunities are embedded into their planning 
and divisional oversight. The sustainability team meets quarterly 
with the management of divisions and corporate functions to 
provide expertise and guidance on the implementation of carbon 
reduction activities both at a central and individual business 
unit level. The sustainability team also holds responsibility 
for monitoring and reporting on our goals and representing 
the company in wider partnerships aimed at achieving 
transformational change.

Throughout the business, Pearson has subject matter expertise 
that touches on various areas of our climate-related agenda. For 
example, our Responsible Procurement team engages with our 
suppliers on a regular basis and ensures relevant policies and 
procedures exist to enable a transition to a green economy. 

Strategy and risk management

Identified risks and management approach

Last year, we commissioned the specialist consultancy ERM to 
undertake a climate risk assessment to identify and quantify 
the potential impacts of climate change risks and opportunities 
on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. The process 
undertaken included assessing the materiality of climate-related 
risks; identifying the range of scenarios described in the following 
sections; evaluating business impacts and shortlisting the most 
meaningful risks accordingly, and finally, identifying Pearson’s 
management responses and mitigation actions to each of the key 
risks identified.

In order to prioritise the nine key risks identified, we took an 
evidence-based approach, drawing on climate scenarios and 
Pearson’s financial data, to assess their materiality, likelihood  
and velocity.

This year, we refreshed ERM’s assessment internally, updating 
for changes in the sustainability strategy and refreshing the risks 
through discussions with management, and leadership. The 
conclusion of this exercise was that the risks remain consistent 
with last year. The various climate risks identified are integrated 
into the organisation’s overall risk management processes, 
dependent on the nature of the risk. For example, physical risks 
are integrated into business continuity planning by the central 
workplace team, costs and availability of paper by the centralised 
procurement team, and other transition risks such as changes 
in regulations are managed by regulatory alert systems held in 
the Legal function. Managing wider stakeholder expectations and 
stakeholder engagement is managed by the sustainability team 
and respective communications team, whether it is internal  
or external.

The Group has assessed the impact of climate change on the 
Group’s financial statements, including our commitment to 
achieve net zero by 2030, and the actions the Group intends to 
take to achieve those targets. The assessment did not identify 
any material impact on the Group’s significant judgements or 
estimates as at 31 December 2023, or the assessment of going 
concern for the period to June 2025 and the Group’s viability 
over the next five years.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 44  

Strategic reportRisk description

Physical risks

Facility damage due to acute hazards: 
Two of the assets included in the physical risk screening have relevant 
exposure to acute hazards. 
 — Melbourne has present day exposure to a flood; and 
 — Manila experiences a hurricane once every three years on average, with a 

maximum observed wind speed of 127mph. 

Wildfire interruption to Assessment & Qualifications:
Wildfire is the physical climate hazard that has the potential to trigger 
widespread disruptions to transportation and facility accessibility.  
The Assessment & Qualifications business unit is not fully digitised and  
relies on physical locations for instruction and examinations. Under a 
pessimistic warming scenario, wildfire risk may increase across the US, 
Canada and Australia.
Increased water scarcity:
According to data from WRI Aqueduct, Pearson has a relatively low number  
of properties with exposure to water scarcity across its portfolio of  
operating locations. 
Increased paper costs: 
The global paper market is inherently exposed to physical risk, such as 
exposure to potential increased destruction from thunderstorms, wildfires, 
hurricanes and flooding. These events can also cause logistical disruptions 
that further impact the paper market. Accordingly, paper costs may increase. 
Increased use of cloud services: 
Data centres require ever-increasing quantities of electricity and water to 
cool their systems. As Pearson increases its reliance on digitisation, exposure 
to the physical risks of data centres owned by cloud service providers may 
materialise in the form of increased costs to use their services, should they 
face increased costs to run and cool their systems.

 * Impact scales: 

Time frame 
Short: within 5 years 
Medium: between 5 – 10 years 
Long: more than 10 years

Magnitude of impact 
Low: below £5m 
Moderate: £5m - £20m 
High: £20m or above

Scale

Pearson mitigation actions

Time frame – short
Likelihood – possible
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions – low

We have insurance policies in place that would 
cover the costs of structural damage and some 
lost revenue. Therefore, the impact is expected 
to be minimal.

Time frame – medium 
Likelihood – likely 
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low

We have insurance policies in place that 
would cover the costs of structural damage. 
Therefore, the impact is expected to be  
partially mitigated.

Time frame – medium
Likelihood – likely
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low 
Time frame – long
Likelihood – likely
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – moderate
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low

Time frame – short
Likelihood – likely 
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low

We expect water usage to remain minimal, 
and any increased costs or consumption 
will be offset by property upgrades (e.g. taps 
automatically switching off).
In the short-term pricing changes will be 
reflected in operational and strategic plans. In 
the medium term we expect digital product/
services alternatives to be widely available.

Mitigation actions would include shifting 
services to alternative locations or servers. 
Any incremental increase in costs would be 
reflected in operational and strategic plans.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 45

Strategic reportSustainability continued

Risk description

Transition risks

Scale

Pearson mitigation actions

Building efficiency standards: 
Building efficiency and performance standards are becoming more stringent 
across the globe and are being imposed by regulation potentially increasing 
costs of occupied space. 
Procurement of sustainably-certified paper: 
Prices and supply chain shortages may continue affecting the procurement of 
sustainably-certified paper.

Time frame – short
Likelihood – likely
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low
Time frame – short
Likelihood – likely
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low 

Our property strategy is continuously updated, 
and our selection criteria for newly leased 
properties is well above building efficiency 
minimal requirements.
We expect a reduction of paper use based 
on our ongoing digitalisation strategy and 
availability of digital alternatives. Impact will 
also be decreased through improved product 
design and appropriate pricing strategies. 
Therefore, the impact is expected to be 
minimal.
The risk of impact is decreased through 
digitalisation, which assumes a lower ETS 
exposure level through product design.

Increased cost in EU ETS certificates for paper mills in Italy, Sweden, 
Germany and Belgium: 
As a result of the Paris Climate Agreement and the resulting Nationally 
Determined Contributions (NDCs) framework, there will be an increase in cost 
of EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) certificates as more EU countries work 
to meet their decarbonisation commitments. This is due to the limited supply 
of, and growing demand for, ETS certificates.
Reputational risk of having a non-SBTi approved “net zero” target 
What it means to reach ‘net zero carbon’ continues to evolve and concerns 
have been raised that companies claiming carbon neutral status are  
simply buying carbon credits, rather than taking concrete steps towards 
minimising their own carbon footprint. As a result, companies are revisiting  
their net zero target.

 * Impact scales: 

Time frame 
Short: within 5 years 
Medium: between 5 – 10 years 
Long: more than 10 years

Magnitude of impact 
Low: below £5m 
Moderate: £5m - £20m 
High: £20m or above

Time frame – medium
Likelihood – likely
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – low
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low

Time frame – medium 
Likelihood - possible
Magnitude of impact before any mitigation action – moderate
Magnitude of impact with mitigation actions - low

We will continue to focus on our own 
decarbonisation actions in alignment with the 
latest globally recognised standards. Pearson 
will submit a net zero long-term target to 2050 
to the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for 
validation to mitigate this risk.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 46  

Strategic reportOpportunities

Pearson’s strategy focuses on empowering individuals and 
communities by acquiring and credentialing skills across all 
life stages. Last year, our products and services impacted the 
lives of around 160 million global users, and we now have 
1547 enterprise learning clients in Workforce Skills. Learning 
encourages action, promotes collaboration, supports innovation, 
and facilitates data-driven decisions for adopting more 
sustainable practices. 

Urgent, beyond value chain mitigation activities are essential  
in the achievement of societal climate goals. By the very  
nature of our purpose, Pearson has an opportunity to provide 
the learning, credentialing and tools needed for a more 
sustainable future. However, measuring the impact that 
learning has on a global sustainability transformation is not a 
straightforward endeavour and one that requires continuous 
improvement in data and technology.

Nonetheless, the continuous decarbonisation of Pearson’s 
products and operations through digitisation, energy  
efficiency, and flexible working continue to put us on the  
right path to achieving our long-term climate goals.

Resilience to climate change

Our climate risk analysis ran across multiple time periods up to 
2050, to help us assess the speed of impact on our business 
model of various scenarios, and to reflect the critical future 
dates for reducing carbon emissions. The articulation of short-, 
medium, and long-term time horizons aligns with our goals and 
processes. The short-term horizon reflects our risk forecasting 
process, including our going concern and viability statements. 
The medium-term horizon to 2030 alludes to the date of our 
reduction targets, and the long-term horizon marks societal goals 
of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. 

The physical risk of Pearson’s business was assessed using both 
the RCP 2.6 scenario (low GHG emissions that keep the world 
below 2°C warming by 2100, aligned to current commitments 
under the Paris Climate Agreement), and the RCP 7 scenario 
(high GHG emissions with average warming greater than 3°C 
by 2100). Our financial quantification above was based on the 
pessimistic scenario such as RCP 7 and IEA Beyond 2°C.

Six physical assets were assessed for exposure to material 
physical risk. These were chosen because they represent a 
sample of assets providing a range of critical Pearson services 
that, if disrupted, could result in delivery failures caused or 
aggravated by climate physical risks. Each physical hazard was 
mapped on a materiality matrix and changes in materiality from 
2023 to 2050 were projected. 

The analysis concluded that Pearson’s business is moderately 
vulnerable to climate change from physical risks in the medium 
and long-term. The main areas of exposure are climate change-
driven extreme heat and water scarcity which may affect the 
operations of cloud-based data centres that play a central role in 
our business strategy. Some of Pearson’s physical locations, such 
as testing centres, are also moderately vulnerable to wildfires or 
flooding that could impact normal business operations. However, 
we have business contingency plans in place, including insurance, 
to reduce our potential financial exposure to such impacts. 

The transition risk of Pearson’s business was also assessed, 
using four scenarios from the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2021, 
(WEO-2021). The analysis concluded that Pearson is minimally 
vulnerable to transition risk in the 2030 time frame, but risk 
increases for longer time horizons across all risk categories. 

The main transition risks include the reputational risk associated 
with having a net zero target which is reliant on offsetting 
unabated emissions, and the increasing cost of ethically sourced 
paper. The transition risks identified in the table on page 46, 
are largely mitigated by the opportunities also identified in the 
analysis. They include the further digitisation of our business, 
developing climate-related educational content and services, and 
adopting more ambitious reduction plans.

Impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities

The Board of Directors has undertaken a robust assessment 
of the current risks facing Pearson as disclosed in the risk 
section on pages 56-65 of this report. This assessment identifies 
principal risks, as well as several emerging risks and risks which, 
while more modest, could have a significant near-term impact. 
The corporate risk register reflects the following conclusions:

 — Climate change overall does not represent a principal risk 
for Pearson. The financial impact of the aggregate climate-
change-related risks and opportunities individually and in 
aggregate are well below the threshold for an item to be 
considered a principal risk.

 — The physical and transition risk assessment highlighted no 
significant material risks arising from climate change in the 
short term (within the next five years). 

 — There were no substantial transition risks in the short term. 

However, in the medium term, the key risk is the reputational 
risk associated with maintaining a net zero target to 2030. We 
are mitigating this by realigning our long term targets with 
updated guidance produced by the SBTi. 

 — On physical risks, there are no material short-term substantial 

risks identified once the impact of mitigating activities is 
taken into account. In the medium to longer term, the most 
significant physical risk is water scarcity. In addition, whilst 
certain sites were identified with exposure to impacts from 
wildfire such as on closure of VUE test centres, or storms, the 
impact of these is currently expected to be mitigated through 
insurance policies and business continuity insurance.

In making this assessment, we considered the actions needed to 
achieve our commitments, as well as the strategic and financial 
impact of potential risks and opportunities. We concluded that 
these did not have a material impact on the carrying value of any 
assets and liabilities as of 31 December 2023, as we explain in 
further detail in note 1c to the financial statements.

Strategic outlook

Our business model places the consumer at the heart of 
everything we do, and we are integrating our products to create 
a learning ecosystem that reaches our consumers across all of 
their life stages. As we build out our digital learning capabilities, 
we will continue to shift away from physical paper-based 
products and services, in turn accelerating our decarbonisation 
trajectory. In addition, we continue to reduce our property 
footprint which also contributes to reducing our risk exposure 
to physical and transitional risks, and we expect these trends to 
continue. This year, we will be conducting a refreshed materiality 
review in preparedness for climate-related reporting regulations. 
This analysis will be closely integrated into broader corporate 
strategy work and decision making.

By the end of 2023, we had achieved a reduction of 44% in our 
Group emissions across our Scopes 1-3 (market-based) against 
our 2018 baseline, putting us on track to achieve our 2030 target 
of a reduction of at least 50%.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 47

Strategic reportSustainability continued

We believe that the most meaningful and important contribution 
that Pearson can make to society’s journey to net zero is by 
focusing on reducing our absolute emissions, both in our own 
activities and along our value chain, with scope 3 emissions 
accounting for more than 95% of our total. Last year, we 
published our Climate Action Plan, and we are currently 
advancing our plans to do this beyond 2030 – mapping out the 
carbon reduction actions that the business will need to take as 
wider society does the same, in the context of developments in 
and the evolution of carbon offset markets and in line with the 
latest science-based guidance.

Metrics and targets

Our primary target is to reduce our absolute scope 1, 2 and 
3 carbon emissions by 50% by 2030 (validated by the Science 
Based Targets initiative) using a 2018 baseline. We have made 
good progress this year, achieving a 44% reduction in emissions 
since 2018. 

Climate-related metrics

In addition to carbon reduction targets, Pearson has business-
relevant non-financial KPIs that address the climate-related risks 
and opportunities discussed throughout this report, namely:

Metric 
category Metrics

GHG 
emissions

Strategy
Governance

Sustainability strategy
Progress against achieving net 
zero carbon by 2030, as measured 
through percentage carbon 
reduction
Digital growth
Remuneration
ESG weighting of 10% into LTIP

Pages

42-43

24
107

Our full set of environmental data and methodology for 
calculations can be found in the ESG performance tables on 
pages 48-55, and categories of scope 3 emissions included in 
our targets are also detailed in our independent assurance 
statement, see https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/sustainability/
our-esg-reporting. Our emissions data is calculated following the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and 
can be summarised as follows:

Our emissions data

tCO2e

Scope 1

Scope 2 location-based

Scope 2 market-based

Scope 3

Total location-based 

Total market-based
Intensity ratio –  
tCO2e/sales
(Scopes 1,2 market-based 
and 3)

2023

2022

4,661*

14,052

14

302,572

321,285

307,247

4,622

29,034

182

362,473

396,128

367,276

83.6

95.6

 * Small increase in Scope 1 emissions primarily driven by an increase in activity for 

company vehicles in the US.

Table of contents

Section

Section

Governance

Strategy

Risk 
management

Metrics and 
targets

Board’s oversight of  
climate-related risks  
and opportunities 
Management’s role in 
assessing and managing 
climate-related risks  
and opportunities 
Climate-related risks and 
opportunities over the short, 
medium and long term 
Impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities
Pearson’s resilience taking 
into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios
Processes for identifying  
and assessing climate- 
related risks 
Processes for managing 
climate-related risks 
Integration of climate-related 
risks into the organisation’s 
overall risk management 
Metrics used to assess 
climate-related risks  
and opportunities 
Scope 1, scope 2, and scope 
3 GHG emissions
Performance against targets 

Page 
Reference

44-48

44

44-48

47

47

44

44

44

48

48

48

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 48  

Strategic reportESG data

Our performance

About our reporting
This report provides a summary of Pearson’s sustainable business strategy and our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance for the calendar year ended 31 December 2023. The Board’s Reputation & 
Responsibility Committee has reviewed the reported information, including the list of material topics on page 94.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 

Our report is in accordance with the GRI standards, using the GRI 1: Foundation 2021 guidance. There is no relevant GRI sector standard for our industry.

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)

We continue to report in line with the SASB’s standards to provide industry-based insights into the most relevant sustainability-related risks and opportunities for the media, and professional services sectors.

UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

We were proud to participate in the Early Adopter Programme of the UN Global Communication on Progress (CoP) designed to add value and streamline sustainability reporting for all participating companies 
of the UNGC. Our CoP is publicly available on our participant profile at: https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/7319-Pearson-plc

Lifelong learning and education have an important role to play in achieving all the UN SDGs, but we focus our efforts on those where we have the greatest impact. Our priority SDGs are: 4 quality education, 8 
decent work and economic growth, and 10 reducing inequalities.

ESG material issues reporting against GRI and SASB

Material issues

GRI 

SASB 

Page/web reference

Comments/omissions 

Product 
effectiveness

Consumer 
engagement

GRI 203-2: significant indirect impacts

GRI 203-2: significant indirect impacts

Digital growth GRI 203-2: significant indirect impacts

Employee 
learning and 
development 

GRI 404-1: average hours of training per 
year, per employee
GRI 404-2: programmes for upgrading 
employee skills and transition assistance 
programmes
GRI 404-3: percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews 

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 34-38
Performance: non-financial KPIs Page 24

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 34-38, 16-17
Performance: non-financial KPIs Page 24

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 34-38
Performance: non-financial KPIs - Page 24

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 39-41
Performance: Pages 24, 39-41

We do not report  
on average hours 
of training, or % of 
employees receiving 
reviews. 100% of direct 
employees are covered  
by the Gallup survey.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 49

Strategic report 
 
 
 
ESG data continued

Material issues

GRI 

SASB 

Page/web reference

Comments/omissions 

Employee 
engagement 

Inclusion and 
diversity 

405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees 

Reducing our 
environmental 
impact 

GHG Emission scope 1, 2, 3. 
Baseline and methodology. 
Any offsets including type, 
amount, criteria 

Data privacy 
and cyber 
security 

GRI 418 -1 Substantiated 
complaints received concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data

Journalistic 
integrity & 
sponsorship 
identification

SV-PS-330a.2. (1) voluntary and  
(2) involuntary turnover rate  
for employees 
SV-PS-330a.3.  
employee engagement %

SV-PS-330a.1. & SV-ME-260a.1. 
percentage of gender and racial/
ethnic group representation for:
(1) Executive Management
(2) professionals
(3) all other employees 
SV-ME-260a.2. description of 
policies and procedures to ensure 
pluralism in news media content

SV-PS-230a.1description of 
approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks 
SV-PS-230a.2. description of 
policies and practices relating to 
collection, usage, and retention of 
customer information 
SV-PS-230a.3. 
number of data breaches
percentage involving  
customers' confidential business 
information or personally 
identifiable information
number of customers affected 

SV-ME-270a.3 Description of 
approach for ensuring 
journalistic integrity of news 
programming related to: (1) 
truthfulness, accuracy, objectivity, 
fairness, and accountability, (2) 
independence of content and/
or transparency of potential bias, 
and (3) protection of privacy and 
limitation of harm

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 39-41
Performance: Page 34

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 40-41
Performance: Pages 24, 39-40
Social Equity portal: https://www.pearson.com/content/global-store/sites/
en-us/social-equity.html

Risks, opportunities, and management approach: Pages 35, 42-43
TCFD Report: Pages 44-48
Performance: Pages 24, 42-43

The following sections of our report detail:
 — our approach to data security risks: Page 100

 — governance of data privacy, cyber security and technology resilience: 

Page 96

 — approach to customer data and safeguarding and training provided: 

Pages 34, 38

 — consumer-facing privacy centre explaining how Pearson uses personal 

information: https://www.pearson.com/en-gb/privacy-center.html

In the event of a reportable breach, we 
would disclose information about the 
incident and commit to contact any 
affected data subjects in a timely way. 
In line with regulations, we will disclose 
material lapses to the relevant regulators. 
To the extent that any relevant 
regulator should find fault with our 
data management and/or data security 
practices, they will publish their  
findings/sanctions. 

 — Business Partner Global Content Policy, on page 94

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 50  

Strategic report 
 
GRI General Disclosures Index 

Disclosure

Page/Location

Comment

2-1 Organisational details

2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s 
sustainability reporting

68, 72,74

94-96

2023 annual report, sustainability@
pearson.com

https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/
purpose/our-esg-reporting

We do not currently report on 
workers who are not employees.  
Most common type of workers are 
regular employees (17,128) and  
most common type of work 
performed is in testing centres, 
technology, sales, customer services, 
and professional development

2-3 Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point

2-4 Restatements of information

2-5 External assurance

2-6 Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships

2-7 Employees

2-8 Workers who are not employees

81

11

53-54

2-9 Governance structure and composition

66-80

2-10 Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body

88-90

2-11 Chair of the highest governance body

66

2-12 Role of the highest governance body 
in overseeing the management of impacts

2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts

2-14 Role of the highest governance body 
in sustainability reporting

68-80

80

94-96

Disclosure

Page/Location

Comment

2-15 Conflicts of interest

2-16 Communication of critical concerns

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest 
governance body

2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the 
highest governance body

76

94

74-77

85-87

2-19 Remuneration policies

107-135

2-20 Process to determine remuneration

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio

2-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategy

2-23 Policy commitments

2-24 Embedding policy commitments

2-25 Processes to remediate  
negative impacts

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and 
raising concerns

2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations

2-28 Membership associations

110

110

34

16

16-20

94

94

94

92

2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement

16-20

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements

134

https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/
corporate-policies

https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/
corporate-policies

We are also members of the Global 
Business Coalition for Education, 
and the Corporate Consultative 
Group of the World Resource 
Institute (WRI).

Board members engage with 
employees on a regular basis.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 51

Strategic reportESG data continued

ESG performance tables

Environment
Methodology: We follow the requirements from the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition) to calculate our emissions. 

For scope 2, we use the dual reporting methodology (location and market-based approach), together 
with some of the latest emission factors from recognised public sources, including, but not limited to, 
the UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, the International Energy Agency, 
the US Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency, and the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Energy use includes gas and electricity 
consumption in MWh and vehicle fuel use converted from mileage into MWh using BEIS conversion 
factors. We are also using the latest global warming potential from the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report.

An independent third party has verified and provided limited assurance of our energy  
consumption; scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions; and renewable electricity claims, as well as  
our social KPIs. See SLR Consulting assurance statement here: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/
sustainability/our-esg-reporting

Greenhouse gas (GHG) (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions overview (metric tons CO2e)

Scope 1
Scope 2 (market-based 1)
Scope 2 (location-based 2)
Scope 3
Total - location-based
Total - market-based
Total global scope 1 and 2 (location-based)
Total UK scope 1 and 2 (location-based) 
Total global scope 1 and 2 (market-based)
Total UK scope 1 and 2 (market-based)

2023

2022

4,661
14*
14,052
302,572
321,285
307,247
18,713
2,280
4,675
821

4,622
182
29,034
362,473
396,128
367,276
33,656
5,671
4,804
1,662

Intensity ratio

tCO2/ m £ sales revenue (scope 1, 2 market-based and 3)

Energy

% electricity from renewable sources 
Total electricity consumption from renewable sources only (MWh)
Total electricity consumption from non-renewable sources only (MWh) 
On-site generated electricity (MWh)
Total gas consumption (MWh) 
Total fuel oil consumption (MWh) 
Vehicles (MWh)
Total energy consumption (MWh)
Global (gas, electricity and transport)
UK (gas, electricity and transport) 

Resource use

Paper used (t)
% FSC
% PEFC
% SFI

Waste

Total waste generated (t)
Share of waste recycled in office space

Water

Total water consumption (m3)

2023

83.6

2022

95.6

2023

2022

100%
36,321
0
177
18,309
49
4,693**
59,372
59,323
11,519

99%
83,523
957
184
24,170
159
347
109,340
108,997
29,811

2023

2022

22,859
50%
6%
13%

2023

680***
23.9%

24,187
33%
20%
9%

2022

1,298
17.7%

2023

2022

84,857***

538,556

1.  The market-based approach reflects emissions from electricity purposefully chosen.  

It derives emission factors from a contract for the sale and purchase of energy.

**  An increase in activity for company vehicles in the US is included in this year’s figures.

2.  The location-based approach reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy  

*** We report estimated water and waste in some of our properties by applying an intensity ratio per sqm based on all actual data 

consumption occurs.

available. This year, the intensity ratio per sqm for waste generated and water consumption was much lower than 2022.

 * We purchase renewable electricity in countries of consumption. For American Samoa, Bangladesh, Kenya, Republic of Korea, 

Northern Marina Islands and Romania, Pearson was not able to purchase country-specific Energy Attribute Certificates and we 
had to buy from neighbouring countries/regions such as United States, India, Uganda, China and Poland. However, this represents 
only 0.1% of Pearson total electricity consumption.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 52  

Strategic reportSocial
All employee figures, with the exception of total average number of employees (as noted below) are 
based on employee volumes as at 31 December 2023.

Our employees

Total average number of employees for the year†

2023

2022

18,360

20,438

Employees by geography (regional representation)
US as of 31 December
UK as of 31 December
Rest of world as of 31 December
†  Total average number of employees is calculated using a Full-time Equivalent (FTE) methodology, as an average across the 

17,612
9,241
3,359
5,012

20,169
10,694
3,931
5,544

reporting period. Seasonal/temporary staff are excluded from calculation.  

Gender diversity breakdown

Total number of permanent, regular employees
Male
Female
Non-binary
No data

Total number of temporary, limited-term employees
Male
Female
Non-binary
No data

Total full-time, regular employees
Male
Female
Non-binary
Not disclosed

Total part-time, regular employees
Male
Female
Non-binary
Not disclosed

2023

97%
40%
59%
0%
1%

3%
36%
63%
0%
1%

79%
44%
56%
0%
1%

21%
27%
72%
0%
1%

2022

97%
40%
59%
0%
1%

3%
32%
66%
0%
2%

79%
44%
55%
0%
1%

21%
27%
72%
0%
1%

Board and Executive Management team's 
gender identity or sex

Men
Women
Other categories 
Not specified / prefer not to say

Board and Executive Management team's 
ethnic background

White British or other White 
(including minority-white groups)
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian/Asian British
Black/African/Caribbean/Black 
British
Other ethnic group, including 
Arab
Not specified/ prefer not to say

Number 
of Board 
members

Percentage 
of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO,  
SID and Chair)

Number in 
Executive 
Management*

Percentage 
of Executive 
Management

5
6

45.5
54.5

3
1

6
5

54.5
45.5

Number 
of Board 
members

Percentage 
of the 
Board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (CEO, CFO,  
SID and Chair)

Number in 
Executive 
Management*

Percentage 
of Executive 
Management

8
2
1

73
18
9

4

8
1
1

1

73
9
9

9

 *

 Prepared in accordance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.6R(10) as at 31 December 2023. As prescribed by this rule and for the purpose of 
this disclosure, the Executive Management includes the Company Secretary. The data contained in the tables above was collected 
as part of the annual declaration process, whereby the Board and the Executive Management team received declaration forms for 
self-completion. The declaration forms included, for all individuals whose data is being reported, the same questions relating to 
ethnicity and gender. The data is used for statistical reporting purposes and is provided with consent. 

Female leadership breakdown

Senior leadership
VP and Director
Manager
Percentage of women in technology roles (IT/engineering)

.

Employee racial and ethnic diversity breakdown

2023

2023

47%
47%
51%
30%

2022

41%
48%
51%
31%

2022

Total workforce (US and UK) 
Senior leadership (US and UK)
VP and Director (US and UK)
Manager (US and UK)

32% (US) / 17% (UK)
15% (US) / 14% (UK)
18% (US) / 16% (UK)
27% (US) / 18% (UK)

32% (US) / 18% (UK)
19% (US) / 12% (UK)
18% (US) / 13% (UK)
25% (US) / 14% (UK)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 53

Strategic reportESG data continued

Employee racial and ethnic diversity breakdown - US

% of total workforce
Asian
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino
Other
White
Not stated

Employee racial and ethnic diversity breakdown - UK

% of total workforce
Asian
Black
Hispanic or Latino
Other
White
Not stated

% of total management workforce (US and UK)

Asian
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino
Other
White
Not stated

Turnover

Turnover rate, total average for the year1
Voluntary turnover
Involuntary turnover

1. 

 % calculated using average 2023 H/C of 18,360, not 2023 year-end position. 

Turnover by gender

Total female
Total male
Non-binary
Not disclosed

2023

32%
11%
11%
9%
2%
68%
0%

2023

17%
10%
4%
0%
4%
64%
18%

2023

12%
4%
4%
2%
76%
2%

2022

32%
10%
11%
9%
2%
67%
1%

2022

18%
10%
4%
0%
4%
66%
16%

2022

10%
4%
4%
2%
77%
3%

2023

2022

6,446 / 34% 6,974 / 33%
3,037 / 16% 4,658 / 22%
3,409 / 18% 2,316 / 11%

2023

2022

3,840 / 20% 4,233 / 20%
2,475 / 13 % 2,659 / 12%
6 / 0%
76 / 0%

21 / 0%
110 / 1%

Turnover by age group

Under 30 years old
30-50 years old
Over 50 years old
No date

New hires

Total number and rate of new employee hires (number of hires/
average headcount)2
Total number of new hires - female
Total number of new hires - male
Total number of new hires - non-binary
Total number of new hires - not-disclosed

2. 

 % calculated using average 2023 H/C of 18,360, not 2023 year-end position. 

New hires by age group

Under 30 years old
30-50 years old
Over 50 years old
No date

Employee engagement measures3

Engagement
Inclusion
Progress
Learning and growth
Volunteering hours

3. 

Sourced from Gallup Access. Propriety data.

^  GrandMean on a five-point Likert scale.

BTEC International Registrations

Governance

Total number of concerns raised and investigated
Percentage of employees completing code of conduct certification  
or training 

2023

2022

1,693 / 9% 1,720 / 8%
3,324 / 18% 3,449 / 16%
1,414 / 7% 1,785 / 8%
20 / 0%

15 / 0%

2023

2022

3,770 / 20% 5,600 / 26%
2,289 / 61% 3,378 / 60%
1,374 / 36% 2,076 / 37%
24 / 0%
122 / 2%

19 / 1%
88 / 2%

2023

38%
44%
18%
 0%

2023

4.09^
4.21^
73%
76%
20,694

2022

38%
44%
17%
 1%

2022

3.96^
4.12^
67%
72%
n/a

2023

2022

65,0334

37,994

2023

92

2022

92

100%

100%

4. 

 Increase due to partnership with the Ministry of Education in Jordan to offer BTEC qualifications in public schools.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 54  

Strategic reportNon-financial and sustainability information statement

In accordance with Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, which outline requirements for non-financial reporting, the table below signposts to content in this strategic report, relevant to the 
management, performance and position of the company, and the impact of our activities in specific non-financial areas. 

Non-financial matter and relevant 
sections of Annual Report 

Business model

Page/link reference 

Business model: Page 22
Stakeholders: Page 16
ESG-linked remuneration: Page 113

Environmental matters
Climate
Resource use

Policies: Addressed in the following pages, with full policies for Pearson Plc available at: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies
Position and performance:  Pages 42-43
Risks/opportunities:  Pages 45
KPIs: Pages 24
Climate-related financial disclosure as defined in section 414CA(2a) Companies Act 2006’: Governance – (a) on page 40; Strategy – (d), (e) and (f) on 
pages 41-43; Risk management – (b) and (c) on page 42; Metrics and Targets – (g) and (h) on page 48.

Social and community matters
Driving learning for everyone with our product
Social engagement 

Policies: Addressed in the following pages, with full policies for Pearson Plc available at: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies 
Position and performance:  Pages 39-41
Risks/opportunities:  https://plc.pearson.com/sites/pearson-corp/files/pearson/esgmateriality2023-14-04.pdf
KPIs: Page 24

Employee matters
Employee engagement
Investing in talent
Diversity, equity and inclusion 

Human rights matters
Customer welfare (data privacy, security, and 
safeguarding)
Empowering our people to make a difference
Sustainable procurement 

Anti-corruption and bribery matters 

Policies:  Addressed in the following pages, with full policies for Pearson Plc available at: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies
Position and performance:  Pages 39-41
Risks/opportunities:  https://plc.pearson.com/sites/pearson-corp/files/pearson/esgmateriality2023-14-04.pdf
KPIs: Page 24

Policies:  Addressed in the following pages, with full policies for Pearson Plc available at: https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies
Position and performance:  Page 39
Risks/opportunities:  https://plc.pearson.com/sites/pearson-corp/files/pearson/esgmateriality2023-14-04.pdf
KPIs:  Page 24

Policies:  https://plc.pearson.com/en-GB/corporate-policies
Position and performance:  Page 99
Risks/opportunities:  Pages 100-101
KPIs: Page 24

Pearson has a wide range of policies that underpin our sustainability commitments, including: 

 — Pearson Code of Conduct

 — Pearson Business Partners’ Code of Conduct (Partner Code)

 — Responsible Procurement Policy; and our Modern Slavery and Human Rights Statement

 — Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy; Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy

 — Pearson’s safeguarding principles (include data privacy/security)

 — Global Content Policy

The implementation of these policies are discussed throughout the report and on our website.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 55

Strategic reportRisk

Risk management

Effective risk management is essential to executing our strategy, achieving sustainable shareholder value, protecting our brand,  
and ensuring good governance.

The table below sets out the Group’s governance structure for risk management.

Plc Board (oversight)

 — Responsible for the Group’s strategy

 — Ultimately responsible for reviewing management’s assessment of the 

Group’s principal risks

 — Approves the annual budget and long-range financial plans

 — Determines risk appetite in line with the Group’s strategy

Audit Committee (oversight)

 — Provides oversight and assurance to the Board concerning the integrity of the 

company’s procedures for identifying, assessing, managing, and reporting on risk

 — Monitors and evaluates the Group’s compliance and risk management 

processes and control programmes

 — Conducts targeted reviews of key risks

 — Approves the Group risk management framework

 — Approves internal audit plans

Reputation & Responsibility Committee (oversight)

 — Considers the Group’s impact on the communities in which Pearson operates, 
including ensuring that risk management processes are in place to manage 
relevant risks

Pearson Executive Management (PEM) (identification, assessment, 
and mitigation)

 — Comprises the CEO, CFO, and other senior leaders as shown on page 68

 — Accountable for ensuring that risks are mitigated in line with risk appetite

 — Responsible for the execution of the Group’s strategy

 — Responsible for reviewing and approving the principal risks, mitigation plans 

and controls

 — Reports to the Audit Committee on risks where required

The internal 
audit function 
(Assurance)
The internal 
audit function 
is responsible 
for providing 
independent 
assurance to 
management and 
the Audit Committee 
on the design and 
effectiveness of 
internal controls, to 
mitigate strategic, 
financial, operational 
and compliance risks.

Enterprise Risk Management function (identification, assessment,  
and mitigation)

 — Prepares the Group risk management framework

 — Maintains the Group risk register and the list of principal risks

 — Reviews risks with divisions to assess and monitor risk exposures

 — Prepares a consolidated risk view for the Executive Management

 — Provides oversight over Group risk management activity

 — Reports to the Audit Committee on risks

Senior leadership (identification, assessment, and mitigation)

 — Senior leadership is responsible for monitoring, mitigating, and reporting on risk

 — Risk committees within each division assess the principal risks and implement 

further sub-committees as appropriate for division-specific exposures

Technical specialists (identification, assessment, and mitigation)

 — Functional heads work in conjunction with group technical experts to monitor 

and manage significant Group risks. These experts provide operational 
support, guidance, policy, and advice

Risk management experts (identification, mitigation, and assurance)

 — Dedicated teams providing guidance, review, and assurance over key 
operational and financial risks including finance, legal, and compliance

Pearson Personnel (identification, assessment, and mitigation)

 — Personnel across the company are trained in relevant risk management to 

identify, assess, mitigate and escalate risks

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 56  

Strategic reportRisk oversight

Risks are managed by members of the Pearson Executive 
Management team (PEM), either on a divisional basis or by 
function (as set out in the accountability for principal risks section 
on page 63).

Risk owners conduct regular risk reviews with their leadership 
teams, consulting others where appropriate, including technical 
specialists, either within their division or operating in one 
of the centres of expertise. Risk reports are shared with key 
stakeholders, including the Enterprise Risk Management team, 
and are discussed at PEM team meetings.

The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s procedures for the 
identification, assessment, management, and reporting of risk.

Each division is expected to present an overview of its risk register to 
the Audit Committee at least annually and to provide an annual deep 
dive on key risks, supported by central risk team experts as required. 
Deep dive sessions are also held with enterprise-wide functions such as 
tax, treasury and cyber security.

The Audit Committee uses these deep dive sessions to 
understand the rigour of management’s risk scanning and to 
challenge any judgements being made in response to risks.

The internal audit team provides independent assurance to the 
Audit Committee on the design and effectiveness of internal 
processes, to mitigate strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance risks. Internal audit plans are aligned to the principal 
risks but also consider other key risk areas and other assurances 
available. Plans are agreed in advance with the PEM team and 
the Audit Committee.

Risk environment 

The Group operates in markets in learning, content, assessment and 
qualifications where it has held leading positions over several years  
and where the businesses and markets have progressively become 
more digital. 

Factors affecting the markets in which the Group operates include 
the Group’s position as an accredited provider of high-stakes tests, 
organisational capability, competitive dynamics, learner preferences, 
delivery methods including the growing adoption of AI tools and the 
reputation of companies operating in the market. The Group seeks 
to maximise the opportunities from changing market conditions 
while balancing its expansion with appropriate monitoring and 
understanding of associated risks. 

Significant near-term risks are risks which could have a significant 
near-term cash impact or affect the Group’s short-term results, 
but would not be expected to have a significant ongoing effect on 
company valuation.

Emerging risks are risks which we believe are well mitigated in 
the short term but may represent a significant future opportunity 
or threat. These include company-specific risks and risks affecting 
the macro economy.

Further information on the Group’s divisions and key markets can be 
found in the strategy section on pages 12-21.

Principal risks

The Board of Directors has undertaken a robust assessment of 
the current risks facing Pearson, in accordance with Provision 28 
of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. This assessment 
identified the following principal risks, as well as a number of 
emerging risks and risks which while more modest could have a 
significant near-term impact. For each of our principal risks, the 
tables below identifies:

 — the change in the risk over the last 12 months

 — the movement and outlook for that risk

 — management actions

 — the link between the risk and Group strategy

 — our risk tolerance

 — examples of the risk

 — risk ‘contagion’, i.e. the extent to which issues in one area 

could increase the risk in other areas

 — the assessed risk ‘velocity’, i.e. an indication of the speed at 

which a risk could materially impact the Group.

Risk identification and monitoring

Our risk identification processes follow a dual approach. Firstly, 
we take a top-down view which considers strategic risks relevant 
across the whole of Pearson. Secondly, we take a bottom-up 
approach at a divisional or functional level, to identify and 
assess a complete list of each business unit’s risks, with key risks 
highlighted in management reporting and in each division’s long-
range plan.

Detailed interviews are conducted throughout the year with each 
division to assist with risk assessment and management. Risks 
are then ranked according to their likely impact as principal risks, 
significant near-term risks, emerging risks, or other risks.

Classification as principal risks, significant 
near-term risks, and emerging risks

We define our principal risks as those which could have a 
significant and ongoing effect on the Group’s valuation by 
reducing the demand for, or profitability of, its products and 
services. This assessment considers multiple dynamics including 
the duration, velocity, and size of the potential impact. Effective 
management of these risks is essential to executing our 
strategy, achieving sustainable shareholder value, maintaining 
our reputation, and ensuring good governance. However, they 
do not comprise all the risks associated with our business, and 
are not set out in priority order. Additional risks not known to 
management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also 
have an adverse effect on our business.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 57

Strategic reportRisk continued

Accreditation risk

Description

Movement 
and outlook

Termination or modification of accreditation due to policy changes or failure 
to maintain the accreditation of our courses and assessments by states, 
countries, and professional associations, reducing their eligibility for funding or 
attractiveness to learners. Awarding bodies may also require modification of 
tests to continue to receive accreditation which may reduce the convenience 
to learners or increase the cost of delivery. 

The risk has increased to a high level, from moderate-high, due to an uncertain 
political environment with upcoming elections in the UK and US and upcoming 
contract renewals in a number of assessments businesses during 2024.
During the year the Group achieved accreditation to deliver the Pearson 
Test of English in Canada for study and migration. BTEC results season was 
successfully executed. The risk is expected to remain at an elevated level for 
the foreseeable future. 

Management 
actions

1.  Focus on creating a culture where learners and awarding bodies can 
depend on Pearson and know that we will meet their standards. We 
recognise our obligations, particularly in the testing space, to ensure 
prompt and accurate exam grading, and take actions accordingly. 

Artificial Intelligence, Content and Channel risks

Description

The risk that Pearson’s intellectual property is harder to protect as a result of 
increased content generation through artificial intelligence and that Pearson’s 
content and method of delivery (channel) is, or is perceived to be, insufficiently 
differentiated in terms of outcomes or learner experience. This could lead to 
lost sales and a significant decline in the market value of Pearson. 

Movement 
and outlook

The risk has increased from a moderate to a moderate-high level. The Group is 
demonstrating capability in leveraging improvements in AI but the accelerating 
pace of change increases the risk. 

The risk is expected to remain at a similar level for the next 12 months, as 
more companies bring new products and services to market. The Group is 
also anticipating revenue growth from a number of new products, including 
Channels, which have not yet been proven on a large scale. 

Management 
actions

1.  Use of AI in both developing content and delivering outcomes, such as the 
successful beta launch of AI study tools in Higher Education and use of 
large language models in English Language Learning. 

2.  Continuing the evolution and enhancement of security, data and 

governance standards to ensure the Group continues to meet and exceed 
the required standards to be an accredited provider.

3.  Broadening the range of services offered and the range of stakeholders. 
During the year, Pearson Test of English won recognition for Canadian 
Student Direct Stream and economic migration visa applications and  
the Group acquired PDRI which provides recruitment assessment for 
Federal employees. 

4.  Continue to grow full-service offering, including online proctoring. This 
helps to ensure the Group has offerings that can cater for customers’ 
many needs, especially in the global assessment market.

5.  Focus on flawless or near flawless execution of marking and delivering 

assessment results.

Ensuring we can participate in satisfying the growing need for accreditation 
and certification.

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

2. 

Increasing use of interactivity and multi-channel content, particularly on Pearson+, 
including by offering podcast content and videos (Pearson+ Channels).

3.  Launch of content offerings in Pearson VUE to aid test takers in their  

test preparation. 

4.  Deployment of new curriculum materials in Virtual Schools and launch of the 

Connections Academy Career Pathways programme.

5.  Actions to reduce piracy and to manage and enforce intellectual property rights 

including legal enforcement where appropriate. 

6. 

Investment in acquisitions offering new methods for testing or delivering content.

Managing AI, content and channel risk helps achieve our offering of high- 
quality, affordable products which lead to better access and outcomes, 
protecting revenue. 

Medium – This is a strategic risk and Pearson should be rewarded for 
successfully developing and delivering products and services that consumers 
value. Some risk is accepted to ensure the consumer remains at the centre of 
what we do.

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

Examples of 
risks

Risk 
contagion

Low – Pearson seeks to operate in stable, well-regulated markets with known 
requirements to be accredited, and then has a low tolerance for taking risks 
which may jeopardise that accreditation.

Examples of 
risks

 — Intellectual property protection
 — Method of delivery
 — Balance of content creation and content purchased

Political and regulatory.

Accreditation risks are likely to have a financial impact but have limited risk  
of contagion.

Risk velocity Changes in regulation or loss of contracts could occur within a 12  

month period.

Risk 
contagion

Failure to deliver high-quality and engaging products and services may  
have an impact on reputation and responsibility risks and on meeting 
customer expectations.

Risk velocity Significant short-term impacts are possible but due to longer-term contracts or the 

time required for instructors, or consumers themselves, to learn how to use the 
new products and services, it is more likely that the impact will be felt over years. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 58  

Strategic reportCapability risk

Description

Inability to meet our contractual obligations or to transform as required by our 
strategy due to infrastructure, systems or organisational challenges.

Management 
actions 
continued

5.  Dedicated resources to focus on testing and developing AI products and 

to understand evolving market capabilities.

6.  Supply chain planning to ensure that the Group is able to respond should 

a key customer or supplier fail.

Movement 
and outlook

The risk continues to be rated at moderate. The Group has successfully 
executed its cost efficiency programme resulting in a lower cost base, albeit 
ongoing maintenance of cost levels needs constant and rigorous monitoring 
and control. The Group’s financial plan assumes that costs will be successfully 
managed in all divisions, despite the lower cost base.

Further improvements have been made in data and cyber governance and 
resilience during the year. The Group is undergoing a migration process 
that will enhance its system resilience and reduce the risk of outages. The 
migration involves moving key servers to the cloud or to a new consolidated 
US site, with the major remaining work streams expected to be completed 
during 2024. Agility has been demonstrated in the use of new technology such 
as the use of generative AI. Capability remains a foundational requirement to 
continue to meet the Group’s objectives, with greater risk where the Group is 
entering new markets, such as Workforce Skills, which has experienced some 
delivery challenges. 

Management 
actions

1.  Risk ratings are applied to each system and plans put in place to maintain 

system up time. Recovery plans are in place in the event of downtime to 
allow customers to maintain as much functionality as possible or to get 
back online as soon as possible.

7.  Enhanced focus on developing products to serve new markets and user 

groups and cross-selling between divisions.

8.  Employee engagement monitoring and learning development programmes 
to help retain key talent. Senior management has undertaken leadership 
capability assessments and changes have been made to enhance 
capability, including new hires and development training. 

9.  Acquisitions such as Faethm and Mondly have been made to build the 

Group’s capability in key strategic areas, such as AI and direct to consumer 
language learning.

10.  The Group regularly reviews its cost base to ensure its competitiveness 

and identify operations for efficiencies. 

Link to 
strategy

Capability relates to the three priorities to unlock growth:
 — Consumer-focused and technology-enhanced approach
 — Portfolio and organisational structure
 — Talent and culture

Risk 
tolerance

Medium – the Group aims to ensure it has the capability to deliver strategic 
objectives, requiring strong coordination and planning, but without  
stifling innovation.

2.  Regular patching, activity, employee training and security measures such 
as multi-factor authentication help to ensure the stability and security of 
key Group systems.

Examples of 
risks

3.  Migration of servers for platform products to the cloud to  

enhance resilience.

 — Business resilience
 — Business transformation and change 
 — IT resilience
 — Safety and corporate security 
 — Talent

4.  Enhanced agility, notably in how the Group has been able to develop and 

deploy beta tests of products using large language models.

Risk 
contagion

Failures in capability could result in increased reputation and responsibility risk 
and failures to meet customer expectations.

Risk velocity Failures of capability could impact within a six-month period.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 59

Strategic reportRisk continued

Competitive marketplace 

Description

Movement 
and outlook

Significant changes in our target markets could make those markets less 
attractive. This could be due to significant changes in demand or in supply 
which impact the addressable market, market share and margins (e.g. changes 
in enrolments, in-sourcing of learning and assessment by customers, open 
educational resources, a shift from in-person to virtual learning or vice versa, 
or innovations in areas such as generative AI).

The risk has remained at a moderate-high level. 

The largest risk to the Group relates to the large value of customer contracts 
scheduled for renewal during 2024, particularly in US Student Assessment. 

Pearson’s Virtual Schools business faces revenue headwinds following the 
termination of one of its major customers and with another due to terminate 
in the fall of 2024. Both have decided to operate services in-house. 

In Higher Education, the courseware market includes channel partners who 
operate at low margins, as well as competition from various sources including, 
open education resources and new entrants. The Group faces a risk of 
financial loss should a channel partner fail with balances outstanding to  
the Group. Market share loss in Higher Education stabilised during 2023. 
Channels was launched as an additional paid product potentially offering a 
new revenue stream.

The risk is expected to remain elevated for the next 12 months, due to the 
level of competitor activity being observed, as well as continued investment in 
educational technology. 

Examples of 
risks

Management 
actions

1.  The Group’s Assessment & Qualifications and Virtual Learning businesses, 
as service businesses, have a particular focus on working in partnership 
with customers, including IP owners, to ensure that their needs are being 
met, resulting in high retention rates on the long-term contracts in place.

2.  A significant proportion of the Group’s revenue comes from governments 
or bodies funded by governments (for example, schools and colleges) 
where higher retention rates are typically observed, provided accreditation 
and customer expectations risks are well managed (see Accreditation for 
further information).

3.  The strategy in Higher Education has been focused on reducing reliance 

on channel partners and the opportunity for secondary resale by providing 
digital solutions.

Management 
actions  
continued

4.  The Group invests in emerging and evolving technologies to lead and respond to 

changes in market dynamics. Examples include the launch of AI products using 
large language models in Higher Education in beta and use of AI in workforce.

5.  The Group’s strategy is to address learners wherever they choose to learn, 
reducing reliance on learners’ choosing particular types of institution. 
Direct to consumer offerings such as Mondly and Pearson+ can be 
accessed via smartphone by anyone, and VUE’s international test centre 
network (also used by Pearson Test of English) allows test takers to sit 
exams close to home. This complements our existing businesses such 
as Higher Education and US Student Assessment where the Group is 
introduced to learners through their college or school.

6.  Competitive analysis is undertaken to monitor and respond to competitive 
threats, with decentralised teams able to mobilise quickly to maximise 
opportunities and manage risk.

We have identified three big global opportunities and associated marketplaces:

 — Technology disruption in education
 — The workforce skills gap
 — The growing need for accreditation and certification

Medium – This is a strategic risk associated with successfully selecting 
attractive global opportunities and seizing them. Pearson seeks to lead  
the shift to digital ways of learning and consequently to maintain strong market 
positions.

 — Substitutes
 — Market pricing
 — Product differentiation
 — Consumer learning preferences

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

Risk  
contagion

Risk  
velocity

Changes in the competitive marketplace could increase portfolio change. 

Changes are to be expected in the global learning market over the Group’s five-
year planning horizon, but the timing and pace of such changes is uncertain. 
Pearson’s Assessment & Qualifications and Virtual Schools businesses benefit 
from long-term contracts, which reduce the potential velocity in these divisions 
in particular. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 60  

Strategic reportCustomer expectations

Portfolio change

Description

Movement 
and outlook

Rising end-user expectations increase the need to offer differentiated value 
propositions, risking margin pressure to meet these expectations and 
potential loss of sales if not successful.

The risk has remained at a moderate level. While the risk is well managed 
within many of our businesses, as demonstrated by strong NPS scores  
and retention rates, cost pressures and a changing technology landscape  
are leading to changes in customer expectations. Evidence of higher  
customer expectations has been observed in the direct to consumer  
market, particularly for Mondly, where the cost of acquiring and retaining 
new learners is high, leading to some re-balancing towards offering language 
tuition for enterprises. Concerns about identity verification and the risk of 
cheating have resulted in some increase in demand for in-person testing in 
our VUE and PTE businesses.

In Workforce Skills, feedback from customers led to a re-focus on modular 
solutions rather than a fully integrated platform as previously envisaged. 

Management 
actions

The outlook is expected to be similar for the next 12 months.

1.  Monitoring and targeting strong NPS scores, responding to  

customer feedback. 

2.  The Group’s direct to consumer offerings of Mondly and Pearson+ provide 

valuable insights about usage.

3.  Our service businesses conduct regular reviews with customers to ensure 
that their expectations are well understood and met and where gaps arise, 
steps are taken to address these concerns.

Focus on delighting our customers and meeting their expectations. 

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

Medium – This is a strategic risk and Pearson should be rewarded for 
successfully developing and delivering products and services that consumers 
value. Some risk is accepted to ensure the consumer remains at the centre of 
what we do.

Examples of 
risks

 — Customer experience
 — Data architecture and usage
 — Accessibility

Risk 
contagion

Failure to produce products and services meeting customer expectations 
could also impact reputation and responsibility risks.

Risk velocity Typically, one to three years, as long-term contracts run off.

Description

Failure to effectively execute desired or required portfolio changes to promote 
scale or capability and increase focus on key divisional and geographic 
markets, due to either execution failures or inability to secure transactions at 
appropriate valuations.

Movement 
and outlook

The risk has reduced to moderate-low as recent acquisitions are largely 
integrated and disposals have been successfully executed. 

The risk level will remain at a similar level until further portfolio activity  
is undertaken. 

Management 
actions

1. 

Investment plans included in strategic plans, aligning requirements with 
divisional structure.

2.  Disposal of the Pearson Online Learning Services business, helping to 

focus the group on future growth opportunities.

3.  Acquisition of PDRI, significantly expanding Pearson’s services to the US 

federal government.

4.  An experienced Corporate Finance team to execute transactions, 

supported by a dedicated post-deal Operations team.

5.  Pearson Ventures allows Pearson to take stakes in companies in early 

funding rounds supporting growth through innovation.

Portfolio and organisational structure to unlock growth.

Medium – The Group seeks to balance carefully the opportunity to achieve 
growth through increasing capability and/or scale with the execution risk of 
portfolio change.

Examples of 
risks

 — Identification of requirements
 — Achieving value on acquisitions/disposals
 — Integration of acquisitions

Risk 
contagion

Failures in managing portfolio change could impact capability and the ability to 
meet customer expectations.

Risk velocity The speed of achieving the full benefits of an acquisition will vary depending 
on the size and scope of the acquisition, but typically from six months for a 
simple small acquisition to two years for a larger complex transaction.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 61

Strategic reportRisk continued

Reputation & responsibility

Description

The risk of serious reputational harm through failure to meet obligations  
to key stakeholders. These include legal and regulatory requirements,  
the possibility of serious unethical behaviour and serious breaches of 
customer trust.

Movement 
and outlook

The risk remains at a moderate to high level, due to high ongoing cyber 
security threats and reputational risks, including data privacy and  
biometric risks, and the complexity of navigating different regional  
regulatory environments. 

The Group’s aim is to operate in a highly reputable and responsible 
manner and so we intend to maintain strong mitigations to reputation and 
responsibility risks. However, numerous threats exist including from those 
who seek to do harm to the Group or to its customers, including nation-state 
actors, organised criminal rings, and ransomware attackers, so constant 
vigilance is required. 

Management 
actions

1.  Dedicated risk management teams throughout the organisation monitor 
and respond to key risks. These teams provide regular updates to senior 
management and report to the Reputation & Responsibility Committee or 
Audit Committee as relevant.

Link to 
strategy

Risk 
tolerance

Examples  
of risks

2.  Mandatory training for all staff covers key reputational risks including cyber 

and data risks.

3. 

Insurance cover, where available, supports the Group financially in the 
event of major incidents. 

4.  The Group makes significant investments to ensure high levels of IT 

resilience, including migrating systems to the cloud. Tools are in place to 
repel cyber threats and safeguard customer information.

Management 
actions 
continued

5.  Cyber security and data privacy are topics which are always reviewed as 

part of the divisional risk deep dive exercises undertaken and reported to 
the Audit Committee. This work highlights any issues which have arisen 
and the relative vulnerability of platforms and software.

6.  Strong financial controls are in place which are monitored by the controls 

steering committee and compliance teams as well as local management.

7.  Reviews are undertaken after incidents and significant near misses to 

allow lessons to be learned and any remedial actions put in place. Internal 
Audit are asked to provide assurance around remediation actions for key 
risks in a timely manner.

Our reputation and commitment to behaving responsibly underpin our 
strategy to be a trusted partner for consumers, businesses and educators.

Low – the Group seeks to be a highly trusted consumer learning brand. Any 
significant failures could negatively affect our relationship with consumers 
today and in the future.

 — Compliance with laws and regulations
 — Cyber security
 — Data privacy
 — Safeguarding
 — Test failure
 — Use of third parties

Risk 
contagion

Significant failures in this area could increase Pearson’s capability and 
accreditation risks and weaken our position in the competitive marketplace.

Risk velocity Reputational risks could have a significant impact in a short period in the event 

of a significant issue.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 62  

Strategic reportAccountability for principal risks
For each of our principal risks (shown in bold), the table below lists the accountable senior executive(s) for each sub-risk. Since 2022, the Group has created a new position of Chief Product Officer, which has 
led to the changes in accountability marked in the table below. 

Accountability

Change since 2022

Risks

Accountability

Change since 2022

Risks

Accreditation risk

Political and regulatory

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Artificial Intelligence, Content and Channel risk

Effective method of delivery (podcast, 
video, test, in-person, online)

Chief Product Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Intellectual property protection

Products and services –  
effective investment in own and  
third-party content

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Product Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Balance of content creation vs  
content purchased

Chief Product Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Capability risk

Business resilience

Business transformation and change

IT resilience

Safety and corporate security

Talent

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Executive Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Information Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Human  
Resources Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Competitive marketplace risk

Consumer learning preferences

Divisional Presidents

Market pricing

Product differentiation

Substitutes

Divisional Presidents

Divisional Presidents

Divisional Presidents

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Customer expectations risk

Customer experience

Accessibility

Data architecture and usage

Portfolio change risk

Chief Product Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Human Resources 
Officer, Chief Product Officer 
and Divisional Presidents

Chief Information Officer, 
Chief Strategy Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Yes

Yes

Yes

Achieving value on acquisitions/disposals Chief Financial Officer and 

No

Identification of requirements

Chief Strategy Officer

Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chief 
Strategy Officer

Integration of acquisitions

Chief Financial Officer

Reputation and responsibility risk

Compliance with laws and regulations

Cyber security

Safeguarding

Test failure

Data privacy

Use of third parties

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Information Officer

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Assessment & Qualifications, 
English Language Learning 
and Workforce Skills 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Chief Financial Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 63

Strategic reportRisk continued

Significant near-term and emerging risks

The main near-term and emerging risks are shown in the table below, which also notes accountabilities and where the risk represents a change since  
the previous year.

Risks

Description

Accountability

Classification and 
change since 2022

Climate transition

Inflation & interest rates

Recession

Risks relating to sustainability and climate are outlined in pages 45-46. Expectations around 
climate change commitments and measurements change on a regular basis. 

Chief Legal Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Emerging risk.  
No change.

High global inflation risks increasing the cost of production for Pearson, which the Group may 
not be able to fully pass on. High interest rates also increase the risk of the failure of a key 
customer or supplier, although the Group has a well-diversified customer and supplier base. 
The Group has a significant proportion of its debt held at fixed interest rates, but faces the risk 
of increased costs when refinancing. 

Recession in global markets could put pressure on school, enterprise and consumer budgets, 
reducing demand for our products and services. This has particular potential to negatively 
impact our English Language Learning and Workforce Skills divisions, unless disruption in the 
labour market encourages more people to retrain. Historically, demand for certain Pearson 
businesses, such as Higher Education, has been counter-cyclical, but there is no guarantee this 
will continue to be the case. 

Chief Financial Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Significant near-term risk. 
Previously classified as 
emerging but reclassified due 
to ongoing elevated inflation 
and interest rates. 

Chief Executive Officer

Emerging risk.  
No change.

Supply chain

Disruption at ports globally and challenges for suppliers due to war or economic stress may 
lead to business interruption if not fully planned for and mitigated.

Chief Financial Officer and 
Divisional Presidents

Tax

Sanctions and geopolitics

The outcome of tax decisions relating to prior year transactions in Brazil could lead to 
significant cash costs. The UK/EU State Aid case has been partially provided for and the 
potential liability paid, but there is potential for near-term change. 

Chief Financial Officer

High levels of geopolitical volatility has led to the increased use of sanctions, which could inhibit 
the Group’s ability to trade (as happened with our small business in Russia) or if inadvertently 
breached could lead to fines, penalties and actions against officers.

Chief Executive Officer,  
Chief Legal Officer

The company also has offices in Israel which could be affected by the ongoing conflict in  
the region.

Significant near-terms risk. 
Previously classified as an 
emerging risk but reclassified 
due to ongoing disruption. 

Significant near-term risk.  
No change.

Significant near-term risk. 
Previously classified as an 
emerging risk but reclassified 
due to ongoing disruption. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 64  

Strategic reportRisk assessment of prospects and viability

Corporate planning process

The board assessed the prospects of the company using the company’s five-year plan, reviewing 
going concern over the period to 30 June 2025 and viability to 31 December 2028. The five-year 
period corresponds with Pearson’s strategic planning process which is discussed by the board at 
least annually and represents the time over which the company can reasonably predict market 
dynamics and the impact of additions to the product portfolio.

The strategic plan takes account of a range of factors including market conditions, the likely impact 
of principal risks to the Group, product and capital investment levels, as well as available funding. 
Pearson’s strategy and business model is discussed in more detail on pages 12-23.

Viability assessment approach and outputs 

Base case five-year plan
In considering the long term prospects of the company, the five-year plan was used as the base case 
model for assessment. Sales, profits and cash are forecast to grow in the base case. The company’s 
subsidiary Pearson Funding plc has a debt maturity of €300m due within the going concern 
assessment period and it is assumed that this is refinanced ahead of time with a £250m bond or 
bank facility.

Severe but plausible downside model

In considering the viability of the Company, a severe but plausible model was prepared based on 
the base case adjusted for the probability weighted impact of all principal risks as well as other 
significant risks. The net impact of the risks modelled was to reduce adjusted operating profit by 
around 40% in each year.

At 31 December 2023, the group had available liquidity of £1bn comprising central cash balances 
and its undrawn $1bn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) which matures in February 2027. The RCF can 
be extended by a further year in December 2024, extending the maturity to February 2028. It is 
assumed that the facility is then refinanced for the same value to beyond December 2028.

Under the severe but plausible downside case, the company would maintain comfortable liquidity 
headroom and sufficient headroom against covenant requirements during the period under 
assessment. That is, even before modelling the mitigating effect of actions that management would 
take if these downside risks were to crystalise. Such measures could include discretionary cost 
cutting measures, reducing dividends and reducing investment.

Reverse stress tests
Two reverse stress tests were modelled to determine the reduction in profit versus the plan that 
would be required to exhaust liquidity.

In the case of the going concern assessment, the profit reduction needed before 30 June 2025 
was calculated. The model showed that operating losses were required in both 2024 and 2025 to 
exhaust liquidity.

For viability, the profit reduction and consequent reduction in cashflow needed to exhaust liquidity 
in 2028 was calculated, requiring cumulative losses of £300m more than identified in the severe but 
plausible downside case.

In each case, the downside required to exhaust liquidity significantly exceeded the downside in the 
severe but plausible scenario, even before allowing for any mitigation.

Conclusion

Based on the results of these procedures, and considering the company’s strong balance sheet, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that Pearson will be able to continue in operation and to 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period ending 31 December 2028. Further details 
of the Group’s liquidity are shown in the “Financial Review” on pages 26-33.

Below are the inputs included in the severe but plausible scenario:

Accreditation Risk
 — Loss of accreditation for Pearson Test of English in a major market

 — Risks associated with potential political and regulatory changes in US Student Assessment and UK 

& International Qualifications

 — Risks associated with potential political and regulatory changes in Virtual Schools

Capability Risk
 — Capability challenges in sales and technology reduce sales and result in increased costs

 — Additional costs to recruit teachers and students due to market conditions

Competitive Marketplace
 — Revenue declines in Higher Education due to enrolment and competition pressures

 — Loss of Virtual Schools due to insourcing

 — Impact of major distributor failing/bankruptcy

AI, Content and Channel Risk
 — Loss of sales due to AI-related risks and poor choice of content and/or channel

Customer Expectations
 — Additional costs to provide higher than planned functionality and levels of user experience

 — Challenges achieving customer expectations in Workforce Skills

 — Failure to achieve desired growth in Channels revenue

Portfolio Change
 — Failure to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies

Reputation and Responsibility
 — Potential cyber and data breaches negatively impacting reputation on an ongoing basis

 — Potential safeguarding incidents negatively impacting reputation on an ongoing basis

Recession and inflation
 — Potential for increased costs and lower sales because of a weak macro environment

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 65

Strategic reportChair’s letter

The Board is focused 
on strategic progress, 
operational discipline 
and sustainable 
success for the benefit 
of all stakeholders.

Omid Kordestani Chair

Dear shareholders,
It is a pleasure to introduce our Governance Report for 2023. 
During the year, we have continued to accelerate our strategic 
goals, in which the Board and its Committees have played a 
critical role. This was also an exciting year with the appointment 
of a new Chief Executive and two independent Non-Executive 
Directors joining the Board, which you can read more about 
throughout this report.

Strategy and performance 

The Board has continued to be heavily engaged with the 
management team in overseeing the continued implementation 
of our growth strategy, with a particular focus on embedding 
operational discipline around the business divisions.

The Board also continued to reshape and refine Pearson’s 
portfolio in support of our strategy through both acquisitions 
and divestitures. In 2023, we completed the sale of Pearson 
Online Learning Services (POLS), the international Online 
Program Management business, to conclude the strategic review 
of the business announced in 2022, demonstrating further 
progress in reshaping Pearson's portfolio towards future growth 
opportunities, centred around lifelong learning.

Further, we completed our acquisition of PDRI, a trusted provider 
of workforce assessment services with significant expertise in 
providing assessment solutions to the US federal government, 
one of the largest employers in the US. PDRI has built a strong 
reputation for delivering quality talent assessments, including 
tailored assessments to support hiring practices for US federal 
government agencies. The acquisition of PDRI has expanded 
Pearson’s portfolio, accelerated our strategy to capture new 
market opportunities and grown our presence with large 
employers in the US. We are now fully focused on executing 
against the growth opportunity ahead and there is significant 
opportunity to learn from each other to further improve 
our products and reach more customers with our proven 
assessment and talent solutions.

The Board continued to pay close attention to maintaining 
a strong financial position, which enabled us to increase the 
dividend again in 2023, in line with our progressive dividend 
policy. We were also able to launch a £300m share buyback 
programme to return capital to shareholders, in line with our 
capital allocation priorities and disciplined approach to capital 
allocation, which enables Pearson to create sustainable, long-
term value for every stakeholder. We have also announced an 
extension of our share buyback programme by £200m.

As part of monitoring execution and performance, the Board 
regularly receives a dashboard that allows Directors to monitor 
progress on Pearson’s financial and strategic priorities, 
supported by agreed indicators and milestones identified as key 
measures of performance. You can read more about those KPIs 
on page 25 of this annual report. 

The Board’s oversight of performance and risk is underpinned by 
the excellent work of our Audit Committee, which you can read 
more about on pages 97-106, including a number of strategic 
risk deep dives and a continued focus on data privacy and cyber 
security, as well as overseeing our financial controls and internal 
audit programmes, together with the delivery of the external 
audit plan.

Sustainability, stakeholder engagement 
and culture

As the world’s leading learning company, Pearson recognises its 
enormous potential to make a positive impact on people and the 
planet, as outlined in our sustainability framework, which you can 
learn more about on page 35. The Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee has primary responsibility for monitoring and 
inputting into Pearson’s sustainability strategy and initiatives 
on behalf of the Board, with more on this described in the 
Committee’s report starting on page 94.

Understanding the views and priorities of all our stakeholders is 
key to running a successful, sustainable company that meets the 
needs of learners, educators, governments and employers. You 
can read more about the Board’s engagement activities in the 
Understanding our stakeholders section on page 81.

During the year, the Board held engagement sessions with 
employees in London and Hoboken to hear employee views. 
Read more about this engagement, and plans for Board 
engagement with the workforce in 2024, on page 82. Promoting 
a diverse and inclusive workforce environment throughout 
Pearson remains a Board priority and relevant KPIs form part 
of the regular dashboard reviewed by the Board. We have 
continued our progress on improving our workforce diversity, but 
we always recognise there is more to be done. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 66  

GovernanceTalent development and succession planning are also ongoing 
themes in the work of the Board and its Committees. The 
Board has continued to work with Ali Bebo, Pearson’s Chief 
Human Resources Officer, to assess our culture and employee 
engagement levels, through analysing (both through the work 
of the Reputation & Responsibility Committee and as a full 
Board) the results of the engagement survey and annual deep 
dives into succession and the talent pipeline. The Board is also 
supporting the Executive Management team to drive a culture 
of performance and accountability throughout the organisation, 
which is covered in more detail on page 39. 

Board composition, succession  
and evaluation

We have a fully engaged Board, with diverse backgrounds, 
perspectives and skill sets, whose range of expertise includes 
digital and direct to consumer strategy and business models, 
sustainability, education and workforce learning, and  
leadership of global, complex organisations through periods  
of transformation and disruption, as well as financial acumen. 
You can read more about the Board’s skills and experience  
on page 90.

A key area for the Board’s attention in 2023 was the selection 
process for Pearson’s new Chief Executive, following Andy Bird’s 
indication to the Board of his intention to retire. This was a 
thorough and considered process in which all Board members 
participated and, as a Board, we are delighted to have appointed 
Omar Abbosh as Chief Executive. You can read more about 
the Board’s decision-making and selection processes for the 
appointment on pages 83 and 91 respectively. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank Andy for his outstanding leadership 
over the last three years, during which he implemented an 
ambitious strategy, successfully transitioned Pearson into a more 
consumer-focused business, orientated around lifelong learning, 
and delivered consistently strong financial performance. We send 
Andy our very best wishes for the future. 

We also appointed two new independent Non-Executive 
Directors to the Board during 2023, further enhancing the skill 
set and diversity of our Board, as you can see on page 71. We 
will continue to monitor the Board’s composition to ensure 
we maintain the range of skills, experience and perspectives 
needed to support the company’s strategy and complement our 
succession planning. 

On behalf of all Directors, I extend our deepest gratitude to 
Tim Score who, after serving for nine years on the Board, will 
step down at the AGM in April 2024. During his tenure, Tim 
has held several key roles on the Board, including as Deputy 
Chair, Senior Independent Director and Chair of both the Audit 
Committee and Nomination & Governance Committee, as well 
as a member of the Remuneration Committee. Tim has been a 
stable and knowledgeable voice on the Board, during periods of 
transformation and restructure. Every one of us on the Board 
will greatly miss Tim’s wise counsel, warmth and commitment to 
the company. We send Tim our very best wishes for the future. I 
am delighted that Graeme Pitkethly has agreed to succeed Tim 
as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, alongside his 
existing key role as Chair of the Audit Committee – the company 
and I are fortunate to have such an outstanding colleague 
stepping into Tim’s shoes in that role.

Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman joined the Board as 
independent Non-Executive Directors in June 2023, both bringing 
significant leadership experience in high-profile and respected 
digital brands, along with deep expertise in digital and consumer 
products. They have each already made strong contributions 
to the Board and as members of the Audit Committee, and for 
Alex as a member of the Reputation & Responsibility Committee. 
More detail on their induction processes can be found on  
page 84. 

The Board is fully engaged in planning for future succession 
needs, and closely monitors the evolution of skill sets needed 
to drive the company forward. More detail about the Board’s 
succession planning can be found in the Nomination & 
Governance Committee report on pages 88-93.

The annual Board evaluation process in 2023 was externally 
facilitated by Manchester Square Partners, in accordance with 
our three-year evaluation cycle. The results demonstrate that 
our Board is collaborative, while providing constructive challenge 
and independent judgement, and operates a robust governance 
approach that will support Pearson in continuing to drive 
strategic progress. Good progress has also been made on the 
recommendations from the 2022 review. You can read more 
about the 2023 evaluation, and how the Board implemented 
recommendations from the previous evaluation, on  
pages 85-87. 

Conclusion 

I hope this Report explains clearly to you how Pearson is run 
and how we align governance and our Board agenda with 
our strategic direction. Shareholders are always welcome to 
put their questions or feedback to us, either via our website 
(www.pearsonplc.com) or at our AGM. Once again this year, 
shareholders will be able to join us and vote at our AGM either 
in person or virtually. Details will be included in the forthcoming 
AGM notice. 

It only remains for me to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support and interest in this fantastic company. I look 
forward to maintaining our stakeholders’ confidence as we seek 
to capture Pearson’s enormous growth potential as a lifelong 
digital partner for learners everywhere. 

Omid Kordestani Chair

Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
The principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’) emphasise the value of good 
corporate governance to the long-term sustainable 
success of listed companies. The Pearson Board is 
responsible for ensuring that the Group has in place 
appropriate frameworks to comply with the Code’s 
requirements. This governance report and the strategic 
report set out how Pearson has applied the principles 
of the Code throughout the year.

The Board believes that during 2023 the company was 
in full compliance with all applicable principles and 
provisions of the Code, save that, as described last 
year, Pearson is not fully compliant with Provision 36 of 
the Code on the basis that the shares awarded under 
the previous Chief Executive’s co-investment award 
made in 2020, and approved by shareholders at the 
time, were subject to a post-vesting holding period 
until 31 December 2023, rather than the total vesting 
and holding period of five years or more required by 
the Code. Further detail is provided in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 108 and 119. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 67

GovernanceBoard of Directors

Leading the way

All Board members have strong 
leadership experience at global 
businesses and institutions.  
Our Board members’ biographies 
illustrate the contribution each Director 
makes to the Board by way of their 
individual experience.

Key to Committees 

A  Audit

NG  Nomination & Governance

RR  Reputation & Responsibility

R  Remuneration

 Committee Chair

Current notable commitments reflect 
other listed company directorships and 
full-time or executive roles.

NG

Omid Kordestani

Chair 
Age: 60

Appointment

First appointed to the Board  
1 March 2022 
Chair since 29 April 2022

Skills and experience

Omid is an international businessman who serves on the 
boards of Klarna Bank AB and Klarna Holding AB and is a 
Council Member for Balderton Capital. He was Executive 
Chair of Twitter, Inc. between October 2015 and May 
2020, and a Board Member until October 2022. From 
August 2014 to August 2015, Omid served as Senior Vice 
President and Chief Business Officer at Google and 
previously from May 1999 to April 2009 as Senior Vice 
President of Global Sales and Business Development. 

From 1995 to 1999, Omid served as Vice President of 
Business Development at Netscape Communications 
Corporation. Prior to joining Netscape Communications 
Corporation, Omid held positions in business 
development, product management and marketing  
at The 3DOCompany, Go Corporation and Hewlett-
Packard Company.

Omar Abbosh

Chief Executive 
Age: 57

Sally Johnson

Chief Financial Officer  
Age: 50

Chief Executive Officer  
since 8 January 2024

Chief Financial Officer  
since 24 April 2020

Sally joined Pearson in 2000 and has held various finance 
and operations roles across the business, both at a 
corporate level and within the divisions, including The 
Penguin Group. She brings to the Board extensive 
commercial and strategic finance experience, as well as 
expertise in transformation, treasury, tax, risk 
management, business and financial operations, investor 
relations and mergers and acquisitions. She has held 
various senior-level roles across the business, most 
recently as Deputy CFO of Pearson. 

Sally is a Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc and 
Chair of its Audit Committee, a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and trained 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers. She was also a Trustee for 
the Pearson Pension Plan from 2012 to 2018.

Current notable commitments

Rentokil Initial plc (Non-Executive Director)

Omar has a career spanning more than 30 years driving 
growth and transformation for leading multinational 
companies. He comes to Pearson with a background 
steeped in technology and innovation, and with a deep 
understanding of how to shape and execute successful 
strategies in a world of disruption.

Most recently, Omar was the President of Microsoft 
Industry Solutions with responsibility for driving sales, 
service, and solutions across Microsoft’s largest customers. 
While there he led industry and technical business units, 
including strategy, engineering, partnering, and sales 
teams that shaped product roadmaps and strategic 
campaigns. Prior to Microsoft, Omar spent three decades 
at Accenture where he helped to orchestrate the 
company’s digital transformation and where he led a large 
and highly successful business unit. He served in numerous 
senior leadership roles at Accenture, including Chief 
Strategy Officer and ultimately as Chief Executive of the 
global Communications, Technology and Media business. 

Omar also serves as a non-executive board member for 
Zuora, Inc., an enterprise SaaS company. He holds a 
degree in electronic engineering and information 
sciences from the University of Cambridge and a master’s 
degree in business administration from INSEAD.

Current notable commitments

Zuora, Inc. (Non-Executive Director)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 68  

GovernanceR NG

A

A

RR

R NG

Sherry Coutu, CBE

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 60

Appointment

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 May 2019

Skills and experience

Sherry is an experienced non-executive director, having 
held numerous senior leadership positions, including 
Chair, Senior Independent Director, and Chief Executive 
Officer in the financial services, technology, and 
education sectors. 

Presently, Sherry also Chairs the Remuneration 
Committee at Raspberry Pi, the world’s largest 
single-board computer company and Founders4Schools, 
the UK’s largest transition-to-work charity.

Sherry is an experienced non-executive director which 
includes the London Stock Exchange Group plc, DCMS, 
Zoopla plc, RM plc, The Scaleup Institute, Cambridge 
University Press and Cambridge Assessment (2006-2019). 
She has also previously acted as an advisor to LinkedIn, 
the National Gallery, the Royal Society, and NESTA. 

Prior to her portfolio career, Sherry founded several 
technology companies and invested in 70 tech start-up 
companies and five venture capital firms. 

Alison Dolan

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 54

Alex Hardiman

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 42

Esther Lee

Non-Executive Director  
Age: 65

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 June 2023

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 June 2023

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 February 2022

Alison is the Chief Financial Officer of Rightmove plc, a 
position she has held since September 2020. She brings to 
the Board extensive commercial and operational finance 
experience, specifically in digital businesses. Prior to 
Rightmove, she held several senior financial positions at 
Sky plc, including Group Treasurer, Director of Finance 
and was the Deputy Managing Director at Sky Business. 
She later moved to News UK to serve as the Chief  
Strategy Officer at the forefront of the business's  
digital transformation.

Current notable commitments

Rightmove plc (Chief Financial Officer)

With more than 15 years of experience in media and 
technology, Alex brings deep expertise in consumer  
product strategy and growth, scaling subscription and 
digital advertising businesses, and high-quality 
journalism and content.

Alex currently serves as The New York Times’ Chief 
Product Officer where she oversees the company’s News, 
Cooking, Games and Audio products that power its digital 
business. She also leads The Times’s enterprise-wide 
approach to generative AI. Alex previously spent a decade 
at The New York Times in several leadership roles before 
leaving for Facebook in 2016 where she served as Head of 
News Products, overseeing news experiences for 
Facebook consumers and publishers. Alex also spent time 
at The Atlantic as their Chief Business and Product Officer 
where she relaunched the company’s consumer offerings 
and subscription model.

Current notable commitments

Esther brings significant experience to the Pearson  
Board through her prior executive management roles in 
developing customer strategies to drive growth, global 
marketing and branding, driving digital transformation and 
building high-performance teams.

She has a long track record of senior leadership roles 
working for global consumer-facing brands. Most 
recently, she served as Executive Vice President - Global 
Chief Marketing Officer at MetLife Inc. Previously, Esther 
served as Senior Vice President - Brand Marketing, 
Advertising and Sponsorships for AT&T, and she has 
served as CEO of North America and President of Global 
Brands for Euro RSCG Worldwide. Prior to that, she served 
for five years as Global Chief Creative Officer for The 
Coca-Cola Company.

Esther is a Board member at The Clorox Company where 
she chairs the Nomination & Governance Committee and 
is a Non-Executive Director of Experian plc.

The New York Times (Chief Product Officer)

Current notable commitments

The Clorox Company (Non-Executive Director)

Experian plc (Non-Executive Director)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 69

GovernanceBoard of Directors continued

NG

A
A

R
RR

NG

R

A

RR

R

NG

A

RR

Graeme Pitkethly

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 57

Appointment

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 May 2019

Skills and experience

Graeme was Chief Financial Officer and a Board member 
of Unilever plc until December 2023. He joined Unilever in 
2002 and, prior to his appointment as the CFO, was 
responsible for its UK and Ireland business. He also held a 
number of senior financial and commercial roles within 
Unilever and spent the earlier part of his career in senior 
corporate finance roles in the telecommunications 
industry. Graeme served as Vice President of Financial 
Planning and Vice President of Corporate Development at 
FLAG Telecom and started his career at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. 

Graeme is a Vice Chair of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures, a Member of the Strathclyde 
University Centre for Sustainable Development and is a 
Chartered Accountant.

Tim Score

Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director 
Age: 63

Annette Thomas

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 58

Lincoln Wallen

Non-Executive Director 
Age: 63

Non-Executive Director since 1 January 2015

Senior Independent Director since 30 April 2021

Deputy Chair since 29 April 2022

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 October 2021

Non-Executive Director  
since 1 January 2016

Tim has extensive experience of the technology sector in 
both developed and emerging markets, having served for 
13 years as CFO of ARM Holdings plc, the world’s leading 
semiconductor IP company. He is an experienced 
Non-Executive Director and was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of Bridgepoint Group PLC in 2021, 
alongside his roles as Chair of The British Land Company 
plc, a Non-Executive Director of the Football Association, 
and a Trustee of the National Theatre. Tim has garnered 
extensive financial and listed company experience during 
previous and current positions. He served on the board of 
National Express Group plc from 2005 to 2014, including 
time as interim Chair and six years as SID. Earlier in 
his career, Tim held senior finance roles with Rebus 
Group, William Baird, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.

Current notable commitments 

The British Land Company plc (Chair)

Bridgepoint Group PLC (Non-Executive Director)

Annette has a 25-year track record in leading global 
publishing and data analytics businesses, across 
academic, educational, and consumer media verticals. 
Most recently, she served as CEO of Guardian Media 
Group, a position she held until June 2021. Prior to this, 
Annette was CEO of the Web of Science Group at Clarivate 
Analytics, a data, analytics, and software business 
focused on research and higher education. She has also 
served as CEO of Macmillan Publishers and led the digital 
and global transformation of Nature Publishing Group. 

She is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and 
currently serves as Senior Advisor to General Atlantic. Her 
previous non-executive experience includes serving as a 
Trustee of Yale University, Non-Executive Director at 
Clarivate Analytics (2017), and as a board member for 
Cambridge University Press and Cambridge Assessment 
(2019-2020). She has also previously acted as an advisor 
to Creative Commons and Bain Capital.

Current notable commitments

Schroders plc (Non-Executive Director)

Lincoln has extensive experience in the technology and 
media industries, and is a Non-Executive Director of 
Improbable MV, which governs the MSquared Network of 
web2 and web3 services.

He was previously CTO of Improbable Worlds, a 
technology start-up supplying cloud hosting, networking 
and technology services to the video game industry. 
Lincoln was CEO of DWA Nova, a Software-as-a-Service 
spin-out of DreamWorks Animation Studios in Los 
Angeles, a position he held until 2017. He worked at 
DreamWorks Animation for nine years in a variety of 
leadership roles including CTO and Head of Animation 
Technology. He was formerly CTO at Electronic Arts 
Mobile, leading their entry into the mobile gaming 
business internationally. Lincoln is a Non-Executive 
Director of the Smith Institute for Industrial Mathematics 
and Systems Engineering, and Varjo, a manufacturer of 
XR/VR headsets for professional markets. His early career 
involved 20 years of IT and mathematics research, 
including as a Reader in Computer Science at Oxford. 
Lincoln holds a PhD in AI.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 70  

GovernanceBoard composition

Gender

Female

Male

6

5

Nationality

American

Ethnicity1

3
American/British

2

British

4
Canadian

1

1
Irish

1
Asian/Asian British Mixed/Multiple ethnic groups White

8

2

1. 

Ethnicity categories are based on the UK’s Office for National Statistics 
classification. 

Tenure

Under 3 years

3-6 years

5

4
Over 6 years

2

This data reflects Directors in office as at 31 December 2023. 
To learn more about Board diversity, please see page 92. For 
diversity data in the format prescribed by LR 9.8.6R(10), please 
see page 53. 

Independence of Directors

All of the Non-Executive Directors who served during 2023 were 
considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and the listing 
standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The Board 
reviews the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors 
annually. This includes reviewing their external appointments 
and any potential conflicts of interest, as well as assessing their 
individual circumstances in order to ensure that there are no 
relationships or matters likely to affect their judgement. In 
addition to this review, each of the Non-Executive Directors 
is asked to provide confirmation of their independence on an 
annual basis as defined by the NYSE listing rules and the Code. 

In January 2025, Mr Wallen will reach nine years’ service on 
the Pearson Board. Upon or in anticipation of attainment 
of nine years’ service by any Non-Executive Director, the 
Board undertakes an assessment to satisfy itself as to the 
continuing independence of that Director. The Nomination & 
Governance Committee gave particular consideration to Mr 
Wallen’s independence in February 2024, ahead of proposing to 
shareholders that he be re-appointed for a further year at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, recognising that he will 
reach nine years’ service during the coming year, if re-elected. 
In doing so, the Committee assessed the degree of objective 
judgement and constructive challenge demonstrated by Mr 
Wallen, and confirmed that his skills, experience and knowledge 
contribute to productive Board discussions. Accordingly, the 
Board is satisfied that Mr Wallen remains independent, and 
that he continues to provide constructive challenge and hold 
management to account.

In accordance with the Code, Omid Kordestani was considered to 
be independent upon his appointment as Chair on 29 April 2022. 

Tim Score will be retiring from the Board at the 2024 AGM 
and will not be seeking re-election. In 2023, the Committee 
assessed Mr Score’s independence, having regard to, among 
other factors, the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on 
Board Effectiveness, and concluded that Mr Score remained 
independent. In assessment of his own independence, 
undertaken in January 2024 to address the requirements of the 
NYSE and the Code, Mr Score did not declare any matters which 
may cause his independence to be questioned.

The Directors can obtain independent professional advice, at 
the company’s expense, in the performance of their duties. All 
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved 
for the full Board.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 71

GovernancePearson Executive Management (PEM)

Key to Committees 

 Internal appointment

 External appointment

Ali Bebo 

Lynne Frank 

Gio Giovannelli 

Mike Howells 

Sulaekha ‘Sue’ Kolloru 
Barger 

Chief Human Resources Officer 
Age: 55

Chief Marketing Officer and 
Co-President, Direct to Consumer 
Age: 57

President – English Language 
Learning 
Age: 51

President – Workforce Skills 
Age: 47

Chief Strategy Officer 
Age: 48

Appointment

 Joined Pearson 13 December 2021

 Joined Pearson 16 November 2020

 Joined Pearson 1 February 2014

Joined Pearson 1 December 2020

Joined Pearson 16 May 2022

Appointed to the PEM  
13 December 2021

Appointed to the PEM  
16 November 2020

Appointed to the PEM  
1 April 2016

Appointed to the PEM  
1 December 2020

Appointed to the PEM  
16 May 2022

Skills and experience

Ali is a seasoned C-suite executive 
with over 25 years of experience 
building culture for transformative 
business performance across 
multiple industries. Prior to joining 
Pearson, she was an executive officer 
and CHRO for Hologic, Inc., a global 
medical technology company. Prior to 
Hologic, she held various HR 
leadership roles with the speciality 
retail company, ANN INC.

Lynne has over 25 years of experience 
in the global media industry. 
Previously, she has worked in 
companies such as WarnerMedia, 
ESPN/Disney and Turner 
Broadcasting. She holds a degree in 
economics and business, and a 
certificate in corporate board 
governance from the University of 
California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

Gio has over 25 years of international 
business experience, including four 
CEO roles in Brazil. Previous board 
roles include BOVESPA-listed Natura 
and CVC Viagens. Gio graduated from 
Bocconi University, holds an 
Economics PhD and is an OPM 
graduate of Harvard Business School.

After 3 years’ service, Mike is stepping 
away from his role as President of 
Workforce Skills in 2024. Mike has 
more than 20 years of international 
business experience. Prior to joining 
Pearson, he held senior leadership 
roles in the British Diplomatic Service 
and worked in international law.  
Mike holds a Master's degree  
in International Law from the 
University of Nottingham and an 
Anthropology Degree from University 
College London. 

Sue has more than 20 years of global 
strategy and corporate experience. 
Previously, she held engineering roles 
at technology companies. Sue holds 
an MBA from The Wharton School at 
the University of Pennsylvania and a 
BSc in electrical engineering from the 
University of Ottawa in Canada. She 
has served on several non-profit 
boards and councils focused on 
diversity and STEM.

PEM composition
Gender

Female

Men

5

5

1

1

1

Ethnicity1

Asian/Asian British Mixed/Multiple 

ethnic groups

Other ethnic
groups

1.  Ethnicity categories are based on the UK’s Office for National  

Statistics classification.

7
White

These figures reflect the Executive Management team excluding the 
Company Secretary. The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have 
been excluded and are counted in the Board metrics on page 71.  
For diversity data in the format prescribed by LR 9.8.6R(10), please  
see page 53.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 72  

GovernanceCinthia Nespoli 

Tony Prentice 

Tom ap Simon 

Art Valentine 

Marykay Wells 

Chief Legal Officer 
Age: 43

Appointment

Chief Product Officer and 
Co-President, Direct to Consumer 
Age: 51

President – Higher Education and 
Virtual Learning 
Age: 45

President – Assessment & 
Qualifications 
Age: 59

Chief Information Officer 
Age: 61

 Joined Pearson 1 February 2014

Joined Pearson 1 May 2023

Joined Pearson 1 December 2004

Joined Pearson 23 January 2006

 Joined Pearson 14 July 2014

Appointed to the PEM  
21 May 2020

Appointed to the PEM  
1 May 2023

Appointed to the PEM  
1 April 2021

Appointed to the PEM  
1 February 2022

Appointed to the PEM  
16 March 2022

Skills and experience

Cinthia has over 20 years of 
international legal and compliance 
experience. Previously, she 
held leadership roles in legal and 
compliance at multinational 
companies. Cinthia was admitted to 
the Brazilian bar in 2004 and earned 
her law degree from Pontifícia 
Universidade Católica de Campinas 
as well as a post-graduate degree in 
tax law from Pontifícia Universidade 
Católica de São Paulo.

Tony has more than 25 years of 
experience in consumer-led product 
management in companies, including 
SEMA4, American Express, and 
Starbucks. He brings extensive 
expertise in strategic product 
development, and consumer 
marketing. He holds an MBA from 
Columbia Business School and a  
BS in Mechanical Engineering from 
Cornell University. 

Tom has 20 years of international 
business and finance experience.  
At Pearson, he has led the Virtual 
Schools business, worked in  
finance for the emerging markets 
businesses and led M&A activity  
in the US. Previously, he worked  
in investment banking at  
RW Baird. Tom holds an MA in 
Economics and Politics from the 
University of Edinburgh.

Art has more than 30 years of 
leadership experience in 
assessments, testing, and technology. 
Prior to his 16 years at Pearson 
serving as a senior leader of Pearson 
VUE and as Managing Director of 
Pearson Clinical Assessment, Art 
worked at global technology 
organisations, including Accenture, 
and Promissor, which was acquired 
by Pearson in 2006. Art earned his BS 
in Mathematical Science/Computer 
Science from the University of North 
Carolina Chapel Hill.

Marykay has over 30 years of 
strategic planning and large, global 
technology transformation 
experience. Prior to joining Pearson, 
Marykay had CIO roles at Nortel, 
Tekelec (acquired by Oracle) and 
Extreme Networks. Marykay holds a 
BS degree in Computer Information 
Science from Clarkson University and 
is a member the Salesforce CIO 
Advisory Board, MGT Board of 
Directors, and is a Board Member of 
the non-profit Rewriting the Code 
(advancing Women in Tech).

Nationality

External/Internal Appointment

American

British

Italian/Brazilian

Canadian

Internal

External

5

2

2

1

5

5

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 73

GovernanceDivision of responsibilities

The Board
The Board has established four formal Committees. The Committees focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling the Board meetings to focus on strategy, performance, leadership and people, governance 
and risk, and stakeholder engagement, thereby making the best use of the Board’s time together as a whole. The Committee Chairs report to the full Board at each Board meeting following their sessions, 
ensuring a good communication flow while retaining the ability to escalate items to the full Board’s agenda, if appropriate.

Nomination & Governance 
Committee 
Reviews corporate governance matters, including 
Code compliance and Board evaluation; considers 
the appointment of new Directors, Board 
experience and diversity; and reviews Board 
induction and succession plans as well as Board 
engagement with the wider workforce.

Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee 
Oversees our sustainability framework, including 
progress towards our sustainable business 
strategy commitments. Works to assess and 
advance Pearson’s reputation with stakeholders, 
including through the areas of branding, culture, 
employee engagement and values.

Audit Committee  

Remuneration Committee  

Appraises our financial management and reporting 
and assesses the integrity of our accounting 
procedures and financial controls. The Committee 
also oversees risk, compliance and internal audit. 

Determines the remuneration and benefits of the 
Executive Directors and oversees remuneration 
arrangements for the Pearson Executive 
Management team, as well as monitoring 
remuneration policies for the wider workforce.

Chair 

Chief Executive 

The Chair is primarily responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness. They ensure that the Board upholds 
and promotes the highest standards of corporate 
governance, setting the Board’s agenda and 
encouraging open, constructive debate of all 
agenda items for effective decision-making.  
They regularly meet the Chief Executive to stay 
informed and provide advice. They also ensure 
that shareholders’ views are communicated  
to the Board. 

The Chief Executive is responsible for the 
operational management of the business and for 
the development and implementation of the 
company’s strategy, as agreed by the Board and 
management. They are responsible for developing 
operations, proposals and policies for approval by 
the Board, they promote Pearson’s culture and 
standards, and they are one of the key 
representatives of the company to its  
external stakeholders. 

Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director
The Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director supports the Chair on Board 
effectiveness and governance matters. This role 
includes meeting regularly with the Chair and Chief 
Executive to discuss specific issues, as well as 
being available to shareholders generally, should 
they have concerns that have not been addressed 
through the normal channels. The Deputy Chair 
and Senior Independent Director also leads the 
evaluation of the Chair on behalf of the 
other Directors. 

Company Secretary 

The Company Secretary advises on governance 
matters and compliance with Board procedures. 
They are responsible, under the direction of the 
Chair, for ensuring the Board receives accurate, 
clear and high-quality information, and has 
adequate time and appropriate resources to 
function effectively and efficiently. They also 
support the Chair in delivering the corporate 
governance agenda, and organise director 
induction, training programmes and the Board 
evaluation process.

Pearson Executive 
Management 
The Pearson Executive Management team 
consists of the Chief Executive and their 
senior direct reports. They are the 
executive management group for Pearson 
and are responsible for delivering Pearson’s 
strategy under clearly defined 
accountabilities and in line with agreed 
governance and processes. 

Standing Committee 

Authorities and duties 

A Standing Committee of the Board is 
established to approve certain operational 
and ordinary course of business items such 
as banking matters, guarantees and 
intra-Group transactions. They also make 
routine approvals relating to employee share 
plans. Additional authority may be delegated 
on an ad hoc basis, e.g. to approve and 
conclude corporate transactions.

The authorities and duties of the Board and 
its Committees, as well as the roles and 
responsibilities of key individuals on the 
Board, are clearly set out in writing.  
These documents are reviewed and 
approved by the Board on an annual basis 
and are available on the company’s website 
(www.pearsonplc.com).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 74  

GovernanceBoard activities

The Board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the company’s long-term strategy, performance, culture and values. We believe 
that Board members provide a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives and that robust, open debate about significant business 
issues brings an additional discipline to major decisions.

The role and business of the Board 

The key responsibilities of the Board include: 

 — overall leadership of the company and setting the company’s 

values and standards, including monitoring culture and 
diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives 

 — reviewing and determining the company’s strategy, including 
in relation to sustainability matters, in consultation with 
management, assessing performance against the strategy and 
overseeing management’s execution of it 

 — supervising major changes to the company’s corporate, 

capital, management and control structures 

 — approval of all transactions or financial commitments in 

excess of the authority limits delegated to the Chief Executive 
and other Executive Management 

 — assessment of management performance, Board and 
executive succession planning and talent pipeline 

 — effective engagement with key stakeholders

Strategic planning and decision making 

The Board spends considerable time assessing whether any 
proposed action aligns with the strategy and future direction of 
the business, while taking into consideration sustainability and 
impact on our stakeholders. In addition, the Board regularly 
holds strategy discussions, whether in relation to the specific 
strategies of Pearson’s five business divisions or the vision and 
wider strategy of the company as a whole, both of which enhance 
the Board’s decision-making in shaping the company’s strategic 
and financial plans. 

The Board and Committees receive timely, regular and necessary 
financial, management and other information to discharge their 
duties. Comprehensive papers are circulated to Board and 
Committee members approximately one week in advance of 
each meeting. 

The Board receives a regular performance dashboard and 
key milestones report, together with updates from the Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer. In addition to meeting 
papers, a library of current and historical corporate information 
is made available to Directors to support the Board’s decision-
making process. For items that require significant consideration 
and review in advance of a decision, such as the portfolio 
changes during 2023, the Board’s discussions can take place over 
a number of sessions.

The Directors recognise their duties towards the shareholders  
and other stakeholders as set out in Section 172 of the 
Companies Act 2006, and a continued understanding of the key 
issues affecting stakeholders is an integral part of the Board’s 
decision-making process. You can read more on pages 81-83 
about how the Board engages with stakeholders and takes their 
views into account when making decisions.

Portfolio changes

The Board receives regular updates on portfolio and corporate 
finance activities throughout the year, including regular updates 
on live transactions (disposals, acquisitions and corporate 
joint venture activity) and outputs of periodic portfolio reviews. 
These updates can take the form of presenting key summaries 
of information in Board packs, or oral updates on key matters. 
These discussions are typically led by executive and divisional 
management, supported by the Corporate Development 
team and, where necessary, external advisers. Subsequently, 
once portfolio transactions have closed, the Board is also kept 
informed of the integration or transition progress, including 
post-acquisition reviews conducted to assess transaction success 
and any learnings to be taken for future projects. In 2023, such 
portfolio updates included the disposal of the Pearson Online 
Learning Services (POLS) business and the completion of the 
acquisition of PDRI, as well as a review of potential pipeline 
opportunities.

Board meetings 

The Board held six scheduled meetings in 2023, with discussions 
and debates focusing on the ongoing development and 
execution of the company’s markets, customer and people 
strategies, as well as other strategic drivers for the company, 
including the developments in generative AI, more detail on 
which can be found on page 78. Major items covered by the 
Board in 2023 are shown in the table on page 76. In addition 
to its scheduled meetings, the Board convenes as necessary to 
consider matters of a time-sensitive nature. In 2023, the Board 
also held several additional discussions regarding the Chief 
Executive recruitment process. 

Reflecting on the level and quality of engagement by the Board 
in 2023, the Board is satisfied that each Director contributed to 
Board discussions and demonstrated sufficient commitment 
to be able to meet their responsibilities. As shown in the table 
on page 77, each of the Non-Executive Directors attended all 
scheduled Board meetings during 2023, with the exception of 
Graeme Pitkethly who was unable to attend the meeting in April 
due to a pre-existing commitment. In addition, the Nomination & 
Governance Committee confirmed in its annual assessment that 
each Director demonstrates the requisite level of commitment 
and contribution in accordance with Principle H and Provision 18 
of the Code.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 75

GovernanceBoard activities continued

Board attendance

Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee 
meetings, but in certain circumstances, such as pre-existing 
business or personal commitments, it is recognised that 
Directors may be unable to attend. In these circumstances, the 
Directors receive relevant papers and, wherever possible, will 
communicate any comments and observations in advance of the 
meeting for raising as appropriate during the meeting. They are 
updated on any developments after the meeting by the Chair of 
the Board or Committee, as appropriate.

Individuals’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings is 
considered as part of the formal review of their performance. 
There was a high level of attendance by the Directors at Board 
and Committee meetings in 2023, as shown in the table on page 
77 and in the Committee reports that follow. 

Directors’ commitments and conflicts  
of interest

Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory 
duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the company. The 
company’s Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise 
conflicts of interest. The company has an established procedure 
to identify actual and potential conflicts of interest, including 
all directorships or other appointments to, or relationships 
with, companies that are not part of the Pearson Group and 
which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest. 
Additionally, in response to Provision 15 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, Pearson has developed internal guidance to 
be taken into account when considering changes to a Director’s 
commitments, or when appointing a new Director, as well as 
formalising the Board approval process for such matters. 

Once notified to the company, any potential conflicts and 
commitments are considered for authorisation by the Board 
at its next scheduled meeting or, where necessary in the 
interests of timeliness, by a committee comprising the Chair, the 
Deputy Chair & Senior Independent Director and the Company 
Secretary. In particular, the Board or committee considers the 
type of role, expected time commitment and any impact this 
may have on the Director’s duties to Pearson, as well as any 
relationships between Pearson and the external organisation. 
The interested Director is not permitted to vote on, or be 
counted in the quorum for, any resolution relating to their 
proposed commitments, conflict or potential conflict.  
The Board reviews any authorisations previously granted  
on an annual basis. 

Board meeting focus 2023

Strategy

Performance

 — Ongoing digital transformation

 — Approving 2022 preliminary results and annual report 

 — Enterprise ecosystem and direct to 
consumer growth opportunities  
and strategies

 — AI strategy

 — Strategy implementation

 — Oversight of Five-Year Strategic Plan and 
approval of 2024 annual operating plan 

 — M&A pipeline and post-acquisition 
reviews, as well as consideration, 
approval and regular updates of major 
transactions 

 — Product updates and demos, including 

Pearson+ Channels and Workforce Skills 

 — Data strategy

and accounts

 — Approving 2023 performance expectations and 

guidance to the market

 — Approving the 2023 interim results and Q1 and Q3 

trading statements

 — Monitoring 2023 operating plan performance 

 — Regular dashboard and milestone reports

 — Strategic and non-financial KPIs reviews

 — Continuing review of forecasts

 — Final and interim dividend approvals and other capital 
allocation considerations, including share buyback

 — Business unit and corporate function operational 

deep dives

Leadership and 
people

 — Talent review, pipeline 
development and 
succession planning, 
including overseeing 
Chief Executive 
succession process

 — Culture

 — DEI initiatives

 — Employee engagement 
sessions with Board

 — Employee engagement 
survey assessments 

Governance and risk

 — Legal, regulatory and  
governance matters 

 — Data privacy and cyber security matters

 — Board and Committees’  
effectiveness evaluation

 — Regular review and annual confirmation 

of Directors’ commitments and/or 
potential conflicts of interest 

 — Approval of Committees’ terms  

of reference 

 — Risk management report

Shareholder 
engagement

 — Investor relations 
strategy, updates, 
and share price 
performance 

 — Shareholder issues  

and voting

 — AGM and related 

shareholder interactions

 — Feedback from Board 

member meetings with 
shareholders 

 — Major shareholders and 
share register analysis

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 76  

GovernanceWhen making new appointments in 2023, the Board considered 
other demands on the proposed Directors’ time. The Board 
considered Alison Dolan’s existing commitment as Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of Rightmove plc, a UK-
listed online real-estate portal, and Alex Hardiman’s existing 
commitment as Chief Product Officer for The New York Times, as 
part of their appointment process. The Board agreed that Alison 
and Alex’s existing commitments would not have a negative 
impact on their ability to contribute to Pearson. 

Omar Abbosh’s existing commitments were considered as part 
of his appointment process. The Board was of the opinion that 
Omar’s additional notable commitment as a Board member of 
Zuora, Inc. was acceptable. The Board noted that the Higher 
Education division of the company has an existing relationship 
with Zuora, Inc. but this was deemed to be non-material in terms 
of Omar’s role as Chief Executive. The Board also concluded  
that Omar’s existing commitments would not prevent him from 
giving the time and attention that his role as the Chief Executive 
would require.

On 1 April 2023, Sally Johnson was appointed to the Board of 
Rentokil Initial plc as a Non-Executive Director and took on the 
role of Chair of its Audit Committee on 10 May 2023. When 
considering this new commitment, the Board assessed any 
potential conflicts of interest and the time commitment required, 
as well as taking into consideration the requirements under 
Provision 15 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Board 
agreed that Sally’s new commitment would not have a negative 
impact on her role as Chief Financial Officer of Pearson. 

The Board believes that the experience gained by Directors 
through their other commitments brings valuable perspectives to 
the Pearson Board. 

Chair
Omid Kordestani

Executive Directors
Andy Bird 
Sally Johnson

Non-Executive Directors
Sherry Coutu
Alison Dolan1
Alex Hardiman1
Esther Lee
Linda Lorimer2
Graeme Pitkethly3
Tim Score
Annette Thomas
Lincoln Wallen

Scheduled meetings attended

6/6

6/6
6/6

6/6
3/3
3/3
6/6
3/3
5/6
6/6
6/6
6/6

1.  Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman joined the Board on 1 June 2023.
2.  Linda Lorimer retired from the Board on 28 April 2023.
3.  Graeme Pitkethly was unable to attend the Board meeting on 27 April 
2023 due to a pre-existing commitment. He reviewed the papers and 
provided his perspectives to the Chair prior to the meeting.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 77

GovernanceHow the Board is kept informed

The application of our Board and governance processes ensures that our Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information from a 
range of sources. This allows the Board and Committees to monitor and provide feedback on matters of importance, as well as to make 
informed decisions in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders.

AI

AI plays an important role across Pearson’s product portfolio. 
For instance, large language models within Workforce Skills 
which develop proprietary predictive algorithms designed to 
assess trends in demand for skills and occupations globally 
and recommend career and learning pathways for consumers, 
enterprises and governments. Within English Language Learning 
there are AI-based open response assessments. We have 
also recently brought to market a generative AI tool within our 
Pearson+ service, which you can read more about on page 15, 
which enables users to automatically summarise the content of 
Channels videos into simple bullet points. Additional generative 
AI study tools designed to help students better learn and 
understand challenging subjects launched in the latter part of 
2023. Opportunities to consider how we can continue to leverage 
innovative AI technology to drive further efficiency and generate 
additional cost savings are also being explored.

As generative AI develops, we expect it to create significant 
positive opportunities for Pearson, due to our unrivalled depth of 
content and data. Learners and educators place enormous trust 
in us so we have a responsibility to be thoughtful and considered 
in how we use this technology, whilst continuing to move at pace 
to enhance our products with the customer in mind.

During the past year, the Board, the Audit Committee, the 
Reputation & Responsibility Committee and the Executive 
Management team have been focused on keeping informed 
on AI developments both within Pearson and in the wider 
market, considering both opportunities and implications of the 
technology for Pearson.

The Board regularly receives updates on AI capabilities and 
developments within the business, particularly as part of the 
divisional deep dives. Such deep dives included the integration 
of AI into Mondly’s capabilities as part of the English Language 
Learning division, and how greater harnessing of AI and machine 
learning technologies could impact the Higher Education division.

In May 2023, Pearson provided an update to the market and 
external stakeholders on the generative AI enhancements in 
products across its portfolio. 

These enhancements, when combined with Pearson's 
unparalleled collection of high-quality proprietary intellectual 
property assets, further strengthen the Company's position 
as a digital-first learning company focused on delivering an 
unmatched experience for the consumer across their lifetime 
of learning. The Board was updated on the progress against our 
generative AI strategy announced in May 2023, which further 
embeds AI technology across key products throughout our 
portfolio in a way that enhances the teaching and learning experience. 
The Board is actively focused on the significant opportunities across the 
company and the work to embed generative AI across a number of key 
products within Workforce Skills, Mastering and MyLab, Pearson+ and 
English Language Learning. 

The Board was updated on considerations around the 
development of AI technology, including discussing the 
company’s IP protection strategies with management. The Board 
also discussed the impact of wider market statements regarding 
the potential effects and opportunities of generative AI, and 
management conducted a number of meetings with investors 
and analysts on the impact the acceleration of generative AI 
technology could have for the company.

The Board was also frequently updated on the specific initiatives, 
priorities and opportunities of AI, in terms of product capabilities, 
potential application for companies and workforces, and internal 
back-office efficiencies leveraging AI technology for content and 
process engineering, and Common ID – the development of 
singular customer profiles and log-in capabilities.

In addition to considering AI through specific lenses, in July 2023, 
the Board conducted an enterprise-wide strategic deep dive into 
AI, including: its use in PTE scoring in the English Language Learning 
division; its use in Faethm’s skill ontology analysis; VUE’s deployment of 
AI technology as part of its security capabilities; and Higher Education’s 
use of AI in content creation, in partnership with authors.

The Audit Committee was provided with updates on AI 
workstreams within the legal and government relations 
function, as well as ongoing work being undertaken to 
understand potential risks and opportunities relating to IP rights 
enforcement, including by monitoring the landscape in other 
sectors and having careful regard for Pearson’s future strategy 
and business model. 

The Audit Committee considered the risks associated with 
generative AI, and reviewed its status as part of the risk 
management update and Group risk review. In particular, as part 
of the Audit Committee’s strategic risk sessions:

 — The Assessment & Qualifications deep dive included an 
overview of risks associated with AI and the competitive 
marketplace, as well as perspectives on the use of AI in the 
Assessment & Qualifications business, drawing a distinction 
between the AI techniques that had been in use for some 
time and the recent developments in generative AI, where 
possibilities were still being assessed. 

 — The Higher Education deep dive included an overview of 
Pearson’s capabilities relating to AI in personalisation of 
materials and consideration of Pearson’s thinking regarding 
IP, licensing and royalties in an AI-powered environment.

Across multiple sessions, the Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee considered the AI landscape from a regulatory, policy 
and media perspective, including:

 — Conducting a government relations deep dive, which 

highlighted the significant amount of regulatory and policy 
focus on this topic. Alongside this, the Committee noted 
the programme of engagement with government offices 
and participation in notable forums and events to share the 
company’s perspectives in this field. 

 — Considering Pearson’s positioning and engagement strategy 
in terms of corporate voice on AI-related matters, with more 
work to be done on this.

The Reputation & Responsibility Committee also discussed AI 
as part of its session on online trust and safeguarding. Overall, 
the Committee noted AI as a potential reputational risk and 
agreed that it should therefore continue to be a matter for the 
Committee’s attention.

You can read more about how we manage AI from a risk 
perspective on page 56.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 78  

GovernanceTalent and culture

Ensuring that we have both a talented, engaged workforce that is focused on delivering our strategy and an inclusive organisational culture that enables and encourages that delivery is critical to Pearson’s 
success. During the past year, the Board and Executive Management team have continued to lead our focus on making sure Pearson offers a culture and environment that is inclusive and high-performing, 
and in which our people can leverage their strengths. We track Group-wide progress through our ‘Culture of engagement and inclusion’ non-financial KPI (see page 24 for more details on our KPIs). Pearson’s 
purpose, vision, mission and values (set out on page 2) are key to developing our culture to support our strategic vision, particularly in driving a culture of performance.

The Board monitors culture and organisational health, together with its Committees, and receives regular updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer. In addition to tracking culture 
as a non-financial KPI, the Board monitors other Group-wide initiatives that underpin our culture, including employee engagement, the code of conduct programme, compliance, health & safety and talent 
attraction and retention (see table below for further information).

The Reputation & Responsibility Committee’s remit includes oversight of culture and employee engagement, increasing the Board-level focus on these matters. The Chief Human Resources Officer is a 
frequent attendee at Board meetings, as well as a standing attendee at the Reputation & Responsibility, Remuneration, and Nomination & Governance Committees. Their attendance and contributions, 
together with the Board’s own direct engagement with the workforce, ensure that our Directors are attuned to our culture and employee-related considerations through multiple lenses, including in strategic 
decision-making (see our case study on page 83), and in conducting their business more broadly.

During the year, the Reputation & Responsibility Committee conducted a deep dive into the results of Pearson’s employee engagement survey, to establish the trends and actions that needed to be taken to 
improve engagement with employees, with the key themes and indicators also discussed with the full Board. The Board also has a particular focus on the current and future leaders of Pearson, including our 
talent pipeline for leadership and other pivotal roles, and we conducted our annual deep dive into talent and succession planning in December 2023. Read more on page 89.

Cultural 
indicator

Employee 
engagement 

Code of 
conduct and 
training

Compliance, 
including 
whistleblowing 
and 
investigations
Internal audit

Health and 
safety (‘H&S’) 

Remuneration 
practices and 
rewarding the 
workforce

Talent 
attraction and 
retention

How it is overseen

Board level 
responsibility

The Board ensures engagement through multiple channels, including the employee engagement survey (the results of which were discussed by the Reputation 
& Responsibility Committee and the Board), town hall sessions and in-person engagement events, such as the face-to-face listening sessions with employees in 
London and Hoboken. Read more on page 82.

RR

Board

The Audit Committee is briefed on our annual Code of Conduct programme, including development of the code, completion rates, training and certification 
methods. Certification of the code is mandatory and we achieved a 100% employee completion rate in 2023. We also have mandatory training for all employees on 
cyber security and data privacy, with targeted training for employees in certain roles, divisions or geographies.
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting on new and ongoing investigations, including matters raised through our SpeakUp 
process. The Audit Committee considers the programme’s effectiveness annually, including periodic peer benchmarking. The Audit Committee Chair ensures the 
Board has visibility on matters of note. The Board is free to request further information to support its oversight.

Insights into elements impacting our culture and cultural behaviours are provided where necessary by internal audit to the Audit Committee as part of the findings 
and recommendations in its reports.
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee receives an annual H&S report, so Directors can monitor the key strands of our H&S framework, including oversight 
of how Pearson is enabled through awareness, competency, resources and guidance to allow for agile and effective management of H&S risk, while also receiving 
comfort that we have controls for compliance and assurance purposes.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the wider Employee Reward framework, including incentive target setting for Group plans, fair pay analysis, Chief Executive 
pay ratios and alignment of Directors’ pension contributions to the workforce. It also oversees integration of sustainability measures into incentive targets. This suite 
of activity provides insights into the roles that remuneration and setting performance goals play in promoting the right behaviours, particularly in driving a culture of 
performance, and how incentives and rewards align with culture. 
The Chief Human Resources Officer regularly updates the Remuneration Committee on talent considerations, including trends on recruitment, retention and 
staff turnover. Talent attraction and retention plays into our ability to execute our strategy, so it is considered in strategic discussions by the Board and Executive 
Management team. Recognising the importance of our people, Talent is a sub-category of our Capability principal risk. Read more about our risk management 
approach starting on page 56. 

A

A

A

RR

R

R

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 79

GovernanceHow the Board is kept informed continued

Sustainability
Pearson has a strong governance structure through which the Board and its Committees monitor and oversee the company’s sustainable business framework. 

Indicative sustainability duties falling within remits of Board Committees

Board

Reputation & Responsibility Committee

Audit Committee

Remuneration Committee

Nomination & Governance Committee

 — Overseeing sustainability strategy including 

 — Integrity and assurance of sustainability 

 — Considerations relating to incorporation  

 — Ensuring requisite strength of sustainability 

targets and public commitments

data, reporting and metrics

 — Monitoring progress towards non-financial 
KPIs linked to the products, people and 
planet pillars

 — Sustainability regulatory landscape and 

external reporting

 — Strategic risk management

 — Compliance elements of ‘governance’ 

strand of sustainability

of sustainability metrics within 
remuneration frameworks

expertise on Board

 — Corporate governance elements  

 — Performance against sustainability metrics 

of sustainability

to support remuneration decisions

The company’s sustainable business framework includes three pillars: driving learning for everyone 
with our products, empowering our people to make a difference, and leading responsibly for a better 
planet. These pillars represent the areas where Pearson can make the biggest positive impact and 
where our responsibilities lie towards communities and the environment.

The graphic above illustrates how the Committees work together to support the Board in overseeing 
sustainability at Pearson.

You can read more on the sustainability matters covered during 2023 throughout this Governance 
Report, in particular in the Reputation & Responsibility Committee’s report on pages 94-96.

The Reputation & Responsibility Committee leads the Board’s oversight of sustainability matters, 
however, given the breadth of topics that feed into our sustainable business pillars, as well as the 
increasingly complex external landscape around these matters, the other Committees each have a 
role to play in supporting the Board’s oversight of sustainability.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 80  

GovernanceUnderstanding our stakeholders

A strong understanding of all our stakeholders and their perspectives is integral to our strategic planning and operational delivery. Our 
Board strategy sessions are informed by the views and needs of our eight stakeholder groups: consumers, educational institutions and 
educators, employers, business partners and institutions, government and regulators, employees, shareholders, and our communities.

As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Board ensures Pearson engages effectively 
with, and encourages participation from, its key 
stakeholders. The Board maintains its oversight 
through a variety of direct and indirect mechanisms, 
and the Reputation & Responsibility Committee 
monitors our stakeholder engagement framework.

The Board recognises that stakeholder views 
are integral to decision-making and setting the 
company’s strategy. More information on Pearson’s 
key stakeholders, including the outcomes of our 
engagement throughout 2023, is in the strategic 
report on pages 16-20. Further information on how 
the Directors discharge their duties under Section 172 
of the Companies Act 2006 is on page 21.

Engagement in 2023

Throughout the year, the Board ensured that it was kept 
informed of stakeholder views, concerns, and commentary 
through a variety of engagement methods. These included 
in-person and virtual meetings, reports and presentations at 
Board or Committee meetings, feedback from members of the 
Executive Management team and other employee groups, and 
interactions with different functions, teams and advisers, both 
inside and outside Pearson. The use of digital technology allowed 
for broader engagement, helping to ensure that stakeholders 
retained a voice within the Boardroom.

A key factor in any decision-making is listening to and considering 
the interests of stakeholders. We have set out below examples 
of the key employee and shareholder engagement activities 
undertaken by the Board and by individual Directors over 2023. 
A detailed review of the Chief Executive recruitment process, 
and how it relates to our stakeholders and Pearson’s long-term 
success, is on page 83. 

Shareholders

Shareholders are a key consideration in the Board’s decision-
making. We have continued our focus on driving shareholder 
engagement through in-person meetings and events, while also 
using digital technology to reach a wider base of shareholders. 

The Board is committed to fostering shareholder engagement 
by making it easier for all types of shareholder to attend annual 
general meetings (AGMs), recognising that they represent 
an opportunity for shareholders to interact with the Board 
and share their views, concerns, and feedback. Following the 
success of our first hybrid AGM in 2022, we held a hybrid AGM 
in 2023 for the first time at our 80 Strand office in London, with 
shareholders able to attend the meeting, vote and ask questions 
of the Board either in-person or virtually. 

We believe that the hybrid approach enables a broader cross-
section of our shareholders to participate in general meetings 
and will therefore be holding a hybrid AGM in 2024 and look 
forward to welcoming our shareholders. Further details will be 
shared in our notice of the 2024 AGM. 

The Board ensured a continued shareholder dialogue 
throughout the year. We undertook an extensive engagement 
exercise on our remuneration arrangements and proposed 
Directors’ remuneration policy prior to our 2023 AGM. Further, in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, following 
a significant minority vote against our Directors’ remuneration 
policy at our 2023 AGM, a subsequent engagement exercise with 
shareholders was conducted and reported back to the market on 
the major themes of the feedback received. Further information 
on the Directors’ remuneration policy, and shareholder 
engagement prior to and after our 2023 AGM, is on page 108. 
The Board also receives updates and analysis on shareholder 
sentiment from Pearson’s corporate brokers, as part of a 
regular investor relations update and when considering certain 
corporate matters.

Shareholder engagement at a glance

Over 2023, our Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Divisional Presidents, as well our investor relations team, participated  
in meetings, conferences, roadshows and events across the world. This included a seminar at the New York Stock Exchange  
on the Assessment & Qualifications business, conference participation across the US, Europe and the UK and concluded with  
a Q4 roadshow.

Over
500
meetings

with

Over
270
institutions

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 81

GovernanceUnderstanding our stakeholders continued

Employees

The Reputation & Responsibility Committee leads on employee 
engagement on behalf of the Board. The Board recognises 
that our employees are one of our most important assets and 
are integral to our business and is committed to continuing to 
strengthen their voice. Examples of how the Board engaged with 
employees in 2023 to ensure that they are listened to, supported 
and rewarded, are illustrated below.

Board and employee engagement

The central role of the Board is to support and oversee Pearson’s 
long-term strategy. As part of that, it is vital that the Board 
engages with employees, to strengthen the employee voice in 
the boardroom. During the year, the Board evolved its approach 
to employee engagement to include a wider programme of 
engagement activities with employees, including in-person, 
structured listening sessions, which complemented existing 
executive employee engagement and expanded opportunities 
for direct engagement by Non-Executive Directors. During 
the year, the Board held two structured, face-to-face listening 
sessions with employees in London and Hoboken, facilitating 
meaningful interactions between Board members and various 

This is a golden chance for 
professionals like me to 
bridge the gap with our top 
decision-makers.
Mrunal Bhagat a UK schools  
marketing executive

(Attended the London engagement event)

groups of employees. The invitations to attend both events were 
open to all employees based in the 80 Strand and Hoboken 
offices, with approximately 40-50 employees attending in each 
location. The sessions were held informally over breakfast, with 
Board members sharing tables with small groups of employees 
to hear their thoughts, feedback and questions. Board members 
engaged on a variety of topics, including the appointment of the 
new Chief Executive, the shape of Pearson and our strategy going 
forward. Both events were received very positively by employees 
and the Board spent time after both sessions sharing their 
feedback and discussing what they had heard from employees.

Omid Kordestani also engaged in a virtual fireside chat with a 
global audience of Pearson leaders, fostering an open dialogue 
and sharing perspectives across the organisation.

Looking ahead, the Board intends to hold similar events, 
including in-person and structured listening sessions, as well 
as virtual events, in 2024 to ensure we continue to be inclusive, 
authentic and representative of our diverse employee base.

Town halls

Throughout 2023, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and 
the Executive Management team held virtual town hall meetings, 
which Pearson employees were invited to attend and given 
the opportunity to ask questions. These discussions took place 
at significant points in the year, such as following key financial 
results announcements.

Surveys

During 2023, we conducted a further Pearson employee 
engagement survey, following the launch of a refreshed 
approach in 2022. We heard from c. 13,600 employees, with 
an overall response rate of 82% compared with 72% in 2022. 
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee received a detailed 
update on the survey results, including additional insights on the 
culture of inclusion, coaching effectiveness, and opportunities to 
increase engagement, which were also discussed at Board level. 
Further information on the outcomes of the Pearson employee 
engagement survey is on page 39.

I had such an insightful 
conversation with Lincoln 
Wallen about the hiring 
process of our new CEO, and 
what Omar will hopefully 
bring to Pearson when he 
joins us.
Emma Devlin UK BTEC & apprentices senior 
marketing executive

(Attended the London engagement event)

The board members 
genuinely seemed interested 
in hearing from employees 
on the front line, I never had 
this type of opportunity in 
previous companies.
Nichol DeGruccio a Pearson VUE real 
estate administrator, based in New Jersey

(Attended the Hoboken engagement event)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 82  

GovernanceOur Board’s decision-making in action

This case study on the Chief Executive appointment process illustrates how the Directors considered the various aspects of their statutory 
duties in making the decisions related to Omar Abbosh’s appointment and the implications for stakeholders. This case study should be 
read in conjunction with the Directors’ duties statement on page 21 and the Nomination & Governance Committee report on pages 88-93. 
In its decision-making, the Board considered Pearson’s key stakeholders in the following ways:

Consumers

Employees

Shareholders

When the profile of the desired candidate and the role specification 
were developed for the Chief Executive recruitment process, the Board 
took into account the key skills and attributes that would be needed 
to expand upon and accelerate Pearson’s digital transformation and 
continue Pearson’s commitment to its purpose of adding life to a 
lifetime of learning, offering our consumers and learners new and 
exciting ways of learning. Omar has extensive experience in driving 
service and solutions for customers and delivering high-quality services 
and products. He is passionate about learning and education, having 
worked across many sectors in his career.

Communities

We strive to make a positive and meaningful impact in the 
communities in which we operate and the Board considered this 
in assessment of the candidates, to ensure that the successful 
candidate was aligned with the importance of this to Pearson 
and in driving this forward. Omar is a dynamic and innovative 
leader, who has the skills to ensure we continue to widen access 
to education in our global communities through innovation. He is 
a highly mission-driven and people-centric leader.

As part of the extensive selection process, the Board was focused 
on ensuring that the chosen candidate aligned with Pearson’s 
values and ambition, that they saw Pearson’s employees as the 
company’s greatest asset driving our success and ability  
to make a positive impact. The Board sought a candidate who 
was a strong cultural fit with Pearson, with the ability to effect 
and accelerate change. Omar is an inspirational, dynamic 
and growth-oriented leader, who the Board believes will help 
drive the future success of the business. He has strong people 
engagement skills and his personal values are very much aligned 
with those of Pearson.

Employers

The Board was cognisant of the importance of Pearson’s 
relationship with employers and the trust they have in Pearson 
to deliver high-quality products and services, which has fostered 
stable long-term relationships which underpin our business. 
The Board agreed that the candidate would need to have highly 
successful experience in leading a large, high-performing, 
purpose-driven international business, with experience in brand 
building and a passion for education. Omar has deep commercial 
and operational expertise focused on delivering high-quality 
services and products across diverse markets and customer sets. 
His most recent position as President of Microsoft’s Industry 
Solutions business, together with his experience on the board 
of NYSE-listed, enterprise SaaS company, Zuora, Inc., mean 
that he is ideally positioned to understand the diverse needs of 
employers that Pearson seeks to serve through its products  
and services.

In considering the candidates, the Board paid particular attention to 
ensuring the successful candidate had sufficient depth of experience to 
continue to build on our strategy across our global markets and deliver 
long-term value, thereby promoting the success of the company for the 
benefit of its members. Omar has a wealth of experience with global 
enterprises, deep expertise in digital transformations and a proven 
track record of delivering growth and value creation. Following the 
announcement of Omar’s appointment, Omid Kordestani engaged with 
a number of our key shareholders.

The Board is confident in Omar’s ability to deliver on strategy and 
execution, which ultimately will be for the benefit of all our stakeholders 
and is delighted to have secured such an outstanding candidate as 
Chief Executive of Pearson.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 83

GovernanceDirectors’ induction

I received a detailed 
induction, including 
divisional deep dives and 
tailored meetings with 
colleagues, which helped me 
better understand Pearson’s 
priorities and enabled me 
to engage and contribute at 
Board meetings effectively 
from the start of my tenure 
as a Non-Executive Director.
Alex Hardiman 

Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2023

On joining the Board, each Director completes a bespoke 
induction programme that is guided by the Chair or Deputy Chair 
and Senior Independent Director, supported by the Company 
Secretary, and overseen by the Nomination & Governance 
Committee. Every programme builds on the particular skill 
set, attributes, and background of the joining Director, their 
interests in Board or Committee roles, and the company’s 
recommendations. 

Inductions for Alison Dolan and Alex 
Hardiman

Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman joined the Board as  
Non-Executive Directors on 1 June 2023. As part of their 
onboarding arrangements, Alison and Alex received 
comprehensive and engaging induction programmes that 
included a series of meetings. 

In addition to meeting the Chair, Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer, Alison and Alex met with each of the Executive Management 
team members, key representatives of our corporate functions, and 
our brokers. Both induction programmes also included one-to-one 
meetings with each of their fellow Non-Executive Directors and a 
comprehensive introduction to the activities of each of the Board’s 
Committees, including their objectives and priorities and, as they have 
both joined the Audit Committee, they met with the company’s audit 
partner. Alison and Alex also held meetings with the company’s legal 
advisers to discuss directors’ duties, corporate governance and external 
reporting, among other topics.

In addition to background information on the company, every 
induction covers a range of topics, including Board procedures, 
recent operational performance and strategic direction of the 
company, purpose and values, key areas of the business, as well 
as directors’ duties and responsibilities. The Directors also cover 
various governance-related issues and their legal obligations, 
including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares. 

Each induction typically includes a series of meetings with 
the members of the Board, the Executive Management team, 
external advisers and brokers, and other senior management. 
Directors receive a walk-through of the business from senior 
executives and a briefing on Pearson’s investor relations 
programme. A newly appointed Director will have met some, if 
not all, fellow Board members as part of the original search and 
appointment process, but additional meetings may nevertheless 
occur with the same Board members as part of a rich and 
thorough induction.

Induction programme participants

Meeting purpose

Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director
Chairs and members of the 
Board’s Committees
Executive Directors; 
Divisional Presidents 
Heads of Corporate Functions

Company Secretary; 
legal advisers

Introductory meetings to cover the company’s governance structure, the Board’s priority areas 
and ways of working, meeting cadence, and ongoing matters considered by the Board.
Overview of the responsibilities and composition of the Board’s Committees, their governance, 
regular attendees and advisers.
Overview of the strategic priorities of the company and each division, key performance 
indicators, financial performance and projections, and competitive landscape.
Introductions with leadership team members, covering an overview of their business area(s), 
subject matter expertise, organisational structure, company culture and values.
Induction planning, governance framework, Board and Committee matters, duties and 
responsibilities of a company director, the company’s policies and procedures, and other legal 
and regulatory considerations.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 84  

GovernanceBoard evaluation

The Board operates a three-yearly evaluation cycle which employs a variety of methodologies to ensure the most effective results.

Following internally facilitated reviews in 2021, led by the 
Senior Independent Director, and in 2022, led by the Chair, in 
accordance with the three-year evaluation cycle, the 2023 review 
was externally facilitated. 

Typical three-yearly  
evaluation cycle

Year

Methodology

Last undertaken

Questionnaire, tailored to specific needs  
of the business

2018

Discussion areas included matters that are relevant to Pearson 
in particular, as well as those items laid down in the Code and 
associated guidance, including:

 — the effectiveness of the organisation and dynamics of the 

Board, including composition, leadership, agendas, meeting 
cadence, quality of information provided, governance and 
decision-making

 — relationships between the Board and senior leaders, and 

between members of the Board itself, including the remits of 
and interaction among the respective Committees and with 
the Board

Internally facilitated interviews, to be led 
by the Chair, Senior Independent Director 
and/or Company Secretary as appropriate
In-depth evaluation, externally facilitated

2019, 2021, 

 — articulation and implementation of strategy

2022

2020, 2023

 — succession planning and talent pipeline for Executive 

Directors and other senior leaders

 — understanding of risks facing the company, including 

1

2

3

Approach and methodology

The 2023 evaluation was carried out by Manchester Square 
Partners, which operates as an independent advisory 
firm. Manchester Square Partners was selected following 
consideration by the Nomination & Governance Committee of 
various providers and the potential scope of the evaluation. 
Manchester Square Partners has no other connections to the 
company or individual Directors beyond this process.

The review was conducted through a series of one-to-one 
conversations with each Director and anchored in a set of 
questions shared with Directors in advance. One-to-one 
meetings were also held with each member of the Executive 
Management team and selected other senior executives. The 
review process also included observation by the evaluator of a 
full set of Board and Committee meetings, including the private 
sessions. The one-to-ones were conducted in a ‘free-format’ style, 
to allow organic discussions and to provide ample opportunity 
for Directors and executives to raise matters of importance. 

likelihood and mitigation

 — understanding of stakeholder views, products and markets

 — the Board’s monitoring of organisational culture, behaviours 

and employee sentiment

In reporting back to the Board, Manchester Square Partners 
opined that, based on their experience of evaluating the 
effectiveness of boards in a variety of industries, including 
many FTSE 100 companies, the Pearson Board operates highly 
effectively. It was found to be well chaired and comprised of 
high-quality Non-Executive Directors who provide an appropriate 
balance of challenge and support to the Executive Directors and 
management team.

The Chair discussed the report with the evaluator and 
subsequently the Board reviewed the detailed findings from the 
report with the evaluator at its meeting in February 2024. The 
Board will develop an action plan to address recommendations 
and areas for improvement and the Nomination & Governance 
Committee will monitor progress during the year.

Board evaluation process

The format of the review was agreed by the 
Deputy Chair & Senior Independent Director 
(including in their capacity as Chair of the 
Nomination & Governance Committee).
The scope of the review was finalised by the 
Deputy Chair & Senior Independent Director 
with support from the Company Secretary.
Manchester Square Partners interviewed 
each of the Directors on a confidential  
and unattributable basis, as well as the 
Executive Management team and other 
senior executives.
Manchester Square Partners observed the 
Board and Committee meetings held in 
December 2023.
The output of the evaluation was captured in 
a report to the Board in February 2024, with 
the Board then discussing the points raised 
by the review.
Progress on the findings of the evaluation 
will be monitored by the Nomination & 
Governance Committee throughout 2024.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 85

GovernanceBoard evaluation continued

Key findings included:
 — Directors are highly engaged and diligent, with a broad range 
of relevant business experience. The Board acknowledged the 
skills and valuable contribution of the newly appointed Non-
Executive Directors and the opportunity for Graeme Pitkethly, 
in his new role as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director, to focus on maintaining strong engagement with UK 
shareholders. The Board further acknowledged the strength 
and diversity of contributions made by all, particularly from 
external experiences.

 — Board meetings and discussions are considered to be 

dynamic, focused and relevant, with the Board as a whole 
considered to be collegial and respectful, with an open 
dialogue, while providing an appropriate amount of challenge 
to management. The Board is appreciative of the continued 
efforts by management to deliver focused, succinct meeting 
papers and materials.

 — The Board recognised the progress that had been made and 
improved financial performance, and recognised that the new 
Chief Executive, Omar Abbosh, would have an important role 
to play in building out the strategy further.

 — The Board acknowledged the quality of the Chief Executive 
recruitment process, while the two new Non-Executive 
Directors commended the induction process.

 — Board members have relevant skills and experience, albeit 

the Board recognised the importance of focusing on 
succession planning and talent development at the Executive 
Management and senior leadership level.

 — Directors would appreciate deeper dives at Board level on 

major customer relationships and the competitive landscape, 
recognising the challenges of the separation between the 
main buyers of Pearson’s products and services and the  
end users.

 — The Board welcomed the opportunity to reintroduce in-

person employee engagement events to its calendar which 
involved the full Board and recognised the continued need  
to focus on ensuring an engaged workforce and healthy 
culture generally.

 — The Board appreciates the access to, and engagement with, 

the Executive Management team.

 — Positive feedback was noted on the performance and 

effectiveness of the Committees.

There was unanimous agreement that the Chair leads the Board 
in an effective manner, fulfilling Principle F of the Code. The 
Directors agreed that he demonstrates objective judgement, 
promotes a culture of openness and debate, and facilitates 
constructive Board relations and the effective contribution of all 
Non-Executive Directors. This, in turn, supports Non-Executive 
Directors in fulfilling the requirements of Principle H of the Code 
in providing constructive challenge and strategic guidance, 
offering specialist advice and holding management to account.

The main areas identified by the Board for particular focus during 
2024 were:

 — Continuing to evolve Pearson’s strategic direction, building on 
the optionality that has been created through recent work on 
the strategy and vision.

 — Ongoing focus on succession planning, talent review and the 
culture of the company, at executive level as well as more 
broadly, to ensure Pearson has engaged employees with a 
performance mindset and the right skillset to deliver on the 
company’s strategic vision, together with a strong pipeline of 
talent to allow continued execution in the future.

 — Continued focus on the Board having the right mix of skills 
and experience as the company continues to transform  
and evolve, and ensuring strong stakeholder relationships  
are maintained.

 — Continued development of customer and marketplace 

insights shared with the Board, to help increase the Board’s 
understanding as these areas evolve.

 — Ongoing development of the Board’s meeting and agenda 
roadmap to ensure the topics are aligned with Pearson’s 
strategic goals and given adequate discussion time.

 — Ensure there continue to be formal and informal channels for 
feedback between the Chair and the Directors, especially at a 
time of transition in senior Board roles.

In addition to the annual evaluation exercise, the Chair meets 
regularly with the Non-Executive Directors and these sessions 
include reciprocal feedback on the functioning of the Board.

Individual evaluation

In addition to the evaluation of the Board as a whole, Executive 
Directors are evaluated each year on their overall performance 
against goals agreed by the Board, and in respect of strategic 
measures under the company’s annual incentive plan. These 
goals are linked to the key financial and strategic objectives of the 
company. Progress against each of these metrics is reviewed by 
the Board on a regular basis, as part of a dashboard of KPIs.

The Chair engages with individual Non-Executive Directors on 
their performance and contributions, and encourages open 
channels of communication with Directors on an ongoing basis. 
In the Board’s opinion, these ongoing lines of communication, 
combined with a Group-wide culture which allows and 
encourages feedback at any time, provide the most effective 
means for evaluation. In assessing the contribution of each Non-
Executive Director, the Chair, with the support of the Nomination 
& Governance Committee, has confirmed that each continues to 
make a significant contribution to the business and deliberations 
of the Board. The Non-Executive Directors also conduct an 
annual review of the Chair’s performance, with the Deputy Chair 
& Senior Independent Director leading this review and providing 
feedback to the Chair.

Committee evaluation

All Committees undertake an annual evaluation process to review 
their performance and effectiveness. For 2023, the Committee 
evaluation process was facilitated externally by Manchester 
Square Partners, as part of the broader Board evaluation 
process. Read more in the Committee reports on the pages  
that follow.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 86  

GovernanceProgress on findings of previous evaluation

A number of actions were taken during the year in response to findings from the 2022 Board 
evaluation process, as set out below. The Board has confirmed that these items were addressed to 
its satisfaction, with recommendations having been put into practice or a clear action plan identified 
for each to be taken forward in 2024.

Finding or focus area Response or action taken

Finding or focus area Response or action taken

Ongoing focus on 
succession planning and 
talent review at Board and 
executive level, as well as 
more broadly.

The Nomination & Governance Committee has reviewed the 
composition of the Board and its Committees throughout 2023, 
including as part of the appointment of two Non-Executive 
Directors in June 2023 and ongoing considerations for upcoming 
retirements in coming years, as well as focus on the recruitment of 
a new Chief Executive. 

Continued focus on 
execution of strategy, 
including clarity on how  
the Board can best  
monitor and measure 
the execution plan while 
maintaining its distance from 
operational matters.
Ensure accountability  
for execution in the  
next phase of the  
company’s transformation.
Focus on post-acquisition 
integration and evaluation 
of the performance of the 
acquired businesses.

Ongoing development  
of roadmap for market  
visits and deep dives to 
ensure alignment with 
Group’s aspirations and 
international footprint.
Continued sharing of 
customer and marketplace 
insights with the Board.

The Board has reviewed strategic KPI metrics and processes 
during the year, in order to better align them with Pearson’s 
strategic narrative and demonstrate our strategic progress more 
succinctly. Additionally, the Board discussed strategy as a regular 
item at Board meetings, with more focused sessions taking place 
at the July and October Board meetings.

Continue to pay close 
attention to culture and 
engagement in 2023.

The Board received operational plan presentations from the 
Divisional Presidents and also discussed financial dashboard 
reports at every Board meeting, in order to monitor performance 
and drive accountability.
The Board conducted a post-acquisition review of Faethm and 
Credly in December 2022 and will conduct a review of Mondly 
and PDRI in April 2024, to consider the performance of these 
acquisitions and how they have integrated commercially, 
financially and operationally. These reviews also include 
considerations for changes in approach to M&A going forward 
and lessons learnt.
Divisional deep dives were integrated into the Board agenda 
throughout 2023. The December 2023 Board meeting took place 
in Hoboken, New Jersey, and was an opportunity for the full Board 
to visit the office and meet with employees. There is an action plan 
in place to take such engagement further forward in 2024.

Customer and marketplace insights shared as part of divisional 
updates, and deep dives and product demos such as the one held 
on Pearson+ Channels. There is an action plan in place to take this 
further forward in 2024.

Focus on the importance 
of the risks inherent in 
the technology, cyber and 
online spaces, including 
information security, 
safeguarding and reputation.

Identify and focus on the 
elements of sustainability 
that are particularly  
relevant and critical for 
Pearson’s success.

The Board conducted a review of succession and talent at 
executive level at the December 2023 Board meeting.
There is an ongoing initiative throughout the organisation to 
evolve ways of monitoring culture and behaviours. Culture and 
employee engagement now sit within the remit of the Reputation 
& Responsibility Committee and the Chief Human Resources 
Officer attends all meetings. The Reputation & Responsibility 
Committee reviewed the results of the employee engagement 
survey on behalf of the Board and its perspectives were then 
discussed by the full Board.
The Audit Committee conducts regular deep dives on technology 
resilience, data privacy and information and cyber security, 
and the Chief Information Officer is a regular attendee of Audit 
Committee meetings. There is attention to these themes through 
the work of Internal Audit, which the Audit Committee discusses. 
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee received a report 
on online safeguarding in April 2023. The full Board undertook a 
Technology deep dive session with the Chief Information Officer 
in 2023.
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee reviewed investor 
perceptions on sustainability and agreed a strategy and action 
plan for 2023. The Reputation & Responsibility Committee 
received updates on progress throughout 2023.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 87

GovernanceNomination & Governance Committee report

Tim Score Committee Chair

Principal Committee responsibilities

Role and composition of the Committee 

The Committee monitors the composition and balance of the 
Board and of its Committees, identifying and recommending to 
the Board the appointment of new Directors and/or Committee 
members. The Committee has oversight of the company’s 
compliance with, and approach to, all applicable regulation 
and guidance related to corporate governance matters. The 
Committee is also available to support the Board as needed in 
relation to talent and succession plans for senior roles.

The Committee currently has five members including me as 
Chair. The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and other 
senior management, including the Chief Human Resources 
Officer, attend Committee meetings by invitation. 

As Committee Chair, I am available to engage with any 
shareholders who would like to discuss the work of the 
Committee and look forward to taking any shareholder questions 
at our forthcoming AGM in April 2024.

After serving nine years on the Board, I will be stepping down 
at the AGM in April 2024, therefore this will be my last report as 
Chair of the Nomination & Governance Committee. It has been 
a privilege to serve as Chair of the Committee and I would like 
to extend my thanks to my fellow Committee members for their 
input and commitment, particularly during the process to select 
a new Chief Executive. I am delighted that Omid Kordestani will 
succeed me as Chair of the Committee. Further to this, Graeme 
Pitkethly has agreed to succeed me as Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director, alongside his existing key role as Chair of 
the Audit Committee – the company is fortunate to have such an 
outstanding colleague stepping into this role.

Appointments
Identifying and nominating candidates for Board vacancies. 

Balance
Ensuring that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge to 
operate effectively.

Succession
Reviewing the company’s leadership needs with a view to ensuring the 
continued ability of the organisation to compete in the marketplace.

Governance
Reviewing and overseeing Pearson’s corporate governance framework, 
Board evaluation and training plans, and the Board Diversity Policy.

Terms of reference

The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its 
authority and duties. These are reviewed annually and can be found in 
the Governance section of our website (www.pearsonplc.com).

Committee members and attendance 

Attendance by Directors at scheduled Nomination & Governance 
Committee meetings throughout 2023:

Committee members

Meetings 
attended

Sherry Coutu
Omid Kordestani1
Esther Lee
Tim Score
Annette Thomas

3/3
1/3
3/3
3/3
3/3

1.  Mr Kordestani was unable to attend the meetings held in March and July 2023 
due to pre-existing commitments. He reviewed the papers and provided his 
perspectives to the Committee Chair outside the meetings.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 88  

GovernanceNomination & Governance Committee report continued

Board succession planning, skills  
and expertise

A key element of the Committee’s remit is to lead the process for 
Board appointments in line with appropriate succession plans. 
The matter of Chief Executive succession is a regular item for 
discussion and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. The 
company also has contingency plans in place for the temporary 
absence of the Chief Executive for health or other reasons. You 
can read more about the Chief Executive succession process 
that took place in 2023 on page 91. Succession planning for the 
Board as a whole is considered at least annually by the full Board, 
and on an ongoing basis by the Committee.

As part of the Committee’s regular succession planning activity, 
all Board members are asked periodically to complete a self-
assessment of the skills and experience which they believe 
they each bring to the Board. The assessment focuses on 
those categories of skills and experience which are relevant to 
Pearson’s strategy, business model and particular organisational 
characteristics. When mapped against expected retirement 
dates, the assessment helps the Committee to identify the areas 
where it may need to focus any future search activity. 

The results of the most recent assessment (shown on page 90) 
demonstrate that Pearson has a strong spread of skills across 
all areas identified as being of particular importance. Pearson 
expects all Non-Executive Directors to demonstrate the highest 
level of integrity and credibility, independence of judgement, 
maturity, collegiality and also a commitment to devote the 
necessary time to the company’s business.

Board search processes and appointments

The Committee has been very active over the past year in relation 
to Board search activity, conducting search processes resulting 
in the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive 
Directors, Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman, and supporting the 
Board in the selection of a new Chief Executive, Omar Abbosh.

Before commencing the Non-Executive Director search process, 
the Committee considered the recent and anticipated Board 
retirements and the impact of these on the overall skills and 
expertise on the Board. 

These were mapped against the key areas of strategic 
importance to the business to ensure our Board has the 
appropriate balance of skills and experience to deliver our 
strategy, while also taking diversity considerations into account. 
The Committee agreed that it was particularly interested to 
identify two candidates, each with specific skills and expertise to 
complement the Board. The first category focused on established 
finance leaders, with a deep understanding of public company 
governance standards, ideally from a UK-listed business, who 
had capacity to serve on the Audit Committee. The second 
category focused on individuals with operating experience 
with subscription and/or enterprise SaaS business models, at 
a scale and complexity commensurate to Pearson, experience 
developing innovative digital products and/or driving digital 
business transformation and direct to consumer business 
engagement skills.

Taking into account the agreed specifications, the Committee 
engaged Spencer Stuart to undertake the search process. In line 
with the objectives of the Board’s Diversity Policy, the Committee 
asked Spencer Stuart to ensure that the lists of candidates 
reflected diversity of gender, ethnicity, geography and age as well 
as diversity in its broadest sense. You can read more about the 
Board Diversity Policy and diversity across Pearson on pages 92-
93. I worked closely with Spencer Stuart to develop the candidate 
lists, with the Committee then considering the candidate profiles 
in detail, including their current commitments, skills and previous 
experience. I met with all shortlisted candidates and provided 
my feedback to the Committee. A number of other Board 
members met with the preferred candidates, following which the 
Committee made its recommendation to the Board. The search 
processes culminated in the appointments of Alison Dolan and 
Alex Hardiman as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 
June 2023. You can read about their induction on page 84.

In addition to the Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive 
search processes, Spencer Stuart also undertakes broader 
executive search activity for the Group and is a signatory to the 
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms. Spencer 
Stuart has no connection with Pearson or members of the Board 
beyond its expertise in board and executive search.

Executive succession planning

Succession planning for key positions at Executive Management 
level is primarily overseen by the full Board, with support 
provided by the Committee in respect of particular initiatives.  
The Executive Management team has a key role to play in our 
strategic planning process, in the ongoing development of our 
talent pipeline and in fostering the culture and values required 
to continue to deliver on our strategy. Following a review of 
talent and succession planning in December 2022, particularly 
the executive pipeline from which the future leaders of Pearson 
were likely to emerge, in December 2023 the Board held a 
discussion on the current Executive Management team and 
requirements to support the new Chief Executive in executing 
the next stage of the company’s strategy. The company also has 
targeted development programmes for high-potential talent 
and mentorship programmes for diverse leaders, as well as 
development programmes for junior and middle management.

Other areas of focus during 2023

The Committee oversees the company’s compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and reviews a status tracker to 
enable it to consider the appropriateness and maturity of various 
elements of our governance framework and to monitor any areas 
of qualified or non-compliance. Learn more about Pearson’s 
compliance with the Code on page 67.

Other areas of focus for the Committee during the year included: 
oversight of the composition of the Board’s Committees, 
assessment of the independence of Tim Score prior to making 
a recommendation for his re-election at the 2023 AGM 
(recognising his length of service on the Board), Board diversity 
reporting and the approval of a new target for ethnic diversity in 
senior management to be achieved by December 2027, and the 
annual review of the contribution of each Director to the Board. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 89

GovernanceCommittee evaluation

Committee aims for 2024

The Committee undertakes an annual evaluation process to 
review its performance and effectiveness. For 2023, feedback 
relating to the Committee was sought from Directors as part of 
the wider Board evaluation led by Manchester Square Partners. 
Topics covered included the effectiveness and dynamics of 
the Committee, oversight of key areas within the Committee’s 
remit, the quality of papers and meeting discussions, and the 
relationships between the Committee and management.

The findings of the effectiveness review process for 2023  
indicated that the Committee is considered to be working well 
with appropriate agendas, papers produced to a good standard 
and high-quality discussions. Positive feedback was noted on 
the handling of the Chief Executive and Non-Executive Director 
recruitment processes. You can read more about the Board 
evaluation process on page 85.

The Committee’s priorities for the coming year will be to ensure a 
smooth Chief Executive transition and the successful onboarding 
and induction of Omar Abbosh. The past year has required the 
Committee to be particularly focused on Board search activity 
and so, in 2024, we will look to focus on other areas of our 
governance framework, including monitoring progress against 
the latest Board evaluation findings, overseeing management’s 
response to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and 
working with our HR colleagues to focus on diversity.

Tim Score Chair of Nomination &  
Governance Committee

Skills matrix

This matrix represents the number of Directors with core or supplemental capability in areas that are relevant to Pearson’s strategy, 
business model and organisational characteristics. A core capability is one of the strongest areas of a Director’s skill and expertise, 
where they bring considerable value to Board discussions. A supplemental capability is an area where the Director is competent or has 
experience, but is not one of the primary skills or attributes that they bring to the Pearson Board.

Category

1.  Accounting and finance

2.  Corporate strategic development (including value creation 

7.  Global markets

8. 

Listed company governance & regulation (particularly UK)

9.  People / general talent focus (including workforce learning)

and M&A)

10.  Policy and government relations

3.  Digital and technology (including data and cyber security 

11.  Prior CEO experience, particularly of  

governance and AI)

multinational businesses

4.  Disruption management (including talent leadership through 

12.  Remuneration

change, marketing and data insights, new business models 
and innovation)

5.  Direct to consumer business models (including consumer 

13.  Scale and complexity

14.  Sustainability

brand, sales and marketing)

6.  Education and public sector 

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

1

1

2

4

4

4

6

6

6

2

7

3

6

8

8

8

5

10

2

4

4

8

9

1

5

3

4

3

Core capability

Supplemental capability

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 90  

GovernanceAppointment of Chief Executive

During 2023, the Board commenced a search process for a new Chief Executive, following notice from Andy Bird of his intention to retire 
from the Pearson Board, applying the ongoing succession planning processes which are regularly reviewed by the Board. The Chief 
Executive search process was led by the Chair of the Board, Omid Kordestani, and a working group of the Committee was appointed to 
manage the process, which was reviewed several times by the full Board. Spencer Stuart was selected by the Board to support the Chief 
Executive succession activity.

The search process resulted in the appointment of Omar 
Abbosh, who became Pearson’s Chief Executive on  
8 January 2024.

The Board also made clear to Spencer Stuart that diversity, 
including gender and ethnicity, was an important consideration in 
the candidate search process.

Spencer Stuart met with each member of the Board individually 
to seek their input into the profile of the desired candidate and 
to refine the role specification. The Directors agreed that the key 
attributes they were seeking in proposed candidates included:

 — Passionate, results-oriented, collaborative, and mission-driven 
leader who can build on the current Pearson strategy and 
deliver value to Pearson’s shareholders over the medium  
and long term 

 — Highly successful experience in leading a large, complex 

international business 

 — Extensive experience in one or multiple of the following 

sectors: enterprise technology, media, consumer or other 
tangential sectors with technology/digital as the core of  
the business

 — Demonstrated track record of successfully developing and 
leading the commercialisation and go-to-market strategies 
within a business to deliver results and growth

 — Proven global leader who can win in multiple markets, drive 

results and act strategically

 — An agent of change who can communicate a mission and 
vision, inspiring hearts and minds to align stakeholders 
and bring the mission/vision to bear and a cultural fit with 
Pearson’s values

 — Experience of delivering high-quality products and services for 

both enterprises and consumers

 — Strong reputation, integrity, independent thinker

The Board considered 43 candidates over the course of the 
process, of which 16 were women and 12 were from an ethnic 
minority background. As this progressed, the longlist of 43 was 
refined to a group of eight individuals (including three women 
and two individuals from an ethnic minority background), each 
of whom met with the working group of the Board. In the final 
stage of the process, Omid Kordestani and Tim Score, as well as 
a number of other Board members, met on both one-to-one and 
panel bases with each of the three shortlisted individuals. Each 
shortlisted individual was also invited to present to the full Board 
on their strategic vision for Pearson and to address questions 
from all Board members. The final shortlist included one woman 
and one individual from an ethnic minority background. 

As a result of the comprehensive selection process, the Board 
identified Omar Abbosh as its preferred candidate for the role 
of Chief Executive. Once appropriate checks and referencing 
had been completed, the Board was satisfied that Mr Abbosh 
met and exceeded the selection criteria and approved the 
appointment of Mr Abbosh as Chief Executive, who took up the 
role on 8 January 2024.

The Board is pleased to welcome Omar, who has deep 
commercial, technology and operational expertise focused on 
delivering high-quality services and products across diverse 
markets and customer sets, with extensive experience in creating 
and executing strategies to enable companies to harness 
technology and succeed in a world of disruptive change. 

Omar shares our values and our ambition and has a strong  
track record of execution. His expertise will help to further 
accelerate our strategy and continue to deliver value for all  
our stakeholders.

Andy Bird did not take part in the search and selection process 
save that he participated, firstly, in the initial individual scoping 
sessions with Spencer Stuart in terms of what the specification 
should focus on as the ideal future leader of Pearson and, 
secondly, in the final decision to appoint Omar, with this 
resolution being passed unanimously by the Board.

On behalf of the Board and Pearson colleagues, the Committee 
would like to thank Andy for his outstanding leadership during 
his time as Chief Executive. During his tenure, Andy implemented 
an ambitious vision and strategy, successfully transitioned 
Pearson into a more consumer-focused business and drove 
cultural and organisational change while delivering strong 
financial performance.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 91

GovernanceNomination & Governance Committee report continued

Diversity across Pearson
Over the past few years, we have been on an intentional journey 
to redefine what diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) mean at 
Pearson and to take action. We have reshaped our policies, 
practices, and principles around DEI and created a long-term 
strategy focusing on recruitment and promotion, retention, 
inclusive culture, and social impact.

Our ambition is to be an inclusive and high-performing place to 
work where everyone can leverage their unique strengths. That’s 
why our people strategy has DEI as one of our three pillars with 
the aim of creating a culture of belonging and increasing diverse 
representation throughout the company. As part of the Pearson 
employee engagement survey, we have a culture of inclusion 
index to benchmark and measure against three principles: 
employees are treated with respect, managers value employees 
for their strengths, and our leaders do what is right.

In addition, Pearson’s Code of Conduct in relation to ethical 
practices takes account of gender, age, race, ethnicity, disability, 
and sexual orientation, and applies to all employee levels, 
including the Executive Management team. It is underpinned 
by a global statement on DEI, along with country and business-
specific policies. Standards are set consistently worldwide – both 
internally and externally – as part of our efforts to make Pearson 
a great place to work. 

Together, our goal is to drive the transformation of learning, 
making it more diverse, equitable, and inclusive. It is a continuous 
combination of intentional bottom-up and top-down leadership 
across all levels of the company to foster a culture where 
everyone feels a sense of belonging. 

Board diversity 

We believe that Board diversity makes us a better and more 
sustainable business, contributing to high performance, 
enhanced commercial results, and an inclusive leadership 
culture. Research indicates that high-performing boards provide 
an increased competitive advantage and wider perspectives, 
while the needs for greater inclusion and diversity continue to 
influence global trends. 

We are determined that, as a Board, we must be representative 
of our employee base and wider society, including the countries 
in which we operate. 

The Board embraces the UK Corporate Governance Code’s 
underlying principles with regard to Board balance and diversity, 
including in respect of ethnicity, gender and age. The objectives 
set out in the Board’s Diversity Policy and our progress towards 
these are shown in the table on page 93. 

The Nomination & Governance Committee ensures that 
the Directors of Pearson demonstrate a broad balance of 
skills, background and experience, to support our strategic 
development and reflect the global nature of our business. 
It requires appointments to be made on merit and relevant 
experience, while taking into account the broadest definition of 
diversity. In any Non-Executive Director search processes, the 
Nomination & Governance Committee encourages the retained 
search firms to place an emphasis on putting forward candidates 
who would enhance the overall diversity of the Board. 

In light of recent changes to the UK Listing Rules put forward 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the Nomination & 
Governance Committee updated the objectives that support 
the Board Diversity Policy, and which underpin Pearson’s 
commitment to creating a more equitable and inclusive 
company. The objectives now include the following: 

 — at least 40% female directors 

 — at least two directors from an ethnic minority background 

 — at least one of the Chair, Chief Executive, Deputy Chair and 

Senior Independent Director or CFO is a woman

We also expanded our objectives to confirm that the Board will 
consider its own diversity, and that of its Committees, as part of 
the annual effectiveness review processes. Further, the Board 
will explore expanding its diversity considerations to include 
characteristics such as sexual orientation, disability and socio-
economic background. 

The Nomination & Governance Committee adopts a principles-
based approach to diversity on the Board’s Committees. It is 
recognised that it is not necessarily practical to set meaningful 
metrics or targets for diverse membership of Committees due 
to the notably smaller membership of each of the Committees 
compared to the size of the Board. Accordingly, our principles-
based approach endorses the importance of bringing diverse 
perspectives to all areas of the Board and Committees’ work. 
As an example of this principles-based approach in practice, as 
part of its regular Committee succession planning activity, the 
Nomination & Governance Committee considers the gender 
and ethnic balance on each Committee when assessing its 
composition and future needs.

As at 31 December 2023, 55% of Directors were women  
(2022: 50%), exceeding the target of 40% women’s 
representation by the end of 2025, as recommended by  
the FTSE Women Leaders Review. 

We are also satisfied that, ahead of the target implementation 
date, we are compliant with the new FCA requirements stating 
that boards should have at least one woman in the Chair, Chief 
Executive, Senior Independent Director or Chief Financial Officer 
role, and that at least one member of the Board should be from 
an ethnic minority background, among other targets. 

During its evaluation process conducted in 2023, the Board 
considered the effectiveness of the organisation and dynamics 
of the Board, including in respect of diversity. The results and 
feedback provided by the evaluation indicated that the Directors 
believe the Board’s diversity is strong. The Board recognised 
the increasing importance of DEI and acknowledged the 
progress being made. It noted that it would explore expanding 
its considerations to wider forms of diversity, such as sexual 
orientation, disability, age, and socio-economic background, 
when making new appointment decisions. 

Diversity and talent at executive level 

Five members of our Executive Management team of 10, 
excluding the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer who 
are counted in the Board’s metric, are women (50%) (2022: 
50%). Including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, 
this ratio stays at 50% (six women out of 12 members) (2022: 
50%). As of 31 December 2023, the group comprising the 
senior management team (as specified by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, i.e. the Executive Management team and 
the Company Secretary) and the Executive Management team’s 
direct reports contained 45 women, representing 47% of that 
group (2022: 50%). In response to the Parker Review’s new 
requirement for listed companies to set an ethnic diversity target 
in respect of senior management positions, the Committee 
approved a target of 20% of Pearson’s senior management 
positions to be occupied by ethnic minority individuals 
by December 2027. As at 31 December 2023, the senior 
management team, as defined above, contained 17 individuals 
who identify as minority ethnic, representing 20% of that  
group, who have provided the company with ethnicity data.  
For diversity data in the format prescribed by LR 9.8.6R(10), 
please see page 53.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 92  

GovernanceBoard diversity objectives 

The Nomination & Governance Committee monitors progress on the company’s DEI framework, 
governance and measurement models, and priority areas. As part of this, the Nomination & 
Governance Committee reviewed and updated the objectives which underpin the Board Diversity 
Policy. The objectives in place during 2023 and Pearson’s performance against them are set  
out below:

Objectives 

Progress

We will strive to achieve and maintain a 
Board composition of: 
 — at least 40% Directors are women

As at 31 December 2023:

 54.5% Directors were women

 The Board included three Directors from an 

 — at least two Directors are from an ethnic 

ethnic minority background

minority background 

 — at least one of the Chair, Chief Executive, 
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director or CFO is a woman

All Board appointments will be made  
on merit, in the context of the skills and 
relevant experience that are needed for 
the Board to oversee Pearson’s strategic 
development and that reflect the global 
nature of our business. 

The Board will continue to incorporate  
a focus on a diverse pipeline in its 
succession and appointment planning, 
including to prioritise the use of search 
firms which adhere to the Voluntary Code 
of Conduct for Executive Search Firms (the 
Voluntary Code) when seeking to make 
Board-level appointments.

 One of the Chair, Chief Executive, Deputy  
Chair and Senior Independent Director or  
CFO is a woman

 Our most recent Board search processes 
considered a wide range of candidates, 
including from diverse backgrounds, all of 
whom were evaluated on the basis of merit.  
The search processes resulted in the 
appointment of Omar Abbosh, Alison Dolan 
and Alex Hardiman, whom the Board believes 
possess the requisite skills and experience for 
their roles.

 The Committee actively includes diversity in its 
search criteria for Board appointments, and 
proactively encourages engaged search firms 
to include candidates from a range of diverse 
backgrounds in its candidate lists.

Spencer Stuart assists Pearson with search 
activities, including for the recent Chief 
Executive and Non-Executive Director search 
processes. Spencer Stuart is a signatory to the 
Voluntary Code.

Objectives 

Progress

The Board will continue to adopt best 
practice, as appropriate, in response  
to the Parker Review, FTSE Women  
Leaders Review, FRC Board Director 
Effectiveness Review, and Financial  
Conduct Authority requirements.
The Board will consider its composition 
and diversity, and that of its Committees, as 
part of its consideration of effectiveness in 
the Board evaluation review process. The 
Board will also explore expansion of these 
considerations to cover ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, disability and socio-economic 
background characteristics.
Where appropriate, we will assist with the 
development and support of initiatives 
that promote all forms of DEI in the Board, 
Pearson Executive Management team and 
other senior management.

We will review and report on our progress 
in line with the policy and our objectives in 
the annual report, including providing details 
of initiatives to promote DEI in the Board, 
Pearson Executive Management team and 
other senior management.
We will continue to make key DEI information 
about the Board, senior management and 
our wider employee population available 
in the annual report, and aim for ongoing 
transparency in this area in line with  
best practice.

 The Board is cognisant of the recommendations 
of the FTSE Women Leaders Review and Parker 
Review. The new FCA requirements in respect of 
gender and ethnic diversity are also reflected in 
the Board Diversity Policy. 

 These matters were considered in the 2023 

evaluation process. Read more on pages 85-86.

 A mentoring programme where six mentees 
at the Senior Vice President (SVP) level were 
mentored by six Non-Executive Directors 
concluded in June 2023. 67% of SVP participants 
were female and/or persons of colour (target 
at 50%). The intention is for a new cohort to be 
identified for 2024.

 Objectives that accompany the Board’s Diversity 

Policy have been monitored. The Committee 
continues to monitor developments on DEI in 
the external landscape.

 This information is included in the annual 

report. Read more about DEI matters in the 
wider employee population on page 40.

Key

Target achieved

Target not met

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 93

GovernanceReputation & Responsibility Committee report

Annette Thomas Committee Chair

Principal Committee responsibilities

Terms of reference

Stakeholders: Monitoring reputational issues that could significantly 
affect Pearson’s reputation with stakeholders, including consumers, 
employees, shareholders, educational institutions and educators, 
employers, governments and regulators, communities and  
business partners.

Sustainability and associated non-financial KPIs: Overseeing 
Pearson’s sustainability framework including: targets and public 
commitments; regulatory landscape, reporting and ratings; 
sustainability due diligence in our supply chains and business 
partnerships; and assisting the Board in monitoring progress towards 
the non-financial KPIs linked to the three pillars of the Learning for 
Impact strategy.

Culture and employee engagement: Assisting the Board in 
monitoring Pearson’s approach to employee engagement and the 
company’s culture, which stresses diversity and high performance.

Communications and regulatory matters: Overseeing Pearson’s 
communications, strategies, policies and plans related to reputational 
issues and the people, processes and policies that are in place to 
manage them.

Branding: Overseeing the way in which the company’s brands are 
managed and promoted to ensure that their value and the company’s 
reputation are maintained and enhanced. 

Risk: Monitoring Pearson’s approach to the reputation aspects of the 
risk register and ensuring that clear roles have been assigned for the 
management of these, including in relation to the company’s material 
sustainability risks and opportunities.

The Committee has written terms of reference that clearly  
set out its authority and duties. These are reviewed annually  
and can be found in the Governance section of our website 
(www.pearsonplc.com).

Committee members and attendance 

Attendance by Directors at scheduled Reputation & 
Responsibility Committee meetings throughout 2023:

Committee members

Meetings 
attended

Andy Bird1
Alex Hardiman2
Linda Lorimer3
Graeme Pitkethly
Annette Thomas
Lincoln Wallen

4/4
2/2
1/1
4/4
4/4
4/4

1.  Mr Bird stepped down from the Committee with effect from  

7 January 2024.

2.  Ms Hardiman was appointed to the Committee with effect from  

1 August 2023.

3.  Ms Lorimer stepped down from the Committee with effect from  

28 April 2023. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 94  

GovernanceReputation & Responsibility  
Committee role

I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Reputation 
& Responsibility Committee following my appointment to the 
role on 28 April 2023. I offer my sincere thanks on behalf of 
the Committee to my predecessor, Linda Lorimer, for her 
considerable contributions during her six years as Committee 
Chair. I also extend my thanks to Andy Bird who served as a 
member of the Committee until his retirement as Chief Executive 
in January 2024. We look forward to welcoming Omar Abbosh as 
a regular attendee at the Committee’s meetings in the future.

The Committee works to assess and advance Pearson’s 
reputation across the range of its stakeholders and to maximise 
the company’s positive impact on the communities in which we 
work and serve.

We are the main governance body for sustainability at Pearson, 
providing important oversight of our sustainability framework; 
this includes climate change considerations. As part of this role, 
we promote and oversee Pearson’s Learning for Impact strategy 
and assess progress against its commitments. We also monitor 
branding, employee engagement, culture and values, and provide 
ongoing oversight and scrutiny across all reputational matters. 

The full Board is kept abreast of the Committee’s work through 
reports I make following each of our sessions. These reports 
include highlighting any material discussion points or areas  
of concern and offering specific recommendations for the 
Board’s action. 

As Committee Chair, I am available at any time to engage 
with any shareholders who would like to discuss the work of 
the Committee, and particularly look forward to taking any 
shareholder questions at our forthcoming AGM in April 2024.

Committee composition and attendees

The Committee currently has four members, including me as 
Chair. During the year, the Committee was pleased to welcome 
Alex Hardiman as a new member. Together, Committee 
members bring a range of expertise across key areas of our 
remit, including sustainability, product, stakeholder management, 
people and talent, and policy and government relations. You can 
read more about the Committee members’ skills and experience 
on pages 68-70.

In addition, we benefit from the regular attendance of senior 
executives whose work is central to the remit of the Committee. 
These include the Chief Legal Officer, who is the executive leader 
responsible for the development, monitoring and execution of 
Pearson’s sustainability strategy; the Chief Marketing Officer and Co-
President of Direct to Consumer; the Chief Human Resources Officer; 
SVP – Investor Relations; and SVP – Corporate Communications. 

operations, enhanced ways of working with customers and 
proactive stakeholder engagement following challenges in the 
previous year’s results season. Additionally, we undertook our 
annual safeguarding review, which had a particular focus on 
online trust and safety in our digital products and services in 
light of rapid change in the technology and legislative landscape 
affecting these areas.

Sustainability activities in 2023

Throughout the year, the Committee paid particular attention to 
the continued evolution of our sustainability strategy, including 
how it aligns to our greatest areas of opportunity and challenge 
as a business, and how to communicate its tenets to all our 
stakeholders in a clear and impactful way. 

As described in greater detail in our sustainability report starting 
on page 34, our Learning for Impact strategy comprises three 
pillars that align with the interests of stakeholders and represent 
the areas where we can make the biggest positive impact:

 — Driving learning for everyone with our products

 — Empowering our people to make a difference

 — Leading responsibly for a better planet

These areas are also materially influential in helping Pearson 
succeed as a business. The pillars have a clear, natural fit 
to our non-financial KPIs, reflecting the common goal of 
alignment between our corporate and sustainability strategy. 
The sustainability strategy is supported by Pearson’s robust 
corporate governance, strong corporate culture and a range of 
effective policies to ensure we achieve our ambitions. 

The Committee receives regular updates from management 
on progress against the priorities of the sustainability strategy 
and initiatives that support its delivery. Over the past year, key 
activities of the Committee in relation to our three Learning for 
Impact pillars included the following:

Driving learning for everyone with our products

In the course of the year, we reviewed and provided input to the 
latest edition of the Global Content Policy, which provides a set 
of underpinning principles for Pearson employees and business 
partners alike on producing evidence and fact-based content 
which aligns with Pearson’s purpose and values. 

We also discussed with management their focus on successful 
delivery of the 2023 BTEC results, reflecting on changes to 

At each meeting, the Committee receives a report on recent 
incidents and issues that could have an impact on the company’s 
reputation, including those relating to our products and business 
partners. We consider Pearson’s responses to coverage on 
social media and in traditional media, including paying particular 
attention to our protocols for responding to questions about our 
content, the integrity with which we handle such situations, and 
any lessons learned.

Empowering our people to make a difference

Following a refreshed approach to employee engagement 
introduced the previous year, during 2023 we conducted a deep 
dive with the Chief Human Resources Officer into the findings 
of our latest employee survey, recognising the importance of 
engagement as a driver of performance. It was pleasing to note 
the meaningful improvement in key metrics compared with 2022 
and we endorsed a particular focus on upskilling managers and 
leaders. The Committee and Board alike will continue to monitor 
progress in this area, focusing on growth, performance and agility 
in our workforce, supported by a culture of diversity and trust.

Given world events, the Committee received an update from 
management on the status of Pearson’s business operations 
in Israel and the Middle East, with a particular focus on our 
employees. We also conducted our annual review of health and 
safety across the company.

Leading responsibly for a better planet

In the past year, the Committee has monitored Pearson’s climate 
related initiatives, including:

 — Considering options for revising the company’s long-term 
science-based targets. Based upon clear analysis from 
management covering feasibility, cost and external impact, 
the Committee unanimously agreed to support adoption of a 
new target which will now be taken forward for validation by 
SBTi and, once obtained, for formal Board approval.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 95

GovernanceReputation & Responsibility Committee report continued

 — Approving the first iteration of Pearson’s Climate Action Plan, 
being a high-level plan that sets out the actions that will 
help Pearson meet its decarbonisation targets and lays the 
foundation for successful longer-term carbon transition 

 — Receiving updates on progress in relation to emissions 

reduction, resource use, building sustainable supply chains 
and strengthening our data and reporting capabilities, the last 
being of increasing importance given developments in the 
regulatory and legislative landscape across many jurisdictions 
in which Pearson operates.

Sustainability governance and policies

The three pillars of our Learning for Impact strategy are 
underpinned by robust governance, a strong culture and 
effective policies. In this regard, during the year:

 — We received an update from external legal advisers on 
developments in the global regulatory and legislative 
landscape, including the EU’s Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive, the recommendations of the UK’s 
Transition Plan Taskforce and developments in other markets 
in which Pearson operates, including the US. As part of this 
session, we considered how this important topic would 
be communicated to key internal stakeholders, noting the 
importance of a robust organisational infrastructure  
relating to data gathering, reporting and disclosure, and we 
supported the introduction of a dedicated sustainability data 
reporting platform

 — We reviewed insights gathered from an investor sustainability 
perception study together with the latest analyst rankings 
and ratings of Pearson’s sustainability performance and 
credentials and a snapshot of areas for improvement. We 
considered how this information could support our external 
sustainability communications and action plans, in particular 
demonstrating the inherent social impact of certain Pearson 
products and services to support our investment case

 — We reviewed the annual Modern Slavery Statement with 

management prior to recommending that the Board approve 
the statement for publication

You can read more about our overall Board framework for 
sustainability governance, including the related work of other 
Committees, on page 80.

Other areas of focus during 2023

 — discussion of the reviewer’s findings and recommendations 

In addition to the work relating to the three pillars of our 
Learning for Impact strategy, we spent time considering a 
broader range of matters relating to Pearson’s reputation and 
key stakeholders, including the following: 

 — At every meeting during the year, we considered updates 
from our global government relations and policy team, 
recognising the importance of governments as both a 
customer and regulator of many of our products and services

 — We discussed the strategy, engagement approach, risks and 
opportunities relating to data privacy and content, being two 
of the current major policy issues of significance to Pearson

 — Looking ahead to the elections in both the UK and US, we 

reviewed a snapshot of the key learning, education and skills 
related issues for the major political parties and considered 
Pearson’s approach to policy and engagement on these topics

 — A significant theme in the Committee’s work during the past 
year has related to the risks and opportunities presented by 
developments in AI, particularly generative AI, including policy 
and regulatory developments in that space. You can read 
more about the work of the Committee relating to AI as part 
of the case study on page 78 

 — The brand team shared with the Committee that, having reset 
Pearson’s purpose, vision, mission and values in 2022, they 
were now beginning work on developing an evolved brand 
strategy, architecture and visual identity for the company

You can read more about stakeholder engagement at Pearson, 
including with governments and regulators, on page 16.

Committee evaluation

The Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to review 
its performance and effectiveness. In 2023, the Committee 
evaluation process was conducted as part of the externally 
facilitated Board effectiveness review, led by Manchester Square 
Partners. The process included: 

 — one-to-one interviews conducted by the independent 
reviewer with each of the Committee members, all 
other members of the Board and the Pearson Executive 
Management team

 — observation of a full Committee meeting, including the private 

sessions, by the independent reviewer 

 — assessment of a sample of meeting papers 

You can read about the Board effectiveness review in more detail 
on pages 85-87. 

Topics covered included the effectiveness and dynamics of the 
Committee, the Committee’s oversight of key areas within its 
remit, the quality of papers and meeting discussions, and the 
relationships between the Committee and management. The 
findings of the independent reviewer noted that the Committee 
was functioning well and has an appropriate level of focus on 
the key topics within its remit including attention to external 
stakeholders, matters relating to content in our products, and 
management of reputational risk factors.

The matters identified during the previous year’s evaluation 
process have been addressed to the Committee’s satisfaction 
during the year and adopted into our ongoing practices  
where appropriate.

Committee aims for 2024

Our priorities for the coming year include:

 — Monitoring progress towards SBTi validation of our intended 

net-zero long-term targets beyond 2030 

 — Approval of a standalone climate transition plan in line with 

the disclosure framework of the UK Transition Plan Taskforce

 — Reviewing the process and outputs of a double materiality 
assessment which will be undertaken by management to 
further define our sustainability strategy alongside our 
corporate strategy.

We will also continue our close attention to employee 
engagement and Pearson’s social impact initiatives, undertake 
a horizon scanning exercise in respect of emerging risks and 
trends in the external landscape, and remain attentive to the 
fast-moving topic of generative AI, including regulatory, legislative 
and stakeholder perspectives.

Annette Thomas Chair of Reputation & 
Responsibility Committee

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 96  

GovernanceAudit Committee report

Graeme Pitkethly Committee Chair

Principal Committee responsibilities

Terms of reference

Financial reporting
The quality and integrity of Pearson’s financial reporting and statements 
and related disclosures, including significant reporting judgements. 

Policy
Group financial policies, including accounting and treasury policies  
and practices.

External audit
External audit, including the appointment, qualification, independence 
and effectiveness of the external auditor.

Internal audit, risk and internal control
Risk management systems and the internal control environment, 
including oversight of the work and effectiveness of the internal  
audit function.

Compliance and governance
Legal and regulatory requirements in relation to financial reporting  
and accounting matters, and oversight of compliance programmes  
and investigations.

The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly  
set out its authority and duties. These are reviewed annually  
and can be found in the Governance section of our website  
(www.pearsonplc.com).

Committee members and attendance 

Attendance by Directors at scheduled Audit Committee meetings 
throughout 2023:

Committee members

Meetings 
attended

Alison Dolan1
Alex Hardiman2
Linda Lorimer3
Graeme Pitkethly
Tim Score
Lincoln Wallen

1/1
1/1
2/2
4/4
4/4
4/4

1.  Ms Dolan was appointed to the Committee with effect from  

1 August 2023.

2.  Ms Hardiman was appointed to the Committee with effect from  

1 December 2023.

3.  Ms Lorimer stepped down from the Committee with effect from  

28 April 2023.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 97

GovernanceAudit Committee report continued

Audit Committee role and composition 

Audit Committee meetings and activities

The Committee’s focus areas for 2024 will include:

The Committee has been established by the Board primarily for 
the purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, 
internal control and risk management processes of the company 
and the external audit of the Group’s financial statements. As a 
Committee, we are responsible for assisting the Board’s oversight 
of the quality and integrity of the company’s external financial 
reporting and statements, and the company’s accounting policies 
and practices, and we work to create a culture – both within the 
Committee’s work and Pearson more broadly – which recognises 
the work of, and encourages challenge by, the external auditor.

As at the date of this report, the Committee comprises five 
independent Non-Executive Directors, as more particularly 
set out on page 99. On behalf of the Committee, I offer my 
sincere thanks to Linda Lorimer, who stepped down from the 
Pearson Board in April 2023, for her significant contributions to 
the Committee’s work during her tenure. During the year, the 
Committee was pleased to welcome two new members – Alison 
Dolan and Alex Hardiman – who are already making valuable 
contributions and bringing fresh perspectives across many areas 
of the Committee’s remit. You can read more about Alison and 
Alex’s skills and experience in their biographies on pages 68-70.

Pearson’s Vice President – Internal Audit has a dual reporting 
line to the Chief Financial Officer and to me, and both she and 
the external auditors have direct access to the Committee to 
raise any matters of concern and to report on the results of 
work directed by the Committee. As Audit Committee Chair, I 
ensure that the full Board is kept abreast of the business of the 
Committee in a timely manner, including highlighting any areas 
of concern or specific recommendations. I also work closely with 
the Chief Financial Officer and senior financial, risk, legal and 
internal audit personnel outside the formal meeting schedule 
to ensure robust oversight and challenge in relation to financial 
control, compliance, investigations, and risk management. 

As Committee Chair, I am available to engage with any 
shareholders who would like to discuss the work of the 
Committee, including the scope or effectiveness of the external 
audit. There were no requests from shareholders during the year 
for any specific matters to be covered in the audit. I look forward 
to taking any shareholder questions at our forthcoming AGM in 
April 2024. 

At every meeting, the Committee considers reports on the 
activities of the internal audit and compliance functions, including 
the results of internal audits, project assurance reviews and fraud 
and whistleblowing reports. We also monitor the company’s 
financial reporting and risk management procedures, discuss 
the Group’s control environment, review the work undertaken 
by the external auditors and consider any significant legal claims 
and regulatory issues in the context of their impact on financial 
reporting, each on a regular basis. 

Other prominent themes in the Committee’s work throughout 
2023 included:

 — oversight of delivery of the audit action plan, a programme 
of work that sought to deliver on recommendations arising 
during the previous year’s review of effectiveness of the 
external auditors. On behalf of the Committee, I extend my 
thanks to management and Pearson colleagues for their 
commitment to the successful delivery of this programme 
working collaboratively with the external auditors. You can 
read more on page 103

 — continued attention to the application of Pearson’s accounting 

policies, key judgements and key areas of estimation as 
described in the financial statements 

 — oversight of the accounting treatment relating to portfolio 
changes, including the acquisition of Personnel Decisions 
Research Institutes, LLC (PDRI) and disposal of Pearson Online 
Learning Services (POLS)

 — important areas such as data privacy, cyber security and 

business and technology resilience, as well as generative AI. 
In addition to their importance at a macro level, these are key 
factors in the success of Pearson’s strategy and in ensuring 
we maintain trusted relationships with stakeholders

 — focus on emerging developments in the regulatory landscape, 
including new or anticipated requirements relating to fraud 
prevention and internal assurance and control frameworks

The Committee also receives technical updates at each meeting, 
including on matters such as accounting standards and the audit 
and governance landscape, and members are able to request 
specific or personal training as appropriate. 

You can view the key activities of the Committee and read more 
about our work in these areas on the pages that follow.

 — Responding to the requirements of the recently published 
FRC minimum standard for audit committees, including 
reviewing our methodology for the oversight and assessment 
of external auditor effectiveness (read more on page 103)

 — Following the publication of the revised UK Corporate 

Governance Code in January 2024, we will consider any 
impacts on Pearson’s processes and practices relating to 
risk management and internal control and will ensure the 
company is ready for implementation of the new requirement 
with effect from the 2026 financial year

 — Working closely with our colleagues on the Reputation & 

Responsibility Committee to remain abreast of developments 
in non-financial reporting, including in the UK, EU and US, 
and to provide any necessary input to Pearson’s evolving 
sustainability assurance frameworks

Additional meeting attendees
The Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Legal Officer, Chief Information Officer, other executives 
and senior managers from across the business also attended 
meetings during the year, either as regular invitees of the 
Committee or to discuss particular items of business. 

This direct contact with key leadership augments the 
Committee’s understanding of the issues facing the business 
as well as helping to develop Pearson’s talent pipeline through 
facilitation of Board-level engagement opportunities for those 
leaders and managers. We also meet regularly in private with the 
external auditors and with the Vice President – Internal Audit. 

In addition to the Committee’s formal meeting schedule, I 
meet as needed with the external auditors, Chief Financial 
Officer, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief 
Compliance Officer and Senior Vice President – Treasury, Risk 
and Insurance in order to keep abreast of all relevant matters 
within the Committee’s remit.

Committee evaluation

The Committee undertakes an annual evaluation process 
to review its performance and effectiveness. In 2023, the 
Committee evaluation process was conducted as part of 
the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review, led by 
Manchester Square Partners. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 98  

GovernanceThe process included:

 — one-to-one interviews conducted by the independent 

reviewer with each of the Committee members, all other 
members of the Board, the Pearson Executive Management 
team, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and the Vice 
President – Internal Audit

 — observation of a full Committee meeting, including the private 

sessions, by the independent reviewer

 — assessment of a sample of meeting papers

 — discussion of the reviewer’s findings and recommendations

You can read about the Board effectiveness review in more detail 
on pages 85-87.

Members

As at the date of this report, the Committee comprises 
five independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom 
have financial and/or related business experience due to 
the senior positions they hold or have held in other listed 
or publicly traded companies and/or large organisations. 
The Committee possesses a good balance of skills and 
knowledge with competence and experience covering 
all aspects of the sectors in which Pearson operates and 
the company’s key markets. Each member is ‘financially 
literate’ for the purposes of the NYSE listing standards.

Graeme Pitkethly, Chair of the Committee since 
August 2022, is the Committee’s designated financial 
expert within the meaning of the applicable rules and 
regulations of the SEC, having recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the Code, and is a 
Chartered Accountant. From 2015 to 2023, Graeme 
was Chief Financial Officer of Unilever plc and serves as 
Vice-Chair of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Graeme’s 
full biography is on page 70.

The qualifications and relevant experience of the other 
Committee members are detailed on pages 68-70. You 
can read more on page 71 about the process through 
which the Board assesses the independence of Non-
Executive Directors.

Topics covered included the effectiveness and dynamics of the 
Committee, the Committee’s oversight of key areas within its remit, 
the quality of papers and meeting discussions, and the relationships 
between the Committee and management. The findings of the 
independent reviewer included the following key points:

 — The Committee is considered to be operating to a high level of 
performance with appropriate agendas, papers produced to a 
good standard and high-quality discussions 

 — The composition of the Committee is appropriate and includes 
the necessary skills, including three members who are current or 
former Chief Financial Officers of listed companies

 — The Committee has a broad remit and a substantial workload 
but is considered to run very effectively with high levels of 
engagement by members and benefits from the attendance 
of relevant Executive Management

Reflecting the findings of the previous year’s evaluation, the 
Committee was pleased to hold its December 2023 meeting 
in Pearson’s office in Hoboken, New Jersey, allowing in-person 
access to US-based management and employees. We have also 
continued our focus on the risk management aspects of the 
Committee’s remit and have benefited from insightful reports 
by, and discussions with, management across many elements 
of the company’s principal and emerging risks, seeing clear 
alignment with the work and recommendations of the internal 
audit function.

Fair, balanced and  
understandable reporting

In response to the Code’s Principle N, the Committee considered 
whether the 2023 Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable. In making this assessment, we considered the 
following areas:

 — The process for preparing the report, including the 

contributors, the internal review process, and how feedback is 
addressed throughout the process

 — The business review narratives presented for each  

business area

 — The discussion of reported and underlying results throughout 

the report

The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable. We reported this 
conclusion to the Board.

Learn more about fair, balanced and understandable reporting 
on page 134.

Financial reporting and policies

In February 2024, the Committee considered the 2023 preliminary 
results announcement and annual report and accounts, including 
the financial statements, strategic report and Directors’ report. 
The significant issues considered by the Committee relating to the 
2023 financial statements are set out on pages 105-106.

Risk assessment, assurance and integrity 

A key role of the Committee is to provide oversight and support to the 
Board with regard to the integrity of the company’s procedures for the 
identification, assessment, management and reporting of risk. In fulfilling 
its remit, the Committee remains mindful that effective risk management 
is essential to executing Pearson’s strategy, achieving sustainable 
shareholder value, protecting the brand and ensuring good governance. 

During 2023, the Committee had oversight of management’s 
approach towards risk identification and monitoring. Pearson’s 
enterprise risk management programme has evolved in line 
with the structure of the business, which is managed through 
five global operating divisions supported by enterprise-wide 
corporate functions. Through a series of business-focused risk 
deep dives, the President of each operating division provides an 
overview of its risk register to the Committee at least annually 
and leads a session on the key risks facing their particular 
division. The process is supported by central risk team experts 
as required, providing the Committee with a clear and consistent 
framework within which to evaluate the strategic and business 
risks to the company, based upon the principal, emerging and 
significant near-term risk categories described on pages 57-65. 

The Committee uses these deep dive sessions to understand 
the rigour of management’s risk scanning and to challenge 
judgements being made in response to risks. The Committee 
considers that Pearson’s enterprise risk management approach 
is robust and proportionate, and facilitates a culture of 
accountability and ownership among business leaders. The 
divisional risk deep dives provide a strategic and increasingly 
data-driven lens to the risk management process that is valued 
by the Committee and management alike. 

At least twice a year, the Committee considers a Group-wide risk 
management report which highlights risk trends and themes that exist 
at an enterprise-wide level. This is further supported by a number of 
deep dives which the Committee conducts with selected enterprise-
wide functions including data privacy, cyber security, tax, treasury, anti-
bribery and corruption, and business resilience. You can read more on 
some of these themes elsewhere in this report.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 99

GovernanceAudit Committee report continued

Additionally, during 2023, the Committee reviewed and endorsed 
a new enterprise risk framework document which brings together 
Pearson’s existing principles, processes and methodology for risk 
management and aims to further embed such activity and practice 
within the organisation. 

Data privacy, cyber security and 
technology resilience

Prudent management of data privacy, cyber security and 
Pearson’s technology estate are fundamental to our success 
and to building and maintaining trust with our customers. The 
Committee oversees these matters on behalf of the Board from 
a risk and assurance perspective and monitors the maturity 
of Pearson’s associated governance frameworks. It does this 
through regular deep dives, as well as through oversight of the 
risk-based internal audit programme, in which these topics are 
key areas of focus. We recognise the interlinked nature of these 
topics and typically invite the senior leaders for each area to 

Audit Committee meeting focus during 2023

participate in all strands of these discussions, providing holistic 
perspectives on the important and complex themes.

During the year, the Committee:

 — considered developments in the global regulatory landscape 

and trends in enforcement actions, focusing on the 
importance of transparency and controls around the use of 
personal information, together with an elevated scrutiny of 
artificial intelligence which is increasingly used by businesses 
to provide customers with a personalised experience

 — discussed the ways in which Pearson’s privacy programme 

helps to monitor and manage these risks, including through 
provision of specialist guidance to the business in ensuring 
compliant product design

 — noted the expansion of the data privacy governance 

framework into a broader programme governing customer 
trust and safety, with cyber security and online harms now 
managed under the umbrella of this newly expanded Trust & 
Safety governance framework

 — noted the introduction of data privacy compliance reports 
for Pearson’s core products and services that enable the 
business to take a proactive approach to addressing key risks

 — considered the progress that continues to be made through 
implementing security processes, leveraging industry-leading 
tools and modernising the technology estate, as well as 
investing in defences against increasingly sophisticated 
threats and building a culture of security

 — endorsed the adoption of the NIST cyber security framework, 
which will provide the Committee and management with clear 
visibility into the current status of Pearson’s cyber security 
programme and areas of improvement. The framework is 
underpinned by industry-leading standards and facilitates 
Pearson’s compliance with FedRAMP requirements in 
delivering certain US federal commitments 

Policy and 
finance 
operations

 — Accounting 
matters and 
Group accounting 
policies

 — Treasury Policy 
and reporting

 — Tax update

 — Update on global 
deployment of  
ERP system

Financial reporting

 — Accounting and technical updates

 — Impact of legal claims and regulatory 

issues on financial reporting

 — Fair, balanced and  

understandable reporting

 — Going concern and viability 

statements including  
supporting analysis

 — Annual report and accounts: 

preliminary announcement, financial 
statements and income statement 

 — Review of interim results and  

trading updates

 — Form 20-F and related disclosures, 

including annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
Section 404 attestation of financial 
reporting internal controls 

 — Significant issues reporting

External audit

Internal audit, risk and  
internal control

Compliance  
and governance

 — Oversight of audit action plan (see page 103)

 — Internal audit activity reports and review of 

 — Provision of non-audit services by external 

key findings

 — Fraud, whistleblowing reports 
and compliance investigations

auditor – approval of policy and regular reporting

 — 2023 and 2024 internal audit plans 

 — Anti-bribery and corruption and 

 — Re-appointment of external auditors

 — Report on half-year review procedures

 — Confirmation of auditor independence

 — 2023 external audit plan

 — Remuneration and engagement letter of  

external auditors

 — Interim review report on H1 2023

including resourcing

sanctions programmes

 — Assessment of the effectiveness of internal 
audit function, internal control environment 
and risk management systems

 — Compliance with accounting 

and audit-related aspects of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code

 — Risk management including Group’s 

principal and emerging risks

 — Strategic risk reviews led by  

Divisional Presidents

 — Review of the effectiveness of external auditors

 — Group-wide risk deep dives on cyber 

 — EY feedback on internal controls over financial 

reporting (ICFR)

 — Receipt of external auditors’ report on annual 

report and Form 20-F

security; technology resilience; data privacy; 
treasury and insurance; and  
business resilience and crisis management

 — Controls Centre of Excellence updates, 
including on ICFR and 2023 work plan

 — Audit Committee and  
internal audit function  
terms of reference

 — Oversight of Group’s schedule 
of delegated financial authority

 — Regulatory briefings, including 
monitoring FRC proposals  
on audit and corporate 
governance reform

 — Review of minutes  
of the Verification  
Committee’s meetings

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 100  

GovernanceCompliance, fraud and whistleblowing

Internal audit

The Associate General Counsel (AGC) – Employment, Ethics & 
Compliance oversees compliance with our Code of Conduct 
and works with senior legal, HR and other relevant personnel to 
investigate any reported incidents, including ethical, corruption 
and fraud allegations. The Committee receives an update at each 
meeting on all significant investigations as well as reviewing data 
regarding matters raised through our whistleblowing reporting 
system. If applicable, any findings of the external auditors with 
respect to a particular matter are also considered as part of 
these discussions. The Committee may also meet in private if 
required with the AGC – Employment, Ethics & Compliance. On 
behalf of the Board, the Committee considers an annual review 
of the effectiveness of the whistleblowing system including 
through benchmarking against peers and by monitoring 
progress against previous years’ findings. The Committee Chair’s 
regular reports to the Board include a review of investigations or 
whistleblowing matters of note. 

The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) and sanctions 
compliance programmes provide the framework to support our 
compliance with various regulations such as the UK Bribery Act 
2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Committee 
uses this framework to conduct a deep dive into the ABC and 
sanctions compliance programmes on an annual basis. Pearson 
and the Committee continue to work to identify areas to 
further enhance its practices and protocols. In 2023, in addition 
to its regular review of compliance and employee relations 
investigations, we noted the continued enhancements made to 
the overall compliance programme, including:

 — development of a new fraud policy, based upon a guiding 

principle of ‘zero tolerance’ towards any form of fraud. The 
Committee has approved this policy, which has a broad 
applicability across all Pearson businesses, employees and 
wider workforce, and business partners 

 — ongoing training for staff, including ethical decision-making 

and anti-trust modules for applicable employees and 
sanctions refresher training for Pearson’s network of local 
compliance officers

 — action taken by the legal and HR teams to establish processes 

tying compliance to remuneration, responding to a new 
requirement from the US Department of Justice

 — implementation of a new platform and provider for our ethics 

and whistleblowing hotline, PearsonEthics.com

The internal audit function is responsible for providing 
independent assurance to management and the Committee 
on the design and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks. The Vice 
President – Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chair of the 
Committee and the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for 
the day-to-day operations of internal audit and execution of the 
annual internal audit plan. 

The internal audit mandate is approved annually by the 
Committee. The audit plan and any changes thereto are also 
reviewed and approved by the Committee throughout the 
year, and the Committee is attentive to the resourcing of the 
internal audit function. The internal audit plan is aligned to 
Pearson’s greatest areas of risk, as identified by the enterprise 
risk management process, and the Committee considers issues 
and risks arising from internal audits. Management action plans 
to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks are agreed with 
the business area after each audit. Internal audit has a robust 
process in place for the implementation of audit actions, which 
also includes review and testing of evidence to corroborate 
action implementation. Progress of management action plans 
is reported to the Committee at each meeting. Internal audit 
has a formal collaboration process in place with the external 
auditors to ensure efficient sharing of insights and outcomes. 
Opportunities for reliance by the external auditor on internal 
audit outcomes are limited due to strict rules set by the external 
regulator. Regular reports on the findings and emerging themes 
identified through internal audits are provided to Executive 
Management and, via the Committee, to the Board.

In 2023, internal audit carried out engagements across Pearson’s 
business units and corporate functions, as well as Group-wide 
thematic audits, covering most of the principal risks. The audit 
plan changes throughout the year based on changes in Pearson’s 
risk profile. Key themes in 2023 related to information security 
and data privacy, cyber security, assessment of integration 
progress and controls in recently acquired businesses, 
safeguarding, accessibility, payroll, and regulatory compliance. 

Internal audit evaluation
At its December 2023 meeting, the Committee considered the 
findings of the review of the performance, effectiveness and 
independence of Pearson’s internal audit function, a process 
which is undertaken annually. The 2023 review was conducted 
by distributing a questionnaire to the key stakeholders of the 
internal audit function – including Committee members, the lead 
external audit partner, members of the Executive Management 
team, and senior financial, legal and operational management.

The evaluation process sought views on an anonymised basis 
on the internal audit function’s work programme, resource 
levels, skills and expertise, and ways of working. Based on the 
findings of the 2023 review, the Committee is of the opinion 
that the quality, experience and expertise of the internal audit 
function is appropriate for the business. The Committee further 
believes that the internal audit function operates with an 
appropriate degree of independence and has the ability to raise 
matters with the Committee without management present. The 
Committee recognised the findings of the review which noted 
that the internal audit function continues to engage proactively 
and constructively with management, providing assurance 
over key risks impacting the business and identifying related 
areas for improvement. The Committee will remain attentive to 
ensuring the internal audit function has access to the necessary 
skills, capabilities and knowledge to conduct specialist audits, 
supplementing its own resource, and that the function continues 
to consider Pearson’s risk appetite and tolerance as part of their 
audit activities.

The Committee will ensure that an independent third-party 
assessment of the effectiveness and processes of the internal 
audit function is conducted at least once every five years, in 
line with the requirements of the Institute of Internal Auditors’ 
International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing. The most recent such assessment was undertaken in 
2019 and it is therefore expected that the next such assessment 
will be undertaken during 2024.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 101

GovernanceAudit Committee report continued

Internal control and risk management

The Board has overall responsibility for Pearson’s systems of 
internal control and risk management, which are designed to 
manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing Pearson, 
as well as to safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or 
loss. The Board agrees risk management requirements and, 
in assessing the effectiveness of the risk management effort, 
reviews a range of inputs as described elsewhere in this report. 
The Board can and does challenge the reporting it receives and 
will request further information as needed to make  
its assessment.

The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the company’s 
risk management and internal control systems on behalf of 
the Board. The Committee oversees a risk-based internal 
audit programme, including periodic audits of the risk 
processes across the organisation. It provides assurance 
on the management of risk (including via risk deep dives, as 
described on page 99), and receives reports at each meeting on 
the effectiveness and efficiency of internal controls with input 
from the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and external auditor. In 
2023, Internal Audit provided assurance over several principal 
risk areas, most notably information security and data privacy, 
safeguarding, cybersecurity and integration of acquisitions. 

Each business area maintains internal controls and procedures 
appropriate to its structure, business environment and risk 
assessment, while complying with company-wide policies, 
standards and guidelines. The financial controls and associated 
procedures are monitored and certified through the Group-wide 
Controls Centre of Excellence and are subject to testing as part 
of both the internal and external audit processes.

The Controls Centre of Excellence team took a number of steps 
in 2023 to further enhance Pearson’s control environment as 
part of the audit action plan. This included a refreshed training 
programme for control owners across the business to establish 
consistent standards and protocols for ‘information provided 
by the entity’ (IPE), being the evidence that underpins control 
operation, which was well-received by employees. You can read 
more about the audit action plan on page 103.

The Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, confirms that it 
has conducted and continues throughout the year to review 
the effectiveness of Pearson’s systems of risk management and 
internal control in accordance with Provision 29 of the Code and 
the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and 
Related Financial and Business Reporting (‘FRC Guidance’). In 
making its assessment as to the effectiveness of these systems 
for 2023, the Committee had regard to an assurance opinion 
from the internal audit function. Factors considered in this 
process included:

 — the outcomes of internal audits completed during the year

 — significant changes in Pearson’s strategy, processes  

and systems

 — the wider Pearson risk management and assurance 

framework which includes other assurance activities by first 
and second line of defence teams, including enterprise risk 
management, the Controls Centre of Excellence, divisional 
and technology assurance teams

 — work conducted by the external auditor

 — the organisation’s response to internal audit actions

 — whether any fundamental or significant actions have not been 

accepted by management and the consequent risk

 — whether any limitations have been placed on the scope of 

internal audit work or remit

The Committee reviewed the detail underpinning these factors 
as part of the 2023 year-end process. The Committee also 
reviewed all internal financial control deficiencies identified 
during the year and noted that the majority were remediated 
during 2023. The impact of any unremediated deficiencies 
on the financial statements was considered. Following these 
reviews, the Committee confirmed that Pearson’s systems of 
risk management and internal control operated satisfactorily 
throughout the year.

The Board is ultimately accountable for effective risk 
management in Pearson and determines our strategic approach 
to risk. It confirms our enterprise risk management framework 
as well as our risk appetite targets. The involvement of the Board 
and Committee in the design, implementation, identification, 
monitoring and review of risks (including setting risk appetite and 
reviewing how risk is being embedded in our culture) is outlined 
in more detail in the Risk management section on pages 57-65.

External audit

The Committee is responsible for overseeing and assessing 
Pearson’s external audit and its auditors. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) 
was first appointed as Pearson’s external auditor by shareholders 
at the AGM in April 2022, replacing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
following a tender process. Pearson’s 2023 audit was the second 
undertaken by both EY and Ben Marles as lead audit partner. 
As required by regulation, Pearson will put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten years, with the next 
tender being in respect of the 2032 financial year at the latest. 
The decision to undertake such a process will be a matter for  
the Committee. 

Pearson confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions 
of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2023.

The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the 
Board in respect of the appointment and compensation of 
the external auditors. These recommendations are typically 
made by the Committee after considering the external auditors’ 
performance during the year, reviewing external auditor fees, 
conducting an effectiveness review, considering the annual 
report on audit quality of the external audit firm and confirming 
the independence, objectivity, qualifications and experience of 
the external auditors.

In conducting its 2023 review of the effectiveness of the external 
auditors and making its recommendation to re-appoint EY for 
2024, the Committee had regard to factors such as those set  
out in the FRC’s guidelines entitled ‘Audit Quality Practice Aid  
for Audit Committees’. In particular, the Committee considered 
its own observations and interactions with the external auditors, 
the quality of the audit, the auditors’ independence, the 
programme of work conducted by the auditors and their reports 
on that work. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 102  

GovernanceThe review was conducted by distributing a questionnaire to key 
audit stakeholders, including members of the Committee and key 
management who interact with the external auditors on a regular 
basis, including the Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Financial 
Officer, Senior Vice President – Treasury, Risk and Insurance, Vice 
President – Internal Audit, Senior Vice President – Finance for 
each business division, and other heads of corporate functions. 
The process sought views on an anonymised basis on many 
aspects of EY’s work and interactions with the company, as well 
as their mindset, skills and knowledge. In the second year of EY’s 
tenure as Pearson’s external auditor, there was an additional 
focus on the effectiveness with which EY uses technology in 
its audit and review processes, and the extent to which EY has 
successfully delivered on the expectations and commitments set 
through the tender and selection process.

In considering the independence of the external auditor, the 
Committee has regard to, among other things, EY’s challenge 
to management, the degree to which the external auditors 
demonstrate professional scepticism, integrity and judgement in 
their work, the amount of time passed since a rotation of audit 
partner and the volume of non-audit work that the external 
auditor undertakes (details of which can be found on page 104). 

The responses to the evaluation indicated that the external audit 
partners and staff exhibit professional scepticism in their work 
and are robust in dealing with issues identified during the audit. 
Overall, having reviewed the effectiveness and independence 
of the external auditors during 2023, including taking into 
account the enhancements delivered through the audit action 
plan (described further below) and discussing the results of the 
questionnaire in a private session with the Chief Financial Officer 
and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Committee concluded 
that the auditors demonstrate independence and objectivity in 
their work and agreed to recommend the re-appointment of EY 
for 2024. 

The Committee monitors the independence and objectivity of 
the external auditors on an ongoing basis and will continue to 
formally evaluate their overall performance and effectiveness 
and the quality of the external audit on an annual basis, taking 
account of all appropriate guidelines. 

Audit action plan
As described in last year’s report, with 2022 having been a year of 
transition for the external auditor, a number of opportunities for 
incremental improvement were identified as a result of the 2022 
effectiveness review. These primarily related to ways of working 
between the Pearson and EY teams. In early 2023, following the 
conclusion of the previous year’s audit, Pearson and EY, led by the 
Deputy Chief Financial Officer and lead audit partner respectively, 
developed a joint action plan in response to the recommendations. 
The Committee oversaw implementation of this action plan 
throughout 2023 and was satisfied that all workstreams had either 
been successfully completed during the year or were on target for 
completion in early 2024. The Committee will remain attentive to 
the areas of focus considered by the plan during the coming year, 
to ensure any agreed enhancements become embedded into 
‘business as usual' practices. Additionally, we will continue to look 
at opportunities for an efficient and effective audit and ways of 
working with EY to support on this.

FRC Minimum Standard
In May 2023, the FRC introduced the ‘Audit Committees 
and the External Audit: Minimum Standard’ (the ‘FRC 
Minimum Standard’ or ‘Standard’), which currently 
operates on a ‘comply or explain’ basis. 

Following the introduction of the FRC Minimum 
Standard, the Committee updated its Terms of 
Reference to reflect the new requirements. In order 
to achieve full compliance with the FRC Minimum 
Standard, we intend to refresh the external audit 
effectiveness review methodology ahead of our 2024 
process to ensure the factors described in provisions 
15 to 23 of the Standard are considered in our 
assessment of the external auditors.

Review of the external audit

During the year, the Committee discussed the planning, conduct 
and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.

At its July 2023 meeting, the Committee discussed and approved 
the external audit plan and reviewed EY’s assessment of risks of 
material misstatement of Pearson’s financial statements. 

The external auditors provided an update to the risk assessment 
at the December 2023 Committee meeting, explaining to the 
Committee that they had reduced their risk assessment in 
respect of goodwill impairment due to the level of headroom 
in the CGUs. At the February 2024 Committee meeting, the 
external auditors’ risk assessment was further updated including 
the refinement of the significant risk in respect of the valuation 
of acquired intangibles to certain specific intangible assets, the 
removal of a significant risk in relation to School Assessments 
revenue recognition and the reduction in risk level over the  
useful economic lives of product development and internally 
developed software assets. These risks were then confirmed as 
final at the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements in 
February 2024.

The table on pages 105-106 sets out the significant issues 
considered by the Committee together with details of how these 
items have been addressed. The Committee discussed these 
issues with the auditors throughout the 2023 audit process.

In December 2023, the Committee discussed with the auditors 
the status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls 
and Sarbanes-Oxley testing. 

As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to  
the Committee:

 — the work they had conducted over revenue and in particular 

the specific risk of fraud in revenue recognition. This included 
work over contracts in certain of the Group’s businesses 
in the US and UK that span the year end, where revenue is 
recognised using an estimated percentage of completion 
based on costs, work over manual adjustments to revenue 
and work over modifications to certain contracts in the OPM 
business. In addition, they explained their use of data analytics 
to cover entire populations of data with procedures such as 
correlating revenue with receivable and cash entries

 — their work in evaluating management’s goodwill impairment 

exercise, on a value-in-use basis, including assessing 
assumptions around operating cash flow forecasts, perpetuity 
growth rates and discount rates 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 103

GovernanceAudit Committee report continued

 — their work in assessing management’s judgements and 

assumptions regarding the impairment of its right-of-use 
assets and whether property assets should be classified as 
investment property

The auditors also reported to the Committee the unadjusted 
misstatements that they had found in the course of their work, which 
were immaterial, and the Committee confirmed that there were no 
material items remaining unadjusted in these financial statements.

 — their procedures performed to audit the material acquisition 
in the year and specifically their work over the valuation of 
the acquired intangible assets. Their work focussed on the 
valuations of certain specific acquired intangibles and their 
procedures included the use of EY valuation specialists. 
In addition, they reported on their work over disposals 
completed in the year including evaluating management’s 
judgement that the POLS businesses should not be classified 
and presented as a discontinued operation

 — the work performed over the nature and presentation of 

adjusting items, focusing on subjective judgements and the 
transparency and prominence with which related adjusted 
measures are presented

 — their work in assessing management’s judgements and 

assumptions regarding provisions for uncertain tax positions, 
in particular the provision made in relation to the EU state aid 
tax matter

 — the results of their controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley 

Act Section 404 reporting purposes and in particular their 
findings in relation to information provided by the entity 
(IPE), controls over key IT systems and other relevant internal 
control over financial reporting (ICFR) matters

 — their work to address the specific pervasive risk of 

management override of controls including their view on 
the potential sources or indicators of bias and override of 
controls and their response to those indicators including 
procedures such as review of Board and Committee minutes, 
journal entry testing, review of non-routine transactions and 
the use of data analytics 

 — the results of their work over the company’s going concern 

assessment and viability statement

 — their work in relation to other matters which are not classified 
as key audit matters, but which are considered important 
financial reporting matters, key areas of judgement or 
estimation, or which may give rise to additional disclosure 
requirements. This includes retirement benefit obligations 
and asset capitalisation

Auditors’ independence

In line with best practice, our relationship with EY is governed 
by our policy on external auditors, which is typically reviewed 
and approved annually by the Committee. The policy establishes 
procedures to ensure that the auditors’ independence is not 
compromised, as well as defining those non-audit services 
that external auditors may or may not provide to Pearson. 
Any allowable services are in accordance with relevant UK and 
US legislation and auditor standards. The policy applies to all 
Pearson businesses globally, including associate companies. The 
policy applies to all audit firms used by Pearson including those 
undertaking statutory audits only. In the event of a change in 
the Group auditor, it also applies to the outgoing firm until they 
have discharged their Group audit responsibilities and for any 
periods in which they are required to be independent in order to 
undertake any specific audit responsibilities.

The Committee approves all audit and non-audit services 
provided by external auditors. Our policy on the use of the 
external auditors for non-audit services that was in operation 
during 2023 complied with the FRC’s Revised Ethical Standard 
published in December 2019. The standard applies restrictions 
on certain non-audit services and applies a cap on the level of 
permitted non-audit services fees which can be billed in any 
year. The policy also reflects the restriction on the use of pre-
approval in the 2016 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and, 
accordingly, all non-audit services, except those considered to be 
“clearly trivial”, are required to be approved by the Committee. 
In particular, we expressly prohibit the provision of certain tax, 
HR and other services by the external auditor. The policy also 
complies with all relevant SEC independence rules. We review 
non-audit services on a case-by-case basis, including reviewing 
the ongoing effectiveness and appropriateness of our policy. 

Non-audit services below a value of £25,000 are defined as 
"clearly trivial" from a materiality perspective and can be pre-
approved following review on a case-by-case basis by the Group 
finance team. Any such pre-approved services are presented for 
noting by the Committee at its next meeting. 

The Committee receives regular reports summarising the 
amount of fees paid to the auditors. During 2023, Pearson spent 
a similar amount on non-audit fees when compared with 2022. 
For 2023, non-audit fees represented 2% of external audit fees 
(1% in 2022).

For all non-audit work in 2023, EY was selected only after 
consideration that it was best able to provide the services we 
required at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our policy 
on external auditors. Where EY is selected to provide audit-
related services, we take into account its existing knowledge and 
experience of Pearson. Where appropriate, services are tendered 
prior to a decision being made as to whether to award work to 
the auditors.

Significant non-audit work performed by EY during  
2023 included:

 — half-year review of interim financial statements

 — audit-type procedures of a stub period in respect of a 

subsidiary entity in order to satisfy local requirements in 
advance of a cross-border merger

A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is 
provided in note 4 to the financial statements on page 170. 

Graeme Pitkethly Chair of Audit Committee

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 104  

GovernanceSignificant issues considered by the Audit Committee

Issue

Action taken by Audit Committee

Outcome

Going concern and viability

 — The assessment of the Group’s 

viability and the appropriateness of 
the going concern assumption.

 — The Committee reviewed future budgets and cash flow forecasts to understand the Group’s available 
liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. The Committee reviewed and challenged the risks 
to the forecasts identified. The Committee reviewed the outcome of the severe but plausible scenario 
modelling and stress testing.

 — The Committee is satisfied with the modelling process and the  
risks identified. In addition, the Committee is satisfied with the  
stress testing performed and the severe but plausible scenario 
modelling. The Committee noted that in all scenarios the Group had 
a high level of liquidity headroom and sufficient headroom against 
covenant requirements. 

 — The Committee is satisfied with the adequacy of the Group’s viability 

and is satisfied that the Group is a going concern.

 — The Committee is satisfied with the disclosures related to going 

concern and viability.

Acquisitions and disposals

 — Pearson acquired 100% of 

 — The Committee reviewed the accounting for the PDRI acquisition with specific focus on consideration, 

 — The Committee determined that the acquisition accounting for 

Personnel Decisions Research 
Institutes, LLC (PDRI).

 — Pearson disposed of its Pearson 
Online Learning Services (POLS) 
businesses in the US, UK, Australia 
and India. 

net assets acquired including the valuation of intangibles and the recognition of goodwill. The 
Committee noted the use of third-party valuation experts to value the acquired intangible assets and 
the controls performed over all aspects of the acquisition accounting, including but not limited to, the 
review of assumptions used by the third–party valuation experts.

 — The Committee reviewed the accounting for the disposal of the POLS businesses with specific 
focus on consideration, net assets disposed and disposal costs. The Committee also reviewed 
tax assumptions relating to the disposal transactions. In addition, the Committee reviewed the 
judgement related to whether the results and cash flows of the disposed businesses should be 
classified and presented as discontinued operations by reference to the criteria set out in IFRS 5.

PDRI had been undertaken appropriately but notes that it remains 
provisional as at 31 December 2023.

 — The Committee determined that disposal accounting for the POLS 
businesses had been appropriately recorded. The Committee is 
satisfied with the judgement that the results and cash flows of the 
disposed businesses should not be classified and presented as 
discontinued operations and is also satisfied with the disclosures 
related to this item.

Revenue recognition

 — Pearson has a number of 

 — The Committee regularly reviews and challenges revenue recognition practices and the underlying 

 — The Committee is satisfied that revenue is being  

revenue streams where revenue 
recognition is complex. For some 
revenue streams judgements and 
estimates are required in order to 
determine the amount and timing 
of revenue recognition.

assumptions and estimates. In addition, the Committee has visibility of the internal control 
framework over revenue and the results of the monitoring and certification work performed by the 
Controls Centre of Excellence over those controls. In addition, the Committee has visibility of internal 
audit findings relating to revenue recognition controls and processes. The Committee routinely 
monitors the views of the external auditor on revenue recognition issues. This includes review of 
their data analytics testing of revenue and understanding any exceptions that do not follow the 
expected process path as well as testing of one off or judgemental items.

recognised appropriately.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 105

GovernanceAudit Committee report continued

Issue

Action taken by Audit Committee

Outcome

Recoverability of non-current assets 

 — Pearson holds significant non-current assets including right-
of-use assets (in relation to leased properties); property, 
plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets. 

 — There are significant estimates and assumptions used in 

the impairment reviews. 

 — In addition, assumptions made in previous years, regarding 
the ability to sublet right-of-use assets and sell owned 
assets, have been revisited.

 — The Committee monitored the Group’s property strategy during the 
year to determine if there were impairment triggers. The Committee 
considered the results of the Group’s property impairment reviews with 
specific focus on the 80 Strand property and the properties classified 
as held for sale. Updates to key assumptions – including those arising 
from subleases signed in 2023 – were reviewed and challenged. 
The Committee considered the adequacy of related disclosures. 
The Committee noted the input of third-party property specialists in 
determining the key assumptions. 

 — The Committee monitored the Group’s plans and forecasts during the 
year to determine if there were impairment triggers. The Committee 
considered the results of the Group’s goodwill impairment reviews 
which were undertaken in December and refreshed post year end. 
Key assumptions – including cash flows derived from strategic and 
operating plans, long-term growth rates and the weighted average cost 
of capital – were reviewed and challenged. The Committee considered 
the sensitivities to changes in assumptions and the adequacy of 
disclosures required by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. The Committee 
considered management’s view that the recoverability of goodwill is no 
longer an area of significant estimation.

 — The Committee is satisfied with the results of the property impairment 
reviews and the subsequent impairment charges recognised in the 
income statement.

 — The Committee is satisfied that the property impairment charges relate 
to updates to assumptions made during the 2021 and 2022 major 
restructuring programmes and so meet the Group’s criteria to be 
excluded from adjusted performance measures. 

 — The Committee is satisfied with the results of the annual goodwill 

impairment review. 

 — The Committee is satisfied with the disclosures relating to non-current 
asset impairments and concurs with management’s view that the 
recoverability of goodwill is no longer an area of significant estimation.

Tax

 — Pearson holds provisions in relation to uncertain  

 — The Committee considered various developments during the year, 

 — The Committee is satisfied with Pearson’s approach to the EU state 

tax positions. 

 — In 2021, Pearson paid £105m (including interest) in relation 
to the EU state aid matter and at that time the amount was 
recognised as an asset as it was expected to be recovered 
in due course. In 2022, the EU General Court dismissed 
the appeal made by the UK Government in relation to this 
matter, with Pearson establishing a provision of £63m in 
2022 representing an estimate of the expected exposure. 

 — Changes to, and the application of, tax legislation continues 

to be a complex and judgemental area.

including Pearson’s ongoing response to the European Commission’s 
decision that the UK’s Finance Company Partial Exemption rules 
constituted state aid (‘EU state aid’), ongoing tax audits and the 
appropriateness of the associated provisions. 

 — The Committee also considered the impact of changes in tax  

legislation, including ‘Pillar 2’ of BEPS 2.0 now effective for Pearson  
from 1 January 2024.

aid matter including reconfirming the ongoing appropriateness of the 
provision made in 2022 in relation to amounts paid in 2021 and ongoing 
disclosure about this matter.

 — The Committee is satisfied with Pearson’s approach to managing 
the impact of tax legislation changes and agreed with the views of 
management regarding tax provisioning levels.

 — The Committee is satisfied with the disclosures relating to the expected 

impact of Pillar 2.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 106  

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report

Sherry Coutu CBE
Chair of Remuneration Committee

Key messages from the Remuneration Committee 

Board Committee attendance

 — The Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 

2023 AGM was instrumental in allowing Pearson to successfully recruit 
our new Chief Executive, Omar Abbosh, a highly regarded global 
leader. Omar’s remuneration arrangements are consistent with the 
Remuneration Policy. 

 — As part of our long-standing commitment to an ongoing and transparent 

dialogue with shareholders and their advisers, we undertook an 
extensive engagement exercise both prior to and following the 2023 
AGM. Shareholder input is very important to the Committee when 
developing remuneration proposals and arrangements. 

 — The Committee considered performance outcomes for 2023. The annual 
incentive outcome for Executive Directors is 85% of maximum reflecting 
another year of strong financial and strategic progress in 2023. The long-
term incentive granted in 2021 will vest at 85% of maximum considering 
the earnings growth and value created for shareholders over the three-
year performance period.

 — A thorough review was conducted ahead of the release of the third and 

final tranche of the co-investment award for the previous Chief Executive, 
considering performance underpins, TSR and broader company 
performance, and stakeholders’ experience and it was determined that 
this tranche should vest in full.

 — Consistent with historical and best practice, the Committee also reviewed 

the implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2024, 
in particular the performance framework, to ensure it appropriately 
supports delivering on Pearson’s forward-looking strategy. No changes 
to metrics will be made for 2024, although the carbon metric will switch 
from the AIP to the LTIP to reflect the long-term nature of the goal.

 — The Committee remains focused on ensuring remuneration policies 

and practice for all Pearson’s colleagues are consistent with our need to 
attract and retain the right talent for the Company’s digital future, and 
are appropriately aligned to Pearson’s forward-looking strategy, purpose, 
and mission, vision, and values. 

 — There was no payment for loss of office upon Andy Bird’s retirement 

from the Company and the Committee determined that Andy would be 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ in respect of his outstanding awards under the 
LTIP, in accordance with the Policy and LTIP rules. 

Terms of reference

The Committee’s terms of reference are in line with the 2018 UK Corporate 
Governance Code and are available on the Governance page of the 
Company website at pearsonplc.com (a summary of the Committee’s 
responsibilities is on page 129).

There were five scheduled meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee in 2023. Attendance by Directors was as follows:

Committee members

Meetings 
attended

Sherry Coutu CBE
Esther Lee
Tim Score
Annette Thomas

5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2023 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.

For a third consecutive year, Pearson has delivered a strong 
financial performance. Underlying Group sales increased by 
5%, and Group adjusted operating profit was up 31% versus 
2022. This was supported by the ongoing work to streamline 
the business and make it more efficient, with delivery of £120m 
of cost savings helping to drive an improvement in adjusted 
operating profit margin to 16%.

Pearson has continued to generate strong free cash flow 
enabling the Company to maintain a robust financial position 
whilst also supporting ongoing investment in the business. 
This is fuelling Pearson’s evolution, particularly in digital and 
generative AI which are changing the way that people learn for 
good. Strong cash generation has enabled the delivery of returns 
for shareholders, with a £300m share buyback programme 
supplementing a progressive ordinary dividend. The Board have 
also announced our intention to extend the share buyback 
programme by £200m. Reflecting the strong performance in 
2023 and its confidence in the outlook for the business, the 
Board is recommending a 6% increase in the final dividend for a 
full year dividend of 22.7 pence per share.

Additionally, Pearson has seen change in the Executive Directors 
with the appointment of a new Chief Executive, Omar Abbosh, 
who joined on 8 January 2024 and the retirement of Andy Bird, 
who stepped down from his role as Chief Executive, but remains 
with the Company until 31 March 2024 to ensure a smooth 
transition. We will also welcome Alison Dolan, Non-Executive 
Director, to the Committee from 1 April 2024. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 107

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report continued

Shareholder engagement
While the Committee very much appreciated the support shown 
by the majority of shareholders, it was naturally disappointing 
that a significant minority of shareholders voted against the 2023 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 

In advance of the 2023 AGM, the Committee had conducted 
an extensive consultation process, receiving feedback from, 
or directly engaging with, approximately 55% of Pearson’s 
ownership as well as the key proxy advisers. 

There was an understanding of the challenges faced by Pearson 
and the need for a Policy that adequately acts as an attraction, 
retention, and incentivisation tool for global talent, particularly in 
the US which represents the majority of the Company’s business, 
and growth prospects. We acknowledge that these challenges 
are not unique to Pearson and have in the last year, been widely 
raised and discussed by a range of stakeholders. That said, 
our engagement exercise highlighted that the extent of the 
increases to variable incentive opportunities in both the annual 
and long-term incentive plans was principally too much for some 
shareholders to support. 

Following the outcome at the AGM and given Pearson’s 
commitment to an ongoing and transparent dialogue with 
shareholders and their advisers, a further engagement exercise 
was initiated to provide the opportunity for shareholders to 
offer any additional views on Pearson’s executive remuneration 
arrangements following the AGM vote. We received a relatively 
small number of responses, often welcoming the offer to engage 
again, but noting that there was no requirement given the 
extensive consultation prior to the AGM, as referred to above.

While understanding and acknowledging the diverse views of our 
shareholders, the Committee continues to believe that the Policy 
is necessary for remaining competitive in the global talent market 
and driving sustainable, profitable growth. This was reaffirmed 
by the Board’s appointment of Omar Abbosh as the Company’s 
new Chief Executive. Omar is a highly regarded global leader with 
over 30 years of experience in enterprise technology and joined 
Pearson from Microsoft, one of the world’s largest multinational 
technology companies. 

Pearson remains committed to a constructive and positive 
relationship with all its shareholders and their advisers and will 
continue to engage widely as appropriate going forward. 

Incentive outcomes for 2023 
2023 AIP 

The strong financial and strategic progress delivered in 2023 
resulted in a formulaic AIP outcome for Executive Directors of 
85% of maximum, with outperformance against the stretching 
targets for Adjusted Operating Profit, Sales and Free Cash Flow. 
Overall, the Committee was satisfied that the formulaic outcome 
was reflective of the performance achieved.

2021 LTIP

The LTIP granted in 2021 will vest in 2024 at 85% of maximum, 
principally reflecting EPS performance above the upper end 
of the stretching range and exceptional upper quartile TSR 
performance over the three-year performance period. The 
shares vesting will remain subject to a two-year holding period. 
Further details are set out on page 120. 

Final tranche of Andy Bird’s co-investment award 

The third and final tranche of the one-off co-investment 
award granted to Andy Bird, vested following 31 December 
2023. Similar to the first two tranches, vesting was subject to 
achievement of performance underpins linked to strategic 
progress and there being no significant ESG issues resulting 
in significant reputational damage. The third tranche was also 
subject to an additional TSR underpin. 

The Committee undertook a rigorous assessment of the relevant 
performance underpins as well as a holistic review of broader 
Pearson performance and the experience of all stakeholders. 

In its assessment, the Committee followed the framework 
developed and disclosed in prior years. Pearson’s TSR over 
the period was 76%, resulting in the creation of over £3bn of 
shareholder value over the period and significantly in excess of 
the required threshold. Pearson’s TSR was ranked 21 out of 92, 
above the upper quartile (71.8%) TSR of the FTSE 100. As such, 
the Committee determined that the third tranche of the award 
would vest in full and detailed disclosure of the Committee’s 
deliberations in this regard is set out on pages 121 and 122.

Leadership changes
Appointment of Omar Abbosh, new Chief Executive 

Omar Abbosh was appointed as Chief Executive on 8 January 
2024. Omar has a deep understanding of the dynamic business 
and technology landscape having helped to shape and execute 
successful strategies in a world of disruption. This positions him 
very well to build on the foundations that have been laid over the 
last few years and lead Pearson through its continued journey as 
a digital-first consumer-focused lifelong learning company. The 
Committee looks forward to working with Omar as we accelerate 
our strategy and continue to deliver value for all  
our stakeholders. 

Omar’s remuneration arrangements are consistent with the 
remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. 
The principal elements are as follows: 

 — An annual base salary of £1,000,000;

 — An annual cash allowance of 16% of base salary in lieu of 

pension; in line with the maximum available company pension 
contribution for UK employees of a similar age; 

 — Participation in Pearson's performance based Annual 

Incentive Plan (AIP) from 2024, with a maximum annual 
opportunity of 300% of base salary and a target bonus equal 
to 50% of the maximum opportunity, prorated to reflect his 
service during the bonus year;

 — From 2024, participation in the performance-based Pearson 
Long Term Incentive Plan with an annual face value of 450% 
of base salary and based on stretching performance targets 
(as set out in this report for 2024);

 — In addition, Pearson will compensate Omar for remuneration 
he forfeited as a result of resigning from his previous role 
at Microsoft on a like-for-like basis in accordance with our 
Remuneration Policy. It will consist of a cash payment in 
lieu of his forfeited annual bonus expected to be £249,050 
covering the 6 months between the end of his prior 
employer’s financial year end and the beginning of his 
eligibility for Pearson’s AIP in 2024; an award of 1,391,718 
Pearson restricted shares which are of equivalent value to 
the forfeited Microsoft shares and which will vest annually 
in three equal tranches. This share award has a value of 
approximately £13.1m based on the three-month average 
share price and FX leading up to the start of his employment 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 108  

Governancein January 2024. The Committee acknowledges the relative 
size of the buy-out award in the context of the UK market, 
but notes that it is equivalent to the value Omar would have 
received had he continued in his previous role at Microsoft, 
which is reflective of the quantum of remuneration packages, 
(particularly long-term equity) for global leaders of the calibre 
of Omar in companies in our key talent markets. Additionally, 
the restricted share award creates immediate alignment with 
shareholders and fulfils Omar’s shareholding guidelines from 
the outset. 

Performance framework

Consistent with prior years, the Committee undertakes an annual 
review of the performance framework to ensure it continues to 
align with the forward-looking strategy. Overall, the Committee 
considered that the performance framework principles remain 
appropriate, with the only change for 2024 being to move the 
carbon reduction metric, aligned to Pearson’s 2030 carbon 
reduction goals, from the AIP to the LTIP to reflect the long-term 
nature of the goal. 

 — Subject to the shareholding guideline under which he is 

Target-setting for 2024

expected to maintain a holding of at least 450% of salary, and 
to retain that level (or his actual holding if lower) for two years 
following stepping down as an Executive Director. 

Further information on these arrangements can be found  
on page 112. 

Retirement of Andy Bird 

Andy Bird announced his intention to retire from the role of Chief 
Executive on 20 September 2023. He stepped down as Chief 
Executive and as a Pearson Board member on 7 January 2024 
and will leave Pearson on 31 March 2024. There was no payment 
for loss of office. The Committee determined that Andy would be 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ in respect of his outstanding awards 
under the LTIP and treatment of the awards was in accordance 
with the relevant plan rules. Andy will not receive any LTIP award 
in respect of 2024, but is eligible for a pro-rated award under 
the AIP for the period to 31 March 2024, whilst he remains in 
employment. In line with the Policy, Andy will also be required to 
meet his shareholding guideline of 450% of base salary for two 
years following stepping down as an Executive Director. Further 
details of remuneration arrangements in respect of Andy’s 
retirement can be found on page 123. 

Looking forward to 2024
Salaries for 2024

There was no increase to Andy Bird’s base salary before his 
retirement in March 2024. The Committee reviewed the salary 
of Sally Johnson and approved an increase of 3% bringing her 
salary to £574,000 for 2024. This increase was in line with the 
3% increase for the wider UK workforce. Omar Abbosh’s salary 
remains fixed at £1,000,000 until 2025. 

One of Pearson’s remuneration principles, which apply across the 
whole organisation, centres on pay for performance, and this is 
actively considered by the Committee when determining targets. 
For 2024, in line with established practice, a robust target-setting 
process has been followed considering Pearson’s strategic plan 
as well as other relevant factors such as analyst consensus, to 
reflect market expectations. 

The Committee has a strong focus on pay for performance 
and a robust track record of setting stretching targets, as 
demonstrated by the targets set in recent years and subsequent 
incentive outcomes. The approach taken this year is no different. 
Disclosure of the 2024 LTIP targets is on page 112. For both 
EPS and ROC, the stretch of the performance ranges has been 
increased compared to last year’s awards. For maximum vesting, 
performance must be well in excess of current market guidance, 
with shareholder returns in the upper quartile against both the 
FTSE 100 and the S&P 500. As in previous years, we will disclose 
financial targets for the 2024 AIP in full retrospectively following 
the end of the performance period. 

Remuneration across Pearson
Pearson’s remuneration principles are consistent across the 
organisation and are designed to support our culture, and to 
make Pearson an employer of choice, able to attract and retain 
talent to execute our digital-first strategy. Remuneration across 
the workforce is designed to reflect the role, skills, experience, 
and performance of any relevant individual as well as local market 
practice. Many of the features of our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy apply more broadly, for example, over half of all Pearson 
employees (c.10,300 employees) participated in the Annual 
Incentive Plan during 2023 which was funded based on similar 
performance measures as those used for Executive Directors - and 

it was pleasing to note that this was funded at the highest level in a 
number of years, reflecting a strong performance by the Company. 

Similarly, all eligible colleagues (including Executive Directors) can 
participate in savings-related share acquisition programmes that 
are not subject to any performance conditions. Over 1 in 4 of our 
employees save to purchase discounted Pearson shares via our 
employee share plans, thereby becoming potential owners of the 
business and benefiting from the value they help to create for 
all Pearson shareholders. It was particularly pleasing that at the 
most recent maturity of our ‘Save For Shares’ plan in August 2023 
the average gain for a participant was £5,700. 

To align with Pearson’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) 
and global benefits strategies, Pearson expanded healthcare 
coverage for Pearson colleagues in the UK in 2023 to include 
more inclusive benefits such as menopause support, fertility and 
family planning services, and gender affirmation services. 

The Committee receives regular updates on talent matters 
and wider workforce considerations and actively considers the 
approach to reward throughout the organisation when determining 
executive remuneration. In addition, the Committee closely reviews 
relevant pay ratios and pay gaps and supports efforts to make 
progress against these metrics. In 2023, Pearson published its first 
Fair Pay report which contained the gender pay gap and ethnicity 
pay gap in Great Britain, the latter of which Pearson voluntarily 
disclosed for the first time. While Pearson currently has initiatives 
and strategies in place to support competitive, equitable and 
inclusive pay and benefits, the Company is committed to delivering 
greater pay transparency in the future. 

Pearson is committed to a transparent and positive relationship 
with all its stakeholders and will continue to engage widely as 
appropriate going forward. I would like to thank shareholders for 
their continued support at the 2024 AGM in relation to our 2023 
Directors’ remuneration report.

Sherry Coutu CBE 

Chair of Remuneration Committee

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 109

GovernanceDirectors’ remuneration report 

Pearson’s Remuneration Framework - 2023 ‘At A Glance’

Base salaries (from 1 April 2023)

2021 long-term incentive plan payout  
(85% of maximum) 

2023 single figure

CEO (Andy Bird) - $1,293,750

CFO - £557,225 

2023 annual incentive plan payout  
 (85% of maximum)

Maximum
opportunity

Actual %
of maximum

40%

30%

20% 10%

32%

25%

20% 8%

Adjusted operating proﬁt

Sales

Free cash ﬂow

Strategic measures

Maximum
opportunity

Actual %
of maximum

33%

33%

33%

33%

18%

33%

CFO

£2 913

CEO

$14 032

Adjusted EPS

ROIC

Relative TSR

LTIP

Co-investment Plan

Fixed remuneration

AIP

Final tranche of co-investment award

$000 for CEO; £000 for CFO

After Committee assessment of performance 
underpins (including TSR), it was determined the final 
tranche would vest in full. 

Strategic progress. Sustainable profitable growth. 

Revenue 

Adj. operating 
profit

Free cash flow 

Adjusted EPS 

£3,674m

£573m

£387m

58.2p

5% underlying growth 
(excl OPM & Strategic 
Review)

31% underlying 
growth on prior year

74% growth on  
prior year

12% growth on  
prior year

Return on 
Capital 

Dividend per 
share 

10.3%

+1.6% on  
prior year

22.7p

6% increase on  
prior year

Strategic highlights
 — Acquired PDRI to drive additional growth in our biggest business: Assessments and Qualifications. 
 — Delivered a £120m cost savings programme, accelerating group margin expansion to 16%.
 — Launched beta version generative AI tools in Mastering and MyLab. 
 — Strong cash performance with free cash flow of £387m and launched a £300m share buyback. 
 — Passed milestone of 1m cumulative paid subscriptions for Pearson+. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 110  

GovernanceSummary of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The table below provides a summary of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The full Directors’ Remuneration Policy, as approved at the 2023 AGM, is available on the Governance page of the company’s 
website at https://plc.pearson.com/sites/pearson-corp/files/pearson/our-company/Governance/governance-downloads/remuneration-policy-2023.pdf

Base salary

Allowances and 
benefits

 — Base salaries reflect level, role, skills, experience, the competitive market and individual contribution. 

 — Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any increases normally in line with typical increases awarded to other Group employees. 

 — Reflects the local competitive market and may include travel-related, health-related and risk-related benefits as well as any other benefits provided to the majority  

of employees. 

 — The Committee may introduce other benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.

Retirement benefits

 — Employees in the UK, including Executive Directors, are eligible to join the Money Purchase 2003 Section of the Pearson Pension Plan. 

 — The Committee has discretion to put in place retirement benefit arrangements in line with local market practice. 

 — Executive Directors, who opt out of the pension, can receive a cash allowance of up to 16% of base salary, in line with the maximum company contribution as a 

percentage of salary that UK employees of a similar age are eligible to receive. 

Annual incentive plan 

 — Maximum opportunity of 300% of salary. 

 — Based on the achievement of annual business goals and strategic objectives, with financial metrics accounting for at least 75% of total opportunity. 

 — Payout of 25% of maximum for threshold performance with 50% payable for on-target performance. 

 — Discretion to adjust formulaic outcome where this does not reflect underlying performance. 

 — Awards paid fully in cash except where shareholding guidelines have not been met where a bonus deferral applies. 

Long term incentive 
plan

 — Malus and clawback provisions apply. 

 — Maximum opportunity of 450% of base salary. 

 — Based on the achievement of financial targets (e.g., earnings per share and a return measure), shareholder returns (e.g., relative total shareholder return) and strategic 

objectives (e.g., an environmental, social and/or governance measure).

 — Payout of 20% of maximum for threshold performance with 65% payable for on-target performance. 

 — Discretion to adjust formulaic outcome where this does not reflect underlying performance. 

 — Awards are subject to a post-vesting holding period of two years. 

Shareholding 
guidelines

 — Malus and clawback provisions apply.

 — Current in-employment guidelines of: 

 — 450% for the Chief Executive

 — 300% for the Chief Financial Officer 

 — Post-employment shareholding guidelines apply. 

Chair and NED fees

 — To attract and retain high-calibre individuals, with appropriate or industry-relevant skills, by offering market-competitive fee levels. 

 — The Chair and Deputy Chair are paid a single fee for all responsibilities.

 — The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, with Committee Chairs, members of the main Board Committees, and, if relevant, the Senior Independent Director 

paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.

 — The Chair, Deputy Chair, and Non-Executive Directors receive no other pay or benefits, except for reimbursement of expenses and do not participate in incentive plans.

 — A minimum of 25% of the Chair, Deputy Chair, and Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee is paid in shares. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 111

GovernanceImplementation of the remuneration policy in 2024 - At a Glance

Omar 
Abbosh 

Sally 
Johnson

CEO

CFO

Performance measures and targets for 2024

Purpose and link to 
strategy

Annual incentive plan performance measures are outlined below. As in previous years, we will apply 
a financial underpin to the strategic measures. We will disclose financial targets in full retrospectively 
following the end of the performance period.

Base salary

£1,000,000

Allowances 
and benefits

Retirement 
benefits

Annual 
incentive 
plan 

Long-term 
incentive 
plan

Target/
maximum 
opportunity 
(% of salary) 
Performance 
condition
Deferral if 
shareholding 
guidelines 
not met

Grant (% of 
salary) 
Performance 
condition
Vesting

Travel, health and  
risk benefits 

16% of salary in lieu  
of pension

£574,000

Recognise market value of 
role and individual’s skills, 
experience and performance 
to ensure the business can 
attract and retain talent.
Provide employment benefits 
to ensure overall package is 
market competitive to attract 
and retain high calibre talent. 
Provide competitive 
retirement benefits to ensure 
overall package is market 
competitive to attract and 
retain high calibre talent. 
100%/200% Drive and reward annual 

150%/300%

See table overleaf

One-third into shares for two 
years

450%

300%

See table overleaf

Three-year performance 
conditions, with two year 
post-vesting holding period

performance on both 
financial and non-financial 
metrics in order to deliver 
sustainable growth in 
shareholder value. 
Deferral into shares if 
shareholding guidelines  
are not met increases 
alignment with long-term 
shareholder interests. 
Direct financial measures 
that drive our financial 
ambitions for the Company 
and measures linked to 
our key long-term strategic 
priorities aligned to the long-
term interests of  
our shareholders.
Provide long-term alignment 
with shareholder interests. 
Provides continuing 
alignment with shareholder 
interests following the  
end of an Executive  
Directors’ tenure.

Adjusted operating profit

40%

Sales

30%

Free cash flow

Strategic measures

20%

10%

Weighting

Threshold

Target

Maximum

Invest in diverse 
pipeline and increase 
BIPOC/BAME 
representation at all 
manager levels

10%

2% increase in 
representation of BIPOC/
BAME employees at 
Manager level and above 
+ maintain overall gender 
parity as an underpin

5% increase in 
representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level  

and above

10% increase in 
representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level 
and above

Long-term incentive plan performance measures and targets for 2024 are as follows: 

Adjusted EPS
Return on 
Capital 
Relative TSR 
ESG - Gender 
Diversity

ESG - Carbon 
reduction

% of total

Threshold

30%

30%
30%

5%

63p

10.3%
Median
Improve gender 
representation at 
leadership levels 
overall vs 2023  
(VP and above)

Maximum

82p

13%
Upper quartile

Achieve gender  
parity at leadership 
levels in aggregate  

(VP and above)

5% 4% reduction vs 2023 13% reduction vs 2023

Payout at 
threshold

Payout at 
maximum

20%

20%
20%

20%

20%

100%

100%
100%

100%

100%

Note 1: Vesting is on a straight-line basis between Threshold and Maximum 

Note 2: 2024 LTIP targets have been set at an USD:GBP exchange rate of 1.27.

Note 3: Relative TSR will be assessed half against the FTSE100 and half against the S&P500, 
Companies within financial services, energy, basic materials, utilities and healthcare sectors will be 
excluded from both TSR groups.

Note 4: The carbon reduction targets are based on the long-term trajectory required to meet 
(Threshold) or substantially exceed (Maximum) our 2030 carbon reduction ambitions. Performance 
will be measured from a baseline of 2023, therefore requiring incremental performance to that 
delivered to date.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 112  

Shareholding 
guidelines

% of salary

450%

300%

450% for two 
years

300% for two 
years

Post-
employment 
shareholding 
guidelines

GovernanceAlignment of performance framework to Pearson’s strategy

2024 AIP 

2024 LTIP

Sustainable profitable growth

1

Total shareholder return (TSR) 

Revenue: Mid-single digit (three-year CAGR 2022-2025) 

Adjusted operating margins (2025): 16-17%

2

3

4

Sales 

Adjusted EPS 

Adjusted Operating Profit 

Free Cash Flow conversion (2024): 95-100%  

5

Free Cash Flow

Return on capital

6

Return on Capital  

Digital sales: Drive digital revenue growth  

1

Sales

Consumer engagement: Create engaging and personalised 
customer experiences  

Product effectiveness: Improve the effectiveness of our 
products to deliver better outcomes  

2

Sales

3

Sales

Culture of engagement and inclusion: Build an inclusive 
culture and increase diverse representation  

4

Various KPIs including diversity  
and employee engagement  

Sustainability strategy: Achieve 50% reduction in absolute 
Scope 1,2 & 3 carbon emissions by 2030  

5

Reduction in tCO2

s
e
v
i
t
c
e
j
b
o

l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F

s
e
v
i
t
c
e
j
b
o
c
i
g
e
t
a
r
t
S

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 113

Governance 
 
 
 
 
 
Directors’ remuneration report continued

Remuneration principles 
Pearson’s remuneration principles govern pay for the whole organisation. We have developed remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors with these principles in mind.

1

2

3

4

5

6

Aligned to longer-term 
strategy

Pay for performance 

Market competitive 

Targeted differentiation 

Tailored 

Reward is linked to achieving 
Pearson’s longer-term strategy, 
growth, and sustainability

Remuneration framework  
and outcomes are aligned  
with performance

Pay levels are market 
competitive, based on role, 
grade, and contribution, and 
ensure individuals are fairly 
rewarded in line with the market

We operate targeted 
differentiation of reward across 
our employees, linked to talent 
and performance management

Our approach to reward is tailored 
in certain circumstances to 
address a specific market/business 
need, and is consistent with our 
underlying reward philosophy

One part of the employee 
value proposition

Remuneration is one part of 
our broader employee value 
proposition – and not the only 
reason to work for Pearson

Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy and its implementation 
supports our Company purpose of adding life to a lifetime of 
learning, our strategy and ultimately the delivery of long-term 
sustainable value for all stakeholders, including our shareholders.

In developing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee 
had due regard to the principles outlined within the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.

 — Pearson’s remuneration principles, as set out above, align 

with our culture and position us as an employer of choice, 
so we can continue to attract and retain the right talent, and 
support our digital future. We recognise that remuneration is 
only one part of Pearson’s employee value proposition 

 — Our executive remuneration framework is designed to 

be simple, with total remuneration made up of fixed and 
performance-linked elements, supporting different  
strategic objectives

 — Our remuneration framework and outcomes are designed to 

be aligned with performance:

 — Selected performance measures for the AIP (Annual 

Incentive Plan) and LTIP (Long Term Incentive Plan) are 
key to achieving the Group’s strategic objectives. The 
Committee reviews performance measures annually 
to ensure they incentivise appropriate management 
behaviours and goals

 — The Committee carries out a robust target-setting process 
each year, considering Pearson’s strategic plan, as well 
as analyst consensus to reflect market expectations. This 
results in stretching, yet achievable, AIP and LTIP targets 

 — Maximum awards under the AIP and LTIP are capped and 
clearly disclosed in our Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
alongside predictions of how the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy may apply in various performance scenarios

 — When determining pay-outs, the Committee considers 

whether the outcome reflects overall company 
performance and the experience of stakeholders over the 
period, including shareholders and colleagues. If not, it has 
the discretion to adjust outcomes

 — The Committee is mindful of reputational and other risks 
when implementing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and 
determining outcomes for Executive Directors and senior 
management. Pearson has safeguards in place, such as malus 
and clawback provisions and a two-year LTIP holding period, 
as well as robust shareholding guidelines, which extend  
post-employment. 

 — Before signing off the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
the Committee reviews drafts and inputs to clarify our 
disclosures. The Committee engaged extensively with 
shareholders on the current Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
to ensure they fully understood the rationale for change, and 
to give them the opportunity to feed into the decision-making 
process and inform final conclusions.

Discretion framework

When determining performance outcomes, the Remuneration Committee has the ability to adjust payments up or down if it believes that the outcome does not reflect 
underlying financial or non-financial performance or if such other exceptional factors warrant doing so. In making this determination the Remuneration Committee applies 
the following framework.

Formulaic outcome considering 
performance versus existing 
targets and underpins

Is this consistent with the wider 
stakeholder experience?

Are there any one-off or 
exceptional events to be taken 
into consideration?

Is this consistent with overall 
Company performance?

Are there any significant culture, 
ESG or operational issues  
to be considered?

Are outcomes appropriate 
or should an adjustment be 
considered?

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 114  

GovernanceMarket context for remuneration at Pearson
Pearson has more US exposure than almost all of the UK market with c.70% of revenues  
from the US.

Proportion of Revenue from US geographic segment (FTSE 100)

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

FTSE 100 (excl. Pearson and Inv. Trusts)

Pearson

Based on the publicly disclosed geographic revenue segment which covers the US or Americas as a proportion of 
disclosed Group revenue. Data for Pearson are based on the year ending 31 December 2023. Data is shown for 
the FTSE 100 excluding investment trusts, and were sourced from Datastream and published annual reports as at 
January 2024.

Additionally, more than half of Pearson’s employees are based in the US and two-thirds of the 
Pearson Executive Management (PEM) are also based in the US, with several joining us from US-
based companies.

Data as of 31 December 2023

All employees

52%

19%

29%

Directors
and above

Executives

59%

21%

20%

67%

17%

17%

US

UK

Rest of World

Market reference points

Given that Pearson is a UK-listed company, but has significant operations in the US and draws 
significantly on talent from the US, the Remuneration Committee considered remuneration levels at 
comparable companies in both the UK and US when determining the 2023 Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy and its implementation. The Committee also considers remuneration levels at both public 
and privately-owned or held companies, but notes that market data for private companies is more 
limited. The approach to market data was to consider multiple different reference points, including 
those described below, to provide a rounded view of overall positioning against the market. This 
approach has evolved over time in line with Pearson’s strategic evolution to appropriately reflect 
the different global talent needed for Pearson’s growth ambitions and execution of our digital-first 
strategy. The Committee has not sought to follow any specific market reference and is 
mindful of the balance between needing to ensure remuneration packages are sufficiently 
attractive in the US, a primary and fiercely competitive talent market, and maintaining a 
UK market-aligned remuneration framework.

 — Executive Director remuneration in 

 — Executive Director remuneration in 

UK-listed companies of a similar market 
capitalisation to Pearson, the FTSE 41 to 
100. This comparator group recognises 
Pearson’s London listing, the fact that 
Pearson is a member of the FTSE 100, 
and that UK investors and proxy agencies 
would likely consider competitiveness of 
remuneration levels at Pearson in this 
context primarily. Market data for the 
FTSE 100 as a whole was also considered 
as an additional reference point given the 
growth in Pearson’s market capitalisation 
in recent years.

US-listed companies of a broadly similar 
financial size and in a similar sector 
to Pearson. This comparator group 
included companies in the broadcasting, 
interactive media and software sector 
with similar revenue to Pearson. It 
considers what Executive Directors 
are paid in broadly similar US-listed 
companies, although it does not directly 
align to Pearson’s talent market.

 — Remuneration in US-listed companies more closely aligned to Pearson’s talent market and 
strategic ambitions. This comparator group comprised US technology, communications, 
and consumer discretionary companies, in particular those that are at the forefront of 
transformative, innovative plays within technology and digital, based on the Nasdaq-100 
Index. Recognising, however, that many of these companies were materially larger than 
Pearson in terms of financial size, rather than considering remuneration levels for the CEO 
role, the market data considered was for roles reporting into the CEO (primarily heads of 
business units or Chief Executives of subsidiary businesses) which is analogous to Omar 
Abbosh and Andy Bird’s previous executive roles. This data was only considered in respect of 
the CEO role at Pearson.

The Committee is mindful of the views of many investors in relation to setting executive pay  
solely based on market data as well as views on using international peer groups. The Committee 
therefore wanted to take a balanced and thoughtful approach which incorporates the views of  
all key stakeholders.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 115

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report continued

Pay positioning

Overall, the intention of the Committee was to ensure a package for the Chief Executive which was competitive considering Pearson’s primary talent market. While it is acknowledged the package for the Chief 
Executive is towards the top end of market practice from a UK perspective, it is within the broad range of pay received by executives below CEO level at relevant US-listed companies.

Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer

UK positioning

US positioning

UK positioning

US positioning

Salary

Towards the top end of UK practice

Within US market competitive range 
for CEO roles

Within UK market competitive range

Within US market competitive range

Annual bonus opportunity

For CEO roles, the market data illustrated that annual bonus opportunity levels in the US were around double opportunity levels in the UK. The same picture is not 
however true for other executive roles, where annual bonus opportunity in the US is more closely aligned to, although still marginally higher than, UK levels.

Towards the top end of UK practice

Within US market competitive range

Within UK market competitive range

Within US market competitive range

Long-term incentive opportunity is the key driver in the difference between UK and US remuneration levels. Opportunity levels in the US are many multiples 
of UK levels. For CEO roles in US-listed companies in a similar sector and of a similar financial size to Pearson, many receive long-term incentives with a target 
opportunity greater than 1000% of salary.

Towards the top end of UK practice

Substantially below 
US levels

Towards the top end of UK practice

Substantially below US levels

LTIP opportunity

Conclusions

The market data highlighted the stark difference in pay practices between the UK and US, and the Remuneration Committee applied careful judgement when considering how remuneration at Pearson should 
be positioned taking into account the various reference points as well as the views of shareholders.

The Committee determined, with input from shareholders, that the incentive framework at Pearson for Executive Directors should continue to align to typical UK practice, and as such incentives remain fully 
performance-linked, which is not typically the case in the US market where often a significant proportion of the long-term equity award is delivered in restricted stock with no performance conditions and over 
shorter time horizons. In addition, annual bonus deferral and additional holding periods on LTIP awards are uncommon in the US market.

Overall, while it is acknowledged that the 2023 Directors’ remuneration policy positions Pearson towards the top-end of the UK market, the Committee has not sought to match US quantum levels or market 
practice in terms of incentive design or the overall remuneration framework.

That the approach taken in the 2023 Policy is necessary for remaining competitive in the global talent market was reaffirmed by the Board’s appointment of Omar Abbosh as the Company’s new  
Chief Executive Officer. Omar is a highly regarded global leader with over 30 years of experience in enterprise technology and joined Pearson from Microsoft, one of the world’s largest multinational 
technology companies.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 116  

GovernanceWorkforce remuneration at Pearson 

The Committee takes seriously its responsibilities concerning the oversight of remuneration policies and practices for the wider organisation. Our remuneration principles as set out on page 114 are 
consistent for all our colleagues, and applied depending on business need, level, and geography.

The key difference in our executive remuneration, compared to the approach to remuneration across our workforce, is that remuneration for our Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable 
pay and linked to delivering strategic objectives. 

Approach to remuneration across Pearson

Base salary Set considering economic factors, competitive market rates, roles, skills, experience, and individual performance.

Allowances 
and 
benefits
Retirement 
benefits

Annual 
incentives

Share 
incentives

Reflect the local labour market in which colleagues are based and may include healthcare and wellbeing benefits. Aligned with Pearson’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies we 
actively review to ensure our benefits are inclusive (e.g., menopause support, fertility and family planning services, and gender affirmation services provided to colleagues in the UK). 

Reflect local market practice. 

Pearson colleagues in the UK may participate in the same underlying pension arrangements as the Executive Directors, subject to certain age bands and legacy arrangements. The main 
contribution plan (Money Purchase 2003) allows employees to pay in between 3% and 8% of their basic salary, depending on their age. Pearson then contributes double that amount, 
paying in between 6% and 16% of salary. 
Over half of all Pearson employees, around 10,300 colleagues, participate in an Annual Incentive Plan, which is funded based on similar performance measures to the Executive Directors. 

Several other colleagues (c. 2,000) participate in alternative cash-based annual bonuses, such as sales incentive and commission plans, based on performance targets and profit-shares 
where required for legislative reasons.
We believe in the importance of aligning the interests of management and our shareholders by delivering a significant proportion of total remuneration in the form of share incentives.

Approximately 750 colleagues (c.4% of all employees) participate in the annual long-term incentive plan grant, selected based on their role, performance, and potential; with other awards 
being made from time to time on an ad-hoc basis to certain roles based on market need.

Awards for our Executive Directors are made solely in the form of performance shares. However, our SVPs and Executive Leadership team have an equal mix of both performance shares 
(subject to the same performance conditions as the Executive Directors) and restricted shares, recognising prevailing practice in the markets in which we compete for talent. At other levels, 
awards are typically made in restricted shares only. 

Executive Directors

Executive 
Leadership Team 

100% performance shares

50% performance shares

50% restricted shares

SVPs

50% performance shares

50% restricted shares

VPs and Directors

100% restricted shares

In addition to our long-term incentive plan, all colleagues have the opportunity to become shareholders and owners of the Company and share in the value they help to create through 
participation in savings-related share acquisition programmes. Under our ‘Save For Shares’ plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, employees can buy Pearson shares at a discount (20% 
discount for ‘Save For Shares’ and a 15% discount for the ‘Employee Stock Purchase Plan’, in line with the maximum discounts permitted by HMRC and the IRS respectively).  
Over 1 in 4 of our employees currently save to purchase Pearson shares via our employee share plans, contributing to a strong culture of share ownership. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 117

GovernanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

During the year, the Committee received reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer on pay and conditions across Pearson, and on the recruitment and retention experience. We 
took these into account when determining Executive remuneration. We have established channels in place to inform our colleagues and help them understand how executive remuneration and wider pay 
policies are aligned. Further detail on Pearson’s approach to employee engagement is provided on page 41.

Views and sentiment expressed by colleagues around matters relating to reward and culture are taken into consideration by the Remuneration Committee when determining pay for senior management. In 
order to give more colleagues the opportunity to meet the Board, including the members of the Remuneration Committee, a number of "Breakfast with the Board" sessions were conducted with employees 
in both the UK and the US. This gave a wider group of employees the chance to talk with Board members about their roles, and to express their opinions on a wide range of topics. See page 82 for more on 
how the Board engages with employees.

The Committee also considers Pearson’s gender pay gap and ethnicity pay gap in Great Britain (the latter of which Pearson voluntarily disclosed for the first time in 2023), as well as Pearson’s CEO pay ratio. 
Pearson continues to review and update its policies and practices relating to the hiring, retention, and development of women, as well as other diverse talent groups, to ensure equal opportunities for all its 
people. Some initiatives include creating strategic partnerships with organisations that focus recruiting efforts on under-represented talent, rolling out training programmes for recruiters and hiring managers 
focused on specific diversity topics, and reviewing and challenging job requirements which require a formal higher education qualification in order to create a greater level of accessibility and equity to all 
candidates. Building an inclusive culture and increasing diverse representation is one of Pearson’s six strategic pillars, and reflective of the Company’s commitments in this area diversity targets were included 
in both the AIP and LTIP for Executive Directors for 2023. Further details can be found within our 2023 fair pay report which was published in December 2023.

Sharing In Success
Pearson’s remuneration principles are consistent across the organisation and are designed to support our culture, and to make Pearson an employer of choice, able to attract and retain talent 
to execute our digital-first strategy. Many of the features of our Directors’ remuneration policy apply more broadly, and we believe that all our people should have the opportunity to benefit 
when the Company does well. In particular:

 — 2023 was a year of strong performance for the business and this was reflected in the highest level of funding under the Annual Incentive Plan in many years. As noted on page 117, over half 

of all Pearson employees (c.10,300 employees) benefitted from participating in an AIP during 2023. 

 — Similarly, all eligible colleagues, including Executive Directors, can participate in savings-related share acquisition programmes that are not subject to any performance conditions. Over 

1 in 4 of our employees save to purchase discounted Pearson shares via our employee share plans. At the most recent maturity of our ‘Save For Shares’ plan in 2023, the average gain for 
a participant was £5,700 reflecting a near doubling between the option exercise price and the Pearson share price on the date of maturity – allowing those who participated to benefit from 
the shareholder value they have helped to create over the previous three years.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 118  

GovernanceRemuneration report for 2023

Certain parts of this report have been audited, as required by the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended. Those tables subject to 
audit are marked with an asterisk.

Single total figure of remuneration and 
prior year comparison*

Total aggregate emoluments for Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors were £15,597k in 2023. These emoluments are 
included within the total employee benefit expense (in Note 5 to 
the financial statements page 170).

Executive Director  
‘single figure’ remuneration 

The remuneration received by Executive Directors for the 
financial years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 
is set out below. 

Overall, the Committee considers that the Remuneration Policy 
operated as intended during 2023.

Executive Director  
‘single figure’ remuneration*

Andy Bird 
$000s

Sally Johnson 
£000s

2023

2022

2023

2022

Base salary
Allowances and benefits
Retirement benefits
Total fixed pay
Annual incentives
Long-term incentives
Co-investment award
Total variable pay
Total remuneration

1,282
466
205
1,953
3,299
3,482
5,298
12,079
14,032

1,250
448
200
1,898
1,900
–
4,684
6,584
8,482

552
16
88
656
947
1,310
–
2,257
2,913

533
16
64
613
692
1,043
–
1,735
2,348

Notes to single figure table* 
Base salary
The base salary shown in the single figure table reflects salary 
paid in the financial year as a Pearson Executive Director. Andy 
Bird was paid in USD, and Sally Johnson is paid in GBP.

Allowances and benefits
The breakdown of benefits is as follows for 2023:

Travel
Health
Risk-related
Accommodation 

Andy Bird 
$000s

Sally Johnson 
£000s

–
15
2
449

14
2
–
–

Travel benefits comprise car allowance and reimbursements of a 
taxable nature resulting from business travel and engagements. 
Health benefits comprise healthcare, health assessment and 
dental care. Risk-related benefits comprise life and other 
insurance policies. Accommodation benefits for Andy Bird relate 
to a contribution towards the rental costs of an apartment in 
New York used for business purposes. This cost was capped at 
$240,000 per year ($20,000 per month) prior to any taxes due. 

In addition to these allowances and benefits, Executive Directors 
may also participate in company benefit or policy arrangements 
that have no taxable value and/or are available to all other 
colleagues in the same location. Sally Johnson’s life cover is 
arranged under an excepted policy on a similar basis to other 
employees who are affected by the lifetime allowance and have 
opted out of The Pearson Pension Plan.

Retirement benefits
Further detail on retirement benefits is on page 123. 

Annual incentives
The 2023 AIP for the Executive Directors was based on a mix of 
financial (90% weighting) and strategic measures (10% weighting). 
The 2023 AIP resulted in an 85% of maximum payment for both 
Andy Bird and Sally Johnson. Bonus is calculated using salary at 
31 December 2023, in line with how bonuses are calculated for 
all participants. 

More detail on performance metrics and performance against 
targets in 2023 is on page 120.

Long-term incentives 
The 2021 LTIP award was subject to performance conditions 
assessed to 31 December 2023. Performance targets were 
partially met resulting in the award vesting at 85% of maximum. 
The 2021 LTIP awards for Andy Bird and Sally Johnson were 
granted on 4 May 2021, based on a share price of 826.7p (five-
day average to 4 May 2021). The value of the 2021 LTIP included 
in the single-figure table is based on a three-month average 
ADR / share price to 31 December 2023 of $11.63 / 937.0p. The 
LTIP values include dividend equivalent amounts of $196,795 
and £76,141 for Andy Bird and Sally Johnson respectively. The 
proportion of the 2021 LTIP attributable to share price growth 
is $98,009 for Andy Bird and £145,245 for Sally Johnson. The 
Remuneration Committee did not exercise discretion in respect 
of this share price appreciation. For further details see page 120.

The value of the 2020 LTIP reported in last year’s report for Sally 
Johnson (£1,199k) was an estimate based on the three-month 
average share price to 31 December 2022 (939.4p). The actual 
value of the 2020 LTIP, on the 2 May 2023 vesting date was 
£1,043k (based on a closing share price of 754p).

Co-investment award
The third and final tranche of the one-off investment award, 
granted to Andy Bird to secure his appointment (with 
shareholder EGM approval), was subject to performance 
underpins assessed to 31 December 2023. It was determined the 
third tranche of the award would vest in full. The value disclosed, 
which includes an additional amount equal to the value of 
dividends payable on the shares vesting, is calculated using the 
ADR share price at the date of vesting (30 Jan 2024) of $12.19. 
The award was originally granted over Ordinary Shares based on 
a share price of 590.2p (with the USD value at award calculated 
using a USD:GBP exchange rate of 1.365), and so $1,666k of the 
above figure is attributable to share price growth. An additional 
$386k of the value is attributable to dividend equivalent shares. 
The award has been satisfied using market-purchased ADRs and 
ADRs retained after tax must be held until 31 December 2025. 
For further details see pages 121-122.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 119

GovernanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Executive Directors’ annual incentive payments for 2023* 
Andy Bird and Sally Johnson were eligible to participate in the 2023 AIP. The following table 
summarises the performance targets (presented on a consistent basis to the actual results, 
considering portfolio and currency movements) and performance against these targets, which 
resulted in an 85% of maximum payout.

Executive Directors’ Long-Term Incentive Plan award vesting for 2023*
In May 2021, Andy Bird and Sally Johnson were granted an LTIP award. This award is due to vest 
based on performance the business delivered over the three-year period from 2021 to 2023.

The targets and performance against these targets are as follows:

Overall outcome

Adjusted operating profit
Sales
Free cash flow
Strategic measures

Performance range

% of total

Threshold

Target Maximum Actual results

£520m

£525m

£605m

40%
£573m
30% £3,395m £3,520m £3,760m £3,674m
20%
£387m
10%
100%

£345m
See below

£305m

£300m

Payout

% of max bonus 
opportunity

32%
25%
20%
8%
85%

Adjusted 
EPS

Net ROIC

Relative 
TSR

A 
third
A 
third

A 

% of 
total Threshold Stretch Maximum

Payout at 
threshold

Payout 
at 
stretch

Payout at 
maximum

Actual

Percentage 
achievement

Performance range

Vesting

Percentage 
of total 
award

43.9p 50.5p

57.6p

15% 65%

100% 57.7p

100%

33.3%

5.4% 6.3%

7.3%

15% 65%

100%

third Median 
100%

Upper 
quartile

-

25%

-

100%

6.1%
Ranked 
16 out 
of 93

55%

18.4%

100%
Total

33.3%
85%

Performance against strategic measures
The targets and outcomes for performance against each of the strategic measures are shown in the 
table below.

Strategic priority

Weighting Threshold

Target

Maximum

Outcome

Invest in 
diverse pipeline 
and increase 
BIPOC/BAME 
representation 
at all manager 
levels

Reduce carbon 
footprint – net 
annual reduction 
versus 2022 
baseline toward 
2030 goal
Total

5% 2% increase in 
representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level and 
above + maintain 
overall gender parity 
as an underpin

5% increase in 
representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level 
and above 

10% 
increase in 
representation 
of BIPOC/BAME 
employees at 
Manager level 
and above 

Achieved 6.4% 
increase & 
maintained 
overall gender 
parity

5% 1% reduction

2% reduction

5% reduction

Achieved an 
8% reduction2

10%

8%

Note 1: Internal Audit provided an independent assessment of the result for the Committee.
Note 2: As disclosed on page 42, Pearson achieved carbon reduction of 16.3% during 2023. For the purpose of 
assessing AIP performance, the Committee made a discretionary adjustment to this figure to account for factors 
which did not reflect underlying performance, such as portfolio changes.

Relative TSR was measured against the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the start of the performance period.
In determining the vesting outcome, the Committee carefully considered the portfolio changes over the last 
three years and made modest adjustments to reflect the impact of these, in particular the divestment of various 
businesses under strategic review during the performance period – the adjusted targets and adjusted results are 
presented in the table above. The Committee considers such adjustments appropriate to ensure performance is 
measured on a like-for-like basis and reflect the principles against which the original targets were set as these did 
not consider the impact of the portfolio changes.

Overall, 85% of this award will vest on 1 May 2024, and its value is included in the single figure table 
on page 119. Shares vesting are subject to an additional two-year holding period to 1 May 2026. 

Co-investment award* 
To secure the appointment of Andy Bird as Chief Executive, the Committee designed a one-off co-
investment award. The conditions of this award were that Andy Bird purchased Pearson ordinary 
shares equal to 300% of his base salary and held all of these shares until 31 December 2023. The 
co-investment award vests in three equal annual tranches, with shares vesting subject to a holding 
period until 31 December 2023. 

The vesting of each tranche of the award was subject to these performance underpins:
 — an appropriate level of continued progress being made in relation to delivering Pearson’s 

strategy, including the ongoing transition from print to digital, and

 — no significant ESG issues occurring, which relate to Andy Bird’s tenure as Chief Executive, and 

which result in significant reputational damage for Pearson 

In addition, the vesting of the final tranche of the award was subject to the following TSR underpin: 
 — Pearson’s TSR from the date of the announcement of Andy Bird’s appointment to 31 December 2023 is 
either (1) positive; or (2) is at median or above when compared to the performance of the FTSE 100

 — If one or more of the underpins are not achieved, then the Committee will consider whether, and to what 

extent, a discretionary reduction in the number of shares vesting is required.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 120  

GovernanceAssessment of performance underpins

TSR Underpin

The third tranche of the co-investment award vested as soon as 
practical following 31 December 2023. The Committee undertook 
a rigorous assessment of the relevant performance underpins, 
reviewed broader Pearson performance, and evaluated the 
experience of all stakeholders. The Committee followed the 
framework disclosed in the 2020 Remuneration Report.

In 2023, there have been no ESG issues which, in the opinion of 
the Committee, have resulted in significant reputational damage.

Pearson’s TSR from the date of the announcement of Andy’s appointment to 31 December 2023 was 76.0%, resulting in the creation of 
over £3bn of shareholder value over the period. This compares to a median FTSE 100 TSR of 32.4%, and was therefore significantly in 
excess of both required thresholds for vesting (noting that only exceeding one threshold was required). Pearson’s TSR was ranked 21 
out of 92, in excess of the upper quartile (71.8%) TSR of the FTSE 100.

Pearson

76.0%

Progress 
in 
delivering 
Pearson’s 
strategy

Significant strategic progress was made 
during 2023 which included:

 — Completed the acquisition of Personnel 
Decisions Research Institutes (‘PDRI’) in 
support of the growth strategy, building on 
the previous acquisitions of Credly, Mondly 
and Faethm.

 — Continued to refine the portfolio through 
the completion of the strategic disposal of 
Pearson’s interest in the POLS businesses 
in the US, UK, Australia and India, as well as 
the disposal of Pearson College London.

 — Reorganised salesforce in Higher Education 
to increase adoption retention rates and 
generate new wins. 

 — Further progressed Pearson’s Generative AI 
strategy including the launch of additional 
generative AI study tools in Pearson +  
and Mastering. 

 — Delivered a £120m cost savings 

programme, accelerating group margin 
expansion to 16%.

 — Passed milestone of 1m cumulative paid 

subscriptions for Pearson+.

FTSE 100 (Median)

32.4%

Source: Refinitiv Datastream

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

60%

80%

Consideration of broader performance and stakeholder experience

Robust financial performance

Revenue 

Adj. operating 
profit

£3,674m

£573m

5% underlying 
adjusted growth on  
prior year (excl OPM & 
Strategic Review)

31% underlying 
growth on prior year

Wider stakeholder experience

Shareholders

Free cash flow

Adjusted EPS 

£387m

74% growth 
on prior year

58.2p

12% growth 
on prior year

Return on 
Capital

10.3%

1.6% improvement on 
prior year 

 — Strong financial position has enabled Pearson to grow its dividend (up 6% to 22.7p in 2023), in line with Pearson’s commitment 

to a progressive and sustainable dividend. 

 — Pearson commenced a £300 million share buyback programme to return capital to shareholders in Q3 2023, We have also 

announced our intention to extend our share buyback programme by £200m.

 — Pearson has strong and constructive relationships with its key institutional investors. During 2023, Pearson held 505 meetings 

with 272 institutions, both virtually and in person.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 121

GovernanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Employees

Customers

Suppliers & Business Partners

 — Over 80% of colleagues participated in the enhanced 
employee engagement survey, a 10 percentage point 
increase over last year. Our engagement grand mean 
increased to 4.09 out of 5 (up from 3.96 in 2022) and 
as a result, we are now ranked in the 70th percentile in 
Gallup’s global company database for engagement. 

 — Over 700 existing employees participated in the Coaching 
for Performance series which focused on developing 
managers as coaches. Pearson’s coaching index score 
improved from 3.75 out of 5 in 2022 to 3.95 in 2023. 

 — Pearson launched a new learning experience platform 
that integrates third party content libraries, Pearson 
commercial content, bespoke learning content on a 
range of topics (e.g. generative AI), and digital credentials 
powered by Credly by Pearson. To date, 16.1k Pearson 
employees have earned a credential from Credly  
by Pearson. 

 — Pearson’s UK benefits offerings were expanded to be 
more inclusive including support and medical cover 
for those seeking gender affirmation care, menopause 
support, and support for those expanding their families 
whether through birth, surrogacy, or adoption.

 — There was improvement in female representation at Vice 
President level and above (44%) and Pearson continued 
to maintain its position of having surpassed the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review target for 40% of leadership 
roles (defined as the executive committee and their 
direct reports) to be filled by women, well ahead of the 
end of 2025 deadline. 

 — In Assessment & Qualifications, Pearson VUE launched 

 — Supplier Diversity and Responsible Procurement 

the delivery of the Next Generation NCLEX Nurse 
licensure exam in the US and PDRI launched a full suite 
of hiring assessment programmes for the Transportation 
Security Administration (TSA). VUE also successfully 
opened its largest company-owned test center in 
Chandigarh, India, with capacity to deliver 14,000 tests 
per month.

 — In Virtual Learning, Pearson launched a new Connections 
Academy Career Pathways programme for middle and 
high school students to offer a tri-credit approach to 
career-readiness courses in partnership with Coursera 
and Acadeum, amongst others. 

 — In Higher Education, momentum continued for Pearson+ 
as registered users grew to around 5m by the end of 
2023 and Pearson+ passed the milestone of 1 million 
cumulative paid subscriptions for the calendar year. 
A generative AI tool was brought to market within the 
Pearson+ service to enable users to automatically 
summarise the content of Channels videos into simple 
bullet points as well as generate explanations and 
practice quizzes 

 — Workforce Skills registered users grew to 5.3 million, 

and there was an increase in the number of enterprise 
customers to 1,547. Pearson signed a contract with the 
Jordanian Ministry of Education to partner on the reform 
of Jordan’s technical and vocational education and 
training provision in schools with over 50,000 learners 
expected to take these courses over the next three years. 

 — In English Language Learning, Pearson won recognition 

for the Pearson Test of English (PTE) for Canadian 
Student Direct Stream and economic migration visa 
applications. The Canadian market is the largest of the 
three key markets which Pearson has recognition to 
operate in. PTE also grew volumes by c. 50% to pass the 
milestone of over 1 million tests administered per year.

continued to be key priorities for Pearson in 2023. All 
employees have access to a diverse supplier portal to 
provide access to over one million diverse suppliers and 
we spent £47.2m in the area in 2023.

 — Pearson is continuing its transition to ethically sourced 
papers with 69% of paper used in 2023 being certified 
(FSC / PEFC / SFI) and expects 100% of papers to be 
ethically sourced by end 2025. Pearson is also continuing 
to consolidate its printer base reducing its approved 
vendor count to 60 vendors from approximately 120 
vendors at the beginning of 2023 whilst also working to 
have all approved vendors signed up to the Book Chain 
Project to develop better understanding and mitigation 
of potential labour and environmental risks within both 
the paper and manufacturing supply chain.

 — Pearson continued to encourage key suppliers to 

participate in an EcoVadis sustainability assessment (or 
equivalent) in 2023. Our key suppliers performed well, 
with an average score of 57.6/100 ("Good"), a 0.3 point 
increase year-over-year. Among suppliers who have 
completed a reassessment cycle, 69% of them showed 
improvement averaging +3.5 points.

 — Pearson has made great progress in assessing and 

benchmarking the carbon maturity of its key, high impact 
suppliers. Results of this assessment are shared with 
suppliers as part of the ongoing governance process and 
suppliers are asked to provide insight into their plans 
to increase carbon maturity over time. A full review of 
its end to end supplier lifecycle management processes 
was completed and updates were made to ensure that 
carbon maturity is considered at every stage and higher 
maturity suppliers are selected wherever possible.

 Taking all the above into account, the Committee has determined that the third and final tranche of the co-investment award will vest in full.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 122  

GovernanceLong-term incentives awarded in 2023*

The following LTIP awards were granted during the year:

Executive Directors’ retirement benefits and entitlements*

Details of the Executive Directors’ pension entitlements and pension-related benefits in 2023  
are as follows:

Director

Date  

of award

Vesting  
date

Number  
of shares

Face  
value 

Face value  
(% of base 
salary)

Value for 
threshold 
performance 
(% of 
maximum)1

Andy Bird 2 May 2023 1 May 2026
Sally 
Johnson

2 May 2023 1 May 2026

545,529 $5,821,885

450%

194,345 £1,671,678

300%

20%

20%

Performance  

period

1 Jan 23 –  
31 Dec 25
1 Jan 23 –  
31 Dec 25

Value of defined benefit
Other allowances in lieu of pension
Total value in 2023
Accrued pension at 31 December 2023

Andy Bird 
$000s

Sally Johnson 
£000s

-
205
205
-

-
88
88
66

Face value for Andy Bird’s award was determined using a share price of $10.672 and for Sally 
Johnson's award using a share price of 860.16p. In both cases this represented the five-day average 
up to and including 28 April 2023, which is same approach used for the wider employee population.

For 2023, performance measures and targets are as follows:

Adjusted EPS
Return on Capital 
Relative TSR vs. 
FTSE 100 (excl. 
certain sectors)
Relative TSR vs. 
S&P 500 (excl. 
certain sectors)
ESG

% of 
total

30%
30%
15%

Threshold

53.0p
8.5%
Median

Stretch

Maximum

Payout at 
threshold

Payout at 
stretch

Payout at 
maximum

63.0p
10%
–

68.0p
11.5%
Upper 
quartile

20%
20%
20%

65% 100%
65% 100%
100%

–

15%

Median

–

Upper 
quartile

20%

–

100%

10% Improve gender 
representation 
at leadership 
levels overall  
vs 2022  

(VP and above)

Achieve 
gender parity 
at leadership 
levels in 
aggregate (VP 
and above)

Achieve 
gender 
parity at all 
leadership 
levels (VP 
and above)

20%

65% 100%

Note 1: 2023 LTIP targets have been set at an USD:GBP exchange rate of 1.21.
Note 2: Companies within financial services, energy, basic materials, utilities and healthcare sectors will be excluded 
from both TSR groups.

The Committee reserves the right to adjust pay-outs up or down before they are released, if it 
believes the vesting outcome does not reflect underlying financial or non-financial performance, or 
for other exceptional factors. In making any adjustments, the Committee are guided by the principle 
of aligning shareholder and management interests.

Any shares vesting based on performance to 31 December 2025 will be subject to an additional two-
year holding period to 1 May 2028.

Note 1: The value of defined benefit reflects the change in value over the period, less inflation. 
Note 2: Other allowances in lieu of pension represent the cash allowances paid. 
Note 3: Total value is the sum of the previous two rows and is disclosed in the single figure of remuneration table.
Note 4: The accrued pension at 31 December 2023 is the deferred pension at 30 September 2022 (the date 
accrual for the pension ceased) revalued to 31 December 2023 in line with the Plan rules. It relates to the pension 
payable from the UK Plan. Normal retirement age is 62.

Payment in Lieu of Pension 
Omar Abbosh receives a payment in lieu of pension at 16% of his base salary, in line with the 
pension provision for UK employees of a similar age.

Andy Bird, until his retirement, received a payment in lieu of pension at 16% of his base salary,  
in line with the pension provision for UK employees of a similar age.

Beginning 1 October 2022, Sally Johnson began receiving payments in lieu of pension at 16% of her 
base salary, in line with the pension provision for UK employees of a similar age. Prior to October 
2022, Sally Johnson was a member of the Final Pay section of the Pearson Pension Plan, where the 
pension accrual rate was 1/60th of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the Plan’s  
earnings cap. 

Remuneration arrangements in respect of Andy Bird’s retirement

Andy Bird stepped down as Chief Executive and as a Director of Pearson plc on 7 January 2024  
and will retire on 31 March 2024. 

 — On ceasing to be employed by Pearson, and in accordance with the terms of his contract  

of employment, there will be no payment for loss of office. 

 — Andy remains eligible for a pro-rated award under the AIP for the period to 31 March 2024 
whilst he remains in employment. The award will be based on Pearson Group performance  
for 2024. 

 — Andy did not receive any LTIP award in respect of 2024. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 123

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report continued

 — Andy was treated as a good leaver in respect of his outstanding awards under the LTIP and 
treatment of the awards was in accordance with the relevant plan rules (including malus 
and clawback provisions). His LTIP awards granted in 2021, 2022, and 2023 will vest on the 
original vesting dates subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions 
as determined by the Remuneration Committee following completion of the relevant 
performance periods. His 2022 and 2023 LTIP awards will also be subject to time pro-rating 
based on the relevant performance periods. As described on page 120, the 2021 LTIP will vest 
in May 2024. 

 — As described on page 120 the third and final tranche of his co-investment award granted in 

connection with his initial employment by the Company vested in full.

 — In line with the Directors’ remuneration policy, Andy is required to retain Pearson shares with 

a value of 450% of his base salary for a period of two years from 7 January 2024. This guideline 
does not apply to shares purchased by Andy.

 — Andy can elect for continued medical, dental and vision insurance coverage through the 
Company’s plans under COBRA for 18 months following his retirement and the Company 
will pay premiums to continue this coverage for 12 months following his retirement. Andy 
will be reimbursed for reasonable costs necessarily incurred in connection with his tax 
return preparation for the 2024 calendar year. He will also be reimbursed for reasonable 
attorneys’ fees necessarily incurred related to his review and consideration of his retirement 
arrangements. Andy will also be paid all accrued, unused paid time off upon his retirement.

Payments to former Directors*

There were no payments to former Directors in 2023.

Payments for loss of office*

All payments made to Andy Bird in connection with his retirement as Chief Executive are set out 
above. There were no additional payments for loss of office made to or agreed for Directors in 2023.

Directors’ interests in shares and value of shareholdings* 

Shareholding guidelines 
Executive Directors are expected to build up a substantial shareholding in Pearson, in line with our 
policy of encouraging widespread employee share ownership, and to align the interests of Executive 
Directors and shareholders. 

Following the significant increases introduced by the last Remuneration Policy, the current 
shareholding guideline is 450% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 300% of base salary for the 
Chief Financial Officer. 

Shares that count towards these guidelines include any shares held unencumbered by an Executive 
Director, their spouse and/or dependent children, plus any shares vested but held pending release 
under a share plan, and any shares unvested but not subject to future performance conditions (on a 
net of tax basis). Executive Directors have five years from their date of appointment to the Board to 
reach the guideline. Once the guideline is met, it is not re-tested, other than when shares are sold.

As part of the year-end process, the Committee assessed the level of shareholding against the 
guideline in accordance with our shareholding policy. Based on shares beneficially held and shares 
due to vest from LTIP awards having met the performance targets (on a net-of-tax basis), it was 
confirmed that the guideline was met for Andy Bird and Sally Johnson.

Executive Directors are expected to retain their current guideline (or actual shareholding if lower) for 
two years following stepping down as an Executive Director. This guideline does not apply to shares 
purchased by the Director.

The shareholding guidelines do not apply to the Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director and Non-Executive Directors. However, a minimum of 25% of the Chair, Deputy Chair and 
Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee is paid in Pearson shares, 
which the Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors have 
committed to retain for the period of their directorships.

Directors’ interests 

The share interests of the Directors and their connected persons are:

Director

Chair
Omid Kordestani
Deputy Chair
Tim Score
Executive Directors
Andy Bird 
Sally Johnson
Non-Executive Directors
Sherry Coutu CBE
Alison Dolan
Alex Hardiman
Esther Lee
Graeme Pitkethly
Annette Thomas
Lincoln Wallen

Current 
shareholding 
(ordinary 
shares) at 31 
Dec 23

Conditional 
shares subject 
to performance 
at 31 Dec 23

Conditional 
shares subject 
to employment 
only at 31 
Dec 23

Total number 
of ordinary and 
conditional 
shares at 31 
Dec 23

65,059

78,735

–

–

–

–

–

–

586,437
103,260

1,636,864
517,675

424,131
–

2,647,432
620,935

14,987
671
930
3,639
11,467
4,192
18,664

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Note 1: Share interests are shown as at 31 December 2023. 
Note 2: Ordinary shares include both ordinary shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and American 
Depositary Receipts (ADRs) listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The figures include both shares and ADRs 
acquired by individuals under the LTIP and any other share plans in which they might have participated.
Note 3: Conditional shares subject to performance means unvested shares, which are subject to  
performance conditions and/or performance underpins and continuing employment for a pre-defined period.  
This includes the LTIP awards granted in 2021, 2022, and 2023 and, in respect of Andy Bird, the third tranche of his 
co-investment award.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 124  

GovernanceService contracts 

Terms and conditions of our Directors’ appointment are available for inspection at our registered 
office during normal business hours and at the AGM. So that appropriate arrangements can be 
made for shareholders wishing to inspect documents, we request that shareholders contact the 
Company Secretary by email at companysecretary@pearson.com in advance of any visit to ensure 
that access can be arranged.

The Executive Directors have notice periods in their service contracts of 12 months from the 
company and six months from the Executives. 

The Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors serve Pearson 
under letters of appointment, which are renewed annually and do not have service contracts. The 
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
do not contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their appointments are 
terminated. The Chair’s appointment may be terminated on 12 months’ notice.

Executive Directors’ Non-Executive directorships 

Our current Executive Directors hold the following external commitments: Omar Abbosh is a Non-
Executive Director of Zuora Inc. and Sally Johnson is a Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc 
and Chair of its Audit Committee. 

Note 4: Conditional shares subject to employment only means unvested shares, which are subject to a  
holding period and continued employment. For Andy Bird this includes the first and second tranches of his  
co-investment award. 
Note 5: There have been no other changes in the interests of any Director between 31 December 2023 and 13 
March 2024, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.

Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and  
Non-Executive Director remuneration*

Remuneration in 2023
The remuneration paid to the Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and Non-
Executive Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 is set 
out below.

Director  
£000s

Omid Kordestani
Tim Score
Sherry Coutu CBE
Alison Dolan
Alex Hardiman
Esther Lee
Linda Lorimer
Graeme Pitkethly
Annette Thomas
Lincoln Wallen
Total

Total fees

Taxable 
benefits

500
175
106
47
45
88
33
105
101
93
1,294

34
5
11
-
8
16
15
5
12
15
121

2023

Total

534
180
116
47
54
104
48
110
113
108
1,415

Total fees Taxable benefits

417
163
100
–
–
78
100
98
90
93
1,139

19
3
5
–
–
7
9
4
6
6
59

2022

Total

436
166
105
–
–
85
109
102
97
99
1,198

Note 1: A minimum of 25% of the Chair, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Directors’ basic fee is paid in shares.
Note 2: Taxable benefits refer to travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses incurred while attending  
Board meetings during the period that were paid or reimbursed by the company, and which HMRC deems taxable 
in the UK.
Note 3: Omid Kordestani joined the Pearson Board with effect from 1 March 2022. He became Chair on  
29 April 2022. 
Note 4: Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman joined the Pearson Board with effect from 1 June 2023. 
Note 5: Linda Lorimer stepped down from the Pearson Board on 28 April 2023. 
Note 6: Some figures and subtotals add up to different amounts than the totals due to rounding.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 125

GovernanceDirectors’ remuneration report continued

Historical performance and remuneration 

Total shareholder return performance 
Set out below is Pearson’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance, relative to the FTSE 
All-Share index, on an annual basis over the 10-year period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2023. 
We chose this comparison because the FTSE All-Share represents the broad market index within 
which Pearson shares are traded. TSR is a measure of returns a company provides for shareholders, 
reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.

Alongside this a summary of the single figure of total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the 
last 10 years is provided, and a summary of the variable pay outcomes relative to the prevailing 
maximum at the time. 

180

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Pearson TSR

FTSE All Share TSR

Source: Refinitiv Datastream

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2020

2021

2022

2023

John Fallon

Andy Bird

Total 
remuneration 
(single figure, 
£000s) 
Annual 
incentive (% 
of maximum)
Long-term 
incentive (% 
of maximum)

1,895 1,263 1,518 1,758 3,094 1,616

855

334 5,167 6,856 11,269

51%

Nil

24% 44% 45%

Nil

Nil

N/A

63% 76%

85%

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

42% 33%

Nil

N/A

N/A

N/A

85%

Note 1: Total remuneration is as reflected in the single total figure of remuneration table. The 2021, 2022,  
and 2023 figures for Andy Bird include vesting of the first, second, and third tranches of the co-investment  
award, respectively.
Note 2: Annual incentive is the actual annual incentive received by the incumbent as a percentage of  
maximum opportunity.
Note 3: Long-term incentive is the payout of performance-related share awards where the year shown is the final 
year of the performance period for the purposes of calculating the single total figure of remuneration.
Note 4: The single figure remuneration for Andy Bird in 2022 and 2023 have been converted using a USD:GBP 
exchange rate of 1.24 (average exchange rate for 2022) and 1.25 (average exchange rate for 2023). 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 126  

GovernanceComparative information

The following information provides additional context regarding Directors’ total remuneration. 

Relative percentage change in remuneration of Directors and employees
The following table sets out the year-on-year percentage change in base salary/fees, allowances and benefits and annual incentives in respect of all Directors during the year, compared to the average 
percentage change for all employees of Pearson. The figures for all Directors are calculated based on remuneration received in the relevant year as set out in the tables on page 119 and page 125. For base 
salary/fees, we have annualised part-year figures for this disclosure. Part-year allowances and benefits are not annualised and are excluded from the table.

While the Committee reviews base pay for the Executive Directors relative to Pearson’s broader employee population, local practices drive our approach to benefits, and we determine eligibility depending on 
level and individual circumstances, which do not lend themselves to comparison.

Base 
salary/fees

Allowances  

and benefits

Annual  

Incentives

Base 
salary/fees

Allowances  

and benefits

Annual  

Incentives

Base 
salary/fees

Allowances  

and benefits

2023

2022

2%

Average employee1
Executive Directors 
Andy Bird
3%
Sally Johnson
4%
Chair and Non-Executive Directors2
Omid Kordestani
0%
Tim Score
7%
Sherry Coutu CBE
6%
–
Alison Dolan
–
Alex Hardiman
Esther Lee
3%
Linda Lorimer
3%
Graeme Pitkethly
8%
Annette Thomas
12%
Lincoln Wallen
0%

6%

4%
1%

78%
73%
119%
–
–
122%
66%
23%
102%
154%

22%

74%
37%

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4%

0%
2.5%

–
25%3
9%
–
–
–
0%
5%
7%
0%

8%

20%
0%

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

16%

21%
24%

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

4%

0%
1%

–
13%
5%
–
–
–
1%
1%
–
1%

17%

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2021

Annual  

Incentives

38%

–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Base 
salary/fees

Allowances  

and benefits

1%

–
–

–
0%
5%

–
1%
8%
–
1%

6%

–
–

–
-20%
–

–
102%
–
–
-97%

2020

Annual  

Incentives

9%

–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

Note 1: The average employee pay figure is impacted by changes in headcount (18,360 employees for 2023 vs 20,438 in 2022). Actual merit increase budgets for 2023 were 4% in the UK and 3.5% in the US.
Note 2: Changes in NED fees during the year are a result of changes in Committee Chairs and membership. Allowances and benefits for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors refer to travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses 
incurred while attending Board meetings that were paid or reimbursed by the company, and which HMRC deems taxable in the UK. In 2020 and 2021 the impact of the coronavirus pandemic meant that there were very few in person 
Board meetings, and as such the benefits figures for these years were negligible. This also meant that for 2022 there is no comparative percentage, as the value in the prior year was zero.
Note 3: Increase due to Tim Score taking over as Deputy Chair in April 2022

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 127

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report continued

Relative importance of pay spend

The Committee considers Directors’ remuneration in the context 
of the company’s allocation and disbursement of resources 
to different stakeholders. Adjusted operating profit measures 
Pearson’s ability to reinvest, and dividends are an important 
element of our return to shareholders.

All figures in £

2023

2022

Adjusted operating profit1
Dividends
Dividend per share
Share buybacks2
Total wages and salaries3

573
155
22.7p
186
1,252

456
156
21.5p
353
1,382

Headline change

£ 

117
-1
1.2p
-167
-130

%

26%
-1%
6%
-47%
-9%

Note 1: Adjusted operating profit is as set out in the financial statements. 
Note 2: The Board approved a £300m share buyback programme in 
September 2023 with an extension of £200m announced 1 March 2024.
Note 3: Wages and salaries include continuing operations only and include 
Directors. Average employee numbers for continuing operations for 2023 
were 18,360 (2022:20,438 ), hence the year-on-year negative movement 
in overall spend. Further details are set out in Note 5 to the financial 
statements on page 170.

Chief Executive to employee pay ratio 

The table below illustrates the ratio of Chief Executive to 
employee pay for 2023. We use the single total figure of 
remuneration (as disclosed on page 119), compared to the full-
time equivalent total reward of employees whose pay is ranked 
at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles (as identified by the gender 
pay gap methodology) in Great Britain’s (GB) workforce.

Year

Method

B: Gender pay gap 
methodology
B: Gender pay gap 
methodology
B: Gender pay gap 
methodology
B: Gender pay gap 
methodology
B: Gender pay gap 
methodology

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

Chief Executive pay ratio

25th 
percentile

50th 
percentile

75th 
percentile

304.0

209.9

148.5

214.3

181.3

117.2

150.1

145.0

88.4

42.5

31.9

19.5

65.9

47.2

36.0

 — We used GB gender pay gap data from April 2023 to identify 
employees at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles, and analysed 
data for employees around each quartile figure to ensure 
there were no anomalies

 — Using the gender pay gap data to identify the employees 
at each pay quartile gives a general representation of the 
relevant employee population at the year end, and is the most 
practicable methodology given the timing of the disclosure 
and determination of remuneration outcomes for the  
wider workforce.

 — We compared total remuneration for each employee, 

calculated with reference to 31 December 2023, compared to 
the Chief Executive’s single figure (this was converted using a 
USD:GBP exchange rate of 1.25 – the average exchange rate 
for 2023).

 — For the employees at each pay quartile, we calculated total 
remuneration on a similar basis to the Chief Executive’s 
single figure. We based base salary, pension and benefits on 
full-year figures taken from payroll. Annual bonus figures are 
based on the relevant manager recommendations and relate 
to performance in 2022. None of the employees at the 25th, 
50th or 75th percentile had share awards vesting in 2023.

 — Total remuneration figures for the 25th, 50th and 75th 

percentile employees are: £37,066, £53,685 and £75,912. The 
respective base salaries are: £33,280, £45,054 and £59,650.

 — A significant proportion of the Chief Executive’s pay is linked 

to performance and, in respect of the LTIP and co-investment 
award, share price performance. Therefore, the Chief 
Executive’s pay can vary significantly year-on-year, based on 
company performance.

 — The increase in this year’s pay ratio is a result of a higher 
payout under the AIP for the Chief Executive (85% of 
maximum compared to 76% of maximum last year) as well as 
the vesting of the 2021 LTIP, which was the first LTIP award 
granted to Andy Bird following his appointment as CEO  
in 2021.

 — The median pay ratio is consistent with our wider policies 

on employee pay, reward and progression. The Committee 
is focused on ensuring that remuneration for all Pearson 
colleagues reflects our need to attract and retain the right 
talent for our digital future.

Dilution and use of equity

We can use existing shares bought in the market, treasury shares 
or newly issued shares, to satisfy awards under our various 
share plans. For restricted stock awards under the LTIP, we 
would expect to use market-purchased shares. There are limits 
on the amount of new-issue equity we can use. In any rolling 
10-year period, no more than 10% of Pearson equity will be 
issued, or be capable of being issued, under all Pearson’s share 
plans, and no more than 5% of Pearson equity will be issued, 
or be capable of being issued, under Executive or discretionary 
plans. The headroom available for all Pearson plans, Executive or 
discretionary, and shares held in trust is as follows:

Headroom 

All Pearson plans 
Executive or discretionary plans 
Shares held in trust 

2023

7.6%
4.6%
4.7%

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 128  

GovernanceThe Remuneration Committee in 2023

Terms of reference

Role

Chair

Name

Title

Sherry Coutu CBE

Independent Non-Executive Director

The Committee’s full charter and terms of reference are available on the Governance page of our 
website. A summary of the Committee’s responsibilities is below.

Members

Esther Lee
Tim Score
Annette Thomas 
Internal attendees Omid Kordestani 

Andy Bird
Sally Johnson
Ali Bebo
Paul Christian
Graeme Baldwin
Deloitte LLP (to September 2023)
Alvarez & Marsal (appointed in 
October 2023)

External advisers

Independent Non-Executive Director
Deputy Chair and SID
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chair
Chief Executive
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Human Resources Officer
Senior Vice President, Reward
Company Secretary

Advisers to the Remuneration Committee

During most of 2023, the Remuneration Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP. 

Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee in July 2017, following a competitive tender process. 
It has advised the Committee on market trends and developments, incentive plan design and target 
setting, investor engagement and other general executive remuneration matters. For provision of 
these services in 2023, Deloitte LLP were paid fees of £131,500, based on time spent. During the 
year, separate teams at Deloitte LLP also provided Pearson with certain tax and other advisory and 
consultancy services. Deloitte LLP is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group 
and adheres to its Code of Conduct.

In the summer of 2023, the Committee undertook a formal tender process, the outcome of which 
resulted in Alvarez & Marsal being appointed as the independent Remuneration Committee advisers 
in October 2023. Alvarez & Marsal supplied the Committee with advice on current market trends 
and developments, incentive plan design and target setting, investor engagement and other general 
executive remuneration matters. For provision of these services in 2023, Alvarez & Marsal were 
paid fees of £25,250, based on time spent. Alvarez & Marsal does not provide any other services to 
Pearson. Alvarez & Marsal is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and adheres to its 
Code of Conduct.

The Committee is satisfied that advice provided by both Deloitte LLP and Alvarez & Marsal was 
objective and independent, and that the provision of other services in no way compromised its 
independence. The Committee believes that the engagement partners and teams from both Deloitte 
LLP and Alvarez & Marsal do not have any connections with Pearson or its Directors that may impair 
its independence. The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and believes there 
are appropriate safeguards against such conflicts. 

The terms of reference reflect the provisions of the 2018 Code.

Committee responsibilities

Determine and review policy
Determine and regularly review the remuneration policies for the Executive Directors, Presidents, 
and other members of Pearson’s Executive Management who report directly to the Chief Executive. 
These policies include base salary, annual and long-term incentives, pension arrangements, any 
other benefits, and termination of employment. When setting remuneration policy, the Committee 
considers remuneration practices and related policies for all employees
Shareholder engagement
Ensure Pearson engages with its shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on the 
remuneration policy and its implementation
Review and approve implementation
Regularly review the implementation and operation of the remuneration policy, and approve the 
individual remuneration and benefits packages of Pearson’s Executive Management team, including 
Executive Directors
Approve performance-related plans
Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance-related pay plans operated by 
the Group for Pearson’s Executive Management team, and approve total payments to be made 
under such plans
Set termination arrangements
Advise and decide on general and specific remuneration arrangements in connection with the 
termination of employment of Pearson’s Executive Management team, including Executive Directors
Determine Chair’s remuneration
Delegated responsibility for determining the Chair’s remuneration and benefits package
Appoint remuneration consultants
Appoint and set the terms of engagement for any remuneration consultants who advise the 
Committee, and monitor the cost of such advice
Talent, retention, and gender pay gap
Review updates from management on talent, retention, and gender pay gap
Workforce remuneration 
Have oversight of workforce remuneration, policies, and practice for the wider organisation

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 129

GovernanceDirectors’ Remuneration Report continued

Remuneration Committee meeting focus 
during 2023

 — Received updates on pay and conditions across  

Pearson, and took these into account when determining 
executive remuneration

During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: 

 — Noted updates on corporate governance, including a review 

 — Reviewed and approved annual and long-term performance 
and payouts to Executive Directors and senior management 
for 2022

 — Reviewed and approved incentive arrangements for Pearson, 
and how these will apply to Executive Directors and senior 
management in 2023

 — Approved the 2022 Directors’ Remuneration Report

 — Engaged extensively with shareholders in advance of and following 
the 2023 AGM to understand the views of shareholders in respect 
of the 2023 Directors’ remuneration policy (further detail on this 
was included in the Chair letter on page 108)

 — Reviewed and considered all feedback received from shareholder 
engagement exercises as part of the Committee’s discussions and 
considered ongoing shareholder engagement strategy

 — Determined remuneration arrangements for the appointment 

of a new Chief Executive 

 — Approved remuneration arrangements in respect of Andy 

Bird’s retirement 

 — Received updates on Pearson’s financial performance and 

progress against strategic measures. Noted and reviewed the 
status of in-flight incentives

of the 2023 AGM remuneration reporting season, and 
anticipated areas of focus in 2024

 — Reviewed Pearson’s UK gender and ethnicity pay gap 

disclosures and noted actions to address the respective gaps

 — Noted the activity of the Standing Committee on operating 
Pearson’s equity-based reward programmes and noted 
Pearson’s use of equity for employee share plans

 — Undertook a formal competitive tender process to select an 

independent adviser to the Committee, the outcome of which 
resulted in Alvarez & Marsal being appointed in October 2023 

 — Evaluated the Remuneration Committee and the Committee’s 

Terms of Reference 

Committee evaluation

Annually, the Committee reviews its performance, constitution, 
charter, and terms of reference and recommends any changes 
it considers necessary to the Board for approval. For 2023, 
feedback relating to the Committee was sought from Directors 
and certain other stakeholders as part of the wider Board 
evaluation led by Manchester Square Partners.

Overall, the Committee was considered to be working well with 
appropriate agendas, papers produced to a good standard and 
high-quality discussions. There was acknowledgment of the 
challenges faced by the Committee in 2023 in respect of its work 
relating to the new Directors' Remuneration Policy, in needing 
remuneration arrangements that act as an attraction, retention, 
and incentivisation tool for global talent (particularly in the US 
where North America represents the majority of our business), 
whilst being sensitive to the views of our diverse shareholder 
base. The Committee was deemed to have managed these 
issues with a high level of rigour and balance, including extensive 
engagement with shareholders, and ensuring an appropriate 
level of focus on the metrics and KPIs that would incentivise the 
delivery of the Company’s strategy.

In 2024, the Committee will continue to focus on ensuring 
remuneration arrangements for senior management and the 
wider workforce continue to support the attraction and retention 
of key talent as well as the delivery of Pearson’s strategy. The 
Committee continually assesses how its activities support and 
enable Pearson’s progress.

The Directors’ remuneration report has been approved by the 
Board on 13 March 2024 and signed on its behalf by: 

Sherry Coutu, CBE 

Chair of Remuneration Committee

Voting on remuneration resolutions 

The following table summarises votes cast for remuneration resolutions:

Directors’ Remuneration Policy (2023 AGM)

Annual report on Remuneration (2023 AGM)

Votes cast for

299,899,081

484,017,430

% of votes  
cast for

53.63%

86.85%

Votes cast against

259,251,476

73,300,461

% of votes  

cast against

46.37%

13.15%

Votes  

withheld

223,851

2,056,516

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 130  

GovernanceAdditional disclosures

Pages 66-136 of this document comprise the Directors’ report for 
the year ended 31 December 2023.

Set out below is other statutory and regulatory information that 
Pearson is required to disclose in its Directors’ report.

Going Concern 

The Directors have confirmed that there are no material 
uncertainties that cast doubt on the Group’s going concern 
status and that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence beyond 30 June 2025. The consolidated financial 
statements have therefore been prepared on a going  
concern basis.

Further details on the procedures undertaken may be found on 
page 160.

Viability statement

The Board assessed the prospects of the company using the 
company’s long-range plan. Viability was assessed by considering 
downside scenarios. Based on the result of these procedures 
and considering the company’s strong balance sheet, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that Pearson will be 
able to continue in operation and to meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the five-year period ending 31 December 2028. Further 
details may be found on page 65.

Share capital

Details of share issues and cancellations are given in note 27 to 
the financial statements on page 198. The company has a single 
class of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each. 
The ordinary shares are in registered form. As at 31 December 
2023, 697,298,680 ordinary shares were in issue. At the AGM 
held on 28 April 2023, the company was authorised, subject to 
certain conditions, to acquire up to 71,612,324 ordinary shares 
by market purchase and to issue up to 477,415,494 ordinary 
shares. Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities, 
subject to revised caps, at the AGM on 26 April 2024.

As at 8 March 2024, 2,381 record holders with registered 
addresses in the United States held 29,631,529 ADRs which 
represented 4.32% of the company’s outstanding ordinary 
shares. Some of these ADRs are held by nominees and so these 
numbers may not accurately represent the number of shares 
beneficially owned in the United States.

Share buyback

On 28 April 2023, the company announced its intention to 
commence a share buyback programme during 2023, which was 
subsequently launched on 21 September 2023 and completed 
on 7 March 2024. Under the programme, approximately 32m 
shares were bought back and cancelled at a cost of £300m. 
The nominal value of these shares, approximately £8m, was 
transferred to the capital redemption reserve. 

On 1 March 2024, the company announced its intention to 
launch a £200m share buyback programme during 2024, which 
commenced on 8 March 2024 and is anticipated to end on or 
before 8 August 2024. The repurchased shares will be cancelled 
and the nominal value of the shares will be transferred to the 
capital redemption reserve.

The Board believes that the company’s strategic priorities, 
combined with the disciplined approach to capital allocation,  
will enable Pearson to create sustainable, long-term value for 
every stakeholder.

We have set out clear capital allocation priorities as follows:

 — Maintaining a strong balance sheet and solid investment-

grade credit ratings through an appropriate capital structure 

 — Focused and disciplined approach to investing in the business 

to accelerate growth opportunities 

 — Delivering shareholder returns through a progressive and 

sustainable dividend policy 

 — Returning surplus cash to shareholders as and when 
appropriate through buybacks or special dividends

Major shareholders

Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
(DTR) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on 
the company’s website.

As at 31 December 2023, the company had been notified under  
DTR 5 of the following holders of significant voting rights in its 
shares. 

Cevian Capital II GP Limited
BlackRock, Inc.1
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and  
its group
Silchester International Investors 
LLP2
Artemis Investment 
Management LLP
Libyan Investment Authority3

Number  

of voting rights

85,202,977
69,580,016

Percentage 
as at date of 
notification

12.02%
9.69%

41,236,375

5.02%

36,341,993

<5%

35,207,368
24,431,000

5%
3.01%

1.  Includes 10,034,738 (1.38%) qualifying financial instruments to which voting rights 

are attached.

2.  Investor has dropped below the reportable threshold, therefore they are no longer 

required to disclose their holding under DTR 5.

3.  Based on notification to the company dated 7 June 2010. We have not been notified 
of any change to this holding since that date. Assets belonging to, or owned, held or 
controlled on 16 September 2011 by the Libyan Investment Authority and located 
outside Libya on that date, are frozen in accordance with The Libya (Sanctions) (EU 
Exit) Regulations 2020.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 131

GovernanceAdditional disclosures continued

Annual general meeting

The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 10:30am on Friday,  
26 April 2024 at 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, is contained in a 
circular to shareholders to be dated 22 March 2024.

shareholders, or by any shareholders (or their representatives) 
present in person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate 
sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum paid up 
on all ordinary shares. At this year’s AGM, voting will again be 
conducted on a poll, consistent with best practice.

notice under section 793 of the Act (which confers upon public 
companies the power to require information with respect to 
interests in their voting shares) and they or any interested 
person failed to supply the company with the information 
requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice. 

Registered auditors

In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 (the 
Act), a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young 
LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a 
level of remuneration to be agreed by the Audit Committee.

Amendment to Articles of Association

Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the company 
(the Articles) may be made in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act by way of a special resolution. 

Rights attaching to shares

The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the 
Articles. A shareholder whose name appears on the company’s 
register of members can choose whether his/her shares are 
evidenced by share certificates (i.e. in certificated form) or held 
electronically (i.e. uncertificated form) in CREST (the electronic 
settlement system in the UK).

Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend 
any general meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, 
every shareholder (or his/her representative) who is present at 
a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a 
poll, every shareholder (whether an individual or a corporation) 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 
25p of nominal share capital held. A resolution put to the vote 
at a general meeting held partly by means of electronic facility 
or facilities shall, unless the chair of the meeting determines 
that it shall be decided on a show of hands, be decided on a 
poll. Subject to this, at any general meeting, a resolution put to 
the vote at the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, 
unless before, or on the declaration of the result of, a vote on a 
show of hands, a poll is demanded. A poll can be demanded by 
the chair of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders (or 
their representatives) present in person and having the right to 
vote, or by any shareholders (or their representatives) present 
in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all 

Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary 
resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed 
the amount recommended by the Board. The Board can pay 
interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and 
on the dates and for the periods they decide. In all cases, the 
distributable profits of the company must be sufficient to justify 
the payment of the relevant dividend.

The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the 
shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive 
new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead 
of their cash dividend.

Any dividend which has not been claimed for eight years after it 
became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to 
the company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.

If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction  
of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among  
the shareholders in specie all or any part of the assets of the 
company and can value assets and determine how the division  
shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different  
classes of shareholders.

The liquidator can also, with the same sanction, transfer the 
whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon such trusts for 
the benefit of the shareholders.

Voting at general meetings

Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the company 
in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the 
company (via its registrars), whether in written or electronic form, 
not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the 
meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the 
appointment proposes to vote.

The Board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled to 
attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting 
or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder 
if they or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a 

The Board may also decide, where the relevant shareholding 
comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued 
shares of that class, that no dividend is payable in respect of 
those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares 
shall be registered unless the shareholder is not themself in 
default as regards supplying the information requested and the 
transfer, when presented for registration, is accompanied by a 
certificate from the shareholder in such form as the Board of 
Directors may require to the effect that after due and careful 
inquiry, the shareholder is satisfied that no person in default 
is interested in any of the ordinary shares which are being 
transferred, or the transfer is an approved transfer as defined in 
the Articles, or the registration of the transfer is required by the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.

Pearson operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares, 
pending employees becoming entitled to them under the 
company’s employee share plans. There were 2,160,045 shares 
held as at 31 December 2023. The trust has an independent 
trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of  
such shares. A dividend waiver operates on the shares held  
in the trust.

Pearson also operates nominee shareholding arrangements 
which hold shares on behalf of employees. As at 31 December 
2023, there were 2,214,425 shares held in the Sharestore 
account administered by Equiniti Limited (Equiniti). The beneficial 
owners of shares held in Sharestore are invited to submit voting 
instructions online at www.shareview.co.uk. If no instructions are 
given by the beneficial owner by the date specified, the trustees 
holding these shares will not exercise the voting rights.

As at 31 December 2023, there were 2,949,951 shares held 
in the Computershare Share Plan Account (SPA), which 
is administered by Computershare Investor Services plc 
(Computershare). Beneficial holders of shares held in the 
Computershare Share Plan Account (SPA) are invited to 
submit voting instructions online at www.equateplus.com. If 
no instructions are given by the beneficial owner by the date 
specified, the nominee holding these shares will not exercise the 
voting rights.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 132  

GovernanceTransfer of shares

The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated 
share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not 
prevent dealings in shares in the company from taking place on 
an open and proper basis. The Board may also refuse to register 
a transfer of a certificated share unless: (i) the instrument of 
transfer is lodged, duly stamped (if stampable) or duly certified or 
otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt 
from stamp duty, at the registered office of the company or 
any other place decided by the Board, and is accompanied by 
the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other 
evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right 
of the transferor to make the transfer; (ii) it is in respect of only 
one class of shares; and (iii) it is in favour of not more than  
four transferees.

Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing 
the operation of CREST.

Variation of rights

If at any time the capital of the company is divided into different 
classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be 
varied or revoked either:

(i)  with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the relevant class or

(ii)  with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a 

separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the 
relevant class.

Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on 
the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share 
may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special 
rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, 
return of capital or otherwise as the company may from time to 
time by ordinary resolution determine.

Appointment and replacement  
of Directors

The Articles contain the following provisions in relation  
to Directors.

Directors shall be no less than two in number. Directors may be 
appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by  
the Board.

A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the 
next AGM and shall then be eligible for re-appointment.  
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors 
to hold Executive office with the company for such period 
(subject to the provisions of the Act) and upon such terms as the 
Board may decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment 
so made.

The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, every 
Director shall retire from office and, unless not willing to act, be 
eligible for re-appointment. 

If a Director is not re-appointed, they shall, subject to the Articles, 
retain office until the meeting appoints someone in their place, 
or, if it does not do so, until the end of the meeting, or, if the 
meeting is adjourned, the end of the adjourned meeting. Where 
a Director has been appointed after notice of the annual general 
meeting has been given, that Director shall retire at the next 
annual general meeting of which notice is first given after his or 
her appointment as Director. 

If there is an insufficient number of appointed or re-appointed 
Directors at any of the company’s annual general meetings 
thus rendering the Board inquorate, all Directors shall be 
automatically re-appointed only for the purposes of filling 
vacancies and convening general meetings of the company 
and to perform such duties as are appropriate to maintain the 
company as a going concern and to enable it to comply with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. The Directors are required to 
convene a further general meeting of the company as soon as 
reasonably practicable to allow new Directors to be appointed, 

and such Directors who were not appointed at the original 
general meeting shall subsequently retire.

The company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director 
before the expiration of their term of office. In addition, the 
Board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any 
Director for the provision of their services to the company.

Powers of the Directors

Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special 
resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the 
Board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including 
powers relating to the issue and/or buying back of shares by the 
company (subject to authorisation, and any statutory restrictions 
or restrictions imposed by shareholders in a general meeting).

Directors’ indemnities

A qualifying third-party indemnity (QTPI), as permitted by the 
Articles and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has been granted 
by the company to each of its Directors. Under the provisions of 
the QTPI, the company undertakes to indemnify each Director 
against liability to third parties (excluding criminal and regulatory 
penalties) and to pay Directors’ costs as incurred, provided that 
they are reimbursed to the company if the Director is found 
guilty, the court refuses to grant the relief sought or, in an action 
brought by the company, judgement is given against the Director. 
The indemnity has been in force for the financial year ended 
31 December 2023 and is currently in force. The company has 
purchased and maintains Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover 
against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection 
with any act or omission by such Directors and Officers in the 
execution of their duties.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 133

GovernanceAdditional disclosures continued

Significant agreements

Other statutory information

The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling 
the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the 
event of a change of control of the company.

As at 31 December 2023, the Group’s principal bank facility, the  
$1bn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) agreement, allowed that upon 
a change of control of the company, any participating bank may 
require its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest 
and any other amounts payable in respect of such facility, 
and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of 
notification to the banks by the agent. The facility was undrawn 
at year end. The Group’s outstanding fixed rate notes (see note 
18 Borrowings for more information) also contain a provision 
requiring that, in the event of a change of control which leads to 
a downgrade in credit rating below Baa3 (Moody’s) or BBB- (Fitch 
Ratings), the company is required to make an offer to investors to 
repurchase outstanding instruments at par plus accrued interest, 
which investors are not obliged to accept. 

For these purposes, a ‘change of control’ occurs if the company 
becomes a subsidiary of any other company, or one or more 
persons acting either individually or in concert obtains control (as 
defined in section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010) of the 
company. 

Shares acquired through the company’s employee share plans 
rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights. 
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out 
the consequences of a change of control of the company.

Other information that is required by the Act and by the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) to be included in the 
Directors’ report, and which is incorporated by reference, can be 
located as follows:

Summary disclosures index

See more

Dividend recommendation
Financial instruments and financial risk 
management
Important events since year end
Future development of the business
Research and development activities
Employment of disabled persons
Employee involvement
Greenhouse gas emissions and energy 
consumption data
Statement describing employee engagement
Statement describing regard to suppliers, 
customers and other stakeholders’ interests

Page 33
Page 186

Page 206
Pages 6-7
Page 22
Page 41
Page 39
Page 52

Page 20
Page 21

With the exception of the dividend waiver described on page 132 
there is no information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing 
Rule 9.8.4.

No political donations or contributions were made or 
expenditure incurred by the company or its subsidiaries during 
the year.

Our disclosures are consistent with the recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and 
are set out on pages 44-48.

Fair, balanced and understandable 
reporting and disclosure of information

As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have 
established arrangements to ensure that all information 
we report to investors and regulators is fair, balanced and 
understandable. In making its assessment, the Board pays 
particular attention to a set of criteria recommended by the 
Financial Reporting Council, including the use of straightforward 
language, focus on content that is important to investors, and 
exclusion of irrelevant information. 

A process and timetable for the production and approval of 
this year’s annual report and accounts was agreed by the 
Board at its meeting in December 2023. The full Board then 
had the opportunity to review and comment on the report as it 
progressed. 

The Audit Committee is available to advise the Board on certain 
aspects of the annual report and accounts, to enable the 
Directors to fulfil their responsibility in this regard. In particular, 
for 2023, the Audit Committee considered a report evidencing 
how the fair, balanced and understandable criteria were satisfied 
throughout the annual report and accounts. 

Following their review, and taking into account a recommendation 
by the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that the annual 
report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy.

Representatives from Financial Reporting, Strategy, Investor 
Relations, Corporate Affairs, Sustainability, Company Secretarial, 
Legal, Internal Audit, Risk, HR and Reward teams are involved 
in the preparation and review of the annual report to ensure a 
cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial 
reporting, a thorough verification of narrative and financial 
statements is conducted. We also have procedures in place to 
ensure the timely release of inside information, through our 
Market Disclosure Committee.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 134  

GovernanceDirectors in office

The following Directors were in office during the year and up to 
the date of approval of these financial statements:

O P Abbosh – appointed on 8 
January 2024
A P Bird – resigned on 7 January 
2024
S L Coutu
A Dolan – appointed on 1 June 
2023
A Hardiman – appointed on 1 
June 2023
S K M Johnson
O Kordestani

E S Lee

LK Lorimer – retired on 28 
April 2023
G D Pitkethly
T Score

A C Thomas

L A Wallen

The Directors’ report has been approved by the Board on  
13 March 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Graeme Baldwin Company Secretary

The Directors also confirm that, for each Director in office at the 
date of this report:

 — so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group and company’s auditors  
are unaware

 — they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 
as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group and the 
company’s auditors are aware of that information

Streamlined Energy and Carbon  
Reporting (SECR)

In line with the requirements set out in the UK Government’s 
guidance on Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting, the 
following data points representing Pearson’s energy use and 
associated GHG emissions from electricity and fuel, can be found 
on page 52 in the Sustainability section of this report:

 — Annual global GHG emissions from activities for which the 
company is responsible, including combustion of fuel and 
operation of any facility, and the annual emissions from the 
purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling by the company 
for its own use

 — Underlying global energy use

 — Energy use and GHG emissions figures from previous year

 — Emissions intensity ratio

 — Energy efficiency measures taken throughout the year

Our performance metrics have been calculated with reference 
to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and externally verified. The 
external verification statement can be found here: https://plc.
pearson.com/en-GB/sustainability/our-esg-reporting.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 135

GovernanceStatement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Directors’ confirmations

Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed  
in the Governance report, confirms that, to the best of  
their knowledge:

 — The Group and company financial statements, which have 

been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and IFRS Accounting Standards as 
issued by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities 
and financial position of the Group and company, and of the 
profit of the Group.

 — The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group and company, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.

This responsibility statement has been approved by the Board on 
13 March 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Sally Johnson Chief Financial Officer

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and accounts and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors 
have prepared the Group and company financial statements in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. 
In preparing the Group and company financial statements, the 
Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS Accounting 
Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by IASB).

Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:

 — Select suitable accounting policies and then apply  

them consistently.

 — State whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting 
standards and IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by IASB 
have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.

 — Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 

reasonable and prudent.

 — Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and 
company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 
company’s transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Group and company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ remuneration report comply with the Companies  
Act 2006.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 136  

Financial statementsIndependent Auditor’s Report to the members of Pearson plc

Opinion

In our opinion:

 — Pearson plc’s group financial statements and parent company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true 
and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the group’s 
profit for the year then ended;

 — the group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with UK adopted international accounting 
standards and IFRS accounting standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);

 — the parent company financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with UK adopted international 
accounting standards and IFRS accounting standards as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) 
as applied in accordance with section 408 of the Companies 
Act 2006; and

 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 

with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 

We have audited the financial statements of Pearson plc (the 
‘parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 which comprise:

Parent company

Balance sheet as at 31 
December 2023

Statement of changes in 
equity for the year ended 31 
December 2023
Cash flow statement for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 
Related notes 1 to 11 to the 
financial statements, including 
material accounting policy 
information

Group

Consolidated income 
statement for the year ended 
31 December 2023
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the 
year ended 31 December 2023
Consolidated balance sheet as 
at 31 December 2023
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity for the year 
ended 31 December 2023

Consolidated cash flow 
statement for the year ended 
31 December 2023
Related notes 1 to 38 to  
the financial statements, 
including material accounting 
policy information

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law, UK adopted international 
accounting standards and IFRS accounting standards as issued 
by the IASB and as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006.

 — We assessed the appropriateness of the duration of the  
going concern assessment period to 30 June 2025 and 
considered the existence of any significant events or 
conditions beyond this period based on our procedures  
on the Group’s long-range plan and knowledge arising from 
other areas of the audit.

Basis for opinion 

We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements section of our report. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the group and parent in accordance 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements. 

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard 
were not provided to the group or the parent company and we 
remain independent of the group and the parent company in 
conducting the audit. 

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that 
the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in 
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Our 
evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group and parent 
company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting included: 

 — In conjunction with our walkthrough of the Group’s financial 
statement close process, we confirmed our understanding 
of management’s going concern assessment process to 
understand and challenge the key assumptions made  
in their assessment.

 — We agreed the 31 December 2023 cash and debt balances 

included in the going concern assessment to the Group’s year 
end balances.

 — We read the group’s debt agreements to confirm availability 

and to understand the covenant requirements and 
reperformed management’s covenant compliance test to 
check that no covenants have been breached during the year 
to 31 December 2023. We have also tested management’s 
forecast covenant compliance test to check that there is no 
forecast covenant breach in either the base or severe but 
plausible downside case scenarios during the going concern 
assessment period covering the period to 30 June 2025. 

 — For debt amounts that are repayable within the going concern 
assessment period we have understood the assumptions that 
management has made in respect of refinancing. 

 — We checked the logic and arithmetical integrity of 

management’s going concern model that includes the cash 
forecasts for the going concern assessment period to  
30 June 2025. 

 — We challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions used 
to calculate the cash forecasts under base and plausible 
downside case scenarios, including whether the downside 
scenarios were sufficiently severe, by reference to historical 
forecasting accuracy and comparison to sector benchmarks 
and other evidence obtained during the audit, such as 
audit procedures on the long range plans which underpin 
management’s goodwill impairment assessments. 

 — We evaluated the key assumptions by searching for contrary 
evidence to challenge these assumptions, including third 
party sector forecasts and analyst expectations. Further, we 
validated that these assumptions were consistent with the 
budget approved by Pearson’s Board. 

 — We considered the mitigating actions that are within the 
control of the Group and evaluated the Group’s ability to 
control these outflows if required. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 137

Financial statementsIndependent Auditor’s Report continued

 — We considered the Group’s reverse stress testing to identify 

the magnitude of decline in revenue and operating profit that 
would lead to the Group utilising all liquidity or breaching a 
covenant during the going concern assessment period and 
we have challenged the likelihood of such a decline. 

 — We reviewed the Group’s going concern disclosures included 
in the Annual Report, in note 1(b) to the financial statements, 
to assess that they were accurate and in conformity with the 
reporting standards. 

We observe that in management’s base case and severe but 
plausible downside scenarios, there is headroom without taking 
the benefit of any identified mitigations. 

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified 
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions 
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on 
the group and parent company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern for a period to 30 June 2025. 

In relation to the group and parent company’s reporting on how 
they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the 
directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether 
the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors 
with respect to going concern are described in the relevant 
sections of this report. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as 
to the group’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Overview of our audit approach

Audit scope

 — We performed an audit of the 

complete financial information of 5 
components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further 6 
components. We also performed 
specified audit procedures on specific 
balances for a further 2 components. 

 — The components where we performed 

full or specific audit procedures 
accounted for 82% of adjusted Profit 
before tax, 83% of Revenue and 89% 
of Total assets.

Key audit matters

 — Fraud risks in revenue recognition

 — Valuation of acquired intangible assets

 — Uncertain tax provision for EU State 

Aid case

Materiality

 — Overall group materiality of £24.6m 

which represents 5% of adjusted Profit 
before tax.

An overview of the scope of the parent 
company and group audits 

Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and 
our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit 
scope for each company within the Group. Taken together, 
this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We take into account size, risk profile, 
the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide 
controls, changes in the business environment, the potential 
impact of climate change and other factors such as recent 
Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be 
performed at each company.

The Group operates finance shared service centres in Belfast 
and Manila, the outputs of which are included in the financial 
information of the reporting components they service and 
therefore they are not separate reporting components. Each 
of the service centres is subject to specified risk-focused audit 
procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing 
and controls testing. 

Additional procedures are performed at the scoped components 
to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed 
over the shared service centres, or where the scoped 
components are not served by the shared service centres.

In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate 
quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial 
statements, of the 497 reporting components of the Group, we 
selected 13 components covering entities within the UK, US and 
Australia, which represent the principal business units within  
the Group.

Of the 13 components selected, we performed an audit of the 
complete financial information of 5 components (“full scope 
components”) which were selected based on their size or risk 
characteristics, including the parent company; Pearson plc. For 6 
components (“specific scope components”), we performed audit 
procedures on specific accounts within that component that 
we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the 
significant accounts in the financial statements either because of 
the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 

For an additional 2 components (“specified procedures 
components”), we performed certain audit procedures on 
specific accounts within that component that we considered had 
the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts 
in the financial statements, either because of the size of these 
accounts or their risk profile. These procedures were undertaken 
by separate component audit teams under the primary audit 
team’s direction. 

The reporting components where we performed audit 
procedures accounted for 82% (2022: 85%) of the Group’s 
adjusted Profit before tax, 83% (2022: 89%) of the Group’s 
Revenue and 89% (2022: 95%) of the Group’s Total assets. For 
the current year, the full scope components contributed 56% 
(2022: 71%) of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax, 72% 
(2022: 73%) of the Group’s Revenue and 83% (2022: 88%) of the 
Group’s Total assets. The specific scope components contributed 
25% (2022: 14%) of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax, 11% 
(2022:16%) of the Group’s Revenue and 6% (2022: 7%) of the 
Group’s Total assets. The audit scope of these components 
may not have included testing of all significant accounts of 
the component but will have contributed to the coverage of 
significant accounts tested for the Group. We also instructed 2 
locations to perform specified procedures over certain balances, 
including aspects of revenue recognition. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 138  

Financial statementsOur audit effort in considering the impact of climate change 
on the financial statements was focused on evaluating 
management’s assessment of the impact of physical and 
transition climate risk, their climate commitments, the 
effects of material climate risks disclosed on pages 45-46 
and whether these have been appropriately reflected in 
asset values where these are impacted by future cash flows 
and associated sensitivity disclosures, this primarily being 
impairment assessments following the requirements of UK-
adopted international accounting standards and IFRS accounting 
standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). As part of this evaluation, we performed our own 
risk assessment, supported by our climate change internal 
specialists, to determine the risks of material misstatement in the 
financial statements from climate change which needed to be 
considered in our audit. 

We also challenged the Directors’ considerations of climate 
change risks in their assessment of going concern and viability 
and associated disclosures. Where considerations of climate 
change were relevant to our assessment of going concern, these 
are described above. 

Based on our work we have not identified the impact of climate 
change on the financial statements to be a key audit matter or to 
impact a key audit matter.

Of the remaining 484 components that together represent 18% 
of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax, none are individually 
greater than 3% of the Group’s adjusted Profit before tax. For 
these components, we performed other procedures, including 
testing certain management review controls, analytical review, 
testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations 
to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the 
Group financial statements.

Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken 
at each of the components by us, as the primary audit 
engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY 
global network firms operating under our instruction. The audit 
procedures performed at the finance shared service centres 
were performed by the primary team with assistance from the 
Philippines member firm. Due to the financial shared service 
environment described earlier, of the 5 full scope components, 
audit procedures were performed on all of these directly by the 
primary audit team, with assistance from our US component 
team. Of the 6 specific scope components, audit procedures 
were performed on 5 of these directly by the primary audit 
team, with assistance from our US component team. For the 
1 specific scope component, where the work was performed 
by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level 
of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit 
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the 
Group as a whole.

The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of 
planned visits that has been designed to ensure that each full 
or specific scope component was visited by either the Senior 
Statutory Auditor, or other senior members of the Group 
audit team. During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were 
undertaken by the primary audit team to the component team in 
the US and the Manila shared service centre team. These visits 
involved discussing the audit approach with the component 
team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local 
management, attending planning and progress meetings and 
reviewing relevant audit working papers on risk areas. 

The primary team interacted regularly with the component 
teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, 
reviewed relevant working papers and were responsible for the 
scope and direction of the audit process. Close meetings for 
full, specific, and specified procedures components (excluding 
those performed by the primary audit team) were held via video 
conference in January and February 2024 and were attended 
by the Senior Statutory Auditor and/or other members of the 
primary audit team. This, together with the additional procedures 
performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our 
opinion on the Group financial statements.

Climate change 
Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate change 
will impact Pearson. The Group has determined that the 
most significant future impacts from climate change on their 
operations will be from physical risks in the medium and long 
term. These are explained on pages 44-48 in the required Task 
Force for Climate related Financial Disclosures. They have also 
explained their climate commitments on pages 42-43. All of 
these disclosures form part of the “Other information,” rather 
than the audited financial statements. Our procedures on these 
unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of considering 
whether they are materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit 
or otherwise appear to be materially misstated, in line with our 
responsibilities on “Other information”.

In planning and performing our audit we assessed the potential 
impacts of climate change on the Group’s business and any 
consequential material impact on its financial statements. 

The Group has explained in the Basis of Preparation note the 
key areas of the financial statements that may be impacted 
by climate change and the Group concluded there is no 
material financial statement impact from climate change. 
These disclosures also explain where governmental and 
societal responses to climate change risks are still developing, 
and where the degree of certainty of these changes means 
that they cannot be taken into account when determining 
impairment assessments under the requirements of UK-
adopted International accounting standards and IFRS accounting 
standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 139

Financial statementsIndependent Auditor’s Report continued

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks 
of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and 
directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.

Risk 

Our response to the risk

Fraud risk in revenue recognition (revenues 
of £3,674 million, 2022 £3,841 million)

We obtained an understanding of and evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over 
the Group’s material revenue processes. 

Refer to the Audit Committee’s Report (page 105); 
Accounting policies (page 158; and note 3 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements (page 163)

Given revenue is a key performance indicator, both 
in communication of the Group’s results and for 
management incentives, we have identified a risk of 
management override of controls through topside 
manual journal entries to revenue.

We performed testing over revenue recognition in 5 full scope components, 6 specific scope components and 2 
specified procedures components. 

The audit of topside manual journals included central testing of the consolidation and close-process adjustments, 
testing any that had an entry against revenue and obtaining supporting evidence.

Where relevant, we have understood each significant revenue stream in each full, specific and specified procedure 
location. Where a process is automated, we have performed testing over all manual journals recorded against 
revenue. Where a process has more manual intervention, we performed testing during the year and placed 
increased focus over testing manual adjustments at year end and obtained supporting evidence.

The testing was performed in combination by the component teams and the Group audit team.

Key observations 
communicated to the 
Audit Committee 

Revenue for the year to 31 
December 2023 has been 
recognised appropriately and 
based on our procedures 
performed, we have not identified 
any inappropriate revenue  
journal entries. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 140  

Financial statementsRisk 

Our response to the risk

Our audit of the fair values of the acquired intangible assets was performed by the Group audit team, with 
specified procedures performed by a non-EY audit team over certain Prospective Financial Information (“PFI”) used 
in the valuation model. 

We reviewed the underlying sale and purchase agreements and tested the consideration for the acquisition.

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the 
Group’s process to identify and value intangible assets, including their use of an external valuation specialist. 

We assessed the independence and expertise of management’s external valuation specialist. 

We assessed the valuation methodologies applied by management, with the assistance of EY valuation specialists, 
to validate that they were appropriate. 

We focused our testing of the PFI included in the valuation calculation on the significant assumption that is most 
sensitive to the valuation, namely revenue growth rates. 

We challenged these assumptions by comparison to historical performance, underlying contractual terms and 
corroborating the rationale for any future growth. We instructed a non-EY audit team to test details of revenue for 
FY23 to underlying contracts and related approved funding by US governmental agencies for 2024.

We evaluated the adequacy of the business combination disclosures to the requirements in IFRS 3.

Valuation of acquired intangible assets  
(£117 million, 2022 £110 million)

Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 105); 
Accounting policies (page153); and Note 30 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements (page 201).

During the year, Pearson made one significant 
acquisition: Personnel Decisions Research 
Institutes, LLC (‘PDRI’) for cash consideration of 
£152 million. 

The valuation of acquired intangible assets 
requires specialised skills since it involves  
complex judgement due to the estimation 
uncertainty and the application of valuation 
techniques built, in part, on assumptions around 
the future performance of the acquired business. 
Changes in certain of these assumptions can have 
a material effect on the valuation of acquired 
intangible assets.

We focused our procedures on the most significant 
elements of the valuation, namely the software as a 
service (‘SaaS’) customer contracts and technology 
intangible assets, with an aggregate value of £97 
million. The most significant assumption that is 
most sensitive for the valuation of these assets was 
revenue growth rates.

Key observations 
communicated to the 
Audit Committee 

Based on our procedures 
performed the valuation of  
the acquired PDRI intangibles  
is acceptable and the methodology 
used is in accordance with  
IFRS 3 Business Combinations.  
We agree that the disclosures 
in Note 30 of the consolidated 
financial statements provide  
the detail required by IFRS 3  
and appropriately reflect the  
level of estimation.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 141

Financial statementsIndependent Auditor’s Report continued

Risk 

Our response to the risk

Uncertain tax position for EU State Aid case 
(£63 million, 2022 £63 million)

Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 106); 
Accounting policies (page 157); and Notes 7 and 34 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 171 
and 204).

Pearson has recorded a provision for the uncertain 
tax position related to the EU State Aid case. The 
provision was recorded as a tax expense in 2022 
against a non-current receivable in respect of a 
payment on account made to the UK tax authority.

Auditing the Group’s recorded £63 million 
provision at 31 December 2023 required significant 
auditor judgement in assessing management’s 
expectations of the outcome of matters as there is 
a significant range of possible outcomes between 
£nil and the maximum exposure of £105 million 
and therefore a risk of material misstatement.

Our audit of the uncertain tax position was performed by the Group audit team.

We obtained an understanding and evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over 
the Group’s tax process over uncertain tax positions.

We reviewed management’s analysis of developments, including recent decisions in other EU case law, which they 
prepared with support from third party advisors.

We challenged whether an update to the provision was required by involving EY tax specialists to assess these 
developments and any potential impact on the amount recorded by the Group at 31 December 2023.

We reviewed correspondence with management’s specialist, assessed their independence and expertise, and held 
a virtual meeting with them to discuss the scope of their work and their considerations on the matter. 

We tested management’s calculation of the provision as part of our prior year audit procedures and assessed 
the appropriateness of the methodology used against the requirements of IFRIC 23. We considered the 
appropriateness of the potential outcomes included in the calculation and the probabilities assigned to each 
outcome. 

We challenged the probabilities by seeking the input of an EY specialist in State Aid matters. 

We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in notes 7 and 34 of the Annual Report.

Key observations 
communicated to the 
Audit Committee 

Based on our procedures 
performed, the current status of 
proceedings and the opinion of 
the Group’s external legal counsel, 
we conclude that management’s 
provision is acceptable and the 
methodology used is in line with the 
requirements of IFRIC 23. 

We agree that disclosures set out in 
Notes 7 and 34 of the consolidated 
financial statements provides 
adequate explanation of the nature 
of the liability and the level of 
uncertainty in the amount provided.

In our prior year auditor’s report, the ‘Fraud risk in revenue recognition’ key audit matter also included a fraud risk in respect of manipulation of the rate of completion for contracts that span the year end. 
Based on the knowledge gained in our first year audit and the updated risk assessment as part of the 2023 audit, we no longer consider that this risk area of the audit constitutes a key audit matter.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 142  

Financial statementsOur application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of 
identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. 

Materiality

The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. 
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.

We determined materiality for the Group to be £24.6 million (2022: £20.9 million), which is 5% (2022: 
5%) of adjusted Profit before tax. We believe that adjusted Profit before tax is the appropriate basis 
since it is earnings-based and excludes certain non-recurring items.

We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be £44 million (2022: £44 million), which is 1% 
(2022: 1%) of net assets. 

Starting basis

 — Profit before tax - £493 million

 — Add: £11 million property charges and £16 million  

other net gains and losses

Adjustments

 — Less: £28 million other net finance income

 — Adjusted profit before tax £492 million (materiality basis)

Materiality

 — Materiality of £24.6 million (5% of materiality basis)

During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and updated it for actual 2023 results, 
which resulted in a small increase to £24.6m. 

Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to 
reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds materiality.

On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control 
environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% (2022: 50%) of our planning 
materiality, namely £12.3 million (2022: £10.5 million). We have set performance materiality at this 
percentage to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected 
and corrected misstatements exceeds materiality. 

Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant 
financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. 
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of 
the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that 
component. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 
£2.4 million to £6.3 million (2022: £1.8 million to £5.0 million). 

Reporting threshold

An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences 
in excess of £1.2 million (2022: £1.05 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 

We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality 
discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.

Other information 

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 
1 to 135, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are 
responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the 
extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance  
conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in 
the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material 
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this 
gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work 
we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we 
are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 143

Financial statementsIndependent Auditor’s Report continued

Opinions on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of 
the audit:

 — the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 

 — the strategic report and the directors’ report have been 

prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and 
the parent company and its environment obtained in the course 
of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the 
strategic report or the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in 
relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report 
to you if, in our opinion:

 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 

parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or

 — the parent company financial statements and the part of 

the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

 — certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 

are not made; or

 — we have not received all the information and explanations we 

require for our audit

Corporate Governance Statement

Responsibilities of directors

We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to going 
concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the group and company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate 
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:

 — Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness 

of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any 
material uncertainties identified set out on page 160;

 — Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the company’s 
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the 
period is appropriate set out on page 65;

 — Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable 
expectation that the group will be able to continue in 
operation and meets its liabilities set out on page 65;

 — Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable set 

out on page 134;

 — Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust 

assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on 
page 57;

 — The section of the annual report that describes the review 
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control 
systems set out on page 102; and;

 — The section describing the work of the audit committee set 

out on page 100. 

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 136, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal 
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 
responsible for assessing the group and parent company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the 
group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no 
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements 

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these financial statements. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 144  

Financial statementsExplanation as to what extent the audit was considered 
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including 
fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due 
to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for 
example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through 
collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of 
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and 
detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance 
of the company and management. 

 — We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial 
statements to material misstatement, including how 
fraud might occur and met with finance and operational 
management from various parts of the business to 
understand where they considered there was susceptibility 
to fraud. We also considered performance targets and their 
potential to influence management to manage earnings or 
influence the perception of analysts. We have determined 
that there is a fraud risk with aspects of revenue recognition. 
We considered the policies, processes and controls that 
the Group has established to address the risks identified, 
including the design of controls over each significant revenue 
stream. We also considered the controls that the Group has 
that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud, and how 
senior management monitors those controls.

 — We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 

 — Based on this understanding we designed our audit 

frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined 
that the most significant frameworks which are directly 
relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are 
those that relate to the reporting framework (UK-adopted 
International Accounting Standards, IFRS accounting 
standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB), the Companies Act 2006 and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code) and the relevant tax laws and 
regulations in the countries in which the Group operates.

 — We understood how Pearson plc is complying with those 

frameworks by making enquiries of management, Internal 
Audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures 
and the Company Secretary. We corroborated our enquiries 
through reading of Board minutes and papers provided to 
the Audit Committee and observation in Audit Committee 
meetings, as well as consideration of the results of our audit 
procedures across the Group. 

procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and 
regulations including providing specific instructions to full 
scope and specific scope component teams and where 
necessary, using our forensic and other relevant specialists. 
Our procedures included reading any correspondence with 
regulators, making enquiries of management's specialists, 
and journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journal 
entries, consolidation journals and journal entries indicating 
large or unusual transactions using data analytics. We based 
this testing on our understanding of the business, enquiries 
of management, including internal audit and other advisors, 
the company secretary and reading relevant reports. 
We performed specific searches derived from forensic 
investigations experience and leveraged our data analytics 
platform in performing our testing. We have also reviewed  
the whistleblowing reports issued during the year. We also 
used EY’s Document Authenticity Tool to analyse certain 
electronic documents used as audit evidence to identify 
characteristics of documents that can be indicators of 
alteration or inauthenticity.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements is located on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of  
our auditor’s report.

Other matters we are required to address
 — Following the recommendation from the Audit Committee, 
we were appointed by the company at its Annual General 
Meeting on 29 April 2022 to audit the financial statements  
for the year ending 31 December 2022 and subsequent 
financial periods. 

 — The period of total uninterrupted engagement including 

previous renewals and reappointments is two years, covering 
the years ended 31 December 2022 to 31 December 2023.

 — The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to 

the audit committee.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Ben Marles (Senior statutory auditor)

for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP,  
Statutory Auditor

London

13 March 2024

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 145

Financial statementsConsolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Continuing operations

Sales

Cost of goods sold

Gross profit

Operating expenses

Other net gains and losses

Share of results of joint ventures and associates

Operating profit

Finance costs

Finance income

Profit before tax

Income tax

Profit for the year

Attributable to:

Equity holders of the company

Non-controlling interest

Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the company during the year 
(expressed in pence per share)

 —basic

 —diluted

Notes

2023

2022

2021

2,3

4

4

4

12

2

6

6

7

8

8

3,674

(1,839)

1,835

(1,322)

3,841

(2,046)

1,795

(1,549)

3,428

(1,747)

1,681

(1,562)

(16)

1

498

(81)

76

493

(113)

380

378

2

24

1

271

(71)

123

323

(79)

244

242

2

63

1

183

(68)

62

177

1

178

177

1

53.1p

52.7p

32.8p

32.6p

23.5p

23.3p

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 146  

Financial statementsConsolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Profit for the year
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement
Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
Currency translation adjustment disposed
Attributable tax
Items that are not reclassified to the income statement
Fair value gains on other financial assets
Attributable tax
Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 
Attributable tax
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the company
Non-controlling interest

Notes

31
7

7
25
7
29

2023

380

(177)
(122)
–

1
–
(85)
20
(363)
17

16
1

2022

244

330
(5)
4

18
1
54
(12)
390
634

630
4

2021

178

(6)
4
10

4
(1)
149
(61)
99
277

276
1

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 147

Financial statementsConsolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Assets

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Investment property

Intangible assets

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Deferred income tax assets

Financial assets – derivative financial instruments

Retirement benefit assets

Other financial assets

Income tax assets

Trade and other receivables

Current assets

Intangible assets – product development

Inventories

Trade and other receivables

Financial assets – derivative financial instruments

Income tax assets

Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

Assets classified as held for sale

Total assets

Liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Financial liabilities – borrowings

Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments

Deferred income tax liabilities

Retirement benefit obligations

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Other liabilities

Notes

2023

2022

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

217

79

250

60

Current liabilities

Trade and other liabilities

Financial liabilities – borrowings

Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments

3,091

3,177

Income tax liabilities

22

35

32

499

143

41

135

25

57

43

581

133

41

139

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Liabilities classified as held for sale

Total liabilities

Net assets

4,294

4,506

Equity

947

91

975

105

Share capital

Share premium

Treasury shares

1,050

1,139

Capital redemption reserve

16

15

312

2,431

16

9

558

2,802

Fair value reserve

Translation reserve

Retained earnings

Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Non-controlling interest

2

16

Total equity

24

18

16

7

23

32

27

27

28

(1,275)

(1,254)

(67)

(5)

(32)

(25)

(86)

(11)

(43)

(85)

(1,404)

(1,479)

–

–

(2,739)

3,988

(2,909)

4,415

174

2,642

(19)

33

(12)

411

745

3,974

14

3,988

179

2,633

(15)

28

(13)

709

881

4,402

13

4,415

6,727

7,324

These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on  
13 March 2024 and signed on its behalf by

Sally Johnson 
Chief Financial Officer
Pearson plc 
Registered number: 00053723

(1,094)

(1,144)

(38)

(46)

(44)

(15)

(98)

(1,335)

(54)

(37)

(61)

(14)

(120)

(1,430)

10

10

11

12

13

16

25

15

7

22

20

21

22

16

17

32

18

16

13

25

23

24

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 148  

Financial statementsConsolidated statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2023
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
Equity-settled transactions
Taxation on equity-settled transactions
Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes
Buyback of equity
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares
Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment
Dividends
At 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2022
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
Equity-settled transactions
Taxation on equity-settled transactions
Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes
Buyback of equity
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares
Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment
Dividends
At 31 December 2022

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Share 
capital

Share 
premium

Treasury 
shares

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Fair 
value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

Total

Non-
controlling 
interest

Total 
equity

179
–
–
–
–
–
–
(5)
–
–
–
–
174

2,633
–
–
–
–
–
9
–
–
–
–
–
2,642

(15)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(35)
31
–
–
(19)

28
–
–
–
–
–
–
5
–
–
–
–
33

(13)
–
1
1
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(12)

709
–
(298)
(298)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
411

881 4,402
378
378
(362)
(65)
16
313
40
40
1
1
9
–
(304)
(304)
(35)
–
–
(31)
–
–
(155)
(155)
745 3,974

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

13 4,415
380
(363)
17
40
1
9
(304)
(35)
–
–
(155)
14 3,988

2
(1)
1
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Share 
capital

Share 
premium

Treasury 
shares

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Fair value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

Total

Non-
controlling 
interest

Total 
equity

189
–
–
–
–
–
–
(10)
–
–
–
–
179

2,626
–
–
–
–
–
7
–
–
–
–
–
2,633

(12)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(37)
34
–
–
(15)

18
–
–
–
–
–
–
10
–
–
–
–
28

(4)
–
18
18
–
–
–
–
–
–
(27)
–
(13)

386
–
323
323
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
709

1,067 4,270
242
242
388
47
630
289
38
38
3
3
7
–
(353)
(353)
(37)
–
–
(34)
–
27
(156)
(156)
881 4,402

10 4,280
244
2
390
2
634
4
38
–
3
–
7
–
(353)
–
(37)
–
–
–
–
–
(1)
(157)
13 4,415

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 149

Financial statementsConsolidated statement of changes in equity continued
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
Equity-settled transactions
Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes
Buyback of equity
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares
Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment
Dividends
At 31 December 2021

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Share 
capital

Share 
premium

Treasury 
shares

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Fair value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

Total

Non-
controlling 
interest

188
–
–
–
–
1
–
–
–
–
–
189

2,620
–
–
–
–
6
–
–
–
–
–
2,626

(7)
–
–
–
–
(1)
–
(16)
12
–
–
(12)

18
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
18

(4)
–
4
4
–
–
–
–
–
(4)
–
(4)

388
–
(2)
(2)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
386

922 4,125
177
177
99
97
276
274
28
28
6
–
–
–
(16)
–
–
(12)
–
4
(149)
(149)
1,067 4,270

9
1
–
1
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
10

Total 
equity

4,134
178
99
277
28
6
–
(16)
–
–
(149)
4,280

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 150  

Financial statementsConsolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

2021

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

2021

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares
Buyback of equity
Purchase of treasury shares
Proceeds from borrowings
Repayment of borrowings
Repayment of lease liabilities
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest
Net cash used in financing activities
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and  
cash equivalents
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

27
27
28

9

17

9
(186)
(35)
285
(285)
(84)
(154)
–
(450)

(8)
(234)
543
309

7
(353)
(37)
–
(171)
(93)
(156)
(1)
(804)

36
(394)
937
543

6
–
(16)
–
(167)
(88)
(149)
–
(414)

(8)
(176)
1,113
937

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax
Net finance costs/(income)
Depreciation and impairment – PPE, investment 
property and assets held for sale
Amortisation and impairment – software
Amortisation and impairment – acquired  
intangible assets
Other net gains and losses
Product development capital expenditure
Amortisation and impairment – product development 
Share-based payment costs
Change in inventories
Change in trade and other receivables
Change in trade and other liabilities
Change in provisions for other liabilities and charges
Other movements
Net cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Tax paid
Net cash generated from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
Acquisition of joint ventures and associates
Purchase of investments
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and 
investment property
Purchase of intangible assets
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed
Proceeds from disposal of investments
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant  
and equipment
Lease receivables repaid including disposals 
Interest received
Dividends from joint ventures and associates
Net cash (used in)/generated from  
investing activities

30

31

493
5

90
123

46
13
(300)
284
40
9
(24)
(20)
(61)
(16)
682
(60)
(97)
525

(171)
(5)
(8)

(30)
(96)
(38)
7

5
15
20
–

(301)

323
(52)

136
125

54
(24)
(357)
303
35
(34)
33
(84)
50
19
527
(57)
(109)
361

(228)
(5)
(12)

(57)
(90)
333
17

14
18
22
1

13

177
6

241
117

50
(63)
(287)
279
28
22
(71)
37
14
20
570
(67) 
(177)
326

(55)
(10)
(4)

(64)
(112)
83
48

–
21
13
–

(80)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 151

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements

General information

Pearson plc (‘the company’), its subsidiaries and associates (together ‘the Group’) are international 
businesses covering educational courseware, assessments and services.

The company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.

The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange.

These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 
13 March 2024.

1a. Accounting policies

The material accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements are set out below.

Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis (see 
note 1b) and in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority and in accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. On 31 December 2020, IFRS Accounting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union at that date was brought into UK law and became UK-adopted 
International Accounting Standards (IASs), with future changes being subject to endorsement by the 
UK Endorsement Board. The Group transitioned to UK-adopted IASs on 1 January 2021. This change 
constituted a change in accounting framework. However, there was no impact on recognition, 
measurement or disclosure as a result of the change in framework. The consolidated financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial 
instruments) at fair value. 

2. Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet 
effective – The following new accounting standards and amendments to new accounting standards 
have been issued but are not yet effective and unless otherwise indicated, have been endorsed: 

 — Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Classification of liabilities as current or non-current’; 

 — Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Non-current liabilities with covenants’; 

 — Amendments to IFRS 16 ’Lease liability in a sale and leaseback’; 

 — Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 ‘Supplier finance arrangements’; and

 — Amendments to IAS 21 ’Lack of exchangeability’ (not yet endorsed).

The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above changes, but they are not expected to 
have a material impact. The Group does not plan to early adopt any of the above new accounting 
standards or amendments. The Group has not adopted any other standard, amendment or 
interpretation that has been issued but is not yet effective.

3. Critical accounting assumptions and judgements – The preparation of financial statements 
in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions and estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies.

All assumptions and estimates constitute management’s best judgement at the date of the financial 
statements, however, in the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and 
assumptions. 

The areas requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustments to the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities within the consolidated financial statements are:

 — Intangible assets: acquired intangible assets

 — Taxation 

 — Employee benefits: pensions 

 — Property, plant and equipment: right-of-use assets

 — Classification as discontinued operations

These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless  
otherwise stated. 

The key judgements and key areas of estimation are set out below, as well as in the relevant 
accounting policies and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate. 

1. Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective 2023 – The Group 
adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ for the first time in 2023, but it has not had a material impact 
on the consolidated financial statements. No other new standards were adopted in 2023. 

A number of other new pronouncements are effective from 1 January 2023 but they do not have 
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Additional disclosure has been given 
where relevant. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 152  

Financial statements  KJ Key judgements
 — The application of tax legislation in relation to provisions for uncertain tax positions. See 

notes 7 and 34.

 — The Group is eligible to receive the surplus associated with the UK Group Pension Plan in 

recognising a pension asset. See note 25.

 — The results and cash flows of businesses disposed do not meet the criteria to be classified 

and presented as discontinued operations. See note 31.

  KE Key areas of estimation
 — The valuation of acquired intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of a business. The 
valuation is based on a number of assumptions, including estimations of future business 
performance. See notes 11 and 30.

 — The level of provisions required in relation to uncertain tax positions is complex and each 
matter is separately assessed. The estimation of future settlement amounts is based on a 
number of factors including the status of the unresolved matter, clarity of legislation, range 
of possible outcomes and the statute of limitations. See notes 7 and 34.

 — The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Group’s 

defined benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which 
include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity. See note 25.

 — The recoverability of right-of-use assets and in particular assumptions related to the ability 

to sublease vacant leased assets in the future. See note 10. 

The Group has assessed the impact of the uncertainty presented by the volatile macro-economic 
and geo-political environment on the financial statements, specifically considering the impact on key 
judgements and significant estimates along with other areas of increased risk as follows:

 — Financial instruments and hedge accounting; and

 — Translation methodologies.

No material accounting impacts relating to the areas assessed above were recognised in the year. 
The Group will continue to monitor these areas of increased judgement, estimation and risk.

Consolidation
1. Business combinations – The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for  
business combinations.

The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets 
transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Group. The consideration 
transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line of 
the income statement. Identifiable assets acquired and identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The determination of fair values often requires significant judgements and the use of estimates, 
and, for material acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible assets is determined by an 
independent valuer. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the 
acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill (note 30).

See the ‘Intangible assets’ policy for the accounting policy on goodwill. If this is less than the fair 
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is 
recognised directly in the income statement.

On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
net assets.

IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ has not been applied retrospectively to business combinations 
before the date of transition to IFRS.

Management exercises judgement in determining the classification of its investments in its 
businesses, in line with the following:

2. Subsidiaries – Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls 
an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with 
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.

3. Transactions with non-controlling interests – Transactions with non-controlling interests 
that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as transactions 
with the owners in their capacity as owners. Any surplus or deficit arising from disposals to a 
non-controlling interest is recorded in equity. For purchases from a non-controlling interest, the 
difference between consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the 
subsidiary is recorded in equity. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 153

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

1a. Accounting policies continued

Consolidation continued
4. Joint ventures and associates – Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest 
on a long-term basis and has rights to the net assets through contractually agreed sharing of 
control. Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not the power to 
control the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights. Ownership percentage is likely to be the key indicator of investment 
classification; however, other factors, such as Board representation, may also affect the accounting 
classification. Judgement is required to assess all of the qualitative and quantitative factors which 
may indicate that the Group does, or does not, have significant influence over an investment. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method and are initially 
recognised at the fair value of consideration transferred.

3. Group companies – The results and financial position of all Group companies that have a 
functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation 
currency as follows:

 — Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet;

 — Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates; and

 — All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.

On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in 
foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 
investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. The Group treats specific inter-company loan 
balances, which are not intended to be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net investment. 
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement 
as part of the gain or loss on sale.

The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised 
in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised  
in reserves.

The principal overseas currency for the Group is the US dollar. The average rate for the year  
against sterling was $1.25 (2022: $1.24; 2021: $1.38) and the year-end rate was $1.27 (2022: $1.21; 
2021: $1.35).

The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ results is recognised as a component of 
operating profit as these operations form part of the core business of the Group and are an integral 
part of existing wholly-owned businesses. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted 
against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture 
or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not 
recognise further losses unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the joint venture or associate.

Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates 
are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in these entities. 

5. Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint venture – The gain or loss resulting 
from the contribution or sale of a subsidiary to an associate or a joint venture is recognised in full. 
Where such transactions do not involve cash consideration, significant judgements and estimates 
are used in determining the fair values of the consideration received. 

Foreign currency translation
1. Functional and presentation currency – Items included in the financial statements of each of 
the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
sterling, which is the company’s functional and presentation currency.

2. Transactions and balances – Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional 
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at  
year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies  
are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net  
investment hedges.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for intended use. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using 
the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:

Buildings (freehold):

Buildings (leasehold):

Plant and equipment:

20–50 years

over the period of the lease 

3–10 years

The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance 
sheet date. 

The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Investment property
Properties that are no longer occupied by the Group and which are held for operating lease 
rental are classified as investment property. Investment property assets are carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. The depreciation policies for 
investment property are consistent with those described for property, plant and equipment.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 154  

Financial statementsIntangible assets
1. Goodwill – For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on or after 1 January 2010, goodwill 
represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in 
the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over 
the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. For the acquisition of subsidiaries made from 
the date of transition to IFRS to 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill 
on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisition of associates 
and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the net identifiable assets acquired.

Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in associates and 
joint ventures.

Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds  
the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and 
value in use. These calculations require the use of estimates in respect of forecast cash flows and 
discount rates and management judgement in respect of cash-generating unit (CGU) and  
cost allocation.

Goodwill is allocated to aggregated CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is 
made to those aggregated CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in 
which the goodwill arose. Where there are changes to CGUs, goodwill is reallocated to the new CGUs 
and aggregation of CGUs using a relative value method. 

4. Acquired intangible assets – Acquired intangible assets include customer lists, contracts and 
relationships, trademarks and brands, publishing rights, content, technology and software rights. 
These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in intangible assets. Intangible assets 
acquired in material business combinations are capitalised at their fair value as determined with 
the support of a third-party specialist. The valuation of these assets are a key source of estimation 
uncertainty. Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives of between two and 
twenty years, using an amortisation method that reflects the pattern of their consumption. The 
assets are assessed for impairment triggers on an annual basis or when triggering events occur.

5. Product development assets – Product development assets represent direct costs incurred 
in the development of educational programmes and titles prior to their publication. These costs 
are recognised as current intangible assets where the title will generate probable future economic 
benefits and costs can be measured reliably. 

Product development assets relating to content are amortised upon publication of the title over 
estimated economic lives of seven years or less, being an estimate of the expected operating 
lifecycle of the title, with a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the earlier years. Product 
development assets relating to product platforms are amortised over ten years or less, being an 
estimate of the expected useful life.

The assessment of the useful economic life and the recoverability of product development assets 
involves judgement and is based on historical trends and management estimation of future 
potential sales. 

Product development assets are assessed for impairment triggers on an annual basis or when 
triggering events occur. The carrying amount of product development assets is set out in note 20.

Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the 
entity sold.

The investment in product development assets has been disclosed as part of net cash generated 
from operating activities in the cash flow statement.

2. Acquired software – Software separately acquired for internal use is capitalised at cost. Software 
acquired in material business combinations is capitalised at its fair value, with the valuation being 
determined with the support of a third-party specialist. The assets are assessed for impairment 
triggers on an annual basis or when triggering events occur. Acquired software is amortised on a 
straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between three and eight years.

3. Internally developed software – Internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary 
stage of developing computer software for internal use are expensed as incurred. Internal and 
external costs incurred to develop computer software for internal use during the application 
development stage are capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits from the development. 
Capitalisation in the application development stage begins once the Group can reliably measure 
the expenditure attributable to the software development and has demonstrated its intention to 
complete and use the software. Internally developed software is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over its estimated useful life of between three and ten years. The assets are assessed for impairment 
triggers on an annual basis or when triggering events occur.

Other financial assets
Other financial assets are non-derivative financial assets classified and measured at estimated  
fair value. 

Marketable securities and cash deposits with maturities of greater than three months are classified 
and subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). They are remeasured at 
each balance sheet date by using market data and the use of established valuation techniques. 
Any movement in the fair value is immediately recognised in finance income or finance costs in 
the income statement.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 155

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

1a. Accounting policies continued

Other financial assets continued
Investments in the equity instruments of other entities are classified and subsequently measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) where the investment meets the definition 
of equity from the perspective of the issuer. Changes in fair value are recorded in equity in the fair 
value reserve via other comprehensive income. On subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair 
value gains or losses are reclassified from the fair value reserve to retained earnings. Any dividends 
received from equity investments classified as FVOCI are recognised in the income statement unless 
they represent a return of capital. 

Investments in funds which have a limited life and those investment which do not meet the criteria  
to be classified as FVOCI are classified and subsequently measured at fair value through profit and 
loss (FVTPL). Changes in fair value are included within finance income or finance costs within the 
income statement.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the 
weighted average method or an approximation thereof, such as the first in first out (FIFO) method. 
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct 
costs and related production overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Provisions are made 
for slow-moving and obsolete stock.

Royalty advances
Advances of royalties to authors are included within trade and other receivables when the advance is 
paid less any provision required to adjust the advance to its net realisable value. The realisable value 
of royalty advances relies on a degree of management estimation in determining the profitability of 
individual author contracts. If the estimated realisable value of author contracts is overstated, this 
will have an adverse effect on operating profits as these excess amounts will be written off.

The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an annual detailed management review  
of the age of the advance, the future sales projections for new authors and prior sales history of 
repeat authors.

The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted or effective royalty rate as the related revenues 
are earned. Royalty advances which will be consumed within one year are held in current assets. 
Royalty advances which will be consumed after one year are held in non-current assets.

Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities of greater than three months do 
not qualify as cash and cash equivalents and are reported as financial assets. Movements on these 
financial assets are classified as cash flows from financing activities in the cash flow statement where 
these amounts are used to offset the borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from investing 
activities where these amounts are held to generate an investment return.

Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.

Where any Group company purchases the company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the 
consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, net of income taxes, is 
deducted from equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, 
reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 
received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is 
included in equity attributable to the company’s equity holders.

Ordinary shares purchased under a buyback programme are cancelled and the nominal value of the 
shares is transferred to a capital redemption reserve.

Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is proceeds received net of transaction costs 
incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value being recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Accrued interest is 
included as part of borrowings. 

Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying 
value in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk. 

Where a debt instrument is in a net investment hedge relationship, gains and losses on the effective 
portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income. 

Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured at each balance sheet date. The fair value 
of derivatives is determined by using market data and the use of established estimation techniques 
such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models. 

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement include cash in hand, deposits held on call with 
banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, 
and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current liabilities in the  
balance sheet.

For derivatives in a hedge relationship, the currency basis spread is excluded from the designation 
as a hedging instrument.

Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised immediately in finance income or costs. 
However, derivatives relating to borrowings and certain foreign exchange contracts are designated 
as part of a hedging transaction. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 156  

Financial statementsThe accounting treatment is summarised as follows:

Reporting of gains  
and losses on effective  
portion of the hedge

Recognised in other 
comprehensive income.

Typical reason for designation

Net investment hedge
The derivative creates a foreign 
currency liability which is used 
to hedge changes in the value of 
a subsidiary which transacts in 
that currency.

Fair value hedges
The derivative transforms the 
interest profile on debt from 
fixed rate to floating rate. 
Changes in the value of the debt 
as a result of changes in interest 
rates and foreign exchange 
rates are offset by equal and 
opposite changes in the value of 
the derivative. When the Group’s 
debt is swapped to floating 
rates, the contracts used are 
designated as fair value hedges.
Non-hedge accounted contracts
These are not designated as 
hedging instruments. Typically, 
these are short-term contracts 
to convert debt back to fixed 
rates or foreign exchange 
contracts where a natural  
offset exists.

Gains and losses on the 
derivative are reported in 
finance income or finance 
costs. However, an equal and 
opposite change is made to 
the carrying value of the debt 
(a ‘fair value adjustment’) with 
the benefit/cost reported in 
finance income or finance 
costs. The net result should be 
a zero charge on a perfectly 
effective hedge.

Recognised in the income 
statement. No hedge 
accounting applies.

Reporting of gains and losses on 
disposal

On the disposal of foreign 
operations or subsidiaries,  
the accumulated value of  
gains and losses reported  
in other comprehensive  
income is transferred to the 
income statement.

If the debt and derivative are 
disposed of, the value of the 
derivative and the debt (including 
the fair value adjustment) are 
reset to zero. Any resultant gain 
or loss is recognised in finance 
income or finance costs.

Taxation
Current tax is recognised at the amounts expected to be paid or recovered under the tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 

Deferred income tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. Deferred income 
tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures other than where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be 
remitted in the foreseeable future.

Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to 
items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax 
is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income. The Group has applied the exception 
under IAS 12 to recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities 
related to Pillar Two income taxes.

The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required 
in determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide provision for income taxes. There are 
many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during 
the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises tax provisions when it is considered 
probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority. The provisions are based 
on management’s best judgement of the application of tax legislation and best estimates of future 
settlement amounts (see note 7). Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the 
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement and estimation in determining 
the amounts to be recognised. In particular, when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets 
should be recognised, significant judgement is used when considering the timing of the recognition 
and estimation is used to determine the level of future taxable income together with any future tax 
planning strategies (see note 13).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 157

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

1a. Accounting policies continued

Employee benefits
1. Pensions – The retirement benefit asset and obligation recognised in the balance sheet represent 
the net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the 
balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using yields on high-quality corporate bonds 
which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.

When the calculation results in a potential asset, the recognition of that asset is limited to the asset 
ceiling – that is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the 
plan or a reduction in future contributions. Management uses judgement to determine the level of 
refunds available from the plan in recognising an asset.

The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, 
inflation rate, salary growth and longevity (see note 25). 

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in 
which they arise. The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the 
income statement as an operating cost. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the 
net defined benefit obligation and is presented as finance costs or finance income.

Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an operating 
expense in the income statement as incurred.

2. Other post-retirement obligations – The expected costs of post-retirement medical and 
life assurance benefits are accrued over the period of employment, using a similar accounting 
methodology as for defined benefit pension obligations. The liabilities and costs relating to significant 
other post-retirement obligations are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.

3. Share-based payments – The fair value of options or shares granted under the Group’s share 
and option plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. Fair value is measured at the date of grant 
and is spread over the vesting period of the option or share. The fair value of the options granted 
is measured using an option model that is most appropriate to the award. The fair value of shares 
awarded is measured using the share price at the date of grant unless another method is more 
appropriate. Any proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium when the 
options are exercised.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of past events; it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are discounted to present value 
where the effect is material.

Revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue streams are courseware, assessments and services. Courseware includes 
curriculum materials provided in book form and/or via access to digital content. Assessments 
includes test development, processing and scoring services provided to governments, educational 
institutions, corporations and professional bodies. Services includes the operation of schools, 
colleges and universities, as well as the provision of online learning services in partnership with 
universities and other academic institutions.

Revenue is recognised in order to depict the transfer of control of promised goods and services 
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods and services. This process begins with the identification of our contract 
with a customer, which is generally through a master services agreement, customer purchase order, 
or a combination thereof. Within each contract, judgement is applied to determine the extent to 
which activities within the contract represent distinct performance obligations to be delivered and 
the total amount of transaction price to which we expect to be entitled.

The transaction price determined is net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. Where a contract contains multiple performance obligations such as the 
provision of supplementary materials or online access with textbooks, revenue is allocated on 
the basis of relative standalone selling prices. Where a contract contains variable consideration, 
significant estimation is required to determine the amount to which the Group is expected to  
be entitled. 

Revenue is recognised on contracts with customers when or as performance obligations are 
satisfied, which is the period or the point in time where control of goods or services transfers to  
the customer. Judgement is applied to determine first whether control passes over time and if not, 
then the point in time at which control passes. Where revenue is recognised over time, judgement  
is used to determine the method which best depicts the transfer of control. Where an input  
method is used, significant estimation is required to determine the progress towards delivering  
the performance obligation. 

If a contract with a customer is modified (change of scope, price or both), management uses 
judgement to determine whether changes to existing rights and obligations should be accounted 
for as a separate contract or as an adjustment to the existing contracts. Adjustments to existing 
contracts are either accounted for prospectively or through a cumulative catch up adjustment.

Revenue from the sale of books is recognised net of a provision for anticipated returns. This 
provision is based primarily on historical return rates, customer buying patterns and retailer 
behaviours including stock levels. If these estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods 
then revenue could be understated or overstated for a particular period. When the provision for 
returns is remeasured at each reporting date to reflect changes in estimates, a corresponding 
adjustment is also recorded to revenue.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 158  

Financial statementsThe Group may enter into contracts with another party in addition to our customer. In making the 
determination as to whether revenue should be recognised on a gross or net basis, the contract  
with the customer is analysed to understand which party controls the relevant good or service 
prior to transferring to the customer. This judgement is informed by facts and circumstances of the 
contract in determining whether the Group has promised to provide the specified good or service 
or whether the Group is arranging for the transfer of the specified good or service, including which 
party is responsible for fulfilment, has discretion to set the price to the customer and is responsible 
for inventory risk. On certain contracts, where the Group acts as an agent, only commissions and 
fees receivable for services rendered are recognised as revenue. Any third-party costs incurred on 
behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included  
in revenue.

Income from recharges of freight and other activities which are incidental to the normal revenue-
generating activities is included in other income.

Additional details on the Group’s revenue streams are also included in note 3.

Leases
1. The Group as a lessee – The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at the 
inception of the contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease, if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. The Group 
recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date with respect to 
all lease arrangements except for short-term leases (leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) 
and leases of low-value assets. For these leases, the lease payments are recognised as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, comprising the initial amount of the lease liability 
plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to restore the underlying asset, less 
any lease incentives received. The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-
line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the asset 
or the end of the lease term. The Group applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is 
impaired. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are 
not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that 
rate cannot be readily determined, the incremental borrowing rate. The lease liability is measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future 
lease payments arising from a change in an index or a rate or a change in the Group’s assessment of 
whether it will exercise an extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured, a 
corresponding adjustment is made to the right-of-use asset.

Management uses judgement to determine the lease term where extension and termination options 
are available within the lease.

2. The Group as a lessor – When the Group is an intermediate lessor, the head lease and sublease 
are accounted for as two separate contracts. The head lease is accounted for as per the lessee policy 
above. The sublease is classified as a finance lease or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use 
asset arising from the head lease. Where the lease transfers substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease; all other leases are classified 
as operating leases. Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the relevant lease. Amounts due from lessees under finance subleases are recognised as 
receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the leases discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the discount rate used in the 
head lease.

Dividends
Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which they are 
approved by the company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded when paid. 

Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major 
line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of or meets the criteria to 
be classified as held for sale.

When applicable, discontinued operations are presented in the income statement as a separate line 
and are shown net of tax.

Assets and liabilities held for sale
Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell if it is highly probable that the carrying amount will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. No depreciation is charged in respect 
of non-current assets classified as held for sale. Amounts relating to non-current assets and liabilities 
held for sale are classified as discontinued operations in the income statement where appropriate.

Trade receivables
Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision for bad and doubtful debts. Provisions for 
bad and doubtful debts are based on the expected credit loss model. The ‘simplified approach’ is 
used with the expected loss allowance measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit 
losses. A provision for anticipated future sales returns is included within trade and other liabilities 
(also see Revenue recognition policy). 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 159

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

1b. Going concern

In assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern for the period to 30 June 2025, the 
Board reviewed management’s five-year plan, which was used as the base case. The review included 
available liquidity throughout the period and headroom against the Group’s two main covenants, 
which require net debt to EBITDA to be a maximum of four times and interest cover to be at least 
three times.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had available liquidity of c.£1bn, comprising central cash balances 
and its undrawn $1bn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF). The company's subsidiary Pearson Funding plc 
has a debt maturity of €300m due within the going concern assessment period and it is assumed 
that this is refinanced ahead of time with a £250m bond or bank facility. In both the base case and 
severe but plausible scenario, the business has sufficient liquidity to repay this amount and does 
not rely on this refinancing in order to remain a going concern. Significant liquidity and covenant 
headroom was observed throughout the assessment period in this base model.

A severe but plausible scenario was analysed, where the Group is impacted by all principal risks 
in both 2024 and 2025, adjusted for probability weighting as well as other significant risks. For this 
and other downside scenarios tested, the net impact of the risks modelled was to reduce adjusted 
operating profit by around 40% in each year. Even under a severe downside case, the company 
would maintain comfortable liquidity headroom and sufficient headroom against covenant 
requirements during the period under assessment. That is, even before modelling the mitigating 
effect of actions that management would take if these downside risks were to crystalise. 

A reverse stress test was performed to identify the reduction in profit required to exhaust liquidity 
at 30 June 2025. The model showed that operating losses were required in both 2024 and 2025 to 
exhaust liquidity.

The Directors have confirmed that there are no material uncertainties that cast doubt on the Group’s 
going concern status and that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence beyond 30 June 2025. The consolidated financial 
statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.

1c. Climate change

The Group has assessed the impacts of climate change on the Group’s financial statements, 
including our commitment to reducing our absolute scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions by 50% by 
2030, and the actions the Group intends to take to achieve those targets. The assessment did not 
identify any material impact on the Group’s significant judgements or estimates at 31 December 
2023, or the assessment of going concern for the period to June 2025 and the Group’s viability over 
the next five years. Specifically, we have considered the following areas: 

 — The physical and transition risks associated with climate change; and 

 — The actions the Group is taking to meet its carbon reduction and net zero targets. 

As a result, the Group has assessed the impacts of climate change on the financial statements, and 
in particular, on the following areas: 

 — The impact on the Group’s future cash flows, and the resulting impact that such adjustments 
to our future cash flows would have on the outcome of the annual impairment testing of our 
goodwill balances (see note 11 for further details), the recognition of deferred tax assets and our 
assessment of going concern; 

 — The carrying value of the Group’s assets, in particular the recoverable amounts of inventories, 

product development assets, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment; and

 — Any changes to our estimates of the useful economic lives of product development assets, 

intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.

2. Segment information

There are five main global business divisions, which are each considered separate operating 
segments for management and reporting purposes, as these are reported separately to the Group’s 
chief operating decision-maker, the Pearson Executive Management team. These five divisions are 
Assessment & Qualifications, Virtual Learning, English Language Learning, Higher Education and 
Workforce Skills. In addition, the International Courseware local publishing businesses, which were 
under strategic review, were being managed as a separate division, known as Strategic Review. In 
2022, some of the businesses from the Strategic Review division were disposed of (see note 31).

The following describes the principal activities of the five main operating segments: 

 — Assessment & Qualifications – Pearson VUE, US School Assessment, Clinical Assessment, UK 

GCSE and A Levels and International academic qualifications and associated courseware including 
the English-speaking Canadian and Australian K-12 businesses, and PDRI;

 — Virtual Learning – Virtual Schools and Online Program Management;

 — English Language Learning – Pearson Test of English, Institutional Courseware and English  

Online Solutions;

 — Workforce Skills – BTEC, GED, TalentLens, Faethm, Credly, Pearson College and Apprenticeships; 

and

 — Higher Education – US, Canadian and International Higher Education Courseware businesses.

The Pearson Executive Management team evaluates and allocates resources to operating segments, 
and evaluates the performance of each of its operating segments on the basis of adjusted operating 
profit, which is considered to be the segment measure. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 160  

Financial statementsAll figures in £ millions
Sales

Assessment & Qualifications
Virtual Learning
English Language Learning
Workforce Skills
Higher Education
Strategic Review
Total sales

All figures in £ millions
Adjusted operating profit

Assessment & Qualifications
Virtual Learning
English Language Learning
Workforce Skills
Higher Education
Strategic Review
Total adjusted operating profit

A reconciliation of the operating segments’ measure of profit to profit for the year is provided below: 

Adjusted operating profit
Cost of major restructuring
Property charges
Intangible charges
UK pension discretionary increases
Other net gains and losses
Operating profit
Finance costs
Finance income
Profit before tax
Income tax
Profit for the year

2023

1,559
616
415
220
855
9
3,674

2023

350
76
47
(8)
110
(2)
573

2023

573
–
(11)
(48)
–
(16)
498
(81)
76
493
(113)
380

2022

1,444
820
321
204
898
154
3,841

2022

258
70
25
(3)
91
15
456

2022

456
(150)
–
(56)
(3)
24
271
(71)
123
323
(79)
244

2021

1,238
713
238
172
849
218
3,428

2021

219
32
15
27
73
19
385

2021

385
(214)
–
(51)
–
63
183
(68)
62
177
1
178

6
6

7

There were no material inter-segment sales in either 2023, 2022 or 2021. 
Corporate costs are allocated to business segments on an appropriate basis depending on the nature of the cost and therefore the total segment result is equal to the Group operating profit.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 161

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

2. Segment information continued

Adjusted operating profit is shown in the above tables as it is the key financial measure used by management to evaluate the performance of the Group. The measure also enables investors to more easily, 
and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of the Group and its business segments over time by separating out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal 
transactions, certain property charges, major restructuring programmes and certain other items that are also not representative of underlying performance, which are explained below and reconciled within 
this note. 

Cost of major restructuring – In 2023, there are no costs of major restructuring. In 2022, the restructuring costs of £150m mainly related to staff redundancies and impairment of right of use property assets. 
The 2022 charge includes the impact of updated assumptions related to the recoverability of right-of-use assets made in 2021. In 2021, restructuring costs of £214m mainly related to the impairment of right-
of-use property assets, the write-down of product development assets and staff redundancies. The costs of these restructuring programmes are significant enough to exclude from the adjusted operating 
profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance (see note 4).

Property charges – Charges of £11m relate to impairments of property assets arising from the impact of updates in 2023 to assumptions initially made during the 2022 and 2021 restructuring programmes.

Intangible charges – These represent charges relating to intangibles acquired through business combinations. These charges are excluded as they reflect past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect 
the current year performance of the Group. Intangible amortisation charges in 2023 were £48m compared to a charge of £56m in 2022. This is due to decreased amortisation from disposals partially offset by 
additional amortisation from recent acquisitions. In 2021, intangible charges were £51m. In all three years, there were no impairment charges.

Other net gains and losses – These represent profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial assets and are excluded from adjusted operating profit as they distort 
the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis. Other net gains and losses also includes costs related to business closures and acquisitions. Other net gains and losses in 2023 relate to the 
gain on the disposal of the POLS business and gains related to the release of accruals and a provision related to historical acquisitions, offset by losses on the disposal of Pearson College and costs related to 
current and prior year disposals and acquisitions. In 2022, they related to the gains on the disposal of our international courseware local publishing businesses in Europe, French-speaking Canada and Hong 
Kong and a gain arising on a decrease in the deferred consideration payable on prior year acquisitions, offset by a loss on disposal of our international courseware local publishing businesses in South Africa 
due to recycling of currency translation adjustments and costs related to disposals and acquisitions. Other net gains and losses in 2021 largely related to the disposal of PIHE and the disposal of the K12 
Sistemas business in Brazil offset by costs related to the acquisition of Faethm and the wind down of certain strategic review businesses. 

UK pension discretionary increases – Charges in 2022 relate to one-off pension increases awarded to certain cohorts of pensioners in response to the cost of living crisis. 

Adjusted operating profit should not be regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial performance. For example, adjusted operating profit includes the benefits of major restructuring programmes 
but excludes the significant associated costs, and adjusted operating profit excludes costs related to acquisitions, and the amortisation of intangibles acquired in business combinations, but does not exclude 
the associated revenue. The Group’s definition of adjusted operating profit may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

The Group operates in the following main geographic areas:

All figures in £ millions

UK

Other European countries

US

Canada

Asia Pacific

Other countries

Total

2023

450

130

2022

424

192

Sales

2021

355

249

Non-current assets

2023

518

179

2022

527

192

2,504

2,668

2,182

2,320

2,333

83

386

121

110

290

157

111

359

172

186

186

20

243

200

17

3,674

3,841

3,428

3,409

3,512

Sales are allocated based on the country in which the customer is located. This does not differ materially from the location where the order is received. The geographical split of non-current assets is based 
on the subsidiary’s country of domicile. This is not materially different to the location of the assets. Non-current assets comprise investment property, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 
investments in joint ventures and associates.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 162  

Financial statements3. Revenue from contracts with customers

The following tables analyse the Group’s revenue streams. Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in book form and/or via access to digital content. Assessments includes integrated test 
development, processing and scoring services provided to governments, educational institutions, corporations and professional bodies. Services includes the operation of schools, colleges and universities, as 
well as the provision of online learning services in partnership with universities and other academic institutions. 

The Group derived revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time in the following major product lines:

All figures in £ millions

Courseware
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Assessments
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Services
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Total

All figures in £ millions

Courseware
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Assessments
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Services
Products transferred at a point in time
Products and services transferred over time

Total

Assessment & 
Qualifications

Virtual 
Learning

English 
Language 
Learning 

Workforce 
Skills

Higher 
Education

 Strategic 
Review

57
20
77

198
1,284
1,482

–
–
–
1,559

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
616
616
616

135
15
150

5
204
209

35
21
56
415

2
–
2

5
170
175

–
43
43
220

254
595
849

–
–
–

–
6
6
855

9
–
9

–
–
–

–
–
–
9

Assessment & 
Qualifications

Virtual 
Learning

English 
Language 
Learning

Workforce 
Skills

Higher 
Education

 Strategic 
Review

64
21
85

169
1,190
1,359

–
–
–
1,444

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
820
820
820

110
25
135

5
138
143

29
14
43
321

2
–
2

14
142
156

–
46
46
204

302
588
890

–
–
–

–
8
8
898

148
6
154

–
–
–

–
–
–
154

2023

Total

457
630
1,087

208
1,658
1,866

35
686
721
3,674

2022

Total

626
640
1,266

188
1,470
1,658

29
888
917
3,841

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 163

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued

All figures in £ millions

Courseware

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Assessments

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Services

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Total

Assessment & 
Qualifications

Virtual 
Learning

English 
Language 
Learning

Workforce 
Skills

Higher 
Education

 Strategic 
Review

62

30

92

173

973

1,146

–

–

–

1,238

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

713

713

713

109

26

135

6

72

78

22

3

25

238

–

–

–

16

119

135

–

37

37

172

283

558

841

–

–

–

–

8

8

180

17

197

–

–

–

14

7

21

849

218

3,428

2021

Total

634

631

1,265

195

1,164

1,359

36

768

804

a. Nature of goods and services
The following is a description of the nature of the Group’s performance obligations within contracts 
with customers broken down by revenue stream, along with significant judgements and estimates 
made within each of those revenue streams.

Courseware
Revenue is generated from customers through the sales of print and digital courseware materials to 
schools, bookstores and direct to individual learners. Goods and services may be sold separately or 
purchased together in bundled packages. The goods and services included in bundled arrangements 
are considered distinct performance obligations, except for where Pearson provides both a licence 
of intellectual property and an ongoing hosting service. As the licence of intellectual property is only 
available with the concurrent hosting service, the licence is not treated as a distinct performance 
obligation separate from the hosting service.

The transaction price is allocated between distinct performance obligations on the basis of their 
relative standalone selling prices. 

In determining the transaction price, variable consideration exists in the form of discounts and 
anticipated returns. Discounts reduce the transaction price on a given transaction. A provision for 
anticipated returns is made based primarily on historical return rates, customer buying patterns 
and retailer behaviours including stock levels. If these estimates do not reflect actual returns in 
future periods then revenue could be understated or overstated for a particular period. Variable 
consideration as described above is determined using the expected value approach. The sales 
return liability at the end of 2023 was £31m (2022: £53m; 2021: £83m). 

While payment for these goods and services generally occurs at the start of these arrangements, 
the length of time between payment and delivery of the performance obligations is generally short-
term in nature or the reason for early payment relates to reasons other than financing, including 
customers securing a vendor in a longer-term arrangement or the transfer of goods or services is at 
the discretion of the customer. For these reasons and the use of the practical expedient on short-
term financing, significant financing components are not recognised within Courseware transactions.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 164  

Financial statementsRevenue from the sale of physical books is recognised at a point in time when control passes. This is 
generally at the point of shipment when title passes to the customer, when the Group has a present 
right to payment and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer. 
Revenue from physical books sold through the direct print rental method is recognised over the 
rental period, as the customer is simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefits of this rental 
service through the passage of time.

Customer payments are generally defined in the contract through a payment schedule, which may 
require customer acceptance for services rendered. Pearson has a history of providing satisfactory 
services which are accepted by the customer. While a delay between rendering of services and 
payment may exist, payment terms are within 12 months and the Group has elected to use the 
practical expedient available in IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ and not identify a 
significant financing component on these transactions.

Revenue from the sale of digital courseware products is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
subscription period, unless hosted by a third party or representative of a downloadable product, in 
which case Pearson has no ongoing obligation and recognises revenue when control transfers as the 
customer is granted access to the digital product. 

Revenue from the sale of ‘off-the-shelf’ software is recognised on delivery or on installation of the 
software where that is a condition of the contract. In certain circumstances, where installation is 
complex, revenue is recognised when the customer has completed their acceptance procedures. 

Assessments
Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual arrangements related to large-scale 
assessment delivery, such as contracts to process qualifying tests for individual professions and 
government departments, and is recognised as performance occurs. Under these arrangements, 
while the agreement spans multiple years, the contract duration has been determined to be each 
testing cycle based on contract structure, including clauses regarding termination. 

Revenue is recognised for Assessment contracts over time as the customer is benefiting as 
performance takes place through a continuous transfer of control to the customer. This continuous 
transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contracts which may allow the 
customer to terminate for convenience, compensate us for work performed to date, and take 
possession of work in process. 

As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on the extent of progress towards 
completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress 
towards completion requires judgement and is based on the nature of the services provided. 
Revenue is recognised on a percentage of costs basis, calculated using the proportion of the total 
estimated costs incurred to date. The proportion of estimated costs incurred to date is primarily 
based on historical cost analysis for similar groups of contracts, with regular true-ups to contract 
costs throughout the contract period. Percentage of completion is used to recognise the transfer of 
control of services provided as these services are not provided evenly throughout the testing cycle 
and involve varying degrees of effort during the contract term. 

While in some cases the customer may have the ability to terminate during the term for convenience, 
significant financial or qualitative barriers exist limiting the potential for such terminations in the 
middle of a testing cycle.

Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss first becomes foreseeable. 
Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the contract 
exceed the estimated total revenue that will be generated.

Within each testing cycle, a variety of service activities are performed such as test administration, 
delivery, scoring, reporting, item development, operational services and programme management. 
These services are not treated as distinct in the context of the customer contract as Pearson 
provides an integrated managed service offering and these activities are accounted for together as 
one comprehensive performance obligation. 

Within each testing cycle, the transaction price may contain both fixed and variable amounts. 
Variable consideration within these transactions primarily relates to expected testing volumes to 
be delivered in the cycle. The assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent to long-term contract 
accounting can affect the amounts and timing of revenue and related expenses reported. Variable 
consideration is measured using the expected value method, except where amounts are contingent 
upon a future event’s occurrence, such as performance bonuses. Such event-driven contingency 
payments are measured using the most likely amount approach. In estimating and constraining 
variable consideration, historical experience, current trends and local market conditions are 
considered. To the extent that a higher degree of uncertainty exists regarding variable consideration, 
these amounts are excluded from the transaction price and recognised when the uncertainty is 
reasonably removed.

In Assessments contracts driven primarily by transactions directly to end users, Pearson’s main 
obligation to the customer involves test delivery and scoring. Test delivery and scoring are defined 
as a single performance obligation delivered over time whether the test is subsequently manually 
scored or digitally scored on the day of the assessment. Customers may also purchase print and 
digital supplemental materials. Print products in this revenue stream are recognised at a point in 
time when control passes to the customer upon shipment. Recognition of digital revenue will occur 
based on the extent of Pearson’s ongoing hosting obligation. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 165

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued

Services
Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual arrangements related to large-scale 
educational service delivery to academic institutions, such as schools and higher education 
universities. Under these arrangements, while an agreement may span multiple years, the contract 
duration has been determined to be each academic period based on the structure of contracts, 
including clauses regarding termination. While in some cases the customer may have the ability  
to terminate during the term for convenience, significant financial or qualitative barriers exist  
limiting the potential for such terminations in the middle of an academic period. The academic 
period for this customer base is normally an academic year for schools and a semester for higher 
education universities.

Within each academic period, a variety of services are provided such as programme development, 
student acquisition, education technology and student support services. These services are not 
distinct in the context of the customer contract as Pearson provides an integrated managed service 
offering and these activities are accounted for together as a comprehensive performance obligation.

Where Services are provided to university customers, volume and transaction price are fixed at the 
start of the semester. Where Services are provided to school customers, the transaction price may 
contain both fixed and variable amounts which require estimation during the academic period. 
Estimation is required where consideration is based upon average enrolments or other metrics 
which are not known at the start of the academic year. Variable consideration is measured using  
the expected value method. Historical experience, current trends, local circumstances and customer-
specific funding formulas are considered in estimating and constraining variable consideration.  
To the extent that a higher degree of uncertainty exists regarding variable consideration, these 
amounts are excluded from the transaction price and recognised when the uncertainty is  
reasonably removed.

Customer payments are generally defined in the contract as occurring shortly after invoicing. Where 
there is a longer payment term offered to a customer through a payment schedule, payment terms 
are within 12 months and the Group has elected to use the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 
and not identify a significant financing component on these transactions.

Revenue is recognised for Service contracts over time as the customer is benefiting as performance 
takes place through a continuous transfer of control to the customer. This continuous transfer of 
control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contracts which may allow the customer to 
terminate for convenience, compensate for work performed to date, and take possession of work  
in process. 

As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on the extent of progress towards 
completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress 
towards completion requires judgement and is based on the nature of the products or services 
provided. Within the comprehensive service obligation, the timing of services occurs relatively evenly 
over each academic period and, as such, time elapsed is used to recognise the transfer of control to 
the customer on a straight-line basis.

Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss first becomes foreseeable. 
Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the contract 
exceed the estimated total revenue that will be generated.

In cases of optional or add-on purchases, institutions may purchase physical goods priced at their 
standalone value, which are accounted for separately and recognised at the point in time when 
control passes to the customer upon shipment.

b. Disaggregation of revenue
The tables in notes 2 and 3 show revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated by operating 
segment, geography and revenue stream. These disaggregation categories are appropriate as they 
represent the key groupings used in managing and evaluating underlying performance of each of the 
businesses. The categories also reflect groups of similar types of transactional characteristics, among 
similar customers, with similar accounting conclusions. 

c. Contract balances
Transactions within the Courseware revenue stream generally entail customer billings at or near the 
contract’s inception and accordingly Courseware deferred income balances are primarily related to 
subscription performance obligations to be delivered over time.

Transactions within the Assessments and Services revenue streams generally entail customer billings 
over time based on periodic intervals, progress towards milestones or enrolment census dates. 
As the performance obligations within these arrangements are delivered over time, the extent of 
accrued income or deferred income will ultimately depend upon the difference between revenue 
recognised and billings to date.

Refer to note 22 for opening and closing balances of accrued income. Refer to note 24 for opening 
and closing balances of deferred income. Revenue recognised during the period from changes in 
deferred income was driven primarily by the release of revenue over time from digital subscriptions. 

d. Contract costs
The Group capitalises incremental costs to obtain contracts with customers where it is expected 
these costs will be recoverable. Incremental costs to obtain contracts with customers are considered 
those which would not have been incurred if the contract had not been obtained. For the Group, 
these costs relate primarily to sales commissions. The Group has elected to use the practical 
expedient as allowable by IFRS 15 whereby such costs will be expensed as incurred where the 
expected amortisation period is one year or less. Where the amortisation period is greater than one 
year, these costs are amortised over the contract term on a systematic basis consistent with the 
transfer of the underlying goods and services within the contract to which these costs relate, which 
will generally be on a rateable basis. 

The Group does not recognise any material costs to fulfil contracts with customers as these types of 
activities are governed by other accounting standards.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 166  

Financial statementse. Remaining transaction price
The below table depicts the remaining transaction price on unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations from contracts with customers.

All figures in £ millions

Courseware

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Assessments

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Services

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time – subscriptions

Products and services transferred over time – other 

Total

All figures in £ millions

Courseware

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Assessments

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Services

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time – subscriptions

Products and services transferred over time – other 

Total

Sales

Deferred 
income

Committed 
sales

Total 
remaining 
transaction 
price

2023

2026  

2024

2025

and later

457

630

208

1,658

35

660

26

3,674

Sales

626

640

188

1,470

29

351

537

3,841

–

78

1

261

–

12

16

368

–

–

–

332

–

–

234

566

–

78

1

593

–

12

250

934

–

38

1

496

–

11

250

796

–

15

–

94

–

1

–

110

–

25

–

3

–

–

–

28

2022

Deferred 
income

Committed 
sales

Total  
remaining 
transaction 
price

2023

2024

2025  

and later

1

95

–

262

–

20

22

400

–

–

–

472

–

7

225

704

1

95

–

734

–

27

247

1,104

1

56

–

524

–

27

247

855

–

14

–

206

–

–

–

–

25

–

4

–

–

–

220

29

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 167

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued

e. Remaining transaction price continued

All figures in £ millions

Courseware

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Assessments

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time

Services

Products transferred at a point in time

Products and services transferred over time – subscriptions

Products and services transferred over time – other 

Total

Deferred 
income

Committed 
sales

Total  
remaining 
transaction 
price

2022

2023

2024 
and later

2021

1

93

–

255

–

13

24

386

–

–

–

442

–

10

220

672

1

93

–

697

–

23

244

1,058

1

60

–

503

–

23

244

831

–

11

–

191

–

–

–

–

22

–

3

–

–

–

202

25

Sales

634

631

195

1,164

36

290

478

3,428

Committed sales amounts are equal to the transaction price from contracts with customers, excluding those amounts previously recognised as revenue and amounts currently recognised in deferred 
income. The total of committed sales and deferred income is equal to the remaining transaction price. Time bands stated above represent the expected timing of when the remaining transaction price will be 
recognised as revenue.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 168  

Financial statements4. Operating expenses

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

By function:
Cost of goods sold
Operating expenses
Distribution costs
Selling, marketing and product development costs
Administrative and other expenses
Restructuring costs
Other income
Total net operating expenses
Other net gains and losses
Total

1,839

2,046

1,747

47
549
767
–
(41)
1,322
16
3,177

61
564
823
150
(49)
1,549
(24)
3,571

62
521
802
214
 (37)
1,562
(63)
3,246

Other income includes freight income and sublet income. Included in administrative and other 
expenses are research and efficacy costs of £8m (2022: £10m; 2021: £12m). In 2023, other net gains 
and losses relate to the gain on the disposal of the POLS business and gains related to the release of 
accruals and a provision related to historical acquisitions, offset by losses on the disposal of Pearson 
College and costs related to current and prior year disposals and acquisitions. Other net gains in 
2022, largely relate to the gain on the sales of certain businesses (see note 31) and a gain arising on 
a decrease in the deferred consideration payable on prior year acquisitions, offset by costs related to 
disposals and acquisitions. In 2021, other net gains and losses largely relate to the sale of interests in 
PIHE in South Africa and the school business in Brazil. 

In 2023, there are no costs of major restructuring. In 2022, the restructuring costs of £150m mainly 
related to staff redundancies and impairment of right-of-use property assets. The 2022 charge 
includes the impact of updated assumptions related to the recoverability of right-of-use assets made 
in 2021. In 2023, charges of £11m relating to impairments of property assets arising from the impact 
of updates to assumptions made during the 2022 and 2021 restructuring programmes are included 
within administrative and other expenses. 

All figures in £ millions

By nature:

Royalties expensed

Other product costs

Employee benefit expense

Contract labour

Employee-related expense

Promotional costs
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant 
and equipment and investment property and 
assets held for sale
Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets – product development
Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets – software
Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets – other

Property and facilities

Technology and communications

Professional and outsourced services

Other general and administrative costs

Costs capitalised 

Other net gains and losses

Other income

Total

Notes

2023

2022

2021

164

393

194

412

185

353

5

1,467

1,605

1,365

10

20

11

11

70

60

146

90

284

123

46

82

215

443

43

(424)

16

(41)

73

52

268

136

303

125

54

102

221

501

76

(478)

(24)

(49)

69

21

239

241

 279

117

50

124

215

477

58

(447)

(63)

(37)

3,177

3,571

3,246

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 169

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

4. Operating expenses continued

5. Employee information

During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors, which changed 
to EY in 2022 and was PwC in 2021:

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

2021

Employee benefit expense

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

Wages and salaries (including termination costs)

The audit of parent company and consolidated financial 
statements

The audit of the company’s subsidiaries

Total audit fees*

Audit-related and other assurance services

Other non-audit services

Total other services

Total non-audit services

Total

8

2

10

–

–

–

–

10

6

1

7

–

–

–

–

7

5

2

7

–

–

–

–

7

Reconciliation between audit and non-audit service fees is shown below:

Social security costs

Share-based payment costs

Retirement benefits – defined contribution plans

Retirement benefits – defined benefit plans

Total

1,252

107

37

45

26

1,382

113

35

46

29

1,180

95

28

37

25

1,467

1,605

1,365

26

25

25

An additional £3m of share-based payment costs (2022: £3m; 2021: £nil) in respect of remuneration 
for post-acquisition services for recent acquisitions is included in other net gains and losses in the 
income statement.

The details of the emoluments of the Directors of Pearson plc are shown in the report on Directors’ 
remuneration.

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

Average number employed

2023

2022

2021

Group audit fees including fees for attestation under section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Non-audit fees

Total

10

–

10

7

–

7

7

–

7

 * Includes fees in connection with the interim review, preliminary announcement and controls audit required under Section 404 of 

the Sarbanes Oxley Act. In total this amounted to £1m in each of the years presented.

Employee numbers

UK

Other European countries

US

Canada

Asia Pacific

Other countries

Total

3,045

633

3,244

809

3,395

878

10,125

11,357

11,757

398

3,257

902

522

3,369

1,137

593

2,738

1,383

18,360

20,438

20,744

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 170  

Financial statements6. Net finance costs

7. Income tax

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

2021

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

2021

Current tax

Charge in respect of current year

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Total current tax charge

Deferred tax

In respect of temporary differences

Other adjustments in respect of prior years

Total deferred tax (charge)/credit

13

Total tax (charge)/credit

(105)

20

(85)

(11)

(17)

(28)

(113)

(127)

18

(109)

29

1

30

(79)

(103)

(12)

(115)

103

13

116

1

Interest payable on financial liabilities at 
amortised cost and associated derivatives

Interest on lease liabilities
Interest on deferred and contingent 
consideration

Interest on provisions for uncertain tax positions

Fair value movement on derivatives 

Finance costs
Interest receivable on financial assets at 
amortised cost

Interest on lease receivables
Net finance income in respect of retirement 
benefits

Fair value remeasurement of disposal proceeds
Fair value movements on investments held at 
fair value

Net foreign exchange gains

Interest on provisions for uncertain tax positions

Fair value movement on derivatives

Finance income
Net finance (costs)/income

35

35

25

15

(34)

(23)

(4)

–

(20)

(81)

16

4

26

–

13

3

4

10

76
(5)

(32)

(25)

(5)

(7)

(2)

(71)

18

5

9

–

28

1

35

27

123
52

(30)

(27)

–

(11)

–

(68)

5

6

4

6

20

1

–

20

62
(6)

Net movement in the fair value of hedges is further explained in note 16. Derivatives not in a hedge 
relationship include fair value movements in the interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 171

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

7. Income tax continued

The adjustments in respect of prior years in 2023 and 2021 primarily arise from revising the previous 
year’s reported tax provision to reflect the tax returns subsequently filed, whilst in 2022, the 
difference is primarily due to movements in provisions for tax uncertainties. This results in a change 
between deferred and current tax as well as an absolute benefit to the total tax charge. The tax on 
the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK tax 
rate as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Profit before tax
Tax calculated at UK rate (2023: 23.5%; 2022: 19%; 2021: 
19%)

Effect of overseas tax rates

Effect of UK rate change

Intra-group financing benefit

Net expense not subject to tax

Gains and losses on sale of businesses not subject to tax

Unrecognised tax losses

Benefit from changes in local tax law

Benefit from US accounting method changes

Movement in provisions for tax uncertainties – current year
Adjustments in respect of prior years – movement in 
provisions for tax uncertainties

Adjustments in respect of prior years – other

Total tax (charge)/credit

UK

Overseas

Total tax (charge)/credit

Tax rate reflected in earnings

  KJ Key judgements

2023

493

(116)

(1)

(1)

–

(3)

5

1

–

–

(2)

1

3

(113)

(54)

(59)

(113)

2022

323

(62)

(12)

3

–

(9)

2

3

–

–

(23)

13

6

(79)

(41)

(38)

(79)

2021

177

(34)

(24)

25

7

(9)

4

9

11

11

–

–

1

1

27

(26)

1

 — The application of tax legislation in relation to provisions for uncertain tax positions.

  KE Key areas of estimation

 — The level of provisions required in relation to uncertain tax positions is complex and each 
matter is separately assessed. The estimation of future settlement amounts is based on a 
number of factors including the status of the unresolved matter, clarity of legislation, range 
of possible outcomes and the statute of limitations. 

Included in net expense not subject to tax are foreign taxes not creditable, the tax impact of share-
based payments and other expenses not deductible.

Factors which may affect future tax charges include changes in tax legislation, transfer  
pricing regulations, the level and mix of profitability in different countries, and settlements  
with tax authorities.

UK legislation in relation to Pillar Two was substantively enacted on 20 June 2023 and was effective 
from 1 January 2024. The Group is in scope of this legislation and has performed an assessment 
of the Group’s potential exposure to Pillar Two income taxes. The assessment of the potential 
exposure to Pillar Two income taxes is based on the most recent financial information available for 
the constituent entities in the Group. Based on the assessment, the Pillar Two effective tax rates in 
most of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates are above 15%. However, there are a limited 
number of jurisdictions where the transitional safe harbour relief does not apply and the Pillar 
Two effective tax rate is close to 15%. The Group does not expect a material exposure to Pillar Two 
income taxes in those jurisdictions.

The movement in provisions for tax uncertainties primarily reflects releases due to the expiry of 
relevant statutes of limitation, settlement of certain audits and reassessment of existing exposures 
based on currently available information and tax authority correspondence. The current tax liability 
of £32m (2022: £43m; 2021: £125m) includes £27m (2022: £28m; 2021: £104m) of provisions for tax 
uncertainties principally in respect of several matters in the US and the UK. 

The Group is currently under audit in several countries, and the timing of any resolution of these 
audits is uncertain. In most countries, tax years up to and including 2018 are now statute barred 
from examination by tax authorities, however, a balance of £1m relates to certain remaining open 
issues. Of the remaining £26m balance, £12m relates to 2019, £4m to 2020, £4m to 2021, £3m to 
2022 and £3m to 2023. The tax authorities may take a different view from management and the final 
liability may be greater or lower than provided.

The matters provided for include a provision of £63m related to the potential EU State Aid exposure 
and the potential disallowance of intra-group charges. In relation to the potential EU State Aid 
exposure, a payment was made in 2022 in relation to the maximum potential exposure with the 
provision of £63m offset against this resulting in a £41m non-current tax debtor. 

Refer to note 34 for details of other uncertain tax positions.

Net exchange differences on translation of  
foreign operations
Fair value gains on other financial assets
Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations

–
–
20
20

4
1
(12)
(7)

10
(1)
(61)
(52)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 172  

23.0%

24.5%

(0.6)%

The tax benefit/(charge) recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

Financial statements8. Earnings per share

10. Property, plant and equipment and investment property

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity 
shareholders of the company (earnings) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares.

Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares to take account of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and adjusting the profit attributable, if 
applicable, to account for any tax consequences that might arise from conversion of those shares. 

Certain contingently issuable shares vested on 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 but have 
not yet been issued, these shares are considered dilutive but do not materially impact basic EPS.

All figures in £ millions

Earnings for the year

Non-controlling interest

Earnings attributable to equity shareholders

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

Effect of dilutive share options (millions)
Weighted average number of shares (millions) for diluted 
earnings

Earnings per share (in pence per share)

Basic

Diluted

9. Dividends

All figures in £ millions

Final paid in respect of prior year 14.9p (2022: 14.2p; 2021: 
13.5p)
Interim paid in respect of current year 7.0p (2022: 6.6p; 
2021: 6.3p)

2023

380

(2)

378

711.5

5.8

2022

244

(2)

242

738.1

3.9

2021

178

(1)

177

754.1

5.0

717.3

742.0

759.1

53.1p

52.7p

32.8p

32.6p

23.5p

23.3p

2023

2022

2021

106

49

155

107

49

156

102

47

149

The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 
2023 of 15.7p per equity share which will absorb an estimated £107m of shareholders’ funds. It will 
be paid on 3 May 2024 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 22 March 2024. 
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend as a liability.

Right-of-use assets

Investment 
property

Land and 
buildings

Plant and 
equipment

Land and 
buildings

Plant and 
equipment

Owned assets

Assets in  
the course of 
construction

All figures in £ millions

Cost

At 1 January 2022

Exchange differences

Additions

Transfers to 
investment property

Disposals of businesses 
(see note 31)

Disposals and retirements

Reclassifications and 
transfers

Transfer to assets 
classified as held for sale

At 31 December 2022
Exchange differences

Additions

Transfers to 
investment property

Disposals of businesses 
(note 31)

Disposals and retirements

Reclassifications and 
transfers

Transfer to assets 
classified as held for sale

–

–

22

465

30

33

174

(141)

–

(6)

–

–

190

–

24

–

–

–

–

–

(10)

(23)

–

–

354

(14)

26

–

–

–

–

At 31 December 2023

214

337

5

–

1

–

–

(1)

–

–

5

–

1

–

–

226

18

4

250

23

8

(32)

(1)

(1)

(5)

13

(45)

178

(9)

–

–

(4)

(10)

(8)

(39)

27

(3)

257

(11)

6

–

(3)

(36)

(40)

–

29

–

33

–

–

–

–

22

(1)

24

–

(2)

–

Total

975

71

101

–

(19)

(74)

(48)

1,006

(35)

81

–

(9)

(76)

–

–

967

(29)

(1)

–

–

5

10

24

(34)

–

165

–

237

–

9

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 173

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

10. Property, plant and equipment and investment property 
continued

  KE Key areas of estimation

All figures in £ millions

Depreciation and 
impairment
At 1 January 2022
Exchange differences
Transfers to 
investment property
Charge for the year
Disposals of businesses 
(note 31)
Disposals and retirements
Reclassifications 
and transfers

Impairment

Transfer to assets 
classified as held for sale

At 31 December 2022
Exchange differences
Charge for the year
Disposals of businesses 
(note 31)
Disposals and retirements
Reclassifications 
and transfers

Impairment

Transfer to assets 
classified as held for sale

At 31 December 2023
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022
At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

Right-of-use assets

Investment 
property

Land and 
buildings

Plant and 
equipment

Land and 
buildings

Plant and 
equipment

Owned assets

Assets in  
the course of 
construction

–
–

(105)
(6)

–
–

–

(19)

–
(130)
–
(5)

–
–

–

–

(269)
(17)

101
(44)

2
13

–

(15)

–
(229)
12
(38)

–
28

–

(2)

–
(135)

–
(229)

–
60
79

196
125
108

(5)
–

–
(1)

–
1

–

–

–
(5)
–
(1)

–
1

–

–

–
(5)

–
–
–

(136)
(14)

3
(13)

1
5

–

(9)

30
(133)
6
(10)

2
10

–

–

(199)
(18)

1
(26)

5
39

–

(3)

2
(199)
10
(25)

2
35

–

–

–
(125)

–
(177)

–
–

–
–

–
–

–

–

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–

–
–

90
45
40

51
58
60

29
22
9

Total

(609)
(49)

–
(90)

8
58

–

(46)

32
(696)
28
(79)

4
74

–

(2)

–
(671)

366
310
296

 — The recoverability of right-of-use assets and in particular assumptions related to the ability 

to sublease vacant leased assets in the future. 

Depreciation expense of £40m (2022: £45m; 2021: £40m) has been included in the income 
statement in cost of goods sold and £39m (2022: £45m; 2021: £55m) in operating expenses. The 
impairment charge of £2m (2022: £46m; 2021: £146m) has been included within operating expenses 
within the income statement. 

Property, plant and equipment (including investment property) assets are assessed for impairment 
triggers annually or when triggering events occur. In 2022 and 2021, as part of a major restructuring 
programme, the Group continued to simplify its property portfolio, reducing the overall office space 
required. All property related assets were assessed for impairment as a result of this triggering event 
and impairment charges of £46m in 2022 and £141m in 2021 recognised within costs of major 
restructuring (see note 4 for details). In 2023, there were impairment charges of £11m in respect of 
property assets including £9m in relation to property assets which are classified as assets held for 
sale. The recoverability of certain of the Group’s right-of-use assets is now based on the Group’s ability 
to sublease vacant space. This involves the use of assumptions related to future subleases including 
the achievable rent, lease start dates, lease incentives such as rent free periods and the discount rate 
applied. Should the future sublease outcomes be more or less favourable than the assumptions used 
by management this could result in additional impairment charges or reversals of impairment charges.

In 2023, total additions to right-of-use-assets are £42m (2022: £49m) including £15m (2022: £15m) 
in respect of investment property.

Investment property
Buildings, or portions of buildings, that are no longer occupied by the Group and are held for 
operating lease rental are classified as investment property. Investment property includes both, 
right-of-use assets and owned assets. The Group recognised rental income of £6m (2022: £3m; 2021 
£nil) in relation to properties classified as investment property. Investment property is measured 
using the cost model. As a result of recent impairments, the fair value of investment property is 
equal to the carrying value. The fair value of investment property has been determined using a 
discounted cash flow model. The valuation model is internally generated but uses inputs from 
external, independent property valuers, having appropriate recognised professional qualifications 
and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued. The valuations 
require the application of judgement and involve the use of known inputs for existing contracted 
subleases as well as assumptions related to future potential subleases including the achievable 
rent, lease start dates, lease incentives such as rent free periods and the discount rate applied. 
The fair value measurement of investment properties has been classified as level 3 within the fair 
value hierarchy based on the inputs and valuation technique used. Should the future sublease 
outcomes be more or less favourable than the assumptions used by management this could result 
in additional impairment charges or reversals of impairment charges. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 174  

Financial statements11. Intangible assets

All figures in £ millions

Goodwill

Software

Acquired 
customer lists, 
contracts and 
relationships

Acquired 
trademarks  
and brands

Acquired 
publishing 
rights

Other 
intangibles 
acquired

Total

741

80

168

20

97

5

321

4,559

44

438

Cost

At 1 January 2022

Exchange differences
Additions – internal 
development

Additions – purchased
Disposals and 
retirements
Acquisition of 
subsidiary (note 30)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 31)

Transfers

2,145

206

–

–

–

204

(75)

–

1,087

83

86

4

(131)

–

(9)

(5)

At 31 December 2022

2,480

1,115

(107)

(40)

Exchange differences
Additions – internal 
development

Additions – purchased
Disposals and 
retirements
Acquisition of 
subsidiary (note 30)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 31)

Transfers

–

–

–

61

–

–

96

–

(18)

(15)

(1)

–

82

–

–

–

37

(20)

–

838

(42)

–

–

–

(298)

–

580

–

–

–

6

(8)

–

186

(5)

–

–

(1)

6

(2)

–

–

–

–

1

–

–

103

(3)

–

–

–

–

–

–

Amortisation and 
impairment

At 1 January 2022

Exchange differences

Charge for the year
Disposals and 
retirements
Disposal of businesses 
(note 31)

–

–

–

86

4

(131)

66

314

Transfers

(1)

–

(113)

(5)

430

5,152

(12)

(209)

–

–

96

–

(3)

(22)

29

178

–

–

(315)

(1)

At 31 December 2022

Exchange differences

Charge for the year
Disposals and 
retirements
Disposal of businesses 
(note 31)

Transfers

At 31 December 2023

Carrying amounts

At 1 January 2022

At 31 December 2022

At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2023

2,434

1,137

184

100

444

4,879

All figures in £ millions

Goodwill

Software

Acquired 
customer lists, 
contracts and 
relationships

Acquired 
trademarks  
and brands

Acquired 
publishing 
rights

Other 
intangibles 
acquired

Total

(657)

(620)

(138)

(65)

(33)

–

20

–

(16)

(8)

–

7

–

(96)

(5)

–

–

–

–

(279)

(1,790)

(37)

(172)

(13)

(179)

–

1

–

130

36

–

(698)

(155)

(101)

(328)

(1,975)

31

(19)

–

252

–

4

(7)

1

2

–

3

(1)

–

–

–

9

71

(19)

(169)

3

–

–

22

262

1

(49)

(125)

130

8

–

(693)

24

(123)

18

8

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(765)

(434)

(155)

(99)

(335)

(1,788)

2,145

2,480

2,434

430

422

372

121

140

146

30

31

29

1

2

1

42

102

109

2,769

3,177

3,091

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 175

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11. Intangible assets continued

The expected amortisation profile of acquired intangible assets is shown below:

Goodwill
The goodwill carrying value of £2,434m (2022: £2,480m) relates to acquisitions completed after 
1 January 1998. Prior to 1 January 1998, all goodwill was written off to reserves on the date 
of acquisition. For acquisitions completed between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2002, 
no value was ascribed to intangibles other than goodwill which was amortised over a period 
of up to 20 years. On adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2003, the Group chose not to restate the 
goodwill balance and at that date the balance was frozen (i.e. amortisation ceased). If goodwill 
had been restated, then a significant value would have been ascribed to other intangible assets, 
which would be subject to amortisation, and the carrying value of goodwill would be significantly 
lower. For acquisitions completed after 1 January 2003, value has been ascribed to other intangible 
assets which are amortised.

Software and acquired intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets are valued separately for each acquisition. For material business 
combinations, the valuation is determined with the support of a third-party specialist. The primary 
method of valuation used is the discounted cash flow method. Acquired intangibles are amortised 
either on a straight line basis or using an amortisation profile based on the projected cash flows 
underlying the acquisition date valuation of the intangible asset, which generally results in a larger 
proportion of amortisation being recognised in the early years of the asset’s life, depending 
on the individual asset. The Group keeps the expected pattern of consumption under review. Other 
intangibles acquired includes technology.

Amortisation of £37m (2022: £32m; 2021: £25m) is included in the income statement in cost of 
goods sold and £132m (2022: £147m; 2021: £138m) in operating expenses. Impairment charges of 
£nil (2022: nil; 2021: £4m) are included in operating expenses within the income statement.

The range of useful economic lives for each major class of intangible asset (excluding goodwill and 
software) is shown below:

Class of intangible asset

Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships

Acquired trademarks and brands

Acquired publishing rights

Other intangibles acquired

At 31 December 2023

Useful economic life

3-20 years

2-20 years

5-20 years

2-20 years

All figures in £ millions

Class of intangible asset
Acquired customer lists, contracts 
and relationships

Acquired trademarks and brands

Acquired publishing rights

Other intangibles acquired

One to  

five years

Six to  

ten years

Eleven to 
fifteen years

Sixteen to 
twenty years

Total

At 31 December 2023

71

22

1

84

41

7

–

17

28

–

–

8

6

–

–

–

146

29

1

109

Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) containing goodwill
Impairment tests have been carried out where appropriate as described below. Goodwill was 
allocated to CGUs, or an aggregation of CGUs, where goodwill could not be reasonably allocated to 
individual business units. Impairment reviews were conducted on these CGUs as summarised below:

All figures in £ millions

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

English Language Learning

Workforce Skills

Higher Education

Total

2023
Goodwill

2022
Goodwill

1,355

1,361

419

255

337

68

443

259

348

69

2,434

2,480

Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. The recoverable amount of each aggregated 
CGU is based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal. The impairment 
assessment is based on value in use. Other than goodwill there are no intangible assets with 
indefinite lives. No impairments of goodwill were recorded in 2023 or 2022.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 176  

Financial statements  KE Key areas of estimation

 — The valuation of acquired intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of a business. 
The valuation is based on a number of assumptions, including estimations of future 
business performance. See note 30. 

Determination of CGUs and reallocation of goodwill
Pearson identifies its CGUs based on its operating model and how data is collected and  
reviewed for management reporting and strategic planning purposes in accordance with IAS 
36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. The CGUs and CGU aggregations reflect the level at which goodwill is 
monitored by management. 

In 2022, the separate CGUs of China, South Africa and Canada were disposed. The goodwill related 
to the Strategic Review CGU was reallocated between businesses disposed and businesses retained. 
All of the goodwill related to businesses retained was transferred to the Assessment & Qualifications 
CGU aggregation. 

In 2023, business disposals resulted in the disposal of £53m of intangible assets (see note 31 for 
further details). A relative value method was used to allocate goodwill to the disposed business in 
the Virtual Learning CGU aggregation. The result of this was that no goodwill was allocated to the 
disposed business.

Perpetuity growth rates – The perpetuity growth rates are based on inflation trends. A perpetuity 
growth rate of 2% (2022: 2%) was used for cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period for 
CGUs operating primarily in mature markets. This perpetuity growth rate is a conservative rate and 
is considered to be lower than the long-term historical growth rates of the underlying territories in 
which the CGU operates and the long-term growth rate prospects of the sectors in which the CGU 
operates. A blended growth rate of 3.5% (2022: 3.5%) was used for cash flows subsequent to the 
approved budget period for English Language Learning which has a higher exposure to emerging 
markets with higher inflation. This geographically blended growth rate is generally in line with the 
long-term historical growth rates in those markets. 

The key assumptions used by management in setting the financial budgets were as follows:

Forecast sales growth rates – Forecast sales growth rates are based on past experience adjusted 
for the strategic direction and near-term investment priorities within each CGU. Key assumptions 
include growth in English Language Learning and Workforce Skills – due to product-led share 
gains and contribution from new acquisitions, recovery in Higher Education, growth in Virtual 
Learning – albeit impacted by school churn in Virtual Schools in the short term, and steady growth 
in Assessments and Qualifications. The sales forecasts use average nominal growth rates of low-mid 
single digits for mature businesses in mature markets and double digit growth where there has been 
significant organic and/or inorganic investment. 

Operating profits – Operating profits are forecast based on historical experience of operating 
margins, adjusted for the impact of changes to product costs, strategic developments and new 
business cases to the extent they have been formally approved prior to the balance sheet date. 
Management applies judgement in allocating corporate costs on a reasonable and consistent basis 
in order to determine operating profit at a CGU level. 

Key assumptions
For the purpose of estimating the value in use of the CGUs, management has used an income 
approach based on present value techniques. The calculations for all CGUs use cash flow projections 
based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.

Management have considered the impact of climate change risks (including physical and transition 
risks and the costs associated with achieving the Group's net zero commitment) and are satisfied 
that any related costs will not materially impact the Group’s profit forecasts or impairment 
judgements at 31 December 2023.

The key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculations were:

Discount rates – The discount rates are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, 
where the cost of equity is calculated based on the risk-free rate of government bonds, adjusted 
for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk in investing in equities. Where CGUs cover multiple 
territories, a blended risk-free rate is used. Base discount rates were assessed as reflecting 
underlying economic conditions, and so no further risk premiums were considered necessary. The 
average pre-tax discount rates range from 10.4% to 13.0% (2022: pre-tax 11.6% to 12.0%). 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 177

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

11. Intangible assets continued

13. Deferred income tax

Key assumptions continued
The table below shows the key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculations.

All figures in £ millions

Deferred income tax assets

2023

2022

Deferred income tax liabilities

Discount rate

Perpetuity
growth rate

Discount rate

Perpetuity
growth rate

Net deferred income tax (liability)/asset

2023

2022

35

(46)

(11)

57

(37)

20

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

English Language Learning 

Workforce Skills

Higher Education

10.8%

11.0%

13.0%

10.4%

10.7%

2.0%

2.0%

3.5%

2.0%

2.0%

12.0%

11.9%

11.8%

11.6%

12.0%

2.0%

2.0%

3.5%

2.0%

2.0%

Sensitivities
Impairment testing for the year ended 31 December 2023 did not find any of the CGUs to be 
sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. 

12. Investments in joint ventures and associates

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Associates

Total

The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Associates

Total

2023

22

22

2022

25

25

2023

2022

1

1

1

1

The Group has no material associates or joint ventures. The largest associate is a 49% interest in The 
Egyptian International Publishing Company-Longman, which had a carrying value of £13m as at 31 
December 2023 (2022: £9m). 

Other than the £5m payment in respect of Academy of Pop disclosed in note 36, there were no 
material transactions with associates or joint ventures during 2023 or 2022. 

Substantially all of the deferred income tax assets are expected to be recovered after more 
than one year. The net deferred income tax liability of £11m (2022: deferred tax asset of £20m; 
2021: deferred tax asset of £17m) includes £23m (2022: £19m; 2021: £nil) of provisions for tax 
uncertainties principally in respect of several matters in the US and the UK. 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities shall be offset when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset current income tax assets with current income tax liabilities and where the deferred income 
taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. 

At 31 December 2023, the Group has gross tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
of £1,029m (2022: £547m). The expiry date and key geographic split of these losses is set out in the 
following table.

Year ended  
31 December 2023

Tax losses expiring:

Within 10 years

Within 10-20 years

Available indefinitely
Total

Year ended  
31 December 2022

Tax losses expiring:

Within 10 years

Within 10-20 years

Available indefinitely
Total

Gross

Tax effected

UK

US

Other

Total

UK

US

Other

Total

– 

– 

168
168

437

143

48
628

 34

–

199
233

471

143

415
1,029

–

–

42
42

91

7

2
100

9

–

65
74

100

7

109
216

Gross

Tax effected

UK

US

Other

Total

UK

US

Other

Total

– 

– 

166 
166 

3 

30 

33 

104 

30 
137 

–

 104 

214 
244 

410
547 

– 

– 

41 
41 

–

 5 

2 
7 

10 

–

68 
78 

10 

5 

111
126

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 178  

Financial statements 
The increase in unrecognised tax losses in the US is principally due to the crystallisation of  
a capital loss on disposal during the year which has not been recognised for tax purposes.  
Other unrecognised tax losses includes £155m gross (2022: £140m) and £53m tax effected  
(2022: £48m) relating to Brazil.

Other gross deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised total 
£201m (2022: £218m). This includes £196m (2022: £193m) in respect of interest limitations. The 
amount of temporary differences associated with subsidiaries for which no deferred tax has been 
provided totals £268m (2022: £275m).

Deferred income tax assets of £18m (2022: £14m) have been recognised in countries that reported 
a tax loss in either the current or preceding year. This primarily arises in respect of tax losses in 
Brazil, India and Australia. It is considered more likely than not that there will be sufficient future 
taxable profits to realise these assets.

The recognition of the deferred income tax assets is supported by management’s forecasts of the 
future profitability of the relevant countries. In some cases deferred income tax assets are forecast 
to be recovered through taxable profits over a period that exceeds five years. Management consider 
these forecasts are sufficiently reliable to support the recovery of the assets. Where there are 
insufficient forecasts of future profits, deferred income tax assets have not been recognised.

The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Deferred income tax 
assets/(liabilities)

At 1 January 2022

Exchange differences

Acquisitions 
and disposals of 
subsidiaries

Income statement 
benefit/(charge)

Tax charge in OCI/
equity
At 31 December 2022

Exchange differences

Acquisitions 
and disposals of 
subsidiaries

Income statement 
benefit/(charge)

Tax charge in OCI/
equity
At 31 December 2023

Trading 
losses

Accruals 
and other 
provisions

Retirement 
benefit 
obligations

Deferred 
revenue

Goodwill 
and 
intangibles

Interest 
limitations

Other

Total 

82

–

7

37

64

7

–

(108)

2

–

(4)

(9)

4
130

(1)

–
67

(3)

(12)
(127)

(1)

52

6

–

5

–
63

(3)

(178)

(21)

55

6

50

4

17

4

(21)

–

(12)

(26)

14

(6)

(7)

30

–
(206)

9

–
55

(2)

3
38

1

(5)
20

–

(3)

6

–

–

(26)

–

–

(23)

(25)

(11)

(6)

(17)

71

(19)

(21)

(28)

–
101

–
59

20
(114)

–
43

–
(152)

–
34

–
18

20
(11)

Other deferred income tax items include temporary differences in respect of right-of-use assets 
(deferred tax asset of £54m, with an offsetting deferred tax liability of £42m), and accelerated capital 
allowances of £11m.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 179

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

14. Classification of financial instruments

The accounting classification of each class of the Group’s financial assets, and their carrying values, is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Investments in unlisted securities

Cash and cash equivalents 
Derivative financial instruments

Trade receivables

Investment in finance lease receivable

Other receivable

Total financial assets

Fair value

Amortised cost

Fair value

Amortised cost

2023

2022

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income

Notes

Fair value 
through profit 
and loss

Fair value 
– hedging 
instrument

Financial 
assets

Total  
carrying  
value

Fair value  
through other 
comprehensive 
income

Fair value 
through profit 
and loss

Fair value  
– hedging 
instrument

Financial assets

Total  
carrying  
value

15

17
16

22

22

23

–
–

–

–

–

120

31
1

–

–

–

23

152

–

–
47

–

–

–

47

–

281
–

695

100

12

143

312
48

695

100

12

24

–
–

–

–

–

109

40
5

–

–

–

1,088

1,310

24

154

–

–
54

–

–

–

54

–

518
–

825

121

3

133

558
59

825

121

3

1,467

1,699

The carrying value of the Group’s financial assets is equal to, or approximately equal to, the market value. The other receivable relates to the deferred consideration receivable on the disposal of POLS.

The accounting classification of each class of the Group’s financial liabilities, together with their carrying values and market values, is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Derivative financial instruments

Trade payables

Deferred and contingent consideration
Borrowings due within one year
Borrowings due after more than one year

Total financial liabilities

Fair value

Amortised 
cost

Fair value

Amortised cost

2023

Fair value 
through profit 
and loss

Fair value  
– hedging 
instrument

Other  
financial 
liabilities

Total  

carrying value

Total  
market  
value

Fair value  
through profit  

and loss

Fair value 
– hedging 
instrument

Notes

Other  
financial 
liabilities

16

24

24
18
18

(7)

–

(57)
–
–

(64)

(36)

–

–
–
–

(36)

–

(317)

–
(67)
(1,094)

(1,478)

(43)

(317)

(57)
(67)
(1,094)

(1,578)

(43)

(317)

(57)
(67)
(1,062)

(1,546)

(2)

–

(79)
–
–

(81)

(63)

–

–
–
–

(63)

–

(348)

–
(86)
(1,144)

(1,578)

2022

Total  
market  
value

(65)

(348)

(79)
(86)
(1,096)

(1,674)

Total  
carrying  
value

(65)

(348)

(79)
(86)
(1,144)

(1,722)

The market value of leases approximates their book value.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 180  

Financial statementsThe key inputs into the discounted cash flow model are the estimates of adjusted EBITDA for the 
next 6 years and the estimate of the valuation of the business thereafter. Reasonably possible 
changes in assumptions for the inputs into the model would not have a material impact on the 
carrying value of the contingent consideration, and therefore sensitivities have not been disclosed.

The deferred consideration payable in respect of prior year acquisitions is measured as the 
net present value of the expected cash flows. The movement in the fair value of the deferred 
consideration payable is shown in the table below: 

The movements in fair values of level 3 financial assets measured at fair value, are shown in the  
table below:

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January

2023

2022

Exchange differences

Fair value measurement 
As shown above, the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities, unlisted securities, marketable 
securities and deferred and contingent consideration are held at fair value. Financial instruments 
that are measured subsequently to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3, 
based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, as follows:

Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets 
for identical assets or liabilities. The Group’s bonds valued at £611m (2022: £610m) and money 
market funds of £31m (2022: £40m) included within cash and cash equivalents are classified as  
level 1.

Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included 
within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly 
(derived from prices). The Group’s derivative assets valued at £48m (2022: £59m) and derivative 
liabilities valued at £43m (2022: £65m) are classified as level 2.

Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs 
for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The 
Group’s investments in unlisted securities are valued at £143m (2022: £133m), deferred and 
contingent consideration of £57m (2022: £79m) and the other receivable of £12m (2022: £3m) are 
classified as level 3.

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January

Exchange differences

Acquisition of investments and other receivable

Repayments

Disposal of investments 

Fair value movements – OCI

Fair value movements – income statement

At 31 December

 Other 
receivable

Investments  
in unlisted 
securities

133

(5)

8

–

(7)

1

13

Total

136

(5)

20

(3)

(7)

1

13

Total

200

10

19

(92)

(48)

18

29

143

155

136

3

–

12

(3)

–

–

–

12

The fair value of the investments in unlisted securities is determined by reference to the financial 
performance of the underlying asset, recent funding rounds and amounts realised on the sale of 
similar assets. 

The other receivable relates to £12m (2022: £nil) in respect of the contingent consideration 
receivable for the sale of the POLS business, which comprises a 27.5% share of positive adjusted 
EBITDA in each calendar year for six years and 27.5% of the proceeds received by the purchaser 
in relation to any future monetisation event. The valuation of the deferred consideration has been 
determined on the basis of a discounted cash flow model, and valued by a third-party specialist. 

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January
Exchange differences
Acquisitions
Fair value movements – income statement
Repayments
At 31 December 

15. Other financial assets

Acquisition of investments

Disposal of investments

Fair value movements – OCI

Fair value movements – income statement

At 31 December

Other financial assets are unlisted securities of £143m (2022: £133m), of which £23m (2022: 
£24m) are classified at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), with the remaining 
£120m (2022: £109m) mainly relating to investments in funds, being required to be held at fair 
value through profit and loss (FVTPL). The assets, which are not held for trading, relate to the 
Group’s interests in new and innovative educational ventures across the world. These are strategic 
investments and where permitted, the Group made the election to classify such investments as 
FVOCI on initial recognition of the assets. None of the investments are individually significant to the 
financial statements and therefore sensitivities have not been provided.

During the year, the Group disposed of investments that were classified as FVOCI for £3m (2022: 
£31m). In 2022, these disposals predominantly related to the Group’s investment in Credly, where 
the Group acquired the remainder of the share capital and so the investment was treated as 
disposed as the company is now fully consolidated. The cumulative loss on disposal was £2m (2022: 
£23m gain).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 181

2023

(79)
3
–
(4)
23
(57)

2023

133

(5)

8

(7)

1

13

143

2022

(44)
(7)
(42)
4
10
(79)

2022

113

9

12

(48)

18

29

133

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting

The Group’s approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19. The Group’s 
outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows:

2023

2022

The Group’s treasury policies only allow derivatives to be traded where the objective is risk 
mitigation. These are then designated for hedge accounting using the following criteria:

 — Where interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to convert fixed rate debt to 
floating and we expect to receive inflows equal to the fixed rate debt interest, these are classified 
as fair value hedges;

 — Where derivatives are used to create a future foreign currency exposure to provide protection 

Gross 
notional 
amounts

Assets

Liabilities

All figures in £ millions

Interest rate derivatives – in a 
fair value hedge relationship
Interest rate derivatives – not in 
a hedge relationship
Cross-currency rate derivatives 
– in a hedge relationship
Cross-currency rate derivatives 
– not in a hedge relationship
FX derivatives – in a hedge 
relationship
FX derivatives – not in a hedge 
relationship

Total

Analysed as expiring:

In less than one year

Later than one year and not 
later than five years

Total

174

356

352

87

420

526

1,915

1,047

868

1,915

–

14

26

–

7

1

48

16

32

48

Gross 
notional 
amounts

177

260

83

–

355

573

1,448

(5)

(1)

(31)

(1)

–

(5)

(43)

(5)

1,028

(38)

(43)

420

1,448

Assets

Liabilities

against currency movements affecting the foreign currency movements of an overseas 
investment, these are designated as a net investment hedge;

–

19

34

–

1

5

59

16

43

59

(11)

–

(43)

–

(9)

(2)

(65)

(11)

(54)

(65)

 — All other derivatives are not designated in a hedge relationship.

The Group’s fixed rate GBP debt is held as fixed rate instruments at amortised cost.

The Group uses a combination of interest rate and cross-currency swaps to convert its €300m debt.

Receive Notional

Receive coupon

FX rate

€100m
€181m

1.375% GBPEUR: 1.1295
GBPUSD: 1.206
1.375%

€19m

1.375%

GBPUSD: 1.206

Notional

£87m
£157m

£16m

Pay coupon

3.51%
3.402%
USD Libor  
+1.36%

To create the synthetic debt positions outlined above, the Group converts €100m to £87m at a rate 
of 3.51% this is not in a hedge relationship. The remaining €200m of its EUR fixed debt is swapped to 
EUR floating debt via interest rate swap contracts that are in a designated fair value hedge. The EUR 
floating debt is then converted to GBP floating debt via cross-currency swap contracts that are in a 
designated fair value hedge. The GBP floating debt is then converted to USD floating debt through 
cross-currency swap contracts that are in a designated net investment hedging relationship. £157m 
of the EUR debt is finally converted to USD fixed debt via interest rate swap contracts that are not in 
a hedge relationship.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 182  

Financial statementsAdditionally, the Group uses FX derivatives including forwards, collars, cross-currency swaps and 
swaptions to create synthetic USD debt as a hedge of its USD assets and to achieve reasonable 
certainty of USD currency conversion rates, in line with the Group’s FX hedging policy. As at 
31 December 2023, the Group held FX outrights with a notional of $280m at an average rate of 
GBP:USD rate of 1.25. 

A foreign currency exposure arises from foreign exchange fluctuations on translation of the Group’s 
euro debt into GBP. The hedged risk is the risk of changes in the GBP:EUR spot rate that will result 
in changes in the value of the euro debt when translated into GBP. The hedged items are a portion 
of the Group’s euro bonds. The hedging instruments are floating to floating cross-currency swaps 
which mitigates an exposure to the effect of euro strengthening against GBP within the hedge item.

The Group’s portfolio of derivatives is diversified by maturity, counterparty and type. Natural offsets 
between transactions within the portfolio and the designation of certain derivatives as hedges 
significantly reduce the risk of income statement volatility. The sensitivity of the portfolio to changes 
in market rates is set out in note 19.

In 2021, the Group transitioned GBP exposures from GBP LIBOR to SONIA. In 2022, for USD 
exposures the Group transitioned its RCF from USD LIBOR to SOFR. The Group’s risk management 
strategy has not changed as a result of IBOR Reform and it is considered to be immaterial to the 
financial statements. 

Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps as fair value hedges of the Group’s 
euro issued debt. 

Interest rate exposure arises from movements in the fair value of the Group’s euro debt attributable 
to movements in euro interest rates. The hedged risk is the change in the euro bonds fair value 
attributable to interest rate movements. The hedged items are the Group’s euro bonds which are 
issued at a fixed rate. The hedging instruments are fixed to floating euro interest rate swaps where 
the Group receives fixed interest payments and pays three-month Euribor.

As the critical terms of the interest rate swaps match the bonds, there is an expectation that the 
value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item will move equally in the opposite 
direction as a result of movements in the zero coupon Euribor curve. Potential sources of hedge 
ineffectiveness would be material changes in the credit risk of swap counterparties or a reduction or 
modification in the hedge item.

As the critical terms of the cross-currency swap match the bonds, there is an expectation that  
the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item move in the opposite  
direction as a result of movements in the EUR:GBP exchange rate. Potential sources of hedge 
ineffectiveness are a reduction or modification in the hedged item or a material change in the credit 
risk of swap counterparties. 

The Group held the following instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates and 
foreign currency risk associated with borrowings:

All figures in £ millions

2023

Carrying 
amount of 
hedging 
instruments

Change in fair 
value of hedging 
instrument used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness

Nominal 
amounts 
of hedging 
instruments

Derivative financial instruments for interest rate risk

Derivative financial instruments for currency risk

(6)

26

5

(7)

174

174

2022

All figures in £ millions

Carrying 
amount of 
hedging 
instruments

Change in fair 
value of hedging 
instrument used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness

Nominal 
amounts 
of hedging 
instruments

Derivative financial instruments for interest rate risk

Derivative financial instruments for currency risk

(11)

33

(16)

9

177

266

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 183

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
continued

The amounts at the reporting date relating to items designated as hedge items were as follows:

Hedge ineffectiveness would arise if the value of the hedged items fell below the value of the hedging 
instruments; however, this is unlikely as the value of the Group’s assets denominated in USD is 
significantly greater than the proposed net investment programme.

The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments were as follows:

2023

Accumulated 
amount of fair 
value hedge 
adjustments 
on the hedged 
item included 
in the carrying 
amount 

Change in 
fair value 
of hedged 
item used to 
determine 
hedge 
ineffectiveness

Carrying 
amount of 
hedged items

Line item 
in profit or 
loss that 
includes hedge 
ineffectiveness

Hedge  

ineffectiveness

All figures in £ millions

Interest rate risk

Financial liabilities – borrowings 

(169)

6

Currency risk

Financial liabilities – borrowings

(169)

n/a

5

5

1

–

Finance 
costs

n/a

2022

All figures in £ millions

Derivative financial 
instruments
Financial liabilities – 
borrowings

Accumulated 
amount of fair 
value hedge 
adjustments 
on  
the hedged 
item included 
in the carrying 
amount 

Change in 
fair value 
of hedged 
item used to 
determine 
hedge 
ineffectiveness

Carrying 
amount of 
hedged items

Line item 
in profit or 
loss that 
includes hedge 
ineffectiveness

Hedge  

ineffectiveness

All figures in £ millions

Derivative financial 
instruments
Financial liabilities – 
borrowings

All figures in £ millions

Interest rate risk

Financial liabilities – borrowings 

Currency risk

Financial liabilities – borrowings

(167)

(167)

11

n/a

15

(14)

Finance 
costs

n/a

(1)

–

Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation 
A foreign currency exposure arises from the translation of the Group’s net investments in its 
subsidiaries. The hedged risk is the risk of changes in the currency spot rate (eg GBP:USD) that 
will result in changes in the value of the Group's net investment in its overseas subsidiaries when 
translated into GBP. The hedged items are a portion of the Group's assets which are denominated 
in USD. The hedging instruments are debt and derivative financial instruments, including cross-
currency swaps, FX forwards and FX collars, which mitigates an exposure to the effect of a weakening 
USD on the hedged item against GBP. It is expected that the change in value of each of these items 
will mirror each other as there is a clear and direct economic relationship between the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item in the hedge relationship.

Carrying 
amount of 
hedging 
instruments

Change in  
value of hedging 
instrument used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness 

Nominal 
amounts  
of hedging 
instruments

Hedging  
gains/(losses) 
recognised 
in OCI

Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in  
profit or loss

2023

(24)

–

26

–

599

–

26

–

–

–

2022

Carrying 
amount of 
hedging 
instruments

Change in  
value of hedging 
instrument used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness 

Nominal 
amounts  
of hedging 
instruments

Hedging  
gains/(losses) 
recognised 
in OCI

Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in  
profit or loss

(50)

(89)

(31)

(5)

172

(88)

(31)

(5)

–

–

Included in the translation reserve is a cost of hedging reserve relating to the time value of FX  
collars which is not separately disclosed due to materiality. The value of that reserve will decrease 
over the life of the hedge transaction. The balance as at 1 January and 31 December 2023 was £nil 
(2022: £1m). During the year £nil (2022: £2m) of hedging gains were recycled to the profit and loss.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 184  

Financial statementsOffsetting arrangements with derivative counterparties
All of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are subject to enforceable netting arrangements 
with individual counterparties, allowing net settlement in the event of default of either party. 
Derivative financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting arrangements are as follows:

Short-term bank deposits are invested with banks and earn interest at the prevailing short-term 
deposit rates.

At the end of 2023, the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 16% (2022: 31%), 
sterling 11% (2022: 6%), and other 73% (2022: 63%). 

Gross  
derivative  

assets

Gross  
derivative 
liabilities

2023

Net 
derivative 
assets/  

liabilities

Gross  
derivative  
assets

Gross  
derivative 
liabilities

2022

Net 
derivative 
assets/  

liabilities

26

22

48

(14)

(29)

12

(7)

(43)

5

30

29

59

(17)

(48)

13

(19)

(65)

(6)

All figures in £ millions

Counterparties in an 
asset position
Counterparties in a 
liability position
Total as presented 
in the balance 
sheet

Offset arrangements in respect of cash balances are described in note 17.

Counterparty exposure from all derivatives is managed, together with that from deposits and bank 
account balances, within credit limits that reflect published credit ratings and by reference to other 
market measures (e.g. market prices for credit default swaps) to ensure that there is no significant 
exposure to any one counterparty’s credit risk.

The Group has no material embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for 
in accordance with IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. 

17. Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

All figures in £ millions

Cash at bank and in hand
Short-term bank deposits
Cash and cash equivalents 

All figures in £ millions

Cash and cash equivalents
Bank overdrafts

Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement

2023

312
–
312

2023

312
(3)

309

2022

269
289
558

2022

558
(15)

543

Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that approximate to their carrying value due to their 
short-term nature.

The Group has certain cash pooling arrangements in US dollars, sterling and Canadian dollars where 
both the company and the bank have a legal right of offset. The company presents these amounts 
net in the balance sheet where legal right of offset exists and the company has the intention to settle 
net if required. As at 31 December 2023, £23m (2022: £5m) of financial liabilities were presented net 
within financial assets.

18. Financial liabilities – borrowings

The Group’s current and non-current borrowings are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Non-current

1.375% Euro notes 2025 (nominal amount €300m)

3.75% GBP notes 2030 (nominal amount £350m)

Lease liabilities (see note 35)

Current (due within one year or on demand)

Lease liabilities (see note 35)

Overdrafts 

Total borrowings

2023

2022

257

354

483

257

353

534

1,094

1,144

64

3

67

71

15

86

1,161

1,230

Included in the non-current borrowings above is £10m of accrued interest (2022: £10m). No accrued 
interest is included in the current borrowings above (2022: £nil). The maturities of the Group’s non-
current borrowings are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Between one and two years

Between two and five years

Over five years

2023

70

419

605

2022

72

442

630

1,094

1,144

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 185

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

18. Financial liabilities – borrowings continued

19. Financial risk management

The carrying amounts and market values of borrowings are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

1.375% Euro notes 
2025
3.75% GBP notes 
2030

Overdrafts

2023

Effective  

Carrying  

interest rate

value

Market  
value

Effective  

interest rate

Carrying  
value

1.44%

3.93%

n/a

257

354

3

614

252

327

3

582

1.44%

3.93%

n/a

257

353

15

625

2022

Market  
value

252

310

15

577

The Group’s approach to the management of financial risks together with sensitivity analyses of its 
financial instruments is set out below.

Treasury policy
Pearson’s treasury policies set out the Group’s principles for addressing key financial risks including 
capital risk, liquidity risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, and sets out measurable targets 
for each. The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports incorporating compliance with measurable 
targets and reviews and approves any changes to treasury policies annually.

The treasury function is permitted to use derivatives where their use reduces a risk or allows a 
transaction to be undertaken more cost effectively. Derivatives permitted include swaps, forwards 
and collars to manage foreign exchange and interest rate risk, with foreign exchange swap and 
forward contracts the most commonly executed. Speculative transactions are not permitted.

The market values stated above are based on clean market prices at the year end or, where these 
are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies. The 
effective interest rates above relate to the underlying debt instruments.

Capital risk 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings before the effect of derivatives (see notes 16 and 
19 for further information on the impact of derivatives) are denominated in the following currencies:

 — To maintain a strong balance sheet and a solid investment grade rating;

 — To continue to invest in the business organically and through acquisitions; and

All figures in £ millions

US dollar

Sterling

Euro

Other

2023

217

667

261

16

2022

276

672

262

20

 — To have a sustainable and progressive dividend policy.

At 31 December 2023 the Group and its bonds were rated BBB- (stable outlook) with Fitch Ratings 
Limited and Baa3 (stable outlook) with Moody’s Investor Services.

Net debt
The Group’s net debt position is set out below:

The Group had $1bn (£0.8bn) of undrawn capacity on its committed borrowing facilities as at 
31 December 2023 (2022: $1.19bn (£0.9bn) undrawn). In addition, there are a number of short-
term facilities that are utilised in the normal course of business. All of the Group’s borrowings are 
unsecured. In respect of lease obligations, the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the 
event of default. 

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

Derivative financial instruments

Bonds

1,161

1,230

All figures in £ millions

Investment in finance lease receivable

Lease liabilities

Net debt

2023

312

(3)

5

(611)

100

(547)

(744)

2022

558

(15)

(6)

(610)

121

(605)

(557)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 186  

Financial statementsInterest and foreign exchange rate management
The Group’s principal currency exposure is to the US dollar which represents 68% of the 
Group’s sales. 

The Group’s long-term debt is primarily held in US dollars to provide a natural hedge of this 
exposure, which is achieved through issued US dollar debt or converting euro debt to US dollars 
using cross-currency swaps, forwards and collars. As at 31 December 2023 and 2022, the Group’s 
debt of £1,161m (2022: £1,230m) is all held at fixed rates.

See note 16 for details of the Group’s hedging programme which addresses interest rate risk and 
foreign currency risk. 

Overseas profits are converted to sterling to satisfy sterling cash outflows such as dividends at the 
prevailing spot rate at the time of the transaction. To the extent the Group has sufficient sterling, 
US dollars may be held as dollar cash to provide a natural offset to the Group’s debt or to satisfy 
future US dollar cash outflows.

The Group does not have significant cross-border foreign exchange transactional exposures. 

As at 31 December 2023, the sensitivity of the carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments to 
fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Investments in unlisted securities
Other receivable
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial instruments
Bonds
Other borrowings
Investment in finance lease 
receivable
Deferred and contingent 
consideration
Other net financial assets 
Total 

Carrying  
value

Impact of 1% 
increase in 
interest rates

Impact of 1% 
decrease in 
interest rates

Impact of 10% 
strengthening  

in sterling

Impact of 10% 
weakening in 
sterling

2022

133
3
558
(6)
(610)
(620)

121

(79)
477
(23)

–
–
–
7
4
–

–

–
–
11

–
–
–
(6)
(4)
–

–

–
–
(10)

(10)
–
(25)
(10)
24
26

(11)

4
(38)
(40)

12
–
31
12
(30)
(32)

13

(5)
47
48

All figures in £ millions

Investments in unlisted securities
Other receivable
Cash and cash equivalents
Derivative financial instruments
Bonds
Other borrowings
Investment in finance lease 
receivable
Deferred and contingent 
consideration
Other net financial assets 
Total 

Impact of 
1% increase 
in interest 
rates

Impact of 
1% decrease 
in interest 
rates

Impact of 10% 
strengthening  

in sterling

Impact 
of 10% 
weakening in 
sterling

Carrying  

value

2023

The table above shows the sensitivities of the fair values of each class of financial instrument to 
an isolated change in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Other net financial assets 
comprise trade receivables less trade payables. A significant proportion of the movements shown 
above would impact equity rather than the income statement due to the location and functional 
currency of the entities in which they arise and the availability of net investment hedging. 

143
12
312
5
(611)
(550)

100

(57)
378
(268)

–
–
–
15
2
–

–

–
–
17

–
–
–
(15)
(2)
–

–

–
–
(17)

(10)
(1)
(24)
(5)
24
21

(9)

3
(31)
(32)

12
1
30
19
(29)
(26)

11

(4)
38
52

Liquidity and refinancing risk management 
The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities. This 
involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next three to five years, determining the level 
of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for shareholder returns and repayments 
of maturing debt, and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against 
unexpected outflows.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had cash of £0.3bn (2022: £0.5bn) and no outstanding drawings 
(2022: £nil) on the US dollar denominated revolving credit facility due 2026 of $1bn (2022: $1.19bn). 

The $1bn facility contains interest cover and leverage covenants which the Group has complied with 
for the year ended 31 December 2023. The maturity of the carrying values of the Group’s borrowings 
and trade payables are set out in notes 18 and 24 respectively. 

At the end of 2023, the currency split of the Group’s trade payables was US dollar £228m (2022: 
£234m), sterling £64m (2022: £71m) and other currencies £25m (2022: £43m). Trade payables are all 
due within one year (2022: all due within one year).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 187

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

19. Financial risk management continued

The table below analyses the Group’s bonds and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. 
Short dated derivative instruments have not been included in this table. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest) and as such may differ from the 
amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.

Any cash flows based on a floating rate are calculated using interest rates as set at the date of the last rate reset. Where this is not possible, floating rates are based on interest rates prevailing at 31 December 
in the relevant year.

Financial counterparty and credit risk management
Financial counterparty and credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to 
customers, including outstanding receivables. Counterparty credit limits, which take published credit rating and other factors into account, are set to cover the Group’s total aggregate exposure to a single 
financial institution. The limits applicable to published credit rating bands are approved by the Chief Financial Officer within guidelines approved by the Board. Exposures and limits applicable to each financial 
institution are reviewed on a regular basis.

All figures in £ millions

At 31 December 2023
Bonds
Rate derivatives – inflows
Rate derivatives – outflows
FX forwards – inflows
FX forwards – outflows
Total
At 31 December 2022
Bonds
Rate derivatives – inflows
Rate derivatives – outflows
FX forwards – inflows
FX forwards – outflows
Total

Analysed by maturity

Analysed by currency

Greater than one 
month and less 
than one year

Later than one 
year but less 
than five years

Five years  
or more

Total

USD

GBP

Other

Total

–
(13)
5
(428)
421
(15)

–
(11)
1
(304)
313
(1)

257
(262)
268
–
–
263

342
(471)
490
–
–
361

354
–
–
–
–
354

389
–
–
–
–
389

611
(275)
273
(428)
421
602

731
(482)
491
(304)
313
749

–
(6)
178
–
421
593

–
(24)
224
–
–
200

354
(9)
89
(428)
–
6

455
(170)
255
(304)
313
549

257
(260)
6
–
–
3

276
(288)
12
–
–
–

611
(275)
273
(428)
421
602

731
(482)
491
(304)
313
749

Cash deposits and derivative transactions are made with approved counterparties up to pre-agreed limits. To manage counterparty risk associated with cash and cash equivalents, the Group uses a mixture 
of money market funds as well as bank deposits. As at 31 December 2023, 75% (2022: 77%) of cash and cash equivalents was held with investment grade bank counterparties, 10% (2022: 8%) with AAA money 
market funds and 15% (2022: 15%) with non-investment grade bank counterparties. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 188  

Financial statementsFor trade receivables and contract assets, the Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly 
by the individual characteristics of each customer. However, risk associated with the industry 
and country in which customers operate may also influence the credit risk. The credit quality of 
customers is assessed by taking into account financial position, past experience and other relevant 
factors. Individual credit limits are set for each customer based on internal ratings. The compliance 
with credit limits is regularly monitored by the Group. A default on a trade receivable is when the 
counterparty fails to make contractual payments within the stated payment terms. Trade receivables 
and contract assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. 

The carrying amounts of financial assets, trade receivables and contract assets represent the 
maximum credit exposure.

Trade receivables and contract assets are subject to impairment using the expected credit loss 
model. The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses 
which uses a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets. To 
measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped based 
on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. See note 22 for further details about 
trade receivables and contract assets including movements in provisions for bad and doubtful debts.

20. Intangible assets – product development

All figures in £ millions

Cost
At 1 January
Exchange differences
Additions
Disposals and retirements
Disposal of businesses (note 31)
Transfers
At 31 December
Amortisation
At 1 January
Exchange differences
Charge for the year
Impairment
Disposals and retirements
Disposal of businesses (note 31)
Transfers
At 31 December
Carrying amounts at 31 December

2023

2022

2,918
(121)
300
(550)
(29)
(1)
2,517

(1,943)
92
(280)
(4)
550
14
1
(1,570)
947

2,698
235
357
(191)
(186)
5
2,918

(1,804)
(174)
(288)
(15)
191
147
–
(1,943)
975

Product development assets are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Product 
development assets relating to content are amortised over seven years or less, being an estimate of 
the expected operating lifecycle of the title, with a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the 
earlier years. Product development assets relating to product platforms are amortised over ten years 
or less. Amortisation is included in the income statement in cost of goods sold. 

Product development assets are assessed for impairment triggers on an annual basis or when 
triggering events occur. In 2023, of the £4m (2022: £15m) impairment charges, £nil (2022: £13m; 
2021: £14m) have been recognised as a result of asset write-offs related to the major restructuring 
programme. The full annual impairment test showed that there is adequate headroom across all 
product development assets and accordingly no further impairment charges were recognised in 
2023 (2022: £nil; 2021: £nil).

21. Inventories

All figures in £ millions

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods
Returns asset

2023

4
1
81
5
91

2022

5
2
93
5
105

The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the income statement in cost of 
goods sold amounted to £155m (2022: £166m; 2021: £171m) including £19m (2022: £16m; 2021: 
£22m) of inventory provisions. None of the inventory is pledged as security. Included within the 
inventory balance is the estimation of the right to receive goods from contracts with customers via 
returns. The value of the returns asset is measured at the carrying amount of the assets at the time 
of sale aligned to the Group’s normal inventory valuation methodology less any expected costs to 
recover the asset and any expected reduction in value. Impairment charges against the inventory 
returns asset are £nil in 2023 (2022: £nil; 2021: £nil). The returns asset all relates to finished goods. 
The obsolescence provision takes account of the Group’s digital-first strategy and the increasing shift 
towards print on demand. The year-on-year reduction in inventories is due to increased provisions 
for obsolescence and a reduction in the production of inventory due to the Group’s digital-first 
strategy and the increasing shift towards print on demand.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 189

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

22. Trade and other receivables

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large 
number of customers, who are internationally dispersed.

All figures in £ millions

Current
Trade receivables
Royalty advances
Prepayments 
Investment in finance lease receivable
Accrued income
Other receivables

Non-current
Trade receivables
Royalty advances
Prepayments
Investment in finance lease receivable
Accrued income
Interest receivable
Other receivables

2023

2022

The ageing of the Group’s gross trade receivables is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Within due date and one month past due date
One to three months past due date
Three to six months past due date
Six to nine months past due date
Nine to 12 months past due date
More than 12 months past due date
Gross trade receivables

2023

564
83
25
12
8
54
746

2022

663
118
25
14
14
60
894

The Group reviews its bad debt provision at least twice a year following a detailed review of 
receivable balances, historical payment profiles, and assessment of relevant forward-looking risk 
factors including macroeconomic trends. Management believes all the remaining receivable balances 
are fully recoverable. 

The decrease in trade receivables held by the Group is driven by current year disposals. 

694
1
233
18
13
91
1,050

1
4
8
82
2
3
35
135

824
1
200
17
15
82
1,139

1
5
12
104
2
3
12
139

Accrued income represents contract assets which are unbilled amounts generally resulting from 
assessments and services revenue streams where revenue to be recognised over time has been 
recognised in excess of customer billings to date. Impairment charges on accrued income assets are 
£nil (2022: £nil). The carrying value of the Group’s trade and other receivables approximates its fair 
value. Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts. 

The movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January
Exchange differences
Income statement movements
Utilised
Disposal of businesses
At 31 December

2023

2022

(69)
2
3
9
4
(51)

(63)
(3)
(18)
12
3
(69)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 190  

Financial statements23. Provisions for other liabilities and charges

24. Trade and other liabilities

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2023
Exchange differences
Provisions made during the year
Provisions reversed during the year

Provisions used during the year

At 31 December 2023

Analysis of provisions:

All figures in £ millions

Current
Non-current

Current
Non-current

Property

and other

Total

Legal  

All figures in £ millions

22
–
6
(4)

–

24

77
(4)
12
(9)

(60)

16

99
(4)
18
(13)

(60)

40

2023

Current

Trade payables

Sales return liability

Deferred income

Interest payable

Accruals and other liabilities

Non-current

Deferred income

Accruals and other liabilities

Property

and other

Total

Legal  

11
13
24

9
13
22

14
2
16

76
1
77

25
15
40

2022

85
14
99

Property provisions made in 2023 and 2022 relate to the simplification of the Group’s property 
portfolio (see note 4) and dilapidations. 

Legal and other includes legal claims, contract disputes and potential contract losses with the 
provisions utilised as the cases are settled. Also included in legal and other are other restructuring 
provisions that are generally utilised within one year. 

The year on year decrease in provisions is mainly due to the utilisation of restructuring provisions in 
the year.

2023

2022

317

31

295

4

628

348

53

340

10

503

1,275

1,254

73

25

98

60

60

120

The carrying value of the Group’s trade and other liabilities approximates its fair value. The deferred 
income balance comprises contract liabilities in respect of advance payments in assessment, testing 
and training businesses; subscription income in school and college businesses; and obligations to 
deliver digital content in future periods. The increase in trade and other liabilities held by the Group 
is driven by the liability recorded for the remainder of the Share buyback scheme offset against 
disposals, differences in deferred income due to timing, and utilisation of accruals from the 2022 
restructuring programme. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 191

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations

Background
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans 
throughout the world.

The largest plan is the Pearson Pension Plan (UK Group plan) in the UK, which is sectionalised to 
provide both defined benefit and defined contribution pension benefits. The defined benefit section 
was largely closed to new members from 1 November 2006. The defined contribution section, 
opened in 2003, is open to new and existing employees. Finally, there is a separate section within the 
UK Group plan set up for auto-enrolment. 

The defined benefit section of the UK Group plan is a final salary pension plan which provides 
benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of 
benefits depends on the length of service and final pensionable pay. 

The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan operates a Reference Scheme Test (RST) 
pension underpin for its members. Where a member’s fund value is insufficient to purchase the RST 
pension upon retirement, the UK Group plan is liable for the shortfall to cover the member’s RST 
pension. In addition, in recent years, the scheme rules were amended to enable members who have 
sufficient funds to purchase an RST pension the ability to convert their fund value into a pension in 
the UK Group plan as an alternative to purchasing an annuity with an insurer. The Group recognises 
any assets and liabilities relating to these features of the defined contribution section as part of 
the overall UK Group plan obligation. The Group also recognises the assets and liabilities for all 
members of the defined contribution section of the UK Group plan, accounting for the whole defined 
contribution section as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ as there is a risk 
the underpin will require the Group to pay further contributions to the scheme. 

The UK Group plan is funded with benefit payments from trustee-administered funds. The UK Group 
plan is administered in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules in the interests of its beneficiaries 
by Pearson Pension Trustee Limited. 

At 31 December 2023, the UK Group plan had approximately 26,300 members, analysed in the 
following table:

All figures in %

Defined benefit

Defined contribution

Total

Active

Deferred

Pensioners

–

10

10

15

42

57

33

–

33

Total

48

52

100

The other major defined benefit plans are based in the US. These are also final salary pension plans 
which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed pension payable for life, with the 
level of benefits dependent on length of service and final pensionable pay. The majority of the US 
plans are fully funded.

The Group also has several post-retirement medical benefit plans (PRMBs), principally in the US. 
PRMBs are unfunded but are accounted for and valued similarly to defined benefit pension plans. 

The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as life expectancy, inflation 
risks and investment risk including asset volatility and changes in bond yields. The Group is not 
exposed to any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks.

  KJ Key judgements

 — Whether the Group will be eligible to receive the surplus associated with the UK Group 

Pension Plan in recognising a pension asset.

  KE Key areas of estimation

 — The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Group’s 

defined benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which 
include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 192  

Financial statementsAssumptions
The principal assumptions used for the UK Group plan and the US PRMB are shown below.  
Weighted average assumptions have been shown for the other plans, which primarily relate to  
US pension plans.

2023

2022

2021

UK 
Group 
plan

Other  
plans

PRMB

UK Group 
plan

Other  
plans

PRMB

UK Group 
plan

Other  
plans

PRMB

3.0

2.0

–

3.4

2.0

–

3.3

1.4

–

4.6

4.9

5.0

4.9

5.3

5.3

1.9

2.8

2.6

3.5

2.5

–

3.9

2.9

–

3.8

2.7

1.75 to 
5.10

–

–

1.95 to 
5.20

–

6.5

5.0

–

–

–

–

–

2.35 to 
5.10

–

6.5

5.0

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6.3

5.0

All figures in %

Inflation
Rate used to 
discount plan 
liabilities
Expected rate 
of increase in 
salaries
Expected rate 
of increase 
for pensions 
in payment 
and deferred 
pensions
Initial rate of 
increase in 
healthcare rate
Ultimate rate 
of increase in 
healthcare rate

The UK discount rate is based on corporate bond yields adjusted to reflect the duration of liabilities. 

The inflation rate for the UK Group plan of 3.0% (2022: 3.4%) reflects the RPI rate. In line with 
changes to legislation in 2010, certain benefits have been calculated with reference to CPI as the 
inflationary measure and in these instances a rate of 2.3% (2022: 2.7%) has been used. The CPI 
rate is determined as a weighted average deduction from the RPI rate, and allows for the expected 
change to the formula for calculating RPI to be in line with CPIH from 2030 onwards.

For the UK Group plan, the mortality base table assumptions are derived from the SAPS S3 for males 
and females, adjusted to reflect the observed experience of the plan, with CMI model improvement 
factors. A 1.5% long-term rate improvement on the CMI 2022 model is applied for both males and 
females, with a weighting to 2022 mortality experience in the CMI model of 40% to reflect current 
trends in life expectancy. Life expectancy remains uncertain following the COVID-19 pandemic which 
had wide-ranging direct and indirect impacts.

For the US plans, a mortality table (Pri – 2012) and 2021 improvement scale (MP – 2021) with 
generational projection for male and female annuitants has been adopted.

Using the above tables, the remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 
65 on the balance sheet date for the UK Group plan and US plans is as follows:

All figures in years

Male

Female

2023

21.8

24.1

2022

22.5

24.7

UK

2021

22.6

24.8

2023

20.7

22.6

2022

20.6

22.6

US

2021

20.5

22.5

The remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the 
balance sheet date, for the UK and US Group plans is as follows:

All figures in years

Male

Female

UK

2022

24.1

26.4

2023

23.4

25.8

2021

24.2

26.5

2023

22.2

24.1

US

2022

22.1

24.0

2021

22.0

23.9

Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised during the life of the plan to 
address member benefits, the Group recognises its pension surplus in full in respect of the UK 
Group plan on the basis that it is management’s judgement that there are no substantive restrictions 
on the return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member 
obligations have been met.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 193

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations 
continued

Financial statement information
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 

All figures in £ millions

Current service cost
Past service cost
Settlements
Administration expenses

Total operating expense
Interest on plan assets
Interest on plan liabilities
Net finance (income)/
expense
Net income statement 
charge

All figures in £ millions

Current service cost
Past service cost
Settlements
Administration expenses

Total operating expense
Interest on plan assets
Interest on plan liabilities
Net finance (income)/
expense
Net income statement 
charge

UK Group 
plan

Defined  
benefit  
other

Sub-total

Defined 
contribution

PRMB

Total

2023

16
–
–
8

24
(148)
121

(27)

(3)

2
–
–
–

2
(5)
6

1

3

18
–
–
8

26
(153)
127

(26)

–

45
–
–
–

45
–
–

–

45

–
–
–
–

–
–
–

–

–

63
–
–
8

71
(153)
127

(26)

45

2022

UK Group 
plan

Defined  
benefit  
other

Sub-total

Defined 
contribution

PRMB

Total

17
3
–
7

27
(77)
67

(10)

17

2
–
–
–

2
(3)
3

–

2

19
3
–
7

29
(80)
70

(10)

19

46
–
–
–

46
–
–

–

46

–
–
–
–

–
–
1

1

1

65
3
–
7

75
(80)
71

(9)

66

56
–
–

6

62

(57)

53

(4)

58

2022

Total

UK Group 
plan

Defined  
benefit  
other

Sub-total

Defined 
contribution

PRMB

Total

2021

All figures in £ millions

Current service cost
Past service cost
Settlements

Administration expenses
Total operating 
expense

Interest on plan assets

Interest on plan liabilities
Net finance (income)/
expense
Net income statement 
charge

17
–
–

6

23

(55)

49

(6)

17

2
–
–

–

2

(2)

3

1

3

19
–
–

6

25

(57)

52

(5)

20

37
–
–

–

37

–

–

–

37

–
–
–

–

–

–

1

1

1

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:

2023

All figures in £ millions

UK Group 
plan

Other 
funded  
plans

Other 
unfunded 
plans

Total

UK Group 
plan

Other 
funded  
plans

Other 
unfunded 
plans

Fair value of plan assets

3,060

107

–

3,167

3,088

104

–

3,192

Present value of defined 
benefit obligation
Net pension asset/
(liability)

Other post-retirement 
medical benefit obligation

Other pension accruals
Net retirement benefit 
asset

Analysed as:

Retirement benefit assets
Retirement benefit 
obligations

(2,569)

(99)

(15)

(2,683)

(2,514)

(106)

(17)

(2,637)

491

8

(15)

484

574

(2)

(17)

555

(21)

(8)

455

499

(44)

(25)

(10)

520

581

(61)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 194  

Financial statementsThe following gains/(losses) have been recognised in other comprehensive income:

All figures in £ millions

Amounts recognised for defined benefit plans
Amounts recognised for post-retirement medical benefit 
plans

Total recognised in year

The fair value of plan assets comprises the following:

2023

(86)

1

(85)

2022

44

10

54

All figures in %

Insurance

Equities
Fixed interest 
securities

Property
Pooled asset 
investment funds 
(including LDI)

Infrastructure
Cash and cash 
equivalents

Other

2023

UK Group  

Other  

plan

funded plans

Total

UK Group  

Other  

plan

funded plans

33

15

6

5

24

11

1

2

–

1

2

–

–

–

–

–

33

16

8

5

24

11

1

2

33

14

5

6

23

11

3

2

–

1

2

–

–

–

–

–

2021

145

4

149

2022

Total

33

15

7

6

23

11

3

2

The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, or any property 
occupied by the Group. The table below further disaggregates the plan assets into those assets 
which have a quoted market price in an active market and those that do not:

2023

2022

Quoted  

market price

No quoted 
market price

Quoted  

market price

No quoted 
market price

All figures in %

Insurance

Equities

Fixed-interest securities

Property

Pooled asset investment funds (including LDI)

Infrastructure

Cash and cash equivalents

Other

Total

–

16

8

–

24

–

–

–

48

33

–

–

5

–

11

1

2

52

The liquidity profile of the UK Group plan assets is as follows:

All figures in %

Liquid – call <1 month

Less liquid – call 1–3 months

Illiquid – call >3 months

–

15

7

–

23

–

–

–

45

33

–

–

6

–

11

3

2

55

2023

2022

48

2

50

47

2

51

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 195

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations 
continued

Changes in the values of plan assets and liabilities of the retirement benefit plans are as follows:

The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12 years for the UK and six years 
for the US.

Changes in the value of the US PRMB are as follows:

UK Group  

plan

Other  
plans

2022

All figures in £ millions

UK Group  

plan

Other  
plans

Opening defined benefit obligation

Total

Exchange differences

Interest on plan liabilities

Actuarial gains – experience

Actuarial (losses)/gains – financial

Benefits paid

Closing defined benefit obligation

2023

(25)

1

–

2

(1)

2

(21)

2022

(34)

(3)

(1)

5

5

3

(25)

All figures in £ millions

Fair value of plan assets

Opening fair value of plan assets
Recognition of Money Purchase assets
Exchange differences
Interest on plan assets
Return on plan assets excluding interest
Contributions by employer
Contributions by employees
Benefits paid
Settlements
Closing fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined benefit 
obligation
Opening defined benefit obligation
Recognition of Money Purchase liabilities
Exchange differences
Disposals

Current service cost

Past service cost

Administration expenses

Interest on plan liabilities

Actuarial losses – experience

Actuarial gains – demographic

Actuarial (losses)/gains – financial

Contributions by employees

Benefits paid

Settlements

3,088
–
–
148
(48)
–
7
(135)
–
3,060

(2,514)
–
–
–

(16)

–

(8)

(121)

(61)

52

(29)

(7)

135

–

2023

Total

3,192
–
(6)
153
(43)
15
7
(149)
(2)
3,167

104
–
(6)
5
5
15
–
(14)
(2)
107

(123)
–
6
–

(2,637)
–
6
–

(2)

(18)

–

–

(6)

(2)

–

(3)

–

14

2

–

(8)

(127)

(63)

52

(32)

(7)

149

2

4,125
–
–
77
(1,000)
15
7
(136)
–
3,088

(3,588)
–
–
–

(17)

(3)

(7)

(67)

(25)

14

–
12
3

120 4,245
–
12
80
(18) (1,018)
17
7
(151)
–
104 3,192

2
–
(15)
–

(143) (3,731)
–
(14)
1

–
(14)
1

(2)

(19)

–

–

(3)

(2)

–

(3)

(7)

(70)

(27)

14

1,050

25 1,075

(7)

136

–

–

15

–

(7)

151

–

Closing defined benefit obligation

(2,569)

(114)

(2,683)

(2,514)

(123) (2,637)

Funding
The UK Group plan is self-administered with the plan’s assets being held independently of the 
Group in trust. The trustee of the UK Group plan is required to act in the best interest of the plan’s 
beneficiaries. The most recent triennial actuarial valuation for funding purposes was completed as at 
1 January 2021 and this valuation revealed a technical provision funding surplus of £160m. The UK 
Group plan expects to be able to provide benefits (in accordance with the plan rules) with a very low 
level of reliance on future funding from the Group. 

Assets of the final salary section of the UK Group plan are divided into two main elements: liability 
matching assets and return seeking assets. The UK Group plan’s investment strategy for the final 
salary section allocates approximately 95% to matching assets and 5% to return-seeking assets. 

Liability matching assets are assets that produce cash flows that can be expected to match the cash 
flows for a proportion of the membership, and include a liability-driven investment mandate (LDI) 
for which a Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Fund (QIAIF) was established, managed by 
a subsidiary of Legal & General Investment Management. The QIAIF invests in UK bonds, interest 
rate/inflation swaps and other derivative instruments in order to reduce interest rate and inflation 
risks using accurate cash flow matching and risk control. Other liability matching assets include 
pensioner buy-in insurance policies, bonds and inflation-linked property and infrastructure. 

Following the purchase of buy-in policies with Legal & General and Aviva in 2017 and 2019, 95% of 
the UK Group plan’s pensioner liabilities were matched with buy-in policies. These transfer significant 
longevity risk to Aviva and Legal & General, reducing the pension risks being underwritten by the 
Group and providing additional security for members.

Return-seeking assets are assets invested with a longer-term horizon to generate the returns 
needed to provide the remaining expected cash flows for the beneficiaries, and include diversified 
growth funds, property and alternative asset classes. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 196  

Financial statementsRecent economic and geopolitical uncertainty has increased volatility in the valuation of certain 
assets, in particular the LDI and insurance contracts. However, these movements are offset by 
equivalent movements in the defined benefit obligation. The UK Group plan divides its assets 
between a number of investment managers and across different types of assets, as such there is no 
significant concentration of risk. 

Regular employer contributions to the UK Group plan in respect of the defined benefit sections are 
estimated to be £nil for 2024.

Sensitivities
The effect of a one percentage point increase and decrease in the discount rate on the defined 
benefit obligation and the total pension expense is as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Effect:

2023

1% increase

1% decrease

(Decrease)/increase in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan

(Decrease)/increase in defined benefit obligation – US plan

(203)

(5)

251

5

The effect of members living one year more or one year less on the defined benefit obligation is as 
follows:

All figures in £ millions

Effect:

2023

One year 
increase

One year 
decrease

Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan

Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – US plan

58

2

The effect of a half percentage point increase and decrease in the inflation rate is as follows:

(58)

(2)

2023

All figures in £ millions

Effect:

0.5% increase 0.5% decrease

Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan

Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – US plan

61

–

(58)

–

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other 
assumptions constant, although in practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some 
assumptions may be correlated. When calculating these sensitivities, the same method has been 
applied to calculate the defined benefit obligation as has been applied when calculating the liability 
recognised in the balance sheet. This methodology is the same as prior periods.

26. Share-based payments

The Group recognised the following charges in the income statement in respect of its equity-settled 
share-based payment plans:

All figures in £ millions

Pearson plans

2023

40

2022

38

2021

28

The Group operates the following equity-settled employee option and share plans:

Worldwide Save for Shares Plan – The Group has a Worldwide Save for Shares Plan. Under this plan, 
employees can save a portion of their monthly salary over a period of three years. At the end of this 
period, the employee has the option to purchase ordinary shares with the accumulated funds at a 
purchase price equal to 80% of the market price prevailing at the time of the commencement of the 
employee’s participation in the plan. Options that are not exercised within six months of the end of 
the savings period lapse unconditionally.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan – In 2000, the Group established an Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan which allows all employees in the US to save a portion of their monthly salary over six-month 
periods. At the end of the period, the employee has the option to purchase American Depositary 
Receipts (ADRs) with their accumulated funds at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lower of the 
market prices prevailing at the beginning or end of the period.

Long-Term Incentive Plan – The plan was first introduced in 2001 and from time to time the plan 
rules are renewed. The plan consists of restricted shares. The vesting of restricted shares is normally 
dependent on continuing service over a three to five-year period, and in the case of Executive 
Directors and senior management upon the satisfaction of corporate performance targets over a 
three-year period. These targets may be based on market and/or non-market performance criteria. 
Restricted shares awarded to Executive Directors in May 2022 and May 2021 vest dependent on 
relative total shareholder return (FTSE 100), net return on invested capital and adjusted earnings per 
share, and the May 2023 awards vest based on relative total shareholder return (FTSE 100 and S&P 
500, excluding certain sectors), return on capital, adjusted earnings per share and an ESG measure. 
These awards are in addition to the 2020 co-investment award for Andy Bird, vesting in three equal 
tranches based on market and non-market performance underpins. The applicable market condition 
for the vesting of the final tranche is on relative total shareholder return (FTSE 100). Other restricted 
shares awarded in 2023, 2022 and 2021 generally vest depending on continuing service over periods 
of up to five years. Included within the total share-based payments charge in 2023 was £3m (2022: 
£3m; 2021: £nil) in respect of remuneration for post-acquisition services for recent acquisitions, 
which was included within other net gains and losses in the income statement.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 197

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

26. Share-based payments continued

27. Share capital and share premium

Management Incentive Plan – The plan was introduced in 2017 combining the Group’s Annual 
Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan for senior management. The number of shares to be 
granted to participants is dependent on Group performance in the calendar year preceding the date 
of grant (on the same basis as the Annual Incentive Plan). Subsequently, the shares vest dependent 
on continuing service over a three-year period, and additionally, in the case of the Pearson Executive 
Management team, upon satisfaction of non-market based performance criteria as determined by 
the Remuneration Committee. In 2021 this scheme was replaced by the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
for senior management.

The following shares were granted under restricted share arrangements:

At 31 December 2021
Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes
Buyback of equity

At 31 December 2022
Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes
Buyback of equity

2023

2022

At 31 December 2023

Number of 
shares 
000s

756,802
1,199
(42,268)
715,733
1,809
(20,243)
697,299

Share 
capital 
£m

Share  
premium 
£m

189
–
(10)
179
–
(5)
174

2,626
7
–
2,633
9
–
2,642

Number of 
shares  
000s

Weighted average  

fair value
£

Number of 
shares  
000s

Weighted average  

fair value
£

Long-Term 
Incentive Plan

5,572

6.99

7,584

7.61

In 2023, £23m (2022: £26m) of shares vested across the Worldwide Save for Shares Plan, the Long-
Term Incentive Plan and the Management Incentive Plan. 

The fair value of shares granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Management Incentive 
Plan that vest unconditionally is determined using the share price at the date of grant. Participants 
under the plans are entitled to dividends during the vesting period and therefore the share price is 
not discounted.

Restricted shares with a market performance condition were valued by an independent actuary 
using a Monte Carlo model. Restricted shares with a non-market performance condition were fair 
valued based on the share price at the date of grant. Non-market performance conditions are taken 
into consideration by adjusting the number of shares expected to vest based on the most likely 
outcome of the relevant performance criteria.

The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share (2022: 25p per share). All issued shares are 
fully paid. All shareholders are entitled to receive dividends and vote at general meetings of the 
company. All shares have the same rights.

On 20 September 2023, the Board approved a £300m share buyback programme in order to 
return capital to shareholders. During the year, approximately 20m shares were bought back and 
cancelled at a cost of £186m. The nominal value of these shares, £5m, was transferred to the capital 
redemption reserve, and the remainder of the purchase price is recorded within retained earnings. 
At 31 December 2023, a liability of £118m remained for those shares contracted to be repurchased 
but where the repurchases were still outstanding and associated costs.

On 24 February 2022, the Board approved a £350m share buyback programme in order to  
return capital to shareholders. During 2022, approximately 42m shares were bought back and 
cancelled at a cost of £353m. The nominal value of these shares, £10m, was transferred to the 
capital redemption reserve, and the remainder of the purchase price was recorded within  
retained earnings.

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going 
concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and 
equity balance.

The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (see note 18), cash and cash equivalents (see 
note 17) and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves 
and retained earnings.

The Group reviews its capital structure on a regular basis and will balance its overall capital structure 
through payments of dividends, new share issues as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption 
of existing debt in line with the financial risk policies outlined in note 19.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 198  

Financial statements28. Treasury shares

At 31 December 2021
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares

At 31 December 2022
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares

At 31 December 2023

Number of 
shares 
000s

1,571
4,513
(4,220)
1,864
3,991
(3,695)
2,160

The Group holds Pearson plc shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans (see note 26). These shares, representing 0.3% (2022: 0.3%) of called-up share capital, are treated as 
treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p per share. 

The nominal value of Pearson plc treasury shares amounts to £0.5m (2022: £0.5m). Dividends on treasury shares are waived. 

At 31 December 2023, the market value of Pearson plc treasury shares was £21m (2022: £18m). The gross book value of the shares at 31 December 2023 amounts to £19m (2022: £15m).

29. Other comprehensive income

All figures in £ millions

Items that may be reclassified to the income statement

Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 

Currency translation adjustment disposed 

Attributable tax

Items that are not reclassified to the income statement

Fair value gain on other financial assets

Attributable tax

Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 

Attributable tax

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Attributable to equity holders of the company

Fair value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

Total

(176)

(122)

–

1

–

Non- 
controlling 
interest

(1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

(85)

20

(65)

(85)

20

(362)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

–

–

1

(176)

(122)

–

–

–

–

–

(298)

£m

12
37
(34)
15
35
(31)
19

2023

Total

(177)

(122)

–

1

–

(85)

20

(363)

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 199

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

29. Other comprehensive income continued

All figures in £ millions

Items that may be reclassified to the income statement

Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 

Currency translation adjustment disposed 

Attributable tax

Items that are not reclassified to the income statement

Fair value gain on other financial assets

Attributable tax

Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 

Attributable tax

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

All figures in £ millions

Items that may be reclassified to the income statement

Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 

Currency translation adjustment disposed 

Attributable tax

Items that are not reclassified to the income statement

Fair value gain/(loss) on other financial assets

Attributable tax

Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 

Attributable tax

Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year

Attributable to equity holders of the company

Fair value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

–

–

–

18

–

–

–

18

328

(5)

–

–

–

–

–

323

–

–

4

–

1

54

(12)

47

Total

328

(5)

4

18

1

54

(12)

388

Attributable to equity holders of the company

Fair value 
reserve

Translation 
reserve

Retained 
earnings

–

–

–

4

–

–

–

4

(6)

4

–

–

–

–

–

(2)

–

–

10

–

(1)

149

(61)

97

Total

(6)

4

10

4

(1)

149

(61)

99

Non-  
controlling 
interest

2

–

–

–

–

–

–

2

Non-  
controlling 
interest

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2022

Total

330

(5)

4

18

1

54

(12)

390

2021

Total

(6)

4

10

4

(1)

149

(61)

99

The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Group’s share buyback programme. The fair value reserve arises on revaluation of other financial assets. The translation 
reserve includes exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 200  

Financial statements 
30. Business combinations

On 22 March 2023, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Personnel Decisions Research 
Institutes, LLC (PDRI) for cash consideration of £152m ($187m). PDRI is a provider of workforce 
assessment services and has significant expertise in providing recruitment assessment solutions to 
the US federal government. It forms part of the Assessment & Qualifications division. There is no 
contingent or deferred consideration. Net assets acquired of £91m were recognised on the Group’s 
balance sheet including £117m of acquired intangible assets.

This transaction has resulted in the recognition of £61m of goodwill, which represents the expected 
growth of the business, the workforce and know-how acquired and the anticipated synergies, none 
of which can be recognised as separate intangible assets. The goodwill is not deductible for tax 
purposes. 

Intangible assets of £117m have been recognised in respect of PDRI, the majority of which relates 
to SAAS customer contracts and technology, which will be amortised over periods of up to 15 years. 
The valuations of these assets were carried out with the support of a third-party specialist, and were 
based on discounted cash flow models. The key assumptions that feed into the valuations are the 
cash flow forecasts, revenue projections from existing customers, forecasted profit margins and 
discount rates.

On 28 January 2022, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital in Credly Inc (Credly), having 
previously held a 19.9% interest in the company. Credly is a digital credential service provider whose 
platform enables customers to design, create, issue and manage digital credentials. It forms part of 
the Workforce Skills division. Total consideration was £149m comprising upfront cash consideration 
of £107m, Pearson’s existing interest valued at £31m and £11m of deferred consideration. The 
deferred consideration is payable two years from the acquisition date. 

On 28 April 2022, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of ATI STUDIOS A.P.P.S S.R.L 
(Mondly), a global online learning platform offering customers learning in English and 40 other 
languages via its app, website, virtual reality and augmented reality products. It forms part of the 
English Language Learning division. Total consideration was £135m comprising upfront cash 
consideration of £105m, and deferred consideration of £30m. The deferred consideration is payable 
over two years from the acquisition date, with no performance conditions attached. In addition, a 
further $29.6m (c.£24m) of cash and $10m (c.£8m) in shares will be paid over four years from the 
acquisition date, dependent on continuing employment, and therefore these additional amounts are 
being expensed over the period and are not treated as consideration. 

In 2022, these transactions resulted in the recognition of £202m of goodwill, which represented 
the expected growth through new products and customers, the workforce and know-how acquired 
and the anticipated synergies, none of which can be recognised as separate intangible assets. The 
goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

Intangible assets of £99m were recognised in respect of Credly and Mondly. The valuations of these 
assets were carried out with the support of third-party specialists, and were based on discounted 
cash flow models. The key assumptions that feed into the valuations were the cash flow forecasts, 
revenue projections from existing customers, forecasted profit margins and discount rates. 
For Credly, £49m of intangible assets were recognised, mainly relating to the existing customer 
relationships that are being amortised over 20 years, and technology which are being amortised over 
five years. For Mondly, £50m of intangible assets were recognised, the majority of which relates to 
acquired technology, and are being amortised over periods up to seven years.

In 2022, the Group also made three smaller acquisitions in the period for total consideration 
of £11m. 

In September 2021, Pearson completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Faethm 
Holdings Pty Limited (Faethm), having already held 9% of the share capital previously. Faethm uses 
artificial intelligence and analytics services to help governments, companies and workers understand 
the dynamic forces shaping the labour market. Faethm forms part of the Workforce Skills division. 
The total consideration for the transaction was £65m, which included £10m of contingent 
consideration, which has since been settled in 2022.

In addition, in 2021, the Group made two additional acquisitions of subsidiaries for total 
consideration of £11m. In both cases, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the 
respective entities. Opinion Interactive LLC (also known as Spotlight Education) was acquired in 
February 2021. MZ Development Inc. was acquired in July 2021. Both form part of the Assessment & 
Qualifications division. 

The Group also made additional investments in associates, which are detailed in note 12, and are 
not included below. 

Details of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised at the acquisition date and the 
related consideration is shown in the table below.

  KE Key areas of estimation
The valuation of acquired intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of a business.  
The valuation is based on a number of assumptions, including estimations of future  
business performance.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 201

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

30. Business combinations continued

31. Disposals and business closures

All figures in £ millions

Intangible assets

Deferred tax asset

Trade and other receivables

Cash and cash equivalents

Trade and other liabilities

Deferred tax liabilities

Net assets acquired

Goodwill

Total

Satisfied by:

Cash consideration

Contingent or deferred consideration

Fair value of existing investment

Total consideration

2023
Total

117

–

8

4

(7)

(31)

91

61

152

152

–

–

152

2022
Total

110

8

8

13

(26)

(22)

91

204

295

223

41

31

295

2021
Total

27

11

2

4

(5)

(6)

33

43

76

54

16

6

76

PDRI generated revenue of £24m and a profit after tax of £4m for the period from the acquisition 
date to 31 December 2023. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2023, the Group’s revenue 
would have been £7m higher and the profit after tax would have been £1m higher.

Total acquisition related costs of £12m (2022: £20m) were recognised within other net gains and 
losses. There were also gains of £5m (2022: £8m) arising on decreases in the deferred consideration 
payable on prior year acquisitions. 

The net cash outflows related to the acquisitions are set out in the table below. In addition to 
the current year acquisitions, the other net cash outflows on acquisition of subsidiaries relate to 
deferred payments for prior year acquisitions. 

2023
Total

2022
Total

2021
Total

All figures in £ millions

Cash flow on acquisitions

Cash – current year acquisitions

Cash and cash equivalents acquired
Deferred payments for prior year acquisitions and other 
items

Net cash outflow

On 30 June 2023, the Group disposed of its interests in its POLS businesses in the US, UK, Australia 
and India. The businesses disposed excludes Pearson’s contract with ASU. The consideration to 
be received is deferred and comprises a 27.5% share of positive adjusted EBITDA in each calendar 
year for six years and 27.5% of the proceeds received by the purchaser in relation to any future 
monetisation event. The consideration has been valued at £12m and a pre-tax gain on disposal of 
£13m has been recognised. In addition, a gain of £9m has been recognised which arises from the 
release of a provision related to a historical disposal, £19m of losses arose from the disposals of 
Pearson College and the international courseware local publishing business in India and £12m of 
costs related to previous disposals were recognised.

Whether the associated results and cash flows of the POLS businesses should be classified and 
presented as discontinued operations is a significant judgement. The Group's judgement is that 
the results and cash flows of the related businesses should not be classified and presented as 
discontinued operations on the basis that the businesses disposed do not constitute a separate 
major line of business or geographical area of operations, and the cash flows related to one of the 
large contracts within the business are being retained. 

  KJ Key judgements

 — The results and cash flows of businesses disposed do not meet the criteria to be classified 

and presented as discontinued operations.

The POLS business is within the Virtual Learning segment and represents £93m of sales for the 
year ended 31 December 2023 out of the total sales in the Virtual Learning segment of £616m. If 
the Group had concluded that this business represented discontinued operations, its results and 
the related gain on disposal would not have been included within each of the continuing operations 
income statement lines. Profit for the period from continuing operations would have been £10m 
lower and this amount would have been separately presented as profit for the period.

In 2022, the Group disposed of its interests in the Canadian educational publisher (ERPI), Pearson 
Italia S.p.A, Stark Verlag GmbH, Austin Education (Hong Kong) Limited, Pearson South Africa (Pty) Ltd 
and various other South African companies. Total cash consideration received was £287m resulting 
in a pre-tax gain on disposal of £42m. All entities disposed of were previously in the Strategic Review 
segment. £5m of losses arose from other immaterial disposals and costs related to the wind-down 
of certain businesses. 

(152)

4

(23)

(171)

(223)

13

(18)

(228)

(54)

4

(5)

(55)

In February 2021, the Group completed the sale of its interests in the Pearson Institute of Higher 
Education (PIHE) in South Africa resulting in a pre-tax loss of £5m. In October 2021, the sale of the 
Group’s interests in K12 Sistemas in Brazil was also completed for consideration of £108m, resulting 
in a gain on sale of £84m. There were no other business disposals in 2021 and additional losses of 
£14m relate to other disposal costs including costs related to the wind-down of certain businesses 
under strategic review. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 202  

Financial statementsDeferred proceeds relating to the K12 sale were received in 2022 and 2021 (see note 14). None of 
the 2022 or 2021 disposals met the criteria to be considered a discontinued operation on the basis 
that they did not represent major lines of business or geographical areas of operations. 

The table below shows a summary of the assets and liabilities disposed of: 

32. Held for sale

At 31 December 2023, the Group has classified two properties (2022: three), with a total carrying 
value of £2m (2022: £16m), as held for sale. 

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

33. Additional cash flow information

In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:

Disposal of subsidiaries and associates

Intangible assets, including goodwill

Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets – product development

Inventories

Trade and other receivables

Deferred tax

Current tax (receivable)/payable

Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

Retirement benefit obligations

Trade and other liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings

Net assets disposed

Cumulative currency translation adjustment

Cash proceeds

Deferred proceeds

Costs of disposal

(Loss)/gain on disposal

(53)

(5)

(15)

(1)

(65)

8

(2)

(12)

–

–

31
–

(114)

122

1

12

(30)

(9)

(77)

(11)

(39)

(33)

(106)

(12)

–

(21)

1

2

52
8

(236)

5

291

2

(25)

37

(3)

(48)

(6)

(2)

(6)

–

–

(24)

3

–

4
67

(15)

(4)

108

–

(24)

65

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

Cash flow from disposals

Proceeds – current year disposals

Proceeds – prior year disposals

Cash and cash equivalents disposed

Costs and other disposal liabilities paid

Net cash (outflow)/inflow

1

–

(12)

(27)

(38)

291

86

(21)

(23)

333

108

16

(24)

(17)

83

2023

2022

6

(1)

5

9

5

14

2023

All figures in £ millions

Net book amount

(Loss)/profit on sale of property, plant and equipment

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

The movements in the Group’s current and non-current borrowings are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

2022

Fair value  
and other 
movements

Foreign 
exchange 
movements

Financing 
cash flows

Transfer 
from non-
current to 
current

New leases/
disposal of 
leases

Financial liabilities
Non-current 
borrowings

Current borrowings

Total

1,155

66

1,221

(2)

10

8

(15)

(18)

(33)

–

(84)

(84)

(80)

80

–

42

(1)

41

1,100

53

1,153

All figures in £ millions

2021

Fair value  
and other 
movements

Foreign 
exchange 
movements

Financing 
cash flows

Transfer 
from non-
current to 
current

New leases/
disposal of 
leases

2022

Financial liabilities
Non-current 
borrowings

Current borrowings

Total

1,245

157

1,402

(14)

(10)

(24)

61

16

77

(76)

(188)

(264)

(92)

92

–

31

(1)

30

1,155

66

1,221

Non-current borrowings include bonds, derivative financial instruments and leases. Current 
borrowings include loans repayable within one year, derivative financial instruments and leases, but 
exclude overdrafts classified within cash and cash equivalents.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 203

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

34. Contingencies, tax uncertainties and commitments

  KJ Key judgements

 — The application of tax legislation in relation to provisions for uncertain tax positions.

  KE Key areas of estimation

 — The level of provisions required in relation to uncertain tax positions is complex and each 
matter is separately assessed. The estimation of future settlement amounts is based on a 
number of factors including the status of the unresolved matter, clarity of legislation, range 
of possible outcomes and the statute of limitations. 

There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect 
of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of 
guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. In addition, there are contingent 
liabilities of the Group in respect of unsettled or disputed tax liabilities, legal claims, contract 
disputes, royalties, copyright fees, permissions and other rights. None of these claims is expected to 
result in a material gain or loss to the Group.

On 25 April 2019, the European Commission published the full decision that the United Kingdom 
controlled foreign company group financing partial exemption (‘FCPE’) partially constitutes State 
Aid. This decision was appealed by the UK Government and other parties. On 8 June 2022 the 
EU General Court dismissed the appeal, however, this decision was further appealed by the UK 
Government and other parties, with the subsequent hearing having taken place on 10 January 
2024 (outcome pending). The total exposure is calculated to be £105m (excluding interest) with 
a provision of £63m held in relation to this issue. The remaining tax receivable is disclosed as a 
non-current asset on the balance sheet. The provision is calculated considering a range of possible 
outcomes and applying a probability to each, resulting in a weighted average outcome. The possible 
outcomes considered range from no liability through to the full exposure (£105m). This issue is 
specific to periods up to 2018 and is not a continuing exposure. 

The Group is under assessment from the tax authorities in Brazil challenging the deduction for tax 
purposes of goodwill amortisation for the years 2012 to 2020. Similar assessments may be raised 
for other years. Potential total exposure (including possible interest and penalties) could be up to 
BRL 1,294m (£209m) up to 31 December 2023, with additional potential exposure of BRL 24m (£4m) 
in relation to deductions expected to be taken in future periods. Such assessments are common in 
Brazil. The Group believes that the likelihood that the tax authorities will ultimately prevail is low and 
that the Group’s position is strong. At present, the Group believes no provision is required.

The Group is also under assessment from the UK tax authorities with the relevant years being 2019 
to 2021. The maximum exposure is calculated to be £43m, with a provision of £21m currently held 
in relation to this assessment. The provision is calculated considering a range of possible outcomes 
and applying a probability to each, resulting in a weighted average outcome. The possible outcomes 
considered range from no liability through to the full exposure (£43m). The point being assessed is 
specific to 2019 to 2021 and is not a continuing exposure. 

At the balance sheet date there were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for but not 
yet incurred. Commitments in respect of leases are shown in note 35.

35. Leases

The Group’s lease portfolio consists of approximately 710 property leases, mainly offices and test 
centres, together with a number of vehicle and equipment leases. The Group has elected not to 
recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 
months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated 
with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

As a lessee:
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Note

2023

2022

Interest on lease liabilities

Expenses relating to short-term leases

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Impairment of right-of-use assets

(23)

–

(39)

(2)

(25)

–

(45)

(34)

10

10

2021

(27)

–

(49)

(119)

Lease liabilities are included within financial liabilities – borrowings in the balance sheet, see note 18. 
The maturities of the Group’s lease liabilities are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Less than one year

One to five years

More than five years

Total undiscounted lease liabilities

Lease liabilities included in the balance sheet

Analysed as:

Current

Non-current

2023

84

286

301

671

547

64

483

2022

94

320

332

746

605

71

534

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 204  

Financial statementsAll figures in £ millions

Less than one year

One to two years

Two to three years

Three to four years

Four to five years

More than five years
Total undiscounted lease  
payments receivable

Unearned finance income
Net investment in finance  
lease receivable

Operating 
leases

Finance  
leases

2023
Total

2022
Total

2021 
Total

31

33

34

34

27

54

24

28

28

28

29

44

21

18

20

21

20

41

213

181

141

10

10

11

11

11

48

101

21

23

23

23

16

6

112

(12)

100

The amounts recognised in the cash flow statement are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Total cash outflow for leases as a lessee

2023

107

2022

118

2021

115

At the balance sheet date commitments for capital leases contracted for but not yet incurred were 
£8m (2022: £5m). Extension and termination options and variable lease payments are not significant 
within the lease portfolio. Short-term leases to which the Group is committed at the balance sheet 
date are similar to the portfolio of short-term leases to which the short-term lease expense is 
disclosed above.

As a lessor:
In the event that the Group has excess capacity in its leased offices and warehouses, the Group 
subleases some of its properties under operating and finance leases.

The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

2023

2022

2021

Interest on lease receivables
Income from subleasing right-of-use assets  
(within other income)

The amounts recognised in the cash flow statement are as follows:

All figures in £ millions

Total cash inflow for leases as a lessor

4

6

2023

19

5

4

2022

23

6

2

2021

27

The following table sets out the maturity analysis of lease payments receivable for subleases 
classified as operating leases, showing the undiscounted lease payments to be received after the 
reporting date, and subleases classified as finance leases showing the undiscounted lease payments 
to be received after the reporting date and the net investment in the finance lease receivable. During 
the year, the investment in finance lease receivable decreased by £21m (2022: increased £6m), 
primarily due to payments received.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 205

Financial statementsNotes to the consolidated financial statements continued

36. Related party transactions

37. Events after the balance sheet date

On 29 February 2024, the Board approved an extension to the share buyback programme of £200m.

Joint ventures and associates
At 31 December 2022, the Group had a current liability payable to Academy of Pop of £5m (2021: 
£7m), which related to the Group’s initial capital contribution that had not yet been paid as at 31 
December 2022. This balance was paid in early 2023.

Key management personnel
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson Executive Management 
team (see pages 72-73). It is this Committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of the Group in 2023. Key management personnel compensation is 
disclosed below:

All figures in £ millions

Short-term employee benefits

Retirement benefits

Share-based payment costs

Total

2023

2022

2021

9

1

11

21

7

1

9

17

6

1

8

15

Short-term employee benefits and retirement benefits exclude Executive Directors which are shown 
on page 119 of the Directors Remuneration Report. 

There were no other material related party transactions. No guarantees have been provided to 
related parties.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 206  

Financial statements38. Accounts and audit exemptions

The Pearson plc subsidiary companies listed below are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual financial statements by virtue of section 479A.

Company number

Company number

Aldwych Finance Limited 

Education Development International plc

Faethm Limited

04720439

Pearson Loan Finance No. 6 Limited

03914767

Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited

11842984

Pearson Management Services Limited

Longman Group (Overseas Holdings) Limited

00690236

Pearson Nominees Limited  

Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited

Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited

Pearson Dollar Finance Limited

Pearson Dollar Finance Two Limited

Pearson Education Holdings Limited 

Pearson Education Investments Limited

Pearson Education Limited

Pearson International Finance Limited

Pearson Loan Finance No. 3 Limited

Pearson Loan Finance No. 5 Limited

05578463

Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited

05578491

Pearson Pension Nominees Limited

05111013

Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited

06507766

Pearson Professional Assessments Limited

00210859

Pearson Strand Limited

08444933

Pearson Services Limited

00872828

Pearson Shared Services Limited

02496206

Pearson Strand Finance Limited

05052661

PVNT Limited

12017252

TQ Global Limited

12030662

05144467

00096263

00672908

00145205

10809680

10803853

04904325

08561316

01341060

04623186

11091691

08038068

07802458

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 207

Financial statementsCompany balance sheet
As at 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Assets

Non-current assets

Investments in subsidiaries

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Deferred income tax assets

Financial assets – derivative financial instruments

Current assets

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Current income tax assets

Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

Financial assets – derivative financial instruments

Other assets

Total assets

Liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments

Current liabilities

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Other liabilities

Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments

Total liabilities

Net assets

Notes

2023

2022

All figures in £ millions

Notes

2023

2022

Equity

Share capital

Share premium

Treasury shares

Capital redemption reserve

Special reserve
Retained earnings – including profit for the year of £467m 
(2022: £499m)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the 
company

6

6

7

174

2,642

(19)

33

447

179

2,633

(15)

28

447

1,195

1,178

4,472

4,450

These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 March 
2024 and signed on its behalf by

Sally Johnson 
Chief Financial Officer

2

5

4

5

5

5

6,702

2,074

35

32

6,738

1,667

44

43

8,843

8,492

277

22

5

15

1

320

9,163

526

4

240

16

1

787

9,279

(3,287)

(3,380)

(38)

(54)

(3,325)

(3,434)

(1,240)

(1,383)

(121)

(5)

(1,366)

(4,691)

4,472

(1)

(11)

(1,395)

(4,829)

4,450

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 208  

Financial statementsCompany statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2023

Profit for the year

Equity-settled transactions1

Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes1

Purchase of treasury shares

Release of treasury shares

Buyback of equity

Dividends

At 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

At 1 January 2022

Profit for the year

Equity-settled transactions1

Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes1

Purchase of treasury shares

Release of treasury shares

Buyback of equity

Dividends

At 31 December 2022

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Share  
capital

Share  

premium

Treasury 
shares

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Special  
reserve

Retained 
earnings

179

2,633

(15)

28

447

1,178

–

–

–

–

–

(5)

–

–

–

9

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(35)

31

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

5

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

467

40

–

–

(31)

(304)

(155)

Total

4,450

467

40

9

(35)

–

(304)

(155)

174

2,642

(19)

33

447

1,195

4,472

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Share  
capital

Share  

premium

Treasury 
shares

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

Special  
reserve

Retained 
earnings

189

2,626

(12)

18

447

1,184

–

–

–

–

–

(10)

–

179

–

–

7

–

–

–

–

2,633

–

–

–

(37)

34

–

–

(15)

–

–

–

–

–

10

–

28

Total

4,452

499

38

7

(37)

–

(353)

(156)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

499

38

–

–

(34)

(353)

(156)

447

1,178

4,450

The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Group’s share buyback programme. The special reserve represents the cumulative effect of cancellation of the company’s 
share premium account.

1.  Full details of the share-based payment plans are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 209

Financial statementsCompany cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 2023

All figures in £ millions

Cash flows from operating activities

Net profit

Adjustments for:

Income tax

Net finance costs

Share-based payment costs

Impairment (reversals)/charges

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Net cash generated from operations

Interest paid

Tax (paid)/received 

Net cash generated from operating activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares

Buyback of equity

Purchase of treasury shares

Proceeds from borrowings

Repayment of borrowings 

Dividends paid to company’s shareholders

Net cash used in financing activities

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Notes

2023

2022

467

499

6

(10)

40

(40)

(301)

162

(14)

(15)

133

9

(186)

(35)

285

(285)

(154)

(366)

(2)

(235)

240

5

(15)

48

38

5

(97)

478

(44)

4

438

7

(353)

(37)

–

–

(156)

(539)

31

(70)

310

240

6

4

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 210  

Financial statementsNotes to the company financial statements

1. Accounting policies

The financial statements on pages 208-218 comprise the separate financial statements of Pearson plc.

These company financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with 
UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The 
company financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by 
the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value.

As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the company income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income have not been presented.

The company has no employees (2022: nil).

The basis of preparation and accounting policies applied in the preparation of these company financial 
statements are the same as those set out in note 1a to the consolidated financial statements with the addition 
of the following:

Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment, with the exception of certain 
hedged investments that are held in a foreign currency and revalued at each balance sheet date.

Lending to/from subsidiaries is considered to be an operating activity and any movements are classified as 
cash flows from operating activities in the cash flow statement.

Amounts owed by subsidiaries
Amounts owed by subsidiaries generally mature within five years, but can be called upon on short notice, or 
are repayable on demand. Amounts owed by subsidiaries are classified as current if they mature within one 
year of the balance sheet date or if the company intends to call the loan within one year of the balance sheet 
date. All other amounts are classified as non-current. The company has assessed and concluded that these 
loans will be fully recovered. Therefore credit losses are considered to be immaterial.

Parent company guarantees
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of bonds and certain other liabilities due by subsidiary 
undertakings primarily to third parties. Such guarantees are accounted for by the Company under IFRS 9. 
They are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at the higher of (i) the amount 
initially recognised less the cumulative amount of revenue recognised in accordance with IFRS 15, and (ii) the 
expected credit losses under IFRS 9. The Company has also entered into performance guarantees whereby 
in respect of contracts entered into by subsidiary undertakings, the Company will settle any claims for non-
performance under the contract in the event that the subsidiary does not perform its responsibilities under 
the contract, and it does not pay out any amounts due to the third party in the event of non-performance. 
Such performance guarantees are accounted for as loan commitments under IFRS 9.

New accounting standards
The Group adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ for the first time in 2023. No other new standards were 
adopted in 2023. A number of other new pronouncements are effective from 1 January 2023 but they do not 
have a material impact on the company financial statements. 

Going concern
In assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the period to 30 June 2025, the Board 
reviewed management’s five-year plan, which was used as the base case. 

The review included available liquidity throughout the period and headroom against the Group’s two main 
covenants, which require net debt to EBITDA to be a maximum of four times and interest cover to be at least 
three times.

At 31 December 2023, the Group had available liquidity of c.£1bn, comprising central cash balances and 
its undrawn $1bn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF). The company's subsidiary Pearson Funding plc has a debt 
maturity of €300m due within the going concern assessment period and it is assumed that this is refinanced 
ahead of time with a £250m bond or bank facility. In both the base case and severe but plausible scenario, the 
business has sufficient liquidity to repay this amount and does not rely on this refinancing in order to remain a 
going concern. Significant liquidity and covenant headroom was observed throughout the assessment period 
in this base model.

A severe but plausible scenario was analysed, where the Group is impacted by all principal risks in both 2024 
and 2025, adjusted for probability weighting as well as other significant risks. For this and other downside 
scenarios tested, the net impact of the risks modelled was to reduce adjusted operating profit by around 
40% in each year. Even under a severe downside case, the company would maintain comfortable liquidity 
headroom and sufficient headroom against covenant requirements during the period under assessment. 
That is, even before modelling the mitigating effect of actions that management would take if these downside 
risks were to crystalise. 

A reverse stress test was performed to identify the reduction in profit required to cease to be a going concern 
at or before 30 June 2025. The model showed that operating losses were required in both 2024 and 2025 
to breach covenants and in turn to exhaust liquidity. This significantly exceeded the severe but plausible 
downside scenario. The Directors consider this reverse stress test scenario to be remote.

The Directors have confirmed that there are no material uncertainties that cast doubt on the Company’s going 
concern status and that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence beyond 30 June 2025. The Company financial statements have therefore 
been prepared on a going concern basis.

2. Investments in subsidiaries

All figures in £ millions

At beginning of year
Distributions
Impairment reversal
Currency revaluations
At end of year

2023

2022

6,738
–
40
(76)
6,702

6,632
(49)
–
155
6,738

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 211

Financial statementsNotes to the company financial statements continued

2. Investments in subsidiaries continued

There were no impairments in 2023 or 2022. The recoverability of investments is tested annually for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. The carrying value is compared to the asset’s recoverable amount 
which is generally assessed on a value in use basis. Significant estimation is required to determine the recoverable amount. The value in use of the assets is calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology using financial 
information related to the subsidiaries including cash flow projections in conjunction with the goodwill impairment analysis performed by the Group. The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are discount rates, 
perpetuity growth rates, forecast sales growth rates and forecast operating profits. See note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for further details.

3. Financial risk management

The company’s financial instruments comprise amounts due to/from subsidiary undertakings, cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and current borrowings. Derivative financial 
instruments are held at fair value, with all other financial instruments held at amortised cost, which approximates fair value. The company’s approach to the management of financial risks is consistent with the 
Group’s treasury policy, as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. The company believes the value of its financial assets to be fully recoverable.

The carrying value of the company’s financial instruments is exposed to movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates (primarily US dollars). The company estimates that a 1% increase in 
 interest rates would result in a £11m increase (2022: £7m increase) in the carrying value of its financial instruments, with a 1% decrease in interest rates resulting in a £10m decrease (2022: £6m decrease)  
in their carrying value. The company also estimates that a 10% strengthening in sterling would decrease the carrying value of its financial instruments by £40m (2022: £136m), while a 10% weakening in the 
value of sterling would increase the carrying value by £48m (2022: £153m). These increases and decreases in carrying value would be recorded through the income statement. Sensitivities are calculated  
using estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models. Where modelling an interest rate decrease of 1% led to negative interest rates, these points on the yield curve were 
adjusted to 0%.

The following table analyses the company’s derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.  
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest) and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.

All figures in £ millions

At 31 December 2023
Rate derivatives – inflows
Rate derivatives – outflows
FX forwards – inflows
FX forwards – outflows
Total
At 31 December 2022
Rate derivatives – inflows
Rate derivatives – outflows
FX forwards – inflows
FX forwards – outflows
Total

Analysed by maturity

Analysed by currency

Greater than
one month
and less than
one year

Later than  
one year but 
less than  
five years

Five years  
or more

Total

USD

GBP

Other

Total

(13)
5
(428)
421
(15)

(11)
1
(304)
313
(1)

(262)
268
–
–
6

(471)
490
–
–
19

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

(275)
273
(428)
421
(9)

(482)
491
(304)
313
18

(6)
178
–
421
593

(24)
224
–
–
200

(9)
89
(428)
–
(348)

(170)
255
(304)
313
94

(260)
6
–
–
(254)

(288)
12
–
–
(276)

(275)
273
(428)
421
(9)

(482)
491
(304)
313
18

All cash flow projections shown above are on an undiscounted basis. Any cash flows based on a floating rate are calculated using interest rates as set at the date of the last rate reset. Where this is not 
possible, floating rates are based on interest rates prevailing at 31 December in the relevant year. All derivative amounts are shown gross, although the company net settles these amounts wherever possible.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 212  

Financial statementsFair value hedge accounting
A foreign currency exposure arises from foreign exchange fluctuations on translation of the 
company’s investments in subsidiaries denominated in USD into GBP. The hedged risk is the risk of 
changes in the GBP:USD spot rate that will result in changes in the value of the USD investments 
when translated into GBP. The hedged items are a portion of the company’s equity investment 
in subsidiaries denominated in USD. The hedging instruments are a portion of the company’s 
intercompany loans due from subsidiaries which are denominated in USD.

It is expected that the change in value of each of these items will offset each other as there is a clear 
and direct economic relationship between the hedge and the hedged item in the hedge relationship. 
Hedge ineffectiveness would arise if the value of the hedged items fell below the value of the hedging 
instruments; however, this is unlikely as the value of the company’s investments denominated in USD 
is significantly greater than the proposed fair value hedge programme.

The value of the hedged items and the hedging instruments is £1.4bn (2022: £1.4bn) and the change 
in value during the year which was used to assess hedge ineffectiveness was £77m (2022: £155m). 
There was no hedge ineffectiveness.

Cash flows from the €300m EUR 2025 bond are received by the company from its subsidiary  
creating a foreign currency exposure upon the translation from EUR to GBP. Changes in the 
GBP:EUR spot rate will result in changes to the value of amounts due from subsidiaries when 
translated into GBP. The hedged item is €100m of this amount due from subsidiaries denominated 
in EUR. The hedging instrument is a €100m 2025 cross-currency swap. It is expected that the change 
in value of these items will move in the opposite directions as a result of movements in the EUR:GBP 
exchange rate.

Credit risk management
The company’s main exposure to credit risk relates to lending to subsidiaries. Amounts due 
from subsidiaries are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts. The credit risk of each 
subsidiary is influenced by the industry and country in which they operate; however, the company 
considers the credit risk of subsidiaries to be low as it has visibility of, and the ability to influence, 
their cash flows. 

4. Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts)

All figures in £ millions

Cash at bank and in hand

2023

5
5

2022

240
240

5. Derivative financial instruments

The company’s outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows:

2023

2022

All figures in £ millions

Interest rate derivatives 
Cross-currency rate derivatives
FX derivatives
Total
Analysed as expiring:
In less than one year

Later than one year and not 
later than five years

Total

Gross 
notional 
amounts

430
439
894
1,763

995

768

1,763

Assets

Liabilities

Gross 
notional 
amounts

437
83
916
1,436

(6)
(32)
(5)
(43)

(5)

1,016

(38)

(43)

420

1,436

Assets

Liabilities

19
34
6
59

16

43

59

(11)
(43)
(11)
(65)

(11)

(54)

(65)

14
26
7
47

15

32

47

The carrying value of the above derivative financial instruments equals their fair value. Derivatives 
are categorised as level 2 on the fair value hierarchy. Fair values are determined by using 
market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and 
option valuation models.

6. Share capital and share premium

At 31 December 2021
Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes

Buyback of equity

At 31 December 2022

Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes
Buyback of equity
At 31 December 2023

Number of 
shares  
000s

756,802
1,199

(42,268)

715,733

1,809
(20,243)
697,299

Share
capital
£m

Share  
premium 
£m

189
–

(10)

179

–
(5)
174

2,626
7

–

2,633

9
–
2,642

At the end of 2023, the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 0% (2022: 79%), 
sterling 44% (2022: 18%) and other 56% (2022: 3%). Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that 
approximate their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature.

The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share (2022: 25p per share). All issued shares are 
fully paid. All shareholders are entitled to receive dividends and vote at general meetings of the 
company. All shares have the same rights.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 213

Financial statementsNotes to the company financial statements continued

6. Share capital and share premium continued

8. Contingencies

On 20 September 2023, the Board approved a £300m share buyback programme in order to 
return capital to shareholders. During the year, approximately 20m shares were bought back and 
cancelled at a cost of £186m. The nominal value of these shares, £5m, was transferred to the capital 
redemption reserve, and the remainder of the purchase price is recorded within retained earnings. 
At 31 December 2023, a liability of £118m remained for those shares contracted to be repurchased 
but where the repurchases were still outstanding and associated costs.

On 24 February 2022, the Board approved a £350m share buyback programme in order to  
return capital to shareholders. During 2022, approximately 42m shares were bought back and 
cancelled at a cost of £353m. The nominal value of these shares, £10m, was transferred to the 
capital redemption reserve, and the remainder of the purchase price was recorded within  
retained earnings. 

7. Treasury shares

At 31 December 2021
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares
At 31 December 2022
Purchase of treasury shares
Release of treasury shares
At 31 December 2023

Number of 
shares  
000s

1,571
4,513
(4,220)
1,864
3,991
(3,695)
2,160

£m

12
37
(34)
15
35
(31)
19

The company holds its own shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans. 
These shares are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p 
per share.

The nominal value of the company’s treasury shares amounts to £0.5m (2022: £0.5m). Dividends on 
treasury shares are waived.

At 31 December 2023, the market value of the company’s treasury shares was £21m (2022: £18m). 
The gross book value of the shares at 31 December 2023 amounts to £19m (2022: £15m). 

There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, 
warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation 
to subsidiaries. The total value of guarantees made by the company in relation to its subsidiaries 
is £912m (2022: £889m). In addition, there are contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims. None 
of these claims is expected to result in a material gain or loss to the company.

9. Audit fees

Statutory audit fees relating to the company were £40,700 (2022: £38,037).

10. Related party transactions

Subsidiaries
The company transacts and has outstanding balances with its subsidiaries. Amounts due  
from subsidiaries and amounts due to subsidiaries are disclosed on the face of the company  
balance sheet.

These loans are generally unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates. The 
company has interest payable to subsidiaries for the year of £188m (2022: £137m) and interest and 
guarantee fees receivable from subsidiaries for the year of £189m (2022: £105m). Management fees 
payable to subsidiaries in respect of centrally provided services amounted to £17m (2022: £16m). 
Management fees receivable from subsidiaries in respect of centrally provided services amounted 
to £31m (2022: £34m). Dividends received from subsidiaries were £448m (2022: £605m), which 
includes £nil (2022: £49m) of returns of capital distributed by subsidiaries.

Associates
There were no related party transactions with associates in 2023 or 2022. 

Key management personnel
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson Executive  
Management team.

It is this Committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities 
of the company in 2023. Key management personnel compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 214  

Financial statements11. Group companies

In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements, the country of incorporation, the registered address and 
the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2023, is disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated, the shares are all indirectly held by Pearson plc. Unless otherwise stated, all wholly-owned and 
partly-owned subsidiaries are included in the consolidation and all associated undertakings are included in the Group’s financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Principal Group companies 
are identified in bold.

Wholly-owned subsidiaries

Registered company name

Addison Wesley Longman, Inc.

Addison-Wesley Educational Publishers Inc.

AEL (S) PTE Limited

Aldwych Finance Limited

ATI Professional Development LLC

ATI Studios A.P.P.S. SRL

Atkey Finance Limited*

Camsaw, Inc.

CAMSAWUSA, Inc.

Centro Cultural Americano Franquias e Comércio Ltda.

Century Consultants Ltd.

Certiport China Holding, LLC

Certiport, Inc.

Clutch Learning, Inc.

Cogmed Systems AB

Connections Academy of Florida, LLC

Connections Academy of Iowa, LLC

Connections Academy of Maine, LLC

Connections Academy of Maryland, LLC

Connections Academy of Nevada, LLC

Connections Academy of New Mexico, LLC

Connections Academy of Oregon, LLC

Connections Academy of Pennsylvania LLC

Connections Academy of Tennessee, LLC

Connections Academy of Texas LLC

Connections Education LLC

Connections Education of Florida, LLC

Connections Education, Inc.

Credly, Inc.

Dominie Press, Inc.

Dorian Finance Limited

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

Registered company name

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

US

US

SG

UK

US

RO

IE

US

US

BR

US

US

US

US

SE

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

US

IE

3

4

73

1

4

78

7

4

11

15

13

4

4

4

14

20

24

28

29

31

32

37

38

40

41

4

20

4

4

17

7

eCollege.com

Edexcel Limited†*

Education Development International Plc†

Education Resources (Cyprus) Limited

Educational Management Group, Inc.

English Language Learning and Instruction System, Inc.

Faethm Holdings Pty. Limited

Faethm IP Pty. Limited

Faethm Ltd

Faethm Pty. Limited

Faethm USA LLC

Falstaff Holdco Inc.

Falstaff Inc.

FBH, Inc.

George (Shanghai) Commercial Information Consulting Co., Ltd

Globe Fearon Inc.

Heinemann Educational Botswana (Publishers) Proprietary Limited

IndiaCan Education Private Limited

Integral 7, Inc.

INTELLIPRO, INC.

Knowledge Analysis Technologies, LLC

LCCIEB Training Consultancy., Ltd

LessonLab, Inc.

Lignum Oil Company

LION SG PTE. LTD.*

Longman (Malawi) Limited

Longman Group(Overseas Holdings) Limited

Longman Indochina Acquisition, L.L.C.

Longman Tanzania Limited*

Longman Zambia Educational Publishers Pty Ltd

Longman Zimbabwe (Private) Ltd

Longmaned Ecuador S.A.

US

UK

UK

CY

US

US

AU

AU

UK

AU

US

US

US

US

CN

US

BW

IN

US

US

US

CN

US

US

SG

MW

UK

US

TZ

ZM

ZW

EC

4

50

1

51

52

54

48

48

1

48

6

4

55

4

21

17

8

2

4

13

18

64

17

4

23

65

1

4

68

69

47

71

Registered company name

Lumerit Education, LLC

Major123 Limited*

MeasureUp of Delaware, LLC

Modern Curriculum Inc.

Multi Treinamento e Editora Ltda

MZ Development Inc. 

National Computer Systems Japan Co. Ltd

Navvy Education, LLC

NCS Information Technology Services (Beijing) Co Ltd

NCS Pearson Pty Ltd

NCS Pearson Puerto Rico, Inc.

NCS Pearson, Inc.

Opinion Interactive LLC

Ordinate Corporation

Pearson (Beijing) Management Consulting Co., Ltd.

Pearson America LLC

Pearson Amsterdam B.V.

Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited

Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd

Pearson Australia Holdings Pty Ltd

Pearson Benelux B.V.

Pearson Books Limited†*

Pearson Brazil Finance Limited*

Pearson Business Services Inc.

Pearson Canada Assessment Inc.

Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited

Pearson Canada Holdings Inc.

Pearson Canada Inc.

Pearson Central Europe Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością

Pearson DBC Holdings Inc.

Pearson Desarrollo y Capacitación Profesional Chile Limitada

Pearson Deutschland GmbH

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

US

UK

US

US

BR

US

JP

US

CN

AU

PR

US

US

US

CN

US

NL

UK

AU

AU

NL

UK

UK

US

CA

UK

CA

CA

PL

US

CL

DE

41

50

4

17

60

4

74

22

75

48

76

30

16

17

77

4

79

1

48

48

79

50

50

4

80

1

80

80

39

4

81

82

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 215

Financial statementsNotes to the company financial statements continued

11. Group companies continued

Registered company name

Pearson Digital Learning Puerto Rico, Inc.

Pearson Dollar Finance Limited†

Pearson Dollar Finance Two Limited

Pearson Educacion de Chile Limitada

Pearson Educacion de Colombia S.A.S.

Pearson Educacion de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Pearson Educacion de Panama SA

Pearson Educacion de Peru S.A.

Pearson Educacion SA

Pearson Education Africa (Pty) Ltd

Pearson Education Asia Limited

Pearson Education Botswana (Proprietary) Limited

Pearson Education do Brasil Ltda

Pearson Education Hellas SA

Pearson Education Holdings Limited†

Pearson Education Indochina Limited

Pearson Education Investments Limited

Pearson Education Korea Limited

Pearson Education Limited

Pearson Education Namibia (Pty) Limited

Pearson Education Publishing Limited

Pearson Education S.A.

Pearson Education SA

Pearson Education South Africa (Pty) Ltd

Pearson Education South Asia Pte. Ltd.

Pearson Education Taiwan Ltd

Pearson Education, Inc.

Pearson Educational Measurement Canada, Inc.

Pearson Educational Publishers, LLC

Pearson Egitim Cozumleri Tikaret Limited Sirketi

Pearson Falstaff (Holdings) Inc.

Pearson Falstaff Holdco LLC

Pearson Federal Holding Company, LLC

Pearson France

Pearson Funding Four Limited†*

Pearson Funding plc†

Pearson Holdings Inc.

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

Registered company name

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

Registered company name

Country 
of Incorp.

Reg 
office

PR

UK

UK

CL

CO

MX

PA

PE

ES

ZA

HK

BW

BR

GR

UK

TH

UK

KR

UK

NA

NG

UY

AR

ZA

SG

TW

US

CA

US

TR

US

US

US

FR

UK

UK

US

76

1

1

81

84

85

86

87

88

47

53

8

60

26

1

89

1

90

1

58

44

5

67

47

73

9

4

36

4

61

4

4

4

70

50

1

4

Pearson Holdings Southern Africa (Pty) Limited

Pearson Hungary LLC*

Pearson India Education Services Private Limited

Pearson International Finance Limited†

Pearson Investment Holdings, Inc.

Pearson Israel (P.I.) Ltd

Pearson Japan KK

Pearson Lanka (Private) Limited

Pearson Lanka Support Services (Private) Limited

Pearson Lesotho (Pty) Ltd

Pearson Loan Finance No. 3 Limited

Pearson Loan Finance No. 4 Limited*

Pearson Loan Finance No. 5 Limited

Pearson Loan Finance No. 6 Limited

Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited

Pearson Longman Uganda Limited

Pearson Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Pearson Management Services Limited†

Pearson Management Services Philippines Inc.

Pearson Maryland, Inc.

Pearson Moçambique, Limitada

Pearson Netherlands B.V.

Pearson Netherlands Holdings B.V.

Pearson Nominees Limited†

Pearson Online Tutoring LLC

Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited†

Pearson PEM P.R., Inc.

Pearson Phoenix Pty Ltd

Pearson Professional Assessments Limited

Pearson Real Estate Holdings Inc.

Pearson Real Estate Holdings Limited†*

Pearson Regional Headquarters Arabia

Pearson Schweiz AG

Pearson Services Limited†

Pearson Shared Services Limited†

Pearson Strand Finance Limited†

Pearson Strand Limited

Pearson Sweden AB

Pearson VUE Europe B.V.

Pearson VUE Philippines, Inc.

Penguin Capital, LLC

Personnel Decisions Research Institutes, LLC

PN Holdings Inc.

ProctorCam, Inc.

PT Efficient English Services

PVNT Limited

Reading Property Holdings LLC

Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.

Reston Publishing Company, Inc.

Rycade Capital Corporation

Shanghai AWL Education Software Ltd*

Silver Burdett Ginn Inc.

Skylight Training and Publishing Inc.

Smarthinking, Inc.

Sound Holdings Inc.

Sparrow Phoenix Pty Ltd

Spear Insurance Company Limited†

The Waite Group, Inc.

TQ Catalis Limited*

TQ Clapham Limited*

TQ Education and Training Limited

TQ Education and Training Limited

TQ Global Limited

TQ Group Limited

TQ Holdings Limited

VUE Testing Services Israel Ltd

VUE Testing Services Korea Limited

Williams Education GmbH

 * In liquidation.

 † Directly owned by Pearson plc.

ZA

HU

IN

UK

US

IL

JP

LK

LK

LS

UK

UK

UK

UK

UK

UG

MY

UK

PH

US

MZ

NL

NL

UK

US

UK

PR

AU

UK

US

UK

SA

CH

UK

UK

UK

UK

47

25

2

1

4

66

49

63

12

62

1

50

1

1

1

43

59

1

33

11

42

79

79

1

4

1

19

48

1

4

50

57

34

1

1

1

1

SE

NL

PH

US

US

US

US

ID

UK

US

US

US

US

CN

US

US

US

US

AU

BM

US

UK

UK

UK

SA

UK

UK

UK

IL

KR

DE

14

79

27

4

30

4

4

83

1

3

10

4

4

72

4

52

4

4

48

45

17

50

50

1

56

1

1

1

46

35

82

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 216  

Financial statementsSubsidiary addresses
The following list includes all Pearson registered offices worldwide.

Registered office address

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

80 Strand, London, WC2R 0RL, England

Featherlite, ‘The Address’, 5th Floor, Survey No 203/10B, 200 Ft MMRD Road, Zamin, 
Pallavaram, Chennai, TN 600044, India

C T Corporation System, 155 Federal St., Suite 700, Boston, MA, 02110, United States

The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, 
Wilmington, New Castle, DE, 19801, United States

Juan Benito Blanco 780 – Plaza Business Center, Montevideo, Uruguay

340 Halsa Dr, Chattahoochee Hills, GA, GA 30268, United States

1st Floor The Liffey Trust Centre, 117-126 Sheriff Street Upper, Dublin 1, Ireland

Dps Consulting Services Proprietary Limited, Plot 54513, Unit 6a, Courtyard, Village, 
Gaborone, Botswana 

10F, No 209, Sec. 1, Civic Blvd., Datong District, Taipei City, 10351, Taiwan 
(Province of China) 

The Corporation Company, 40600 Ann Arbor Rd, E Suite 201, Plymouth, MI, 48170, 
United States

The Corporation Trust Incorporated, Suite 201, 2405 York Road, Lutherville Timonium, 
MD, 21093, United States

#1, 3, 5th Floor, East Tower, World Trade Centre, Echelon Square, Colombo, O1, 
Sri Lanka

820, Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, Mercer, NJ, 08628, United States

Gustavslundsvägen 137, 167 51 Bromma, Stockholm, Sweden

Avenida Francisco Matarazzo nº 1400 Edifício Milano – 7º andar, Conjunto 72 – Sala 25 
de Março – Agua Branca, São Paulo, 05001 903, Brazil 

105 E Street #2A, Davis, CA, CA 95616, United States

C T Corporation System, 330 N Brand Blvd., Glendale, CA, 91203-2336

The Corporation Company, 7700 E Arapahoe Rd, Suite 220, Centennial, CO, 80112-
1268, United States

500, 401, Calle de la Tanca Edificio Ochoa, San Juan, 00901-1969, Puerto Rico

C T Corporation System, 1200, South Pine Island Road, Plantation, FL, 33324, 
United States

Suite A7b, 3/F, No. 586 Longchang Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China

CT Corportion System, 289 S Culver St, Lawrenceville, GA, 30046-4805, United States

Kroll Pte. Limited, One Raffles Place, Tower 2, #10-62, Singapore, 048616, Singapore

C T Corporation System, 400 E Court Ave, Des Moines, IA, 50309, United States

22 B, 13 em, Népfürdő utca, Budapest, 1138, Hungary

4 Zalogou Str., 15343 Agia Paraskevi, Athens, Greece

27/F Trident Tower, 312 Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines

C T Corporation System, 100 Second Avenue, Augusta, ME, 04330, United States

CSC - Lawyers Incorporating Service Company, 7 St. Paul Street, Suite 820, Baltimore, 
MD, 21202, United States

C T Corporation System Inc., 1010 Dale Street North, St Paul, MN, 55117-5603, 
United States

The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, 701 S Carson St, Suite 200, Carson City, 
NV, 89701, United States

Registered office address

Registered office address

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

60

61

C T Corporation System, 206 S Coronado Ave, Espanola, NM, 87532-2792, 
United States

7/F North Tower, Rockwell Business Center COR. Sheridan & United Street, Brgy. 
Highway Hills, Mandaluyong, Philippines

10 Gewerbestrasse, Cham, 6330, Switzerland

21, Mugyo-ro Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea

199 Bay Street, Commerce Court West, Suite 2800, Toronto, ON, M5L1A9, Canada

C T Corporation System, 780 Commercial Street SE, STE 100, Salem, OR, OR 97301, 
United States

C T Corporation System, 600 N. 2nd Street, Suite 401, Harrisburg, PA, 17101-1071, 
United States

Ulica Szamocka 8 01-748, Warszawa, Poland

C T Corporation System, 300 Montvue Rd, Knoxville, TN, 37919-5546, United States

CT Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX, 75201, United States

Numero 776, Avenida 24 de Julho, Maputo, Mozambique

Plot 8, Berkley Road, Old Kampala, Uganda

8, Secretariat Road, Obafemi Awolowo Way, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos State, Nigeria

Power House, 7 Par-la-ville Road, PO Box 1826, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda 

Derech Ben Gurion 2, BSR Building 9th Floor, Ramat Gan, 52573, Israel

Auto Atlantic, 4th Floor, Corner Hertzog Boulevard and Heerengracht, Cape Town, 8001, 
South Africa

459-471 Church Street, Richmond, Melbourne, VIC, 3121, Australia

11F Kanda Square, 2-2-1 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0054, Japan

Kroll Advisory Ltd., The Shard, 32 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9SG, England

195, Archbishop Makarios III Avenue, Neocleous House, Limassol, 3030, Cyprus

Illinois Corporation Service Company, 700 S 2nd Street, Springfield, IL, 62703, 
United States

18/F, 1063 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong

251, Little Falls Drive, Corporation Service Company, Wilmington, DE, 19808, 
United States

C T Corporation System, 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY, 10005, United States

King Fayad Road, Olaya, Riyadh, 58774, 11515, Saudi Arabia

Al Tawuniyya Towers, King Fahd Road, North Block, 2nd floor, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Unit 7 Kingland Park, 98 Nickel Street, Prosperita, Windhoek, Namibia

Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No 8, 
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Avenida José Luiz Mazzali, nº 450, Sala H, Setor Módulo 03B, GLP Louveira I, Santo 
Antônio, Louveira, SP, CEP 13.290-000, Brazil

Nida Kule Kozyatagi, Kozyatagi Mahallesi, Degirmen Sokak No:18 Kat:6 D:15, Kadikoy, 
Istanbul, 34742, Turkey

62

1st Floor Christie House, Orpen Road, Maseru, Lesotho

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

MAGA ONE-Level 22, No. 200, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05, 11222, 
Sri Lanka

Room 305, Building 2, 6555 Shangchuan Road, Pudong District, Shanghai, China

AMG Global, Global House, Kristwick, Masauko Chipembere Highway, Blantyre, Malawi

Meitar Law Offices, 16 Abba Hillel Rd., Ramat Gan, 5250608, Israel 

498, Libertador Ave, City of Buenos Aires, 3rd floor, Buenos Aires, Argentina

P O Box 45, IPS Building, Maktaba Street, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania

Plot 1281, Lungwebungu Road, Rhodes Park, Lusaka, Zambia

8 Rue des Pirogues de Bercy, 75012 Paris, France

Andalucía y cordero E12-35. Edificio CYEDE piso 1, Oficina 11, Sector “La Floresta”, 
Quito, Pichincha, Ecuador

Suite 302-9,Block 3, No. 333 Weining Road, Changning District, Shanghai, China

3 Temasek Avenue, #21-23 Centennial Tower, 039190, Singapore

Shiodome City Center 18F, 1-5-2, Higashi Shimbashi, Minato-Ku, Tokyo,  
105-7118, Japan

Suite 1201, Tower 2, No. 36 North Third Ring East Road, Dongcheng District, 
Beijing, China

268 Munoz Rivera Avenue, Suite 1400, San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico

Room 902, Tower W2, Oriental Plaza, No. 1 East Chang’an Street, Dongcheng District, 
Beijing, 11, 100738, China

Str. Politehnicii 3, Braşov, 500019, Romania

Kabelweg 37, Amsterdam, 1014 BA, Netherlands

357 Bay Street, 3rd Floor, Toronto, ON, M5H 4A6, Canada

Oficina N°117, edificio Casa Colorada, calle Merced N°838-A Santiago Centro, 
Santiago, Chile

c/o Pearson Deutschland GmbH, St.-Martin-Str. 82, Munich, 81541, Germany

30th Floor, Ratu Plaza Office Tower, Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav 9, Jakarta, 10270, Indonesia

Carrera 7 Nro 156 – 68, Piso 26, Bogota, Colombia

Calle Antonio Dovali jaime #70, Torre B, Piso 6, Col. Zedec ed Plaza Santa Fe, del. Álvaro 
Obregon, Ciudad de Mexico, CP 01210, Mexico

Punta Pacifica, Torres de las Americas, Torre A Piso 15 Ofic. 1517, Panama,  
0832-0588, Panama

Cal. Los Halcones, no. 275, Urb. Limatombo, Lima, Perú

85, Paseo de la Castellana, Planta 8, Madrid, 28046, Spain

87/1 Capital Tower Building, All Seasons Place unit 1604 – 6 16th floor, Wireless Road, 
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, Thailand

90

#512, 5th Floor, 12, Mapo-daero 10-gil, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 217

Financial statementsNotes to the company financial statements continued

Partly-owned subsidiaries and associated undertakings company 
addresses

Registered office address

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Suite 1804, No.99 Huichuan Road, Changning District, Shanghai City, China

80 Strand, London, WC2R 0RL, England

C T Corporation System, 4701 Cox Road, Suite 285, Glen Allen, Henrico, VA, 23060-0000, United States

The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle, DE, 19801, United States

Auto Atlantic, 4th Floor, Corner Hertzog Boulevard and Heerengracht, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa

251, Little Falls Drive, Corporation Service Company, Wilmington, DE, 19808, United States

SIS 1107A1112, 35 Rua Pedro Lessa, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 20030-030, Brazil

Incorporating Services, Ltd. 3500 S Dupont Way, Dover, Kent, DE, United States

Campbells Corporate Services Limited, Floor 4, Willow House, Cricket Square, Grand Cayman, KY1-9010, Cayman Islands

10 Suite 216, No. 127-1 Zhongguancun North Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China

11 Rua de Pequim No. 230–246 17-L, Macau Finance Centre, Macau

12 C/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, United States

13 9 Rashdan St., Messaha Square, Dokki, Giza City, Egypt

11. Group companies continued

Partly-owned subsidiaries

Registered company Name

Certiport China Co Ltd

Educational Publishers LLP

GED Domains LLC

GED Testing Service LLC

Pearson Education Achievement Solutions (RF) (Pty) Limited

Pearson Pension Nominees Limited

Pearson Pension Property Fund Limited

Pearson Pension Trustee Limited

Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited

Associated undertakings

Registered company Name

Academy of Pop LLC

Learn Capital Special Opportunities Fund I, L.P.‡

Learn Capital Venture Partners II, L.P.‡

Learn Capital Venture Partners IIIA, L.P.‡

Learn Capital Venture Partners, L.P.‡

Peking University Pearson (Beijing) Cultural Development Co., Ltd

Prepona Sistemas de Testagem e Avaliação S.A.

Pui Man Publishing Limited

Smashcut, Inc.

The Egyptian International Publishing Company-Longman

 * In liquidation.

 ‡ Accounted for as an ‘Other financial asset’ within non-current assets.

Country 
of Incorp.

% Owned

Reg office

CN

UK

US

US

ZA

UK

UK

UK

UK

50.69

85

70

70

97.3

50

50

50

50

1

2

3

4

5

2

2

2

2

Country 
of Incorp.

% Owned

Reg office

US

US

US

KY

US

CN

BR

CN

US

EG

40

99.59

72.93

99

99.15

45

22.2

49

25.93

49

6

8

8

9

8

10

7

11

12

13

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 218  

Financial statementsFive-year summary

All figures in £ millions

Sales: By operating segment

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

English Language Learning

Workforce Skills

Higher Education

Strategic review

Total sales

Adjusted operating profit: By operating segment

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

English Language Learning

Workforce Skills

Higher Education

Strategic review

Penguin Random House

Total adjusted operating profit

Operating margin – continuing

Adjusted earnings

Total adjusted operating profit

Net finance costs

Income tax

Non-controlling interest

Adjusted earnings

Weighted average number of shares (millions)

Adjusted earnings per share

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

1,559

1,444

1,238

1,118

616

415

220

855

9

820

321

204

898

154

713

238

172

849

218

692

218

163

956

250

3,674

3,841

3,428

3,397

3,869

350

76

47

(8)

110

(2)

–

258

219

147

70

25

(3)

91

15

–

32

15

27

73

19

–

29

1

26

93

16

1

573

456

385

15.6%

11.9%

11.2%

313

9.2%

581

15.0%

573

(33)

(124)

(2)

414

711.5

58.2p

456

(1)

(71)

(2)

382

738.1

51.8p

385

(57)

(64)

(1)

263

754.1

34.9p

313

(61)

(35)

–

217

755.4

28.7p

581

(41)

(89)

(2)

449

777.0

57.8p

Sales and adjusted operating profit for periods prior to 2020 have not been restated to reflect the new organisational structure including the transfer of retained English-speaking Canadian and Australian K12 
Courseware businesses from Strategic review to the Assessment & Qualifications division.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 219

Other information (unaudited)Five-year summary continued

All figures in £ millions

Cash flow

Operating cash flow

Operating cash conversion

Free cash flow

Free cash flow per share

Net assets

Net debt

Return on invested capital 

Total adjusted operating profit

Operating tax paid

Return

Gross basis:

Average invested capital

Return on invested capital

Net basis:

Average invested capital

Return on invested capital

Return on capital*

Total adjusted operating profit

Adjusted income tax charge

Return

Capital

Return on capital

Dividend per share

* Return on capital was not a metric in 2019 and therefore has not been presented. 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

587

102%

387

54.4p

3,988

744

573

(96)

477

401

88%

222

30.0p

4,415

557

456

(95)

361

10,546

10,896

4.5%

3.3%

7,711

6.2%

7,896

4.6%

573

(124)

449

4,380

10.3%

22.7p

456

(71)

385

4,439

8.7%

21.5p

388

101%

133

17.6p

4,280

350

385

(60)

325

9,857

3.3%

7,161

4.5%

385

(64)

321

4,086

7.9%

20.5p

315

101%

229

30.3p

4,134

463

313

(10)

303

418

72%

213

27.4p

4,323

1,016

581

(9)

572

10,625

11,096

2.9%

5.2%

7,708

3.9%

8,097

7.1%

313

(35)

278

4,196

6.6%

19.5p

19.5p

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 220  

Other information (unaudited)Financial key performance indicators

The following tables and narrative provide further analysis of the financial key performance 
indicators which are described in the financial review of the annual report on pages 26-33, shown 
within the key performance indicators on page 25 of the annual report and shown in note 2 of the 
notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Adjusted performance measures

The annual report and accounts reports results and performance on a headline basis which 
compares the reported results both on a statutory and on a non-GAAP (non-statutory) basis.  
The Group’s adjusted performance measures are non-GAAP (non-statutory) financial measures  
and are also included in the annual report as they are key financial measures used by management 
to evaluate performance. The measures also enable investors to more easily, and consistently,  
track the underlying operational performance of the Group and its business segments by  
separating out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal 
transactions, major restructuring programmes and certain other items that are also not 
representative of underlying performance.

The Group’s definition of adjusted performance measures may not be comparable to other similarly 
titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of the adjusted measures to their 
corresponding statutory measures is shown within this section.

Sales

Underlying sales movements exclude the effect of exchange, the impact of portfolio changes arising 
from acquisitions and disposals and the impact of adopting new accounting standards that are not 
retrospectively applied. Portfolio changes are calculated by taking account of the additional sales 
(at constant exchange rates) from acquisitions made in both the current year and the prior year. For 
acquisitions made in the prior year, the additional sales excluded is calculated as the sales made in 
the period of the current year that corresponds to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year. Sales 
made by businesses disposed in either the current year or the prior year are also excluded. Constant 
exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average exchange rates in the prior year prevailed 
throughout the current year. These non-GAAP measures enable management and investors to track 
more easily, and consistently, the underlying sales performance of the Group.

All figures in £ millions

Statutory sales 2023
Statutory sales 2022
Statutory sales 
increase/(decrease)
Comprising:

Exchange differences
Portfolio changes
Underlying increase/
(decrease)
Remove OPM and 
Strategic Review from 
underlying
Underlying increase/
(decrease) excluding 
OPM and Strategic 
Review
Statutory sales 
increase/(decrease)

Constant exchange rate 
increase/(decrease)
Underlying increase/
(decrease)
Underlying increase/
(decrease) excluding 
OPM and Strategic 
Review

Assessment & 
Qualifications

Virtual
Learning

English
Language 
Learning

Workforce
Skills

Higher
Education

 Strategic 
Review

1,559
1,444

616
820

415
321

220
204

855
898

9
154

Total

3,674
3,841

115

(204)

94

16

(43)

(145)

(167)

(11)
24

(4)
(65)

(10)
7

(1)
(5)

(7)
(5)

–
(131)

(33)
(175)

102

(135)

97

22

(31)

(14)

41

–

124

–

–

–

14

138

102

(11)

97

8%

(25)%

29%

22

8%

(31)

–

179

(5)%

(94)%

(4)%

9%

(24)%

32%

8%

(4)%

(94)%

(3)%

7%

(20)%

30%

11%

(3)%

(74)%

1%

7%

(2)%

30%

11%

(3)%

–

5%

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted operating profit excludes the cost of major restructuring, certain property charges, other 
net gains and losses on the sale or closure of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other 
financial assets, and intangible charges, including impairment, relating only to goodwill and intangible 
assets acquired through business combinations or relating to associates. Other net gains and losses 
also includes costs related to business closures and acquisitions. Further details are given below 
under ‘Adjusted earnings per share’. Underlying adjusted operating profit movements exclude the 
effect of exchange, the impact of portfolio changes arising from acquisitions and disposals and the 
impact of adopting new accounting standards that are not retrospectively applied. Portfolio changes 
are calculated by taking account of the additional contribution (at constant exchange rates) from 
acquisitions made in both the current year and the prior year.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 221

Other information (unaudited)Financial key performance indicators continued

Adjusted operating profit continued

Adjusted earnings

For acquisitions made in the prior year the additional contribution excluded is calculated as the 
operating profit made in the period of the current year that corresponds to the pre-acquisition 
period in the prior year. Operating profit made by businesses disposed in either the current year 
or the prior year is also excluded. Constant exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average 
exchange rates in the prior year prevailed throughout the current year. This non-GAAP measure 
enables management and investors to track more easily, and consistently, the underlying operating 
profit performance of the Group.

Adjusted earnings includes adjusted operating profit and adjusted finance and tax charges. Adjusted 
earnings is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is used by management to evaluate performance 
and by investors to more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of 
the Group over time.

All figures in £ millions

Profit for the year
Non-controlling interest
Cost of major restructuring
Property charges
Other net gains and losses
Intangible charges
UK pension discretionary increase
Other net finance income
Income tax
Adjusted earnings

2023

380
(2)
–
11
16
48
–
(28)
(11)
414

2022

244
(2)
150
–
(24)
56
3
(53)
8
382

2021

178
(1)
214
–
(63)
51
–
(51)
(65)
263

2023

498

–

11

16

48

–

2022

271

150

–

(24)

56

3

2021

183

214

–

(63)

51

–

All figures in £ millions

Operating profit

Cost of major restructuring

Property charges

Other net gains and losses

Intangible charges

UK pension discretionary increase

Adjusted operating profit

573

456

385

The following items are excluded from adjusted earnings:

All figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating 
profit increase/
(decrease)

Comprising:

Exchange differences

Portfolio changes 

Underlying 
increase/(decrease)

Constant exchange 
rate increase/
(decrease)
Underlying 
increase/(decrease)

Assessment &
Qualifications

Virtual
Learning

English 
Language 
Learning

Workforce
Skills

Higher
Education

Strategic 
Review

Total

92

(1)

8

6

–

22

22

(5)

19

(17)

117

(7)

1

–

3

(1)

3

(1)

(45)

(10)

(8)

85

(16)

28

 (8)

17

29

135

36%

9%

116%

(167)%

22%

(107)%

28%

33%

(17)%

112%

(400)%

20%

94%

31%

Adjusted operating profit translated at year-end closing rates would be £10m lower (2022: £9m 
higher) than the reported figure of £573m (2022: £456m) at £563m (2022: £465m).

Cost of major restructuring – In 2023, there are no costs of major restructuring. In 2022, the 
restructuring costs of £150m mainly related to staff redundancies and impairment of right of use 
property assets. The 2022 charge includes the impact of updated assumptions related to the 
recoverability of right-of-use assets made in 2021. In 2021, restructuring costs of £214m mainly 
related to the impairment of right-of-use property assets, the write-down of product development 
assets and staff redundancies. The costs of these restructuring programmes are significant enough 
to exclude from the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying 
performance (see note 4).

Property charges – Charges of £11m relate to impairments of property assets arising from the 
impact of updates in 2023 to assumptions initially made during the 2022 and 2021 restructuring 
programmes.

Other net gains and losses – These represent profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint 
ventures, associates and other financial assets and are excluded from adjusted operating profit 
as they distort the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis. Other net gains 
and losses also includes costs related to business closures and acquisitions. Other net gains and 
losses in 2023 relate largely to the gain on disposal of the POLS business and gains relating to the 
releases of accruals and a provision related to previous acquisitions and disposals, partially offset by 
losses on the disposal of Pearson College and costs related to current and prior year disposals and 
acquisitions. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 222  

Other information (unaudited)Tax – Tax on the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings. Where relevant the Group also 
excludes the benefit from recognising previously unrecognised pre-acquisition and capital losses. 
The tax benefit from tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is added to the adjusted income tax 
charge as this benefit more accurately aligns the adjusted tax charge with the expected rate of cash 
tax payments.

The tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings is calculated as follows:

In 2022, they related to the gains on the disposal of our international courseware local publishing 
businesses in Europe, French-speaking Canada and Hong Kong and a gain arising on a decrease 
in the deferred consideration payable on prior year acquisitions, offset by a loss on disposal of our 
international courseware local publishing businesses in South Africa due to recycling of currency 
translation adjustments and costs related to disposals and acquisitions. Other net gains and  
losses in 2021 largely related to the disposal of PIHE and the disposal of the K12 Sistemas business 
in Brazil offset by costs related to the acquisition of Faethm and the wind down of certain strategic 
review businesses. 

Intangible charges – These represent charges in respect of intangible assets acquired through 
business combinations or relating to associates. These charges are excluded as they reflect past 
acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the current year performance of the Group. 
Intangible amortisation charges in 2023 were £48m compared to a charge of £56m in 2022. This 
is due to decreased amortisation from recent disposals partially offset by additional amortisation 
from recent acquisitions. In 2021, intangible charges were £51m. In all three years, there were no 
impairment charges.

UK pension discretionary increases – Charges in 2022 relate to one-off pension increases awarded 
to certain cohorts of pensioners in response to the cost of living crisis.

Other net finance income/costs – These include finance costs in respect of retirement benefits, 
finance costs of deferred consideration, fair value movements in relation to financial assets held at 
fair value through profit and loss and foreign exchange and other gains and losses. Finance income 
relating to retirement benefits is excluded as management does not believe that the consolidated 
income statement presentation under IAS 19 reflects the economic substance of the underlying 
assets and liabilities. Finance costs relating to acquisition transactions are excluded as these relate 
to future earn-outs or acquisition expenses and are not part of the underlying financing. Foreign 
exchange and other gains and losses are excluded as they represent short-term fluctuations in 
market value and are subject to significant volatility. Other gains and losses may not be realised in 
due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related instruments to maturity.

All figures in £ millions

Net finance (costs)/income 

Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits

Fair value remeasurement of disposal proceeds

Interest on deferred and contingent consideration

Fair value movements on investments

Net foreign exchange gains

Fair value movement on derivatives 

Interest on provisions for uncertain tax positions

Net interest payable in adjusted earnings

2023

(5)

(26)

–

4

(13)

(3)

10

–

(33)

52

(9)

–

5

(28)

(1)

(25)

5

(1)

(6)

(4)

(6)

–

(20)

(1)

(20)

–

(57)

All figures in £ millions

Profit before tax

Adjustments:

Cost of major restructuring

Property charges

Other net gains and losses

Intangible charges

UK Pension discretionary increases

Other net finance income

Adjusted profit before tax

Total tax (charge)/credit

Adjustments:

Tax on cost of major restructuring

Tax on property charges

Tax on other net gains and losses

Tax on intangible charges

Tax on other net finance costs

Tax on goodwill and intangibles

Benefit from changes in local tax law

Tax benefit on UK tax rate change

Other tax items

Adjusted tax charge

2022

2021

Tax on UK pensions discretionary increases

2023

493

–

11

16

48

–

(28)

540

(113)

–

(3)

(10)

(11)

–

7

4

–

1

1

(124)

2022

323

150

–

(24)

56

3

(53)

455

(79)

(37)

–

10

(11)

(1)

13

16

–

(1)

19

(71)

2021

177

214

–

(63)

51

–

(51)

328

1

(47)

–

14

(12)

–

8

8

(11)

(25)

–

(64)

Tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings

23.0%

15.6%

19.5%

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 223

Other information (unaudited)Financial key performance indicators continued

Adjusted earnings per share

Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as adjusted earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue on an undiluted basis.

all figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted net finance costs
Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted income tax
Adjusted profit for the year
Non-controlling interest
Adjusted earnings
Weighted average number of shares (millions)
Weighted average number of shares (millions) for diluted earnings
Adjusted earnings per share (basic)
Adjusted earnings per share (diluted)

2023

573
(33)
540
(124)
416
(2)
414
711.5
717.3
58.2p
57.7p

2022

456
(1)
455
(71)
384
(2)
382
738.1
742.0
51.8p
51.5p

2021

385
(57)
328
(64)
264
(1)
263
754.1
759.1
34.9p
34.6p

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 224  

Other information (unaudited)Return on invested capital

Return on invested capital (ROIC) is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is used by management to 
help inform capital allocation decisions within the business. ROIC is calculated as adjusted operating 
profit less operating cash tax paid expressed as a percentage of average invested capital. Invested 
capital includes the original unamortised goodwill and intangibles. Average values for total invested 
capital are calculated as the average monthly balance for the year. ROIC is also presented on a net 
basis after removing impaired goodwill from the invested capital balance. The net approach assumes 
that goodwill which has been impaired is treated consistently to goodwill disposed as it is no longer 
being used to generate returns.

All figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating profit

Operating tax paid

Return

Average goodwill

Average other non-current intangibles

Average intangible assets – product development

Average tangible fixed assets and working capital

Average invested capital

Return on invested capital

Return on capital

2023 
Gross

573

(96)

477

6,365

1,826

967

1,388

2022 
Gross

456

(95)

361

6,490

2,012

948

1,446

10,546

10,896

4.5%

3.3%

2023 
Net

573

(96)

477

3,530

1,826

967

1,388

7,711

6.2%

2022 
Net

456

(95)

361

3,490

2,012

948

1,446

7,896

4.6%

Return on capital (ROC) is included as a non-GAAP measure of how efficiently we are generating 
returns from our asset base. ROC is calculated as adjusted operating profit less adjusted income 
tax as a proportion of capital, where capital adjusts net statutory assets for net debt, retirement 
benefit assets, other post-retirement medical obligations and other non-operating items. The other 
non-operating items in 2023 include the liability recorded for the remainder of the share buyback 
scheme. These adjustments to net statutory assets have been made to better reflect the asset base 
that generates returns.

All figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating profit

Adjusted income tax charge

Return

Net statutory assets

Adjustments for:

Net debt

Retirement benefit assets

Other post-retirement medical benefit obligation

Other non-operating assets

Capital

Return on capital

Operating cash flow

2023

573

(124)

449

2022

456

(71)

385

3,988

4,415

744

(499)

21

126

4,380

10.3%

557

(581)

 25

23

4,439

8.7%

Operating cash flow is calculated as net cash generated from operations before the impact of items 
excluded from the adjusted income statement plus dividends from joint ventures and associates 
(less the re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House); less capital expenditure on 
property, plant and equipment (including additions to right-of-use assets) and intangible software 
assets; plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment (including the impacts of 
transfers to/from investment in finance lease receivable) and intangible software assets; plus special 
pension contributions paid; and plus costs of major restructuring paid. Operating cash flow is 
included as a non-GAAP measure in order to align the cash flows with the corresponding adjusted 
operating profit measures.

All figures in £ millions

Net cash generated from operations

Dividends from joint ventures and associates

Purchase/disposal of PPE and software

Net addition of right-of-use assets

Net costs paid for major restructuring

Other net gains and losses

Operating cash flow

2023

682

–

(121)

(41)

63

4

587

2022

527

1

(133)

(29)

35

–

401

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 225

Other information (unaudited)Financial key performance indicators continued

Operating cash flow continued

Cash conversion, calculated as operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit, is 
also shown as a non-GAAP measure as this is used by management and investors to measure cash 
generation by the Group.

All figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating profit

Operating cash flow

Cash conversion

2023

573

587

102%

Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow, which are non-GAAP 
measures, are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group. 

The table below reconciles operating cash flow to net debt:

All figures in £ millions

Operating cash flow
Tax paid
Net finance costs paid
Net costs paid for major restructuring
Free cash flow
Dividends paid (including to non-controlling interests)

Net movement of funds from operations
Acquisitions and disposals
Disposal of lease liabilities 
Net equity transactions
Other movements on financial instruments

Movement in net debt
Opening net debt

Closing net debt

2023

587
(97)
(40)
(63)
387
(154)
233
(219)
–
(212)
11
(187)
(557)
(744)

2022

401
(109)
(35)
(35)
222
(157)
65
105
8
(383)
(2)
(207)
(350)
(557)

2022

456

401

88%

2021

388
(177)
(54)
(24)
133
(149)
(16)
62
67
(10)
10
113
(463)
(350)

Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating the rate at 
the date of cash flow. The difference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit 
gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated 
from operations. This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the 
related cash receipts or payments.

Net debt and adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA)

For information, the net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio is shown as a non-GAAP measure as it is 
commonly used by investors to measure balance sheet strength. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as 
adjusted operating profit less depreciation on property, plant and equipment, and amortisation on 
intangible software assets.

All figures in £ millions

Adjusted operating profit
Depreciation (excluding items included in ‘cost of major restructuring’ and 
‘property charges’)
Amortisation on intangible software assets (excluding items included in 
‘cost of major restructuring’)

Adjusted EBITDA

Cash and cash equivalents

Overdrafts

Investment in finance lease receivable

Derivative financial instruments

Bonds

Lease liabilities

Net debt

Net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio

2023

573

79

123

775

312

(3)

100

5

(611)

(547)

(744)

1.0x

2022

456

88

123

667

558

(15)

121

(6)

(610)

(605)

(557)

0.8x

Adjusted EBITDA translated at year-end closing rates would be £13m lower (2022: £12m higher) than 
the reported figure of £775m (2022: £667m) at £762m (2022: £679m).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 226  

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes

Cross Reference Table:

Item

Form 20-F Caption

Location in this Document

Item 1

Item 2

Item 3

Not applicable

Not applicable

Identity of Directors, Senior 
Management and Advisers
Offer Statistics and Expected 
Timetable
Key Information
B. Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable
Not applicable
C. Reasons for the offer and use 
of proceeds
D. Risk factors

Additional Information: Risk factors
Strategic Report: Risk management

Item 4

Information on the Company 
A. History and development  
of the Company

B. Business overview

Strategic Report: At a Glance
History of the Company
Shareholder Information
Strategic Review: Financial Review
Note 18: Borrowings
Note 19: Financial Risk Management
Note 30: Business Combinations
Note 31: Disposals and 
Business Closures
Note 35: Leases
Strategic Report
Note 2: Segmental Information
Additional Information: Certain 
additional information on the Company
Parent Company Note 11

C. Organisational structure
D. Property, plant and equipment Note 10: Property, plant and 

Equipment and Investment Property
Additional Information: Property, plant 
and equipment
Strategic Report: Sustainability
Additional Information: Risk Factors
None

Item 4A
Item 5

Unresolved staff comments
Operating and Financial 
Review and Prospects

Page 
Reference

n/a

n/a

n/a
n/a

229-235
56-65

2
235
247-248
26-33
185-186
186-189
201-202
202-203

204-205
2-65
160-162
235-237

215-218
173-174

236-237

34-48
229-235
n/a

Item

Form 20-F Caption

Location in this Document

A. Operating results

B. Liquidity and capital resources

C. Research and development, 
patents and licenses etc
D. Trend information

Item 6

E. Critical Accounting Estimates
Directors, Senior Management 
and Employees
A. Directors and senior 
management

B. Compensation
C. Board practices

D. Employees
E. Share ownership

F. Disclosure of a registrant’s 
action to search erroneously 
awarded compensation
Major Shareholders and 
Related Party Transactions

Item 7

Additional Information: Operating and 
Financial Review
Strategic Report: Key performance 
indicators
Strategic Report: Financial review
Strategic Report: Risk (including 
Viability Statement)
Financial Statements
Strategic Report: Financial review
Note 16: Derivatives and 
Hedge Accounting
Note 18: Borrowings
Note 19: Financial Risk Management
Note 35: Leases
Not applicable

Strategic Report: Key performance 
indicators
Strategic Report: Financial review
Note 1: Accounting Policies

Corporate Governance: Board 
of Directors
Corporate Governance: Pearson 
Executive Management
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Corporate Governance: Board 
of Directors
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance: Audit 
Committee report
Note 5: Employee Information
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Note 26: Share Based Payments
None

Page 
Reference

237

24-25

26-33
56-65

146-218
26-33
182-185

185-186
186-189
204-205
n/a

24-25

26-33
152-160

68-71

72-73

107-130
68-71

107-130
97-106

170
107-130
197-198
n/a

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 227
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 227

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

Item

Form 20-F Caption

Location in this Document

Page 
Reference

Item

Form 20-F Caption

Location in this Document

Additional Disclosures
Note 12: Investments in Joint Ventures 
and Associates
Note 36: Related Party Transactions
Not applicable

131
178

206
n/a

Item 11

Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures about Market Risk

Note 19: Financial Risk Management
Note 14: Classification of 
Financial Instruments
Note 16: Derivative Financial 
Instruments and Hedge Accounting

A. Major shareholders
B. Related party transactions

Item 8 

Item 9

C. Interests of experts  
and counsel
Financial Information
A. Consolidated statements and 
other financial information
B. Significant changes
C. Interests of experts 
and counsel
The Offer and Listing
A. Offer and listing details 

Item 10

B. Plan of distribution
C. Markets

D. Selling shareholders
E. Dilution
F. Expenses of the issue
Additional Information 
A. Share capital
B. Articles of association

C. Material contracts

D. Exchange controls

E. Taxation

F. Dividends and paying agents
G. Statement by experts
H. Documents on display

I. Subsidiary information

J. Annual report to 
Security Holders

Item 12

Item 13

Item 14

Item 15

Item 16

Financial Statements

146-218

None
Not applicable

Additional Information: The Offer 
and Listing
Not applicable
Additional Information: The Offer 
and Listing
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable

Not applicable
Additional Information: Articles 
of Association
Additional Information: 
Material Contracts
Additional Information: 
Exchange Controls
Additional Information: Tax 
Considerations
Not applicable
Not applicable
Additional Information: Documents 
on Display
Parent company Note 11:  
Group Companies
Not applicable

n/a
n/a

237

n/a
237

n/a
n/a
n/a

n/a
237-243

241

241

241-243

n/a
n/a
243

215-218

n/a

Page 
Reference

186-189
180-181

182-185

n/a
n/a

n/a
243-244

n/a

n/a

243-244

243-244

n/a

n/a

Description of Securities other 
than Equity Securities
A. Description of debt securities
B. Description of warrants 
and rights
C. Description of other securities Not applicable
D. American Depository Shares

Not applicable
Not applicable

Additional Information: Description of 
Securities Other than Equity Securities
Not applicable

D.1 Name of depositary 
and address of principal 
executive office
D.2 Title of ADRs and brief 
description of provisions
D. 3 Depositary fees and charges Additional Information: Description of 
Securities Other than Equity Securities 
Additional Information: Description of 
Securities Other than Equity Securities 
Not applicable

D. 4 Depositary payments

Not applicable

Not applicable

Defaults, Dividend Arrearages 
and Delinquencies 
Material Modifications to the 
Rights of Security Holders and 
Use of Proceeds
Controls and Procedures

Reserved
A. Audit Committee Financial 
Expert
B. Code of Ethics
C. Principal Accountant Fees  
and Services

D. Exemptions from The Listing 
Standards for Audit Committees

Additional Information: Controls and 
Procedures 

244-245

244

Additional Information: Audit 
Committee Financial Expert
Additional Information: Code of Ethics 244
Additional Information: Principal 
Accountant Fees and Services
Note 4: Operating Expenses
Not applicable

n/a

169-170

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 228  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 228  

Other information (unaudited)Item

Form 20-F Caption

Location in this Document

Page 
Reference

E. Purchases of Equity 
Securities by the Issuer 
and Affiliated Purchasers
F. Change in Registrants 
Certifying Accountant
G. Corporate Governance

H. Mine Safety Disclosures
I. Disclosure regarding foreign 
jurisdiction that prevent 
inspections
J. Insider Trading Policies
K. Cybersecurity

Item 17
Item 18
Item 19

Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Exhibits

Additional Information: Purchases of 
Equity Securities by the Issuer and 
Affiliated Purchases
Not applicable

245

n/a

Additional Information: Corporate 
Governance
Not applicable
Not applicable

66-135

n/a
n/a

Not applicable
Additional Information: Cybersecurity; 
Strategic Report: Data privacy and 
cyber security
Not applicable
Financial Statements
Refer to Exhibits list immediately 
following the signature page for this 
document as filed with the SEC

n/a
245-246
38, 50

n/a
146-218
n/a

Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as the other information 
included in the rest of this document. The Group’s business, financial condition or results from 
operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks, or by other risks that it 
presently cannot identify. Any forward-looking statements are made subject to the Forward-Looking 
Statement section located on page 249.

Risks relating to accreditation

Changes in government policy and/or regulations have the potential to affect the Group’s business model 
and/or decisions across all markets.

The Group’s educational services and assessment businesses may be adversely affected by 
changes in government funding resulting from trends that are beyond the Group’s direct control, 
such as general economic conditions, changes in government educational funding, programs, 
policy decisions, legislation and/or changes in the procurement process, or the Group’s failure 
to successfully deliver previous contracts. These may also include decisions to suspend, require 
amendments to or permanently cancel high stakes testing impacting our assessments or Pearson 
Test of English businesses.

During 2023, Pearson Test of English won recognition for Canadian Student Direct Stream and 
economic migration visa applications and acquired PDRI which provides recruitment assessment 
for Federal employees.

During 2024, the Group faces an above average value of contracts due for renewal, which the 
Group’s financial plan assumes will be successful. These are particularly concentrated in US School 
Assessments, with any loss reducing the value of sales and profits.

The results and potential growth of the Group’s US educational services and assessment businesses 
are dependent on the level of federal and state educational funding, which in turn is dependent on 
the robustness of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational programmes. State, 
local and municipal education funding pressures remain, competition from low price and disruptive 
new business models continues and open source is promoted to keep costs down for customers. 
The current challenging environment could impact the Group’s ability to collect customer-related 
debt. State and local government leadership changes and resultant shifts in education policy can 
also affect the funding available for educational expenditure, which include the impact of educational 
reform. Similarly, changes in the government procurement process for textbooks, learning material 
and student tests, and vocational training programmes can also affect the Group’s markets. Political 
pressure on testing, changes in curricula, delays in the timing of the adoptions and changes in the 
student testing process can all affect these programmes and therefore the size of the market in 
any given year. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact the results and potential growth of 
the Group’s US educational services and assessment businesses.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 229
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 229

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

The Group has businesses in a variety of geographies globally and faces uncertain international 
environments and regulatory changes.

If the Group fails to successfully invest in and deliver the right products and services and to respond 
to government concerns and/or competitive threats, its sales and profits could be adversely impacted.

The Group faces risks of government limiting the ability of non-local companies to compete and/or 
limiting repatriation of profits. Operating in a variety of geographies also exposes the Group to tariffs 
or other regulatory restrictions. Political, regulatory, economic, currency, reputational, corporate 
governance and compliance risks (including fraud, sanctions, bribery and corruption) as well as 
unmanaged expansion are all factors which could limit returns on investments made in these 
markets and limit the ability to reinvest funds or distribute them to shareholders.

Sanctions against certain economies, entities and/or individuals may be levied which could result in 
the Group needing to withdraw from a market. Any regulatory inquiry or investigations in relation 
to sanctions could be costly, require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, 
adversely impact the Group’s reputation, or lead to litigation and financial impacts.

A common trend facing all the Group’s businesses is the digitisation of content and proliferation of 
distribution channels, either over the internet, or via other electronic means, replacing traditional 
print formats. The digital migration has led to changes in consumers’ perception of value and the 
publisher’s position between consumers, retailers and authors, and has required the Group to 
make changes in product and content distribution.

A proliferation of available supply routes for content in addition to buying or subscribing to Pearson 
content, means that the Group is not guaranteed to be rewarded for its investment in developing 
and distributing this content. Alternatives such as second hand and rental copies, open educational 
resources, online discounters, file sharing and use of pirated copies all offer either lower or no 
financial returns to the Group.

Risks relating to Artificial Intelligence, Content & Channel

The Group could face additional cost and diversion of personnel (i) to meet any new regulation or law 
applicable to its use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in its products and services and/or (ii) to protect any of 
its intellectual property developed using AI.

The Group has a history of utilising AI in its products and services and incorporation will only 
increase as AI technologies (including, generative AI) continue to develop. For example, 2023 saw 
the successful beta launch of AI study tools in Higher Education and use of large language models 
in English Language Learning. Our ability to do this successfully depends in part on the public 
willingness to use AI in the learning sector. If the content that AI applications assist us in producing 
are or are perceived or alleged to be deficient or inaccurate, our reputation may be adversely 
affected, and/or the effectiveness of the Group’s products may be undermined.

2023 also saw the deployment of new curriculum materials in Virtual Schools and launch of 
Connections Academy Career Pathways programme. In Pearson VUE new offerings were launched to 
aid test preparation and in Higher Education, a trial of Channels video content as a separate product 
began. Each of these have shown promising signs in testing and so have anticipated revenue but 
failure to maintain the positive momentum would result in lower revenue and profit.

In addition, if our competitors incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully 
than us, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired.

This increasing interest in AI globally by governments and regulators brings a level of regulatory 
uncertainty which may increase costs and liabilities in a manner that is beyond the Group’s control 
and could result in conflicting legal requirements, potentially further increasing costs and/or 
adversely impacting the Group’s ability to operate.

In addition, the Group faces uncertainty with regard to protection under law or regulation afforded 
to its intellectual property developed (in whole or in part) with the use of AI (or software including 
any AI).

Where the purchaser is a school or institution, they will typically use educational funding to purchase 
our materials or assessments. However, there are multiple competing demands for educational funds 
and there is no guarantee that new courseware or testing or training programs will be funded, or 
that the Group will win or retain this business.

If the Group does not adapt rapidly to these changes, it may lose business to ‘faster’ and more ‘agile’ 
competitors, who increasingly are non-traditional competitors, making their identification all the 
more difficult. The Group may be required to invest significant resources to further adapt to the 
changing competitive environment, which requires continued development of both content and 
the method of delivery to be able to provide differentiated products and services, and can result 
in competitive disadvantage and missed opportunity for revenue and growth.

An example of this is where the Group’s products and services may potentially face competition from 
those developed by non-traditional competitors using advanced Generative AI tools. Generative AI 
in particular offers new ways of creating content which could disrupt the sectors in which the Group 
focuses and failure to adapt could in future lead to adverse impact for its businesses.

Failure to use the Group’s data effectively to enhance the quality and scope of current products and 
services in order to improve learning outcomes could adversely affect the Group’s business.

The Group seeks to maximise data to enhance the quality and scope of current products and 
services to improve learning outcomes while managing associated risks. The Group’s ability to 
continue to do so may be subject to factors beyond the Group’s control. In addition, the lack of 
availability of timely, complete and accurate data limits informed decision-making and increases 
the risk of non-compliance with legal, regulatory and reporting requirements. Business change 
and transformation success is dependent on migration of a significant number of datasets and 
our inability to effectively accomplish this could adversely affect the Group’s results.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 230  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 230  

Other information (unaudited)If the Group does not adequately protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights, its competitive 
position and results may be adversely affected and its ability to grow restricted.

Some of the Group’s products and services comprise intellectual property delivered through a 
variety of print and digital media, online software applications and platforms. The Group relies 
on trademark, patent, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its 
proprietary rights in these products and services. Reference is made to the section above regarding 
the risk of the evolving AI regulatory framework globally and the applicability and interpretation of 
the existing legal protection of intellectual property. The Group also faces uncertainty on its ability 
to adequately protect its content from its unauthorised use in training Large Language Models.

Failure, or an inability, to adequately manage, procure, register or protect intellectual property 
rights (including trademarks, patents, trade secrets and copyright) in the Group’s brands, content 
and technology, may (1) prevent the Group from enforcing its rights, and (2) increase the risk that 
bad actors will infringe the Group’s content rights (print and digital counterfeit, digital piracy), which 
may reduce sales and/or erode sales.

The Group’s intellectual property rights (IPR) in brands and content — historically its core assets 
— are generally well established in key markets. As technology and digital delivery of content 
have become an increasingly critical component of the Group’s business strategy, the Group has 
grown its patent portfolio to expand its protection of high value technology in the US and key 
international markets.

Online copying and security circumvention have become increasingly sophisticated and resistant 
to available countermeasures. Advancements in technology, including advancements in generative 
AI technology, have made unauthorised copying and wide dissemination of unlicensed content 
more accessible. At the same time, detection of unauthorised use of our intellectual property and 
enforcement of our intellectual property rights has become more challenging, in part due to the 
increasing volume and sophistication of attempts at unauthorised use of our intellectual property 
through the use of generative AI. Notably, in recent years ‘digital counterfeit’ websites have offered 
or attempted to offer unprotected PDF files of many of Pearson’s titles, at scale, using modern and 
sophisticated ecommerce methods, with a professional or legitimate appearance. From an IPR 
perspective, increasing the Group’s digital business continues to expose it to evolving trademark, 
copyright and patent infringement risks.

The Group’s forward-looking IPR strategy includes efforts to maintain a broad footprint of intellectual 
property rights in key markets outside the US. However, the Group also conducts business in other  
countries where its intellectual property protection efforts have been limited or where legal protection 
for intellectual property may be uncertain and these limitations could affect future growth.

Where the Group has registered or otherwise established its IPR, it cannot guarantee that such 
rights will provide competitive advantages due to: the challenges and costs of monitoring and 
enforcement in jurisdictions where competition may be intense; the limited and/or ineffective IPR 
protection and enforcement mechanisms available to it in many countries; the potential that its IPR 
may lapse, be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or abandoned, or that it may otherwise lose the 
ability to assert its intellectual property rights against others. The loss or diminution in value of these 
proprietary rights or the Group’s intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business and financial performance.

Risks relating to Capability

The Group’s strategy involves significant change, including moving into new markets. This increases the 
risk of failure to realise anticipated benefits or of costs being higher than anticipated, or that the Group’s 
business as usual activities are adversely impacted.

The Group’s strategy aims, among other things, to achieve significant growth in markets in which 
Pearson has less experience, including enterprise sales of content, direct-to-consumer language 
learning and increasing direct-to-consumer sales. During the year, the Group has successfully 
executed its cost efficiency programme resulting in a lower cost base, albeit ongoing maintenance of 
cost levels needs constant and rigorous monitoring and control. The Group’s financial plan assumes 
that costs will be successfully managed in all divisions, despite the lower cost base but should this 
not be possible, the Group is likely to report lower than anticipated profits.

Challenges were also experienced in the Workforce division in successful delivery of products and 
sales capability on time during the year and similar challenges in the future would result in lower 
than anticipated sales and profits.

If the Group fails to attract, retain and develop appropriately skilled employees, it may limit its ability to 
achieve its strategic and operational goals and its business may be harmed.

The Group’s success depends on the skill, experience and engagement of its employees. Their 
expertise has allowed the Group to demonstrate agility, notably in how the Group has been able to 
develop and deploy beta tests of products using large language models (including, in the areas of AI 
and machine learning). Training and development of staff is a focus area for managers throughout 
the organisation, but there is no guarantee that workers will continue to have the required skills 
prospectively.

The Group has a key dependency on the Chief Executive and certain other key employees. If it 
is unable to attract, retain and develop sufficiently experienced and capable staff, especially in 
technology, product development, sales and leadership, its business and financial results may suffer. 
When talented employees leave, the Group may have difficulty replacing those skills, and its business 
may suffer. There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to successfully attract and retain 
the skills that it needs.

All the Group’s businesses depend on Information Technology (IT) systems and technological change. 
Failure to maintain and support customer facing services, systems, and platforms, including addressing 
quality issues and execution on time of new products and enhancements, could negatively impact the 
Group’s sales and reputation.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 231
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 231

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

All the Group’s businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, are dependent on IT. It either provides 
software and/or internet services to its customers or uses complex IT systems and products to 
support its business activities, including customer-facing systems, back-office processing and 
infrastructure. The Group migrated several key data centres to the cloud during the year, increasing 
resilience. Nevertheless, the Group faces several technological risks associated with software 
product development (including risks associated with the use of AI in the Group’s products and 
services) and service delivery, information technology security (including viruses and cyber-attacks), 
e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system implementation and upgrades. Although plans 
and procedures are in place to reduce such risks, and further progress was made during 2023 in this 
area, from time to time the Group has experienced verifiable attacks on its systems by unauthorised 
parties. To date, such attacks have not resulted in any material damage, but the Group’s businesses 
could be adversely affected if its systems and infrastructure experience a significant failure or 
interruption.

Operational disruption to its business, including that caused by third-party providers, a major disaster  
and/or external threats, could restrict the Group’s ability to supply products and services to its customers.

Across all its businesses, the Group manages complex operational and logistical arrangements 
including distribution centres, data centres, and educational and office facilities, as well as 
relationships with third-party print sites. It has also outsourced some support functions, including 
elements of information technology, warehousing and logistics to third-party providers. The failure 
of third parties to whom it has outsourced business functions could adversely affect its reputation or 
financial condition. Failure to recover from a major disaster, (e.g., fire, flood, etc.) at a key facility and/
or a major failure of a key facility, such as a data centre outage or the disruption of supply from a key 
third-party vendor or partner (e.g. due to bankruptcy) could restrict the Group’s ability to service its 
customers and meet the terms of its contractual relationships with both government agencies and 
commercial customers. Penalty clauses and/or the failure to retain these contracts at the end of 
the contract term could adversely impact future revenues and/or operations.

Risks Related to the Competitive Marketplace

Global economy and cyclical market factors may adversely impact the Group’s financial performance.

With continued pressure and uncertainty in worldwide economies, particularly in Pearson’s major 
markets in the US and UK, there is a risk of a weakening in trading conditions, which could adversely 
impact the Group’s future financial performance. The effect of continued deterioration or lack of 
recovery in the global economy will vary across different businesses and will depend on the depth, 
length and severity of any economic downturn. The education market can be affected by cyclical 
factors which, although they can have a positive impact for some of the Group’s businesses, could 
for others lead to a reduction in demand for the Group’s products and services.

Increased competitive pressure or reduced demand due to changing consumer learning preferences 
may adversely impact the Group’s financial performance and reduce the expected return on investment.

The Group faces a number of large value contract renewals, each representing up to 5% of Group 
revenue, during 2024 and the long-range plan assumes that these are successfully retained. The loss 
of any of these contracts would lead to lower sales and profits in the future unless replaced by other 
contract wins.

The Group competes in a highly competitive market that is subject to rapid change in some areas. 
The Group faces competitive threats both from large media players and from smaller businesses, 
online and mobile portals and operators in the digital arena that provide alternative sources of 
content. Alternative distribution channels, such as digital format, the internet, online retailers and 
growing delivery platforms, pose both threats and opportunities to traditional publishing business 
models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. In addition, new competitive entrants, 
increased price competition or shifts in learners away from educational institutions (as seen 
previously in reduced Higher Education enrolments) may lead to lower profitability and cash flow 
performance. The level of competition is placing financial strain on some of Higher Education’s 
channel partners and the failure of one of these companies would risk the loss of any outstanding 
debtor balances.

Enhanced product offerings and improvements in sales capability have led to a stabilisation of 
market share in the Higher Education market, but there is no guarantee that these measures will 
be sufficient in the future to prevent loss of revenue and profit.

Pearson Virtual School faces revenue headwinds following the termination of one of its major 
customers and with another due to terminate in the fall of 2024. Both have decided to operate 
services in-house. Consequently, there are risks to achieving the profit plan and further contract 
losses would increase this risk.

The Group’s investment in new markets may deliver returns that are lower than anticipated.

The Group has invested in and has plans to continue to invest in new markets such as workforce and 
direct-to-consumer learning experiences of which the Group has less experience and faces a variety 
of competition to be successful. Failure to achieve our planned outcomes may lead to lower than 
expected sales and profitability.

A significant deterioration in the Group’s profitability and/or cash flows caused by prolonged economic 
instability or recession could reduce its liquidity and/or impair its financial ratios and trigger a need to 
raise additional funds from the capital markets and/or renegotiate its banking covenants.

To the extent that worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, the Group’s sales, 
profitability and cash flows could be significantly reduced as customers could be unable to purchase 
products and services in the expected quantities and/or pay for them within normal agreed terms.

Disruption in capital markets or potential concerns about the Group’s credit rating, for instance 
manifested in downgrades or negative outlooks by the credit rating agencies, may mean that this 
capital may not be available on favourable terms or may not be available at all.

Risks Related to Customer Expectations

Failure to meet our customers’ rapidly changing expectations in our products and services and not 
being able to anticipate new customer demands could result in reduced market share, profitability and 
brand erosion.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 232  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 232  

Other information (unaudited)We continue to adjust our business model to keep a pace with the increasing end user demands. 
The Group may not be able to adapt, change and succeed in a rapidly changing and uncertain 
environment resulting in competitive disadvantage, higher cost and brand erosion. This could result 
from failing to identify changes in learner preferences or in failing to create products and services 
which meet these revised expectations.

With the direct-to-consumer strategic focus and the launch of new products we risk that the 
customer experience expectations are not met with regard to how the products and services 
are delivered e.g. quality and timeliness, impacting the customer’s brand loyalty and propensity 
to purchase; resulting in customer complaints, less favourable social media sentiment, bad reviews, 
low recommendations, and/or customer attrition.

Evidence of higher customer expectations has been observed in the direct to consumer market, 
particularly for Mondly, where the cost of acquiring and retaining new learners is high, leading 
to some re-balancing towards offering language tuition for enterprises. In Workforce, feedback 
from customers led to a re-focus on modular solutions rather than a fully integrated platform as 
previously envisaged. Should customer acquisition or the cost of acquiring and retaining customers 
continue to be elevated, this could lead to lower profitability than anticipated if it is not possible 
to mitigate.

There is also the risk that our technology and data dependent products and services do not meet 
accessibility requirements in respect of customers’ and prospective customers’ ability to access 
the products and services, and this could result in increased costs, restrictions and/or fines.

Risks Related to the Group’s Portfolio of Businesses

The Group’s failure to generate anticipated sales growth, synergies and/or cost savings from acquisitions, 
mergers and other business combinations, could lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments.

The Group periodically acquires and disposes of businesses to achieve its strategic objectives and 
will continue to consider both as means to pursue its strategic priorities. During the year, the Group 
completed the disposal of Pearson Online Services and acquired PDRI, which expanded the Group’s 
services to the US federal government.

Acquisitions may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in integrating 
acquired businesses to realise anticipated sales growth, synergies and/or cost savings; diversion of 
management attention from other business concerns or resources; and diversion of resources that 
are needed in other parts of our business. If these risks are not managed, acquisitions could result 
in goodwill and intangible asset impairments.

Divestitures also involve risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, results of 
operations and financial condition including, among others, the inability to find potential buyers on 
favourable terms, disruption to our business and/or diversion of management attention from other 
business concerns, loss of key employees and possible retention of certain liabilities related to the 
divested business.

Risks Related to the Group’s Responsibility & Reputation

The Group’s business depends on a strong brand, and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance its 
brand would hurt its ability to retain or expand its business.

Protecting the Pearson brand is critical to maintaining and expanding the Group’s business and 
will depend largely on its ability to maintain its customers’ trust in its solutions and in the quality 
and integrity of its products and services, including how it protects the data and privacy of customers 
and users. If the Group does not successfully maintain a strong brand, its business could be harmed. 
Beyond protection, strengthening the Pearson brand will enable the Group to more effectively 
engage with governments, administrators, teachers, learners and influencers.

Security breaches involving our information technology systems could harm our ability to run our business 
and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenue.

Failure to prevent or detect a malicious attack on the Group’s systems has in the past and could 
in future result in loss of system availability, breach of confidentiality, integrity and/or availability 
of sensitive information. Such incidents have in the past resulted, and could in future result, in 
damage to the customer experience and the Group’s reputation and in financial loss. In particular, 
the Group has experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, an unauthorised 
disclosure of personal information despite best efforts to prevent it. This has also occurred and 
may again in the future as a result of a failure of IT controls to protect such data, principally due 
to software malfunctions.

Information security and cyber risk are continually evolving and comprise many complex external 
drivers: increasing customer demand to demonstrate a strong security posture, external compliance 
requirements, ongoing digital revolution, increasing use of the cloud, greater volumes of data and 
increasingly sophisticated attack strategies. Across its businesses, the Group holds large volumes 
of personal data including that of employees, customers, students and citizens, and other highly 
sensitive business critical data such as financial data, internal sensitive information, and intellectual 
property. Despite its implementation of security measures, threat actors of all types, including 
individuals, criminal organisations and state sponsored operatives, have from time to time gained 
access, and may in the future gain access to the Group’s data through unauthorised means in 
order to misappropriate such information for fraudulent or other purposes.

Any perceived or actual unauthorised disclosure of personal data or confidential information, whether 
through a breach of the Group’s network or a third-party partner with whom we share data or access 
to our network by an unauthorised party, employee theft, misuse or error or otherwise, could harm  
the Group’s reputation, impair its ability to attract and retain its customers, impair business and 
operations, or subject the Group to regulatory investigations and/or to claims or litigation arising 
from damages suffered by individuals and customers, and thereby harm its business and operational 
results. Failure to adequately protect personal data and confidential information has in the past 
led, or could potentially lead to, respectively, regulatory penalties, litigation costs and damages, 
significant remediation costs, reputational damage, cancellation of some existing contracts and/or 
difficulty in competing for future business, among other things. In addition, the Group could incur 
significant costs in complying with the relevant laws and regulations regarding the protection of 
personal data and confidential information against unauthorised disclosure, payments due to  
cyber extortion or to responding to regulatory investigations into such matters.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 233
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 233

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

Changes to data privacy legislation must also be monitored and acted upon to ensure the Group 
remains in compliance across different markets.

Data protection legislation continues to be adopted by countries in which the Group has a presence 
and/or customers and enforcement is focusing upon transparency and customer choice in addition to 
data breaches, which reflects the increased sophistication of customers on data protection matters.

Failure to provide the appropriate level of transparency and control in the Group’s products could 
increase the regulatory, commercial and/or reputational risks that the Group faces with any or all 
of its various stakeholders.

A control breakdown or service failure in the Group’s testing businesses could result in financial loss and 
reputational damage.

The Group’s testing businesses, including those in Assessment & Qualifications, Workforce and 
English Language Learning involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies 
and commercial customers for the provision of various testing services. The Group’s financial results, 
growth prospects and/or reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts and relationships 
are poorly managed or face increased competitive pressures.

There are inherent risks associated with the Group’s testing businesses, both in the US and the 
UK. A service failure caused by a breakdown in testing and assessment processes could lead to a 
mis-grading of student tests and/or late delivery of test results to students and their schools. During 
2022, the Group suffered negative publicity because of failures to deliver certain BTEC qualification 
results in a timely manner. Performance was improved in 2023, but failures to meet expected service 
standards have in the past and/or could in future leave the Group subject to regulatory sanctions 
(including fines), legal claims, penalty charges under contracts, non-renewal of contracts and/or the 
suspension or withdrawal of its accreditation to conduct tests. A late delivery of qualification results 
could result in a potentially significant regulatory fine in addition to the contractual penalties. It is 
also possible that any such events described above would result in adverse publicity, which may 
affect the Group’s ability to retain existing contracts and/or obtain new customers.

Risks associated with identity verification could lead to financial losses.

The Group is required to take measures to validate the identity of learners, especially those 
completing assessments. In certain jurisdictions, companies have faced legal claims for the collection 
of or use of information obtained, particularly in relation to biometric information. The Group takes 
reasonable steps to protect learners and obey legal requirements but there is no guarantee that 
these will be sufficient to protect the Group from any and all potential issues, which could result in 
potential fines and penalties for the Group, especially if not covered by the Group’s insurance cover.

Failure to adequately protect learners could result in significant harm to one or more learners.

Incidents have occurred and may in future occur where learners may not have been, or may not be, 
adequately protected. For example, where the Group has direct learner contact via online learning, 
or in its test centres. While the Group has made further progress during the year, the range and 
frequency of threats remains high. These incidents can cause harm to learners, which is something 
the Group takes extremely seriously, and could also have a negative financial, legal and reputational 
impact to the business.

Failure to effectively manage risks associated with compliance with global and local anti-bribery and 
corruption (ABC) legislation could result in costly legal investigations and/or adversely impact the 
Group’s reputation.

The Group is committed to an effective compliance programme in keeping with changing regulatory 
expectations, and it is also committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner in 
compliance with local and international statutory requirements and standards applicable to its 
business. Despite those commitments, there is a risk that the Group’s management, employees or 
representatives may take actions that violate applicable laws and regulations including regarding 
accurate keeping of books and records or prohibiting the making of improper payments for the 
purposes of obtaining or keeping business, including laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act or the UK Bribery Act. Any regulatory inquiry or investigations could be costly, require a significant 
amount of management’s time and attention, adversely impact the Group’s reputation, or lead to 
litigation and financial impacts.

Failure to comply with antitrust and competition legislation and/or legal or regulatory proceedings could 
result in substantial financial cost and/or adversely impact the Group’s reputation.

The Group is subject to global and local antitrust and competition law and although it is 
committed to conducting business in compliance with local and international laws, there is a risk 
that management, employees or representatives may act in a way that violates applicable antitrust 
or competition laws. Further, the Group and its subsidiaries are and may be in the future subject to 
legal and regulatory proceedings in the countries in which the Group operates. These proceedings 
could result in greater scrutiny of the Group’s operations in other countries for anti-competitive 
behaviour and, in the worst case, incur a substantial financial cost. This would also have an adverse 
impact on the Group’s reputation.

Failure to adequately protect the health, safety and well-being of the Group’s employees, learners and other 
stakeholders could adversely impact the Group’s reputation, profitability and future growth.

Although the Group has invested in global health and safety procedures and controls to safeguard 
the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees and other stakeholders, accidents or incidents could 
still occur due to unforeseen risks, causing injury or harm to individuals and impacting the Group’s 
business operations. This has the potential to lead to criminal and civil litigation, business disruption 
leading to operational loss, reduction in profitability and impact on the Group’s reputation.

Failure to ensure security for the Group’s staff, learners, assets and reputation, due to increasing numbers 
of and variety of local and global threats.

Pearson is a global business with locations in diverse, sometimes high-risk, locations worldwide. 
Although it has protective measures in place to secure its staff, learners and assets, the Group could 
still be impacted by external threats, such as localised incidents, terrorist attacks, strikes or extreme 
weather. Future occurrences could cause harm to individuals and/or disrupt business operations. 
These have the potential to lead to operational loss, a reduction in profitability and impact on the 
Group’s global reputation.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 234  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 234  

Other information (unaudited)Other Significant Near-term and Emerging Risks

Operating cycles

Environmental, social and governance risks including Climate Transition may adversely impact the 
Group’s business.

The Group considers environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks no differently to the way it 
manages any other business risk. Expectations around climate commitments and measurements 
change on a regular basis. A failure to comply with relevant standards, or other ESG-related laws 
or regulations, whether in the UK or elsewhere, could adversely affect the Group’s reputation and 
have a negative impact on its relations with employees, customers and/or business partners. Costs 
associated with climate-transition which cannot be fully managed by decarbonisation activities may 
lead to decreased margins. However, the Group has assessed the impact of climate change on 
the Group’s financial statements, including our long-term net zero commitment, and the actions 
the Group intends to take to achieve those targets. The assessment did not identify any material 
impact on the Group’s significant judgments or estimates at 31 December 2023, or the assessment 
of going concern for the period to June 2025 and the Group’s viability over the next five years.

Financial markets disruption – A lack of sufficient capital resources could adversely impact the Group’s 
ability to operate.

Financial crises impact financial markets periodically, which could result in bank failures and loss 
of capital for the Group, or an inability to access debt capital markets as planned. The Group has a 
€300m bond maturity in 2025 and if it were unable to raise finance to replace it, it may be required 
to delay investment, negatively impacting the Group’s growth prospects.

Inflation – High levels of global inflation could increase costs and adversely impact the Group’s profits and 
financial performance.

High ongoing global inflation factors have increased and could further increase the cost of 
production for Pearson, particularly through wage inflation. There is no guarantee that we can 
increase prices or reduce cost for products and services that can mitigate the effects of inflation, 
which could lead to reduced earnings and ability to invest in future growth.

Geopolitical conflict – Conflict could affect Pearson’s operations.

Pearson has staff and offices globally, which could be impacted by conflict or blockades as a result of 
geopolitical issues. Notably, Pearson has offices in Israel which support Pearson’s digital products, which 
if affected by conflict could negatively impact the pace of innovation or the quality of Pearson’s products.

Certain additional information on the Company

Information on the Company

Pearson was incorporated and registered in 1897 under the laws of England and Wales as a 
limited company and re-registered under the UK Companies Act as a public limited company in 
1981. The Group conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries and other affiliates. Its 
principal executive offices are located at 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, United Kingdom (telephone: 
+44 20 7010 2000) and its website address is https://plc.pearson.com/. The Company is registered in 
England and Wales under the company number 00053723. The SEC maintains an Internet site that 
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file 
electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.

The Group determines a normal operating cycle separately for each entity/cash generating unit with 
distinct economic characteristics. The ‘normal operating cycle’ for each of the Group’s businesses 
is primarily based on the expected period over which content or services will generate cash flows. 
The Higher Education courseware market is primarily driven by an adoption cycle, with colleges and 
professors typically refreshing their courses and selecting revised programs on a regular basis, often 
in line with the release of new content or new technology offerings. The Company renews its product 
development assets to reflect new content and capabilities which enhance the attractiveness of its 
offering to both educators and learners.

Analysis of historical data shows that the typical life cycle of Higher Education content is up to five 
years but varies by product. In addition to content, the Group also develops technology platforms 
for products and the life cycle for these platforms can be in excess of the five years cycle for content. 
Again, the operating cycle for content and platforms mirrors the market cycle.

Historically for a major content refresh a development phase of typically 12 to 18 months for Higher 
Education precedes the period during which the Company receives and delivers against orders for 
the products it has developed for the programme.

The operating cycles in respect of the Group’s professional and clinical content are more specialised 
in nature as they relate to educational or heavy reference products released into smaller markets 
(e.g. the financial training and IT sectors). Nevertheless, in these markets, there is still a regular 
cycle of product renewal, in line with demand which management monitor. Typically, the life cycle 
is five years for Professional content and seven years for Clinical content. Elsewhere in the Group, 
operating cycles are typically less than one year.

Competition

The Group’s businesses operate in highly competitive markets. The Group faces competitive 
threats both from large media players and from smaller businesses, online and mobile portals and 
operators in the digital arena that provide alternative sources of content. Alternative distribution 
channels, e.g. digital format, the internet, online retailers, growing delivery platforms (e.g. e-readers 
or tablets), pose both threats and opportunities to traditional publishing business models, potentially 
impacting both sales volumes and pricing.

In Assessment & Qualifications, the Group competes with other companies offering test development 
and administration including Cambium, Data Recognition Corp (DRC), Educational Testing Service 
(ETS), and NWEA, and others. The Professional Certification business competes with Prometric 
globally and a number of other smaller players in local markets. The Clinical Assessment business 
competes with MHS and WPS. The UK and International qualifications business competes with AQA, 
Cambridge Assessment and OCR in general qualifications, as well as a number of smaller players.

In Virtual Learning, the Group competes with companies such as Stride in virtual schools and 2U 
Inc. in Online Program Management until the point of disposal, alongside smaller niche players that 
specialise in a particular academic discipline or focus on a learning technology.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 235
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 235

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

In Institutional English Language Learning, the Group competes with Oxford University Press, 
Macmillan and other publishers. In High Stakes Assessments, Pearson Test of English Academic 
competes with alternative tests including iELTS and TOEFL. In the online language learning market, 
the Group competes with Duolingo, Babbel and Busuu, as well as a number of smaller players.

In Workforce Skills, the vocational qualifications business competes with City and Guilds globally 
alongside smaller niche and local market providers, our assessments businesses compete with HiSET 
in high school equivalency and SHL in skills and ability testing, and our enterprise data, technology 
and learning businesses compete with Learning platforms such as Guild, credential platforms such 
as Accredible, talent management platforms such as Eightfold.ai, and data services such as Emsi.

In Higher Education, the Group competes with other publishers and creators of educational 
materials and services. These companies include publishers such as Cengage Learning and  
McGraw-Hill Education, as well as non-mainstream publishers.

Competition is based on the ability to deliver quality products and services that address the specified 
curriculum needs and appeal to the student, organisations, school boards, educators, employers 
and government officials making purchasing decisions.

available from numerous suppliers. While local prices fluctuate depending upon local market 
conditions, the Group has not experienced extensive volatility in fulfilling paper requirements. In the 
event of a sharp increase in paper prices, the Group has a number of alternatives to minimise the 
impact on its operating margins, including modifying the grades of paper used in production and 
price adjustments.

Government regulation

The manufacture of certain products in various markets is subject to governmental regulation 
relating to the discharge of materials into the environment. Operations are also subject to the 
risks and uncertainties attendant to doing business in numerous countries. Some of the countries 
in which the Group conducts these operations maintain controls on the repatriation of earnings 
and capital and restrict the means available for hedging potential currency fluctuation risks.

The operations that are affected by these controls, however, are not material. Accordingly, these 
controls have not significantly affected the Group’s international operations. Regulatory authorities 
may have enforcement powers that could have an impact. The Group believes, however, that in light 
of the nature of its business the risk of these sanctions does not represent a material threat.

Intellectual property

The Group’s principal intellectual property assets consist of its:

 — trademarks and other rights via its brands (including corporate and business unit brands and 

imprints, as well as product and service brands);

 — copyrights for its textbook and related educational content and software code; and

 — patents and trade secrets related to the innovative methods deployed in its key technologies.

The Group believes it has taken reasonable legal steps to protect its key brands in its major markets 
and copyright in its content and has taken appropriate steps to develop a comprehensive patent 
programme to ensure appropriate protection of emerging inventions that are critical to its new 
business strategies.

Licenses, patents and contracts

The Group is not dependent upon any particular licenses, patents or new manufacturing processes 
that are material to its business or profitability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Group’s 
education business is dependent upon licensed rights since most textbooks and digital learning 
tools include content and/or software that is licensed to it by third parties (or assigned subject to 
royalty arrangements). In addition, some software products in various business lines rely upon 
patents licensed from third parties.

The Group is not materially dependent upon any particular contracts with suppliers or customers, 
including contracts of an industrial, commercial or financial nature. The Group’s revenue is 
diversified, no individual customer comprised more than 5% of revenue in 2023.

Legal proceedings

The Group and its subsidiaries are from time to time the subject of legal proceedings incidental 
to the nature of its and their operations. These may include private litigation or arbitrations, 
governmental proceedings and investigations by regulatory bodies.

Property, plant and equipment

The Group’s headquarters are located at leasehold premises in London, England. As at 31 December 
2023, it owned or leased approximately 700 properties, including approximately 527 testing/teaching 
centres in over 57 countries worldwide, the majority of which are located in the United Kingdom and 
the United States. The other properties owned and leased by the Group consist mainly of offices and 
distribution centres. In some cases properties leased by the Group are then sublet to third parties.

The vast majority of printing is carried out by third-party suppliers. The Group operates a small digital 
print operation as part of its Pearson Assessment & Testing businesses which provides short-run 
and print-on-demand products, typically custom client applications.

The Group owns the following principal properties at 31 December 2023:

General use of property

Office
Warehouse/office
Testing
Warehouse/office

Location

Area in square feet

Iowa City, Iowa, USA*
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA
Owatonna, Minnesota, USA
Hadley, Massachusetts, USA*

312,760
205,000
128,000
85,570

Raw materials

 * Properties are recorded as held for sale at 31 December 2023.

Paper remains the principal raw material used by the Group although its use is declining given 
the shift to digital products. The Group purchases most of its paper through its global outsourcing 
partner LSC Communications located in the United States. The Group has not experienced and does 
not anticipate difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of paper for its operations, with sourcing

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 236  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 236  

Other information (unaudited)The Group leased the following principal properties at 31 December 2023:

Employees

General use of property

Location

Area in square feet

Office
Office
Office
Office
Warehouse/office

Hudson, New York, USA*
Westminster, London, UK*
Hoboken, New Jersey, USA*
Bloomington, Minnesota, USA*
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA*

313,285
289,355
216,273
147,159
119,682

 * Properties have either been fully or partially sublet or are being marketed for sublet.

Off-balance sheet arrangements

The Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC for the 
purposes of the Form 20-F, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future 
effect on the Group’s financial position or results of operations.

Operating and financial review

The financial review for the year ended 31 December 2023 compared to the year ended 
31 December 2022 can be found on pages 26-33 of the Strategic Report. The financial review for 
the year ended 31 December 2022 compared to the year ended 31 December 2021 can be found 
on pages 20-25 of our 2022 Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F filed with the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission on 31 March 2023.

Through its subsidiaries, the Group has entered into collective bargaining agreements with 
employees in various locations. The Group’s management has no reason to believe that it would 
not be able to renegotiate any such agreements on satisfactory terms. The Group encourages 
employees to contribute actively to the business in the context of their particular job roles and 
believes that the relations with its employees are generally good.

Significant changes

Other than those events described in note 37 in the consolidated financial statements, and seasonal 
fluctuations in borrowings, there has been no significant change to the Group’s financial condition or 
results of operations since 31 December 2023. The Group’s borrowings fluctuate by season due to 
the effect of the school year on working capital requirements. Assuming no acquisitions or disposals, 
the maximum level of net debt normally occurs in the third quarter, and the minimum level of net 
debt normally occurs in December.

The offer and listing

The principal trading market for the Group’s ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange which 
trade under the symbol ‘PSON’. Its ordinary shares also trade in the United States in the form of 
ADSs evidenced by ADRs under a sponsored ADR facility with The Bank of New York Mellon, as 
depositary. The Group established this facility in March 1995 and most recently amended it in 
August 2014 in connection with its New York Stock Exchange listing. Each ADS represents one 
ordinary share.

Directors, senior management and employees

The ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ‘PSO’.

Board Practices

Articles of association

As at 28 February 2024, the Group’s Board comprises the Chair, two Executive Directors and eight 
Non-Executive Directors. The Articles of Association (as defined below) provide that all the Directors 
at the date of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) shall retire from office at 
the meeting. A retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be eligible for re-appointment. If they are not  
re-appointed, they shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in their place, or if it does 
not do so, until the end of the meeting or, if the meeting is adjourned, the end of the adjourned 
meeting. The Articles of Association also provide that every Director appointed by the Board be 
subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the next AGM following their appointment.

Tim Score will be retiring from the Board upon the conclusion of the Company’s AGM on 26 April 
2024. Upon Tim Score’s retirement, Graeme Pitkethly will be appointed as Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director. All of the Directors, save Tim Score, will offer themselves for re-election at the 
forthcoming AGM on 26 April 2024.

Pearson is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (‘NYSE’). As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is 
not required to comply with some of the NYSE’s corporate governance rules, but must disclose on its 
website any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed 
by US companies under the NYSE listing standards. At this time, the Group believes that it is in 
compliance in all material respects with all the NYSE rules except that the Nomination & Governance 
Committee is not composed entirely of independent Directors as the Chair, who is not considered 
independent under NYSE rules, is a member of this Committee in addition to independent Directors.

The Group summarises below the material provisions of its articles of association, as amended (the 
‘Articles of Association’), which have been filed as an exhibit to its annual report on Form 20-F for the 
year ended 31 December 2023. The summary below is qualified entirely by reference to the Articles 
of Association. In conformity with the UK Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the Group has multiple 
business objectives and purposes and is authorised to do such things as the Board may consider 
fit to further its interests or incidental or conducive to the attainment of its objectives and purposes.

Directors’ powers

The Group’s business shall be managed by the Board of Directors and the Board may exercise all 
such of its powers as are not required by law or by the Articles of Association or by any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, to be exercised in a general meeting.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 237
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 237

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

Interested Directors

For the purposes of section 175 of the Act, the Board may authorise any matter proposed to it which 
would, if not so authorised, involve a breach of duty by a Director under that section, including, 
without limitation, any matter which relates to a situation in which a Director has, or can have, 
an interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company. Any such 
authorisation will be effective only if:

a. 

b. 

any requirement as to quorum at the meeting at which the matter is considered is met without 
counting the Director in question or any other interested Director; and

the matter was agreed to without their voting or would have been agreed to if their votes had 
not been counted.

The Board may (whether at the time of the giving of the authorisation or subsequently) make any 
such authorisation subject to any limits or conditions it expressly imposes but such authorisation 
is otherwise given to the fullest extent permitted. The Board may vary or terminate any such 
authorisation at any time.

Provided that he or she has disclosed to the Board the nature and extent of his or her interest (or 
else that the Director is not aware of the interest or not aware of the transaction or arrangement in 
question, or else that the interest cannot be reasonably regarded to give rise to a conflict of interest), 
a Director notwithstanding his or her office:

a.  may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company 

or in which the Company is otherwise (directly or indirectly) interested;

b. 

(may act by himself or herself or his or her firm in a professional capacity for the Company 
(otherwise than as auditor) and he or she or his or her firm shall be entitled to remuneration 
for professional services as if he or she were not a Director;

a. 

b. 

to disclose any such information to the Board or to any Director or other officer or employee of 
the Company; and/or

to use or apply any such information in performing his or her duties as a Director of  
the Company.

Where the existence of a Director’s relationship with another person has been approved by the 
Board and his or her relationship with that person gives rise to a conflict of interest or possible 
conflict of interest, the Director shall not be in breach of the general duties he or she owes to the 
Company by virtue of sections 171 to 177 of the Act because he or she:

a. 

absents himself or herself from meetings of the Board at which any matter relating to the 
conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest will or may be discussed or from the discussion 
of any such matter at a meeting or otherwise; and/or

b.  makes arrangements not to receive documents and information relating to any matter which 
gives rise to the conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest sent or supplied by the 
Company and/or for such documents and information to be received and read by a professional 
adviser, for so long as he or she reasonably believes such conflict of interest or possible conflict 
of interest subsists.

Except as stated below, a Director shall not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement or any 
other proposal whatsoever in which he or she has an interest which is, to his or her knowledge, a 
material interest, otherwise than by virtue of his or her interests in shares or debentures or other 
securities of or otherwise in or through the Company. A Director shall not be counted in the quorum 
at a meeting of the Board in relation to any resolution on which he or she is debarred from voting.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Director will be entitled to vote, and be counted in the quorum, on 
any resolution concerning any of the following matters:

c.  may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to a transaction or arrangement 
with, or otherwise interested in, any body corporate in which the Company is otherwise (directly 
or indirectly) interested.

 — the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of money lent or obligations incurred 
by him or her or by any other person at the request of or for the benefit of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries;

A Director shall not, by reason of his or her office, be accountable to the Company for any 
remuneration or other benefit which he or she derives from any office or employment or from 
any transaction or arrangement or from any interest in any body corporate:

a. 

the acceptance, entry into or existence of which has been approved by the Board 
(subject, in any such case, to any limits or conditions to which such approval was subject); or

b.  which he or she is permitted to hold or enter into by virtue of paragraph (a), (b) or (c) above;

nor shall the receipt of any such remuneration or other benefit constitute a breach of his or her 
duty under section 176 of the Act.

A Director shall be under no duty to the Company with respect to any information which he or 
she obtains or has obtained otherwise than as a Director of the Company and in respect of which 
he or she owes a duty of confidentiality to another person. However, to the extent that his or her 
relationship with that other person gives rise to a conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest, 
the preceding sentence only applies if the existence of such relationship has been approved by the 
Board. In such circumstances, the Director shall not be in breach of the general duties he or she 
owes to the Company by virtue of sections 171 to 177 of the Act because he or she fails:

 — the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of a debt or 

obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which he himself or she herself has 
assumed responsibility in whole or in part and whether alone or jointly with others under a 
guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security;

 — any proposal relating to the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings where it is offering 
securities in which offer a Director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of securities 
or in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of which a Director is to participate;

 — any proposal relating to another Company in which he or she and any persons connected with 
him or her do not to his or her knowledge hold an interest in shares (as that term is used in 
sections 820 to 825 of the Act) representing one percent or more of either any class of the 
equity share capital, or the voting rights, in such Company;

 — any proposal relating to an arrangement for the benefit of the employees of the Company or 

any of its subsidiary undertakings which does not award him or her any privilege or benefit not 
generally awarded to the employees to whom such arrangement relates; and

 — any proposal concerning insurance that the Company proposes to maintain or purchase for 

the benefit of Directors or for the benefit of persons, including Directors.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 238  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 238  

Other information (unaudited)Where proposals are under consideration concerning the appointment of two or more Directors to 
offices or employment with us or any Company in which the Group is interested, these proposals 
may be divided and considered separately and each of these Directors, if not prohibited from voting 
under the provisions of the eighth paragraph before this one, will be entitled to vote and be counted 
in the quorum with respect to each resolution except that concerning his or her own appointment.

Retirement and re-appointment of Directors

At every AGM, all the Directors at the date of the notice convening the AGM shall retire from 
office. A retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be eligible for re-appointment. If he or she is not  
re-appointed, he or she shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his or her place, 
or if it does not do so, until of the end of the meeting, or until the end of the adjourned meeting if 
the meeting is adjourned.

Where a Director has been reappointed after notice of the AGM has been given, that Director 
shall retire at the next AGM of which notice is first given after his or her appointment as Director.

If there is an insufficient number of appointed or re-appointed Directors at any of the Company’s 
AGM thus rendering the Board inquorate, all Directors shall be automatically re-appointed only for 
the purposes of filling vacancies and convening general meetings of the Company and to perform 
such duties as are appropriate to maintain the Company as a going concern and to enable it to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. The Directors are required to convene a further 
general meeting of the Company as soon as reasonably practicable to allow new Directors to 
be appointed, and such Directors who were not appointed at the original general meeting shall 
subsequently retire.

Borrowing powers

The Board of Directors may exercise all powers to borrow money and to mortgage or charge the 
Group’s undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, 
whether outright or as collateral security for any of its or any third party’s debts, liabilities or 
obligations. The Board of Directors must restrict the borrowings in order to secure that the 
aggregate amount of undischarged monies borrowed by the Group (and any of its subsidiaries), 
but excluding any intra-group debts, shall not at any time (without the previous sanction of the 
Company in the form of an ordinary resolution) exceed a sum equal to twice the aggregate of 
the adjusted capital and reserves.

Other provisions relating to Directors

Under the Articles of Association, Directors are paid out of the Group’s funds for their services as it 
may from time to time determine by ordinary resolution and, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, 
up to an aggregate of £1,000,000 per year or such other amounts as resolved by the shareholders 
at a general meeting. Any Director who is not an Executive Director and who performs special 
services which in the opinion of the Board are outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a Director, 
may be paid such extra remuneration by way of additional fee, salary, commission or otherwise as 
the Board may determine in accordance with the Group’s remuneration policy. Under the Articles 
of Association, Directors currently are not required to hold any share qualification. However, the 
remuneration policy mandates a shareholding guideline for Executive Directors which they are 
expected to build towards over a specified period.

General meetings

Pursuant to the Act, the Company must hold an AGM (within six months beginning with the day 
following its accounting reference date) at a place and time determined by the Board. The following 
matters are usually considered at an AGM:

 — approval of final dividend;

 — consideration of the Company’s annual accounts together with associated reports of the Board of 

Directors and auditors;

 — appointment or re-appointment of Directors;

 — appointment or re-appointment of the auditors, and authorisation for the Audit Committee to 

determine and fix the remuneration of the auditors; and

 — renewal, limitation, extension, variation or grant of any authority to the Board in relation to the 

allotment and repurchase of securities.

The Board may call a general meeting whenever it thinks fit. If at any time there are not within the 
United Kingdom sufficient Directors capable of acting to form a quorum, any Director or any two 
members may convene a general meeting in the same manner as nearly as possible as that in 
which meetings may be convened by the Board.

No business shall be dealt with at any general meeting unless a quorum is present when the meeting 
proceeds to business. Three members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall be a 
quorum for all purposes. A corporation being a member shall be deemed to be personally present 
if represented by its duly authorised representative.

If a quorum for a meeting convened at the request of shareholders is not present within 15 minutes 
of the appointed time (or if during a meeting such a quorum ceases to be present), the meeting 
will be dissolved. In any other case, the general meeting will be adjourned to such time and with 
such means of attendance and participation as the Chair of the meeting may determine. If at that 
rescheduled meeting a quorum is not present within fifteen minutes from the time appointed for 
holding the meeting, the shareholders present in person or by proxy will be a quorum. The Chair or, 
in his or her absence, the Deputy Chair or any other Director nominated by the Board, will preside 
as Chair at every general meeting. If no Director is present at the general meeting or no Director 
consents to act as Chair, the shareholders present shall elect one of their number to be Chair of 
the meeting.

The Board may resolve to enable persons entitled to attend and participate in a general meeting 
to do so by simultaneous attendance and participation by means of electronic facility or facilities 
and determine the means, or all different means, of attendance and participation used in relation 
to a general meeting. The members present in person or by proxy by means of electronic facility 
or facilities shall be counted in the quorum for, and entitled to participate in the general meeting in 
question. That meeting shall be duly constituted and its proceedings valid if the Chair of the meeting 
is satisfied that adequate facilities are available throughout the meeting to ensure that members 
attending the meeting by all means (including by means of electronic facility or facilities) are able to:

a.  participate in the business for which the meeting has been convened;

b.  hear all persons who speak at the meeting; and

c.  be heard by all persons present at the meeting.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 239
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 239

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

A member seeking to be present in person or by proxy at a general meeting by means of electronic 
facility or facilities is responsible for ensuring they have access to and can use the facility or facilities. 
The meeting shall be duly constituted and its proceedings valid notwithstanding the inability of the 
member to gain access to use the facility or facilities, or the loss of access to or use of the facility or 
facilities during the meeting.

Share certificates

Every person whose name is entered as a member in the Company’s Register of Members shall 
be entitled to one certificate in respect of each class of shares held (the law regarding this does 
not apply to stock exchange nominees). Subject to the terms of issue of the shares, certificates 
are issued following allotment or receipt of the relevant transfer by the Group’s registrar, Equiniti, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom.

Share capital

Any share may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights or other restrictions 
as may be determined by way of a shareholders’ vote in a general meeting. Subject to the Act, any 
shares may be issued which are to be redeemed or are liable to be redeemed at the option of the 
Company or the shareholders.

Voting rights

Every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy at a meeting of shareholders has one 
vote on a vote taken by a show of hands. On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares who is present 
in person or by proxy has one vote for every 25 pence of nominal share capital (being one ordinary 
share) of which he or she is the holder. Voting at any meeting of shareholders is usually on a poll 
rather than by show of hands. Voting on a poll is more transparent and equitable because it includes 
the votes of all shareholders, including those cast by proxies, rather than just the votes of those 
shareholders who attend the meeting. A poll may be also demanded by:

 — the Chair of the meeting;

 — at least three shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote;

 — any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy representing not less than  

one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting; or

 — any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right 
to vote at the meeting being shares on which the aggregate sum paid up is equal to not less than 
one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right.

Dividends

There are no provisions in the Articles of Association which discriminate against any existing or 
prospective shareholder as a result of such shareholder owning a substantial number of shares.

Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends out of Group profits that are available by law 
for distribution, as the Group may declare by ordinary resolution, subject to the terms of issue thereof.

Subject to the terms of the shares which have been issued, the Directors may from time to time 
make calls upon the shareholders in respect of any moneys unpaid on their shares, provided that 
(subject to the terms of the shares so issued) no call on any share shall be payable at less than 14 
clear days from the last call. The Directors may, if they see fit, receive from any shareholder willing 
to advance the same, all and any part of the moneys uncalled and unpaid upon any shares held by 
him or her.

Changes in capital

The Group may, from time to time by ordinary resolution subject to the Act:

 — consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger nominal amount 

than its existing shares; or

 — sub-divide all of or any of its existing shares into shares of smaller nominal amounts.

The Group may, from time to time, increase its share capital by allotting new shares in accordance 
with the prescribed threshold authorised by shareholders at the last AGM and subject to the 
consents and procedures required by the Act. The Group may also, by special resolution, reduce 
its share capital.

However, no dividends may be declared in excess of an amount recommended by the Board of 
Directors. The Board may pay interim dividends on the shares of any class as it deems fit. It may 
invest or otherwise use all dividends left unclaimed for six months after having been declared 
for its benefit, until claimed. All dividends unclaimed for a period of eight years after having been 
declared will be forfeited and revert to the Group.

The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, offer any holders 
of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid, in whole or in 
part, instead of cash in respect of such dividend.

The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any shareholder all sums of money (if any) presently 
payable by that shareholder to the Group on account of calls or otherwise in relation to its shares.

Dividends may be paid by such method or combination of methods as the Board, in its absolute discretion, 
may decide. Different methods of payment may apply to different holders or groups of holders.

Liquidation rights

In the event of the Group’s liquidation, after payment of all liabilities, its remaining assets would 
be used to repay the holders of ordinary shares the amount they paid for their ordinary shares. 
Any balance would be divided among the holders of ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal 
amount of the ordinary shares held by them.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 240  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 240  

Other information (unaudited)Other provisions of the Articles of Association

Executive employment contracts

Whenever the Group’s capital is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attached 
to any class may, unless otherwise provided by the terms of the issue of the shares of that class, be 
varied or abrogated, either with the written consent of the holders of 75% of the issued shares of the 
class (excluding any issued as treasury shares) or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at 
a separate meeting of these holders. Conditions set out in the Articles of Association with respect 
to the variation of rights are subject to the provisions of the Act. In the event that a shareholder or 
other person appearing to the Board of Directors to be interested in ordinary shares fails to comply 
with a notice requiring him or her to provide information with respect to their interest in voting 
shares pursuant to section 793 of the Act, the Board may serve that shareholder with a notice of 
default. After service of a default notice, that shareholder shall not be entitled to attend or vote at 
any general meeting or at a separate meeting of holders of a class of shares or on a poll until he or 
she has complied in full with the Group’s information request.

If the shares described in the default notice represent at least 25% of 1% in nominal value of the issued 
ordinary shares, then the default notice may additionally direct that in respect of those shares:

The Group has entered into agreements with each of its Executive Directors pursuant to which 
such Executive Director is employed by the Group. These agreements describe the duties of such 
Executive Director and the compensation to be paid by us.

It is the Group’s policy that it may terminate the Executive Directors’ service agreements by giving 
no more than 12 months’ notice. As an alternative, the Group may at its discretion pay in lieu of 
that notice. Payment-in-lieu of notice may be made in equal monthly installments from the date of 
termination to the end of any unexpired notice period. In the case of Executive Directors, payment-
in-lieu of notice in installments may also be subject to mitigation and reduced taking into account 
earnings from alternative employment. For Executive Directors, pay in lieu of notice comprises 100% 
of the annual salary at the date of termination and the annual cost to the Company of providing 
pension and all other benefits. The Group may, depending on the circumstances of the termination, 
determine that it will not pay the Director in lieu of notice and may instead terminate a Director’s 
contract in breach and make a damages payment, taking into account as appropriate the Director’s 
ability to mitigate their loss.

 — the Group will not pay dividends (or issue shares in lieu of dividends); and

Exchange controls

 — the Group will not register transfers of shares unless (i) the shareholder is not themself in default 
as regards supplying the information requested and the transfer, when presented for registration, 
is accompanied by a certificate from the shareholder in such form as the Board of Directors may 
require to the effect that after due and careful inquiry, the shareholder is satisfied that no person 
in default is interested in any of the ordinary shares which are being transferred; (ii) the transfer 
is an approved transfer, as defined in the Articles of Association; or (iii) the registration of the 
transfer is required by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.

No provision of the Articles of Association expressly governs the ordinary share ownership 
threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed. Under the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, any person who acquires, either alone 
or, in specified circumstances, with others an interest in the Company’s voting share capital equal 
to or in excess of 3% comes under an obligation to disclose prescribed particulars to the Company 
in respect of those ordinary shares. A disclosure obligation also arises where a person’s notifiable 
interests fall below 3%, or where, at or above 3%, the percentage of the Company’s voting share 
capital in which a person has a notifiable interest reaches, exceeds or falls below 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 
7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, and each 1% threshold thereafter up to 100%.

Limitations affecting holders of ordinary shares or ADSs

Under English law and Articles of Association, persons who are neither UK residents nor UK nationals 
may freely hold, vote and transfer ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.

With respect to the items discussed above, applicable UK law is not materially different from 
applicable US law.

Material contracts

The Group is not currently party to any contracts outside the ordinary course of business, other 
than the Trust Deed entered into in 2020 with respect to £350.0 million aggregate principal amount 
of 3.750% guaranteed notes due 2030, in each case, issued by a subsidiary and guaranteed by 
Pearson, which is filed as Exhibit 2.2 of this report.

There are no UK Government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation which restrict or which 
may affect the import or export of capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for 
use by us or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of the 
Group’s securities, except as otherwise described under ‘Tax Considerations’ below.

Tax considerations

The following is a discussion of the material US federal income tax considerations and UK tax 
considerations arising from the acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares and 
ADSs by a US holder. A US holder is:

 — an individual citizen or resident of the US, or

 — a corporation created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any of its political 

subdivisions, or

 — an estate or trust the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of 

its source.

This discussion deals only with ordinary shares and ADSs that are held as capital assets by a US 
holder, and does not address tax considerations applicable to US holders that may be subject to 
special tax rules, such as:

 — dealers or traders in securities or currencies,

 — financial institutions or other US holders that treat income in respect of the ordinary shares or 

ADSs as financial services income,

 — insurance companies,

 — tax-exempt entities,

 — persons acquiring shares or ADSs in connection with employment,

 — US holders that hold the ordinary shares or ADSs as a part of a straddle or conversion transaction 

or other arrangement involving more than one position,

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 241
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 241

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

 — US holders that own, or are deemed for US tax purposes to own, 10% or more of the total 

combined voting power of all classes of the Group’s voting stock,

 — US holders that have a principal place of business or ‘tax home’ outside the United States, or

 — US holders whose ‘functional currency’ is not the US dollar.

For US federal income tax purposes, holders of ADSs will be treated as the owners of the ordinary 
shares represented by those ADSs. In practice, HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) will also regard 
holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares represented by those ADSs, 
although case law has cast some doubt on this. The discussion below assumes that HMRC’s 
position is followed.

In addition, the following discussion assumes that The Bank of New York Mellon will perform its 
obligations as depositary in accordance with the terms of the depositary agreement and any 
related agreements.

Because US and UK tax consequences may differ from one holder to the next, the discussion set 
out below does not purport to describe all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to you 
and your particular situation. Accordingly, you are advised to consult your own tax advisor as to the 
US federal, state and local, UK and other, including foreign, tax consequences of investing in the 
ordinary shares or ADSs. Except where otherwise indicated, the statements of US and UK tax law 
set out below are based on the laws, interpretations and tax authority practice in force or applicable 
as of 28 February 2024 and are subject to any changes occurring after that date, possibly with 
retroactive effect.

UK income taxation of distributions

The UK does not impose dividend withholding tax on dividends paid by the Company.

A US holder that is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not carry on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency (or in the case of a company a 
permanent establishment) to which the ordinary shares or ADSs are attributable will not generally 
be liable to pay UK tax on dividends paid by the Company.

US income taxation of distributions

Distributions that the Group makes with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, other than 
distributions in liquidation and distributions in redemption of stock that are treated as exchanges, 
will be taxed to US holders as ordinary dividend income to the extent that the distributions do not 
exceed the Group’s current and accumulated earnings and profits. The amount of any distribution 
will equal the amount of the cash distribution. Distributions, if any, in excess of the Group’s current 
and accumulated earnings and profits will constitute a non-taxable return of capital to a US holder 
and will be applied against and reduce the US holder’s tax basis in its ordinary shares or ADSs. To 
the extent that these distributions exceed the tax basis of the US holder in its ordinary shares or 
ADSs, the excess generally will be treated as capital gain.

Dividends that the Group pays will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction generally 
allowed to US corporations under Section 243 of the Code.

In the case of distributions in pounds sterling, the amount of the distributions generally will equal 
the US dollar value of the pounds sterling distributed, determined by reference to the spot currency 
exchange rate on the date of receipt of the distribution by the US holder in the case of shares or 
by The Bank of New York Mellon in the case of ADSs, regardless of whether the US holder reports 
income on a cash basis or an accrual basis. The US holder will realise separate foreign currency gain 
or loss only to the extent that this gain or loss arises on the actual disposition of pounds sterling 
received. For US holders claiming tax credits on a cash basis, taxes withheld from the distribution are 
translated into US dollars at the spot rate on the date of the distribution; for US holders claiming tax 
credits on an accrual basis, taxes withheld from the distribution are translated into US dollars at the 
average rate for the taxable year.

A distribution by the Company to non-corporate shareholders will be taxed as net capital gain at a 
maximum rate of 20%, provided certain holding periods are met, to the extent such distribution is 
treated as a dividend under US federal income tax principles. In addition, a 3.8% Medicare tax will 
generally be imposed on the net investment income, which generally would include distributions 
treated as dividends under US federal income tax principles, of non-corporate taxpayers whose 
adjusted gross income exceeds a threshold amount.

UK taxation of capital gains

A US holder that is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not carry on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency (or in the case of a company a 
permanent establishment) to which the ordinary shares or ADSs are attributable will not generally 
be liable for UK taxation on capital gains or eligible for relief for allowable losses, realised on the 
sale or other disposal of the ordinary shares or ADSs.

A US holder who is an individual who has been resident for tax purposes in the UK but who ceases 
to be so resident or becomes regarded as resident outside the UK for the purposes of any double 
tax treaty (‘Treaty Non-resident’) and continues to not be resident in the UK, or continues to be 
Treaty Non-resident, for a period of five years or less and who disposes of his ordinary shares or 
ADSs during that period may also be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains, subject 
to any available exemption or relief, even though he or she is not resident in the UK, or is Treaty 
Non-resident, at the time of the disposal.

US income taxation of capital gains

Upon a sale or exchange of ordinary shares or ADSs to a person other than Pearson, a US holder will 
recognise gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realised on the sale 
or exchange and the US holder’s adjusted tax basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs. Any gain or loss 
recognised will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US holder has 
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than one year. Long-term capital gain of a non-corporate 
US holder is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 20%. In addition, a 3.8% Medicare tax will generally 
be imposed on the net investment income, which generally would include capital gains, of non-
corporate taxpayers whose adjusted gross income exceeds a threshold amount.

Gain or loss realised by a US holder on the sale or exchange of ordinary shares or ADSs generally will 
be treated as US-source gain or loss for US foreign tax credit purposes.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 242  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 242  

Other information (unaudited)Estate and gift tax

The current Estate and Gift Tax Convention (referred to in this paragraph as the ‘Convention’), 
between the US and the UK generally relieves from UK inheritance tax (the equivalent of US estate 
and gift tax) the transfer of ordinary shares or of ADSs where the transferor is domiciled in the US 
for the purposes of the Convention. This relief will not apply if the ordinary shares or ADSs are part 
of the business property of an individual’s permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to the fixed 
base in the UK of a person providing independent personal services. If no relief is given under the 
Convention, inheritance tax may be charged on death and also on the amount by which the value of 
an individual’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer made by way of gift or other gratuitous 
or undervalue transfer, in general within seven years of death, and in certain other circumstances. 
In the unusual case where ordinary shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US 
estate or gift tax, the Convention generally provides for tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax 
payable in the US or for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on 
priority rules set forth in the Convention.

Stamp duty

No stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will generally be payable in the UK on the purchase 
or transfer of an ADS, provided that the ADS, and any separate instrument or written agreement 
of transfer, remain at all times outside the UK and that the instrument or written agreement of 
transfer is not executed in the UK. Subject to the following paragraph, UK legislation does however 
provide for SDRT or (in the case of transfers) stamp duty to be chargeable at the rate of 1.5% of the 
amount or value of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the ordinary shares 
(rounded up to the next multiple of £5 in the case of stamp duty), where ordinary shares are issued 
or transferred to a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts, or to a nominee 
or agent for such a person, or issued or transferred to a person whose business is or includes the 
provision of clearance services or to a nominee or agent for such a person.

Following certain EU litigation, HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) accepted that it would no longer 
seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary 
receipt system (or transferred into a clearance service or depositary receipt system, where such 
transfer is integral to the raising of capital by the company concerned) on the basis that the charge 
was not compatible with EU law. Following the UK’s departure from the EU, such pre-existing EU 
law rights, recognised in litigation, were preserved as a domestic law matter following the end of 
the implementation period on 31 December 2020 pursuant to provisions of the UK European Union 
(Withdrawal) Act 2018. In addition, however, on 29 June 2023 the Retained EU Law (Revocation 
and Reform) Act was enacted which had the effect that such pre-existing EU law rights, recognised 
in litigation, would by default (that is, absent the exercise of a regulation-making power to restate 
or reproduce such rights in domestic law) cease to be recognised after 31 December 2023. The 
Finance Act 2024, which received Royal Assent on 22 February 2024, makes provision to ensure 
it continues to be the case, notwithstanding the effect of the Retained EU Law (Revocation and 
Reform) Act 2023, that stamp duty or SDRT of 1.5% is not payable in relation to (i) issues of shares 
into depositary receipt systems and clearance services and (ii) transfers of shares into a depositary 
receipt system or clearance service, where such transfer is integral to the raising of new capital by 
the company concerned.

The Finance Act 2024 also includes an additional exemption for ‘qualifying listing arrangements’ 
where shares are transferred (without a change in beneficial ownership) in connection with the 
listing of such shares on a ‘recognised stock exchange’. Specific professional advice should be 
sought before paying the 1.5% SDRT or stamp duty charge in any circumstances.

A transfer for value of the underlying ordinary shares will generally be subject to either stamp duty 
or SDRT, normally at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration (rounded up to 
the next multiple of £5 in the case of stamp duty). A transfer of ordinary shares from a nominee to 
its beneficial owner, including the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary to an 
ADS holder, under which no beneficial interest passes will not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT.

Close company status

The Group believes that the close company provisions of the UK Corporation Tax Act 2010 do not 
apply to it.

Documents on display

Copies of the Group’s Memorandum and Articles of Association are filed as exhibits to its Annual 
Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2023. We also file reports and other 
information with the SEC. These materials, including this Annual Report and the accompanying 
exhibits are available on the Investors page of the Company’s website (pearsonplc.com). In addition, 
shareholders may request a copy of certain documents referred to in this Annual Report by writing 
to us at the following address: Pearson plc, c/o the Company Secretary, 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.

Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities

American Depository Shares

The Group’s ordinary shares trade in the form of ADSs evidenced by ADRs under a sponsored ADR 
facility with The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary. Each ADS represents one ordinary share.

The principal executive office of The Bank of New York Mellon is located at 240 Greenwich Street, 
New York, NY 10286.

Fees paid by ADR holders

The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing 
shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal, or from intermediaries acting for them. 
The depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the 
amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees. The depositary 
may collect its annual fee for depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly 
billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them. The 
depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services  
are paid.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 243
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 243

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

The following table summarises various fees currently charged by The Bank of New York Mellon:

Person depositing or withdrawing shares must pay to 
the depositary:

For:

$5.00 (or less) per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 
ADSs)

 — Issuance of ADSs, including issuances 

resulting from a distribution of shares or rights 
or other property

$.05 (or less) per ADS

A fee equivalent to the fee that would be 
payable if securities distributed had been 
shares and the shares had been deposited 
for issuance of ADSs
$.05 (or less) per ADS per calendar year
Registration of transfer fees

Expenses of the depositary

Taxes and other governmental charges the 
depositary or the custodian have to pay on 
any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for 
example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty 
or withholding taxes
Any charges incurred by the depositary or its 
agents for servicing the deposited securities

 — Cancelation of ADSs for the purpose 
of withdrawal, including if the deposit 
agreement terminates

 — Any cash distribution to ADS 

registered holders

 — Distribution of securities by the 

depositary to ADS registered holders 
of deposited securities

 — Depositary services
 — Transfer and registration of shares on the 
share register to or from the name of the 
depositary or its agent when shares are 
deposited or withdrawn

 — Cable, telex and facsimile transmissions (when 
expressly provided in the deposit agreement)

 — Converting foreign currency to US dollars
 — As necessary

 — As necessary

Fees incurred in past annual period and fees to be paid in the future

The Depositary reimburses the Company for certain expenses it incurs in relation to the ADS 
programme. The Depositary also pays the standard out-of-pocket maintenance costs for the 
registered ADSs, which consist of the expenses for the mailing and printing of proxy materials, 
distributing dividend checks, electronic filing of US federal tax information, mailing required tax 
forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and telephone calls. It also reimburses the Company for certain 
investor relationship programs or special investor relations promotional activities. There are limits 
on the amount of expenses for which the Depositary will reimburse the Company, but the amount of 
reimbursement is not necessarily tied to the amount of fees the Depositary collects from investors. 
The Company received $50,000 as reimbursement from the Depositary for 2023.

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as 
of 31 December 2023 was carried out by management, under the supervision and with the 
participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on that evaluation, 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure 
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a- 15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended) were effective as at 31 December 2023 at a reasonable assurance level. 
A controls system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance 
to achieve its objectives.

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over 
financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
by, or under the supervision of, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or persons 
performing similar functions, and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and 
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control 
over financial reporting as of 31 December 2023 based on the framework in Internal Control — 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (‘COSO’). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that the Company’s 
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2023 based on criteria 
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.

Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2023, as stated in  
their report.

Change in internal control over financial reporting

During the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 20-F, there have been no significant 
changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the year ended 31 December 2023 
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal 
control over financial reporting.

Audit Committee financial expert

The members of the Board of Directors of Pearson plc have determined that Graeme Pitkethly  
is an Audit Committee financial expert within the meaning of the applicable rules and regulations 
of the SEC.

Code of Ethics

Pearson has adopted a code of ethics (the Pearson code of conduct) which applies to all 
employees including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial 
management. This code of ethics is available on the Group’s website (www.pearson.com/corporate/
code-of-conduct.html). The information on this website is not incorporated by reference into  
this report.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 244  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 244  

Other information (unaudited)Principal accountant fees and services

In line with best practice, the Group’s relationship with Ernst & Young LLP (EY) is governed by its 
external auditor policy, which is reviewed and approved annually by the Audit Committee. The policy 
establishes procedures to ensure the auditors’ independence is not compromised as well as defining 
those non-audit services that EY may or may not provide to Pearson. These allowable services are in 
accordance with relevant UK and US legislation.

The Audit Committee approves all audit and non-audit services provided by EY, unless clearly trivial. 
Where appropriate, services will be tendered prior to awarding this work to the auditor.

On 24 February 2022, the Board approved a £350m share buyback programme in order to return 
capital to shareholders. During the year, all of the shares were bought back and cancelled at a cost 
of £353m. The nominal value of these shares, £10m, was transferred to the capital redemption 
reserve, and the remainder of the cost is recorded within retained earnings. In 2021, no shares 
were bought back.

All purchases were made in open-market transactions in London in accordance with applicable law. 
Pearson did not structure such purchases to fall within the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. SEC’s 
Rule 10b-18.

No fees were incurred in relation to taxation, including tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning.

Change in registrants certifying accountant

Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchases

Not applicable.

Period

1 April 2022 – 30 April 2022
1 May 2022 – 31 May 2022
1 June 2022 – 30 June 2022
1 July 2022 – 31 July 2022
1 August 2022 – 31 August 2022
1 September 2022 – 30 September 2022
1 October 2022 – 31 October 2022
1 November 2022 – 30 November 2022
1 December 2022 – 31 December 2022
1 March 2023 – 31 March 2023
1 May 2023 – 31 May 2023
1 September 2023 – 30 September 2023
1 October 2023 – 31 October 2023
1 November 2023 – 30 November 2023
1 December 2023 – 31 December 2023

Total number 
of shares 
purchased

Average price 
paid per share

Total number
of units 
purchased
as part of publicly
announced plans
or programs

Approximate
maximum value
of shares that
may yet be
purchased under
the plans or
programs

11,176,349
4,518,993
7,203,444
2,897,074
2,567,366
5,496,817
6,315,733
3,017,726
3,587,362
1,757,098
1,191,462
2,459,066
11,239,824
3,108,579
4,479,186

£ 7.77
£ 7.55
£ 7.52
£ 7.57
£ 8.75
£ 8.91
£ 9.03
£ 9.72
£ 9.46
£8.54
£8.39
£8.69
£9.03
£9.48
£9.44

9,885,524
4,518,993
5,363,132 
2,897,074
2,567,366
5,496,817
6,315,733
3,017,726
2,205,695
 –
–
2,459,066
11,239,824
3,108,579
3,436,047

£ 275m
£ 241m
£ 201m
£ 179m
£ 156m
£ 107m
£ 50m
£ 21m
n/a
£301m
£301m
£280m
£178m
£149m
£117m

On 20 September 2023, the Board approved a £300m share buyback programme in order to 
return capital to shareholders. During the year, approximately 20m shares were bought back and 
cancelled at a cost of £185m. The nominal value of these shares, £5m, was transferred to the capital 
redemption reserve, and the remainder of the purchase price is recorded within retained earnings.  
A further £117m was accrued for those amounts committed but not yet repurchased.

Cybersecurity
We believe cybersecurity is of critical importance to our success. We are susceptible to a number 
of significant, persistent and evolving cybersecurity threats, including those common to most 
industries as well as those we face as a worldwide learning company with principal operations in 
the education, assessment and certifications markets. The Group holds large volumes of personal 
data on individuals worldwide, including that of employees, customers, students, teachers and 
learners in the workforce, as well as other highly sensitive business critical data such as financial 
data, internal sensitive information, and intellectual property. Despite our implementation of security 
measures, threat actors of all types, including individuals, criminal organisations and state sponsored 
operatives, have from time to time gained access, and may in the future gain access to the Group’s 
data through unauthorised means in order to misappropriate such information for fraudulent or 
other purposes. Failure to prevent or detect a malicious attack on the Group’s systems has in the 
past and could in future result in loss of system availability, breach of confidentiality, integrity and/
or availability of sensitive information, and damage to the customer experience and the Group’s 
reputation and financial loss. Accordingly, we continuously evaluate the impact of cybersecurity 
threats, and are committed to the highest standards of data management and these will naturally 
evolve with our business as we continue our digital transformation.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 245
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 245

Other information (unaudited)Additional information for US listing purposes continued

In addition, our third-party vendors and service providers play a role in our cybersecurity. These  
third parties are integral to our operations but pose cybersecurity challenges due to their access  
to our data and our reliance for various aspects of our operations, including our supply chain. 
We have developed a third-party vendor risk management programme to assess and manage 
the risks associated with third-party partnerships, particularly in data security and cybersecurity. 
We conduct due diligence before onboarding new vendors and maintain ongoing evaluations to 
ensure compliance with our security standards.

As of the date of this report, no cybersecurity incidents have had, either individually or in the 
aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
Notwithstanding the extensive approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not be successful in 
preventing or mitigating a cybersecurity incident that could have a material adverse effect on us. 
While we maintain cyber risk insurance, the costs relating to certain kinds of security incidents could 
be substantial, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses related to any future 
incidents involving our data or systems.

See ‘Risk Factors’ on pages 229-235 for a discussion of cybersecurity risks that may materially  
impact us.

Pearson’s Executive team has overall responsibility for data privacy and security. Our reporting and 
risk management structure feeds upwards from individual businesses to Board level. Under the 
oversight of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee, our management has established 
comprehensive processes for identifying, assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity 
threats, and these processes are integrated into our overall enterprise risk management programme. 
We have established lines of accountability and reporting procedures designed to enable senior 
management executives and divisional privacy owners to have greater visibility over managing 
data privacy and security risks. Our approach is proactive and adaptive, featuring regular security 
assessments, third-party audits and continuous improvement of our cybersecurity infrastructure. 
We also provide all colleagues with training on our updated and strengthened data privacy and cyber 
security principles and processes. We work to align our practices with industry best practices and 
regulatory standards. Our processes include detailed response procedures to be followed in the 
event of a cybersecurity incident, which outline steps to be followed from detection to assessment 
and escalation to notification and recovery, including internal notifications to management, the 
Audit Committee and the Board, as appropriate.

The Audit Committee of our Board is primarily responsible for oversight of risks, including those from 
cybersecurity threats, and is currently chaired by a Director with functional expertise in cybersecurity 
matters. Members of management, including our Chief Information Officer provide the Executive 
Team and the Trust & Safety committees that have been established with updates on cybersecurity 
risk matters on a quarterly basis and more frequently if circumstances dictate. In these updates, 
members of the committees are apprised of cybersecurity incidents that are deemed to have had a 
moderate or higher impact even if immaterial to us. In addition, the committees review and actively 
discusses with management and among themselves the risks related to cybersecurity and critical 
systems in order to provide input on the appropriate level of risk for our Company and reviews 
management’s strategies for adequately mitigating and managing the identified risks.  
The Audit Committee and management regularly update our full Board with respect to  
cybersecurity matters.

Our Chief Information Officer is primarily responsible for managing material risks from cybersecurity 
threats, and is supported by a dedicated team of internal cybersecurity specialists. Our current 
Chief Information Officer has been in that position for eight years and has extensive information 
technology experience from that role and past work experience, and many of our internal team hold 
cybersecurity certifications such as Certified Information Systems Security Professional or Certified 
Information Security Manager. We also engage specialised cybersecurity consultants and leverage 
third-party expertise to bolster our cybersecurity defences.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 246  
Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 246  

Other information (unaudited)Shareholder Information

Shareholder information

Payment of dividends to mandated accounts

Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock 
Exchange in the form of American Depositary Receipts.

Corporate website

The investors’ section of our corporate website www.pearsonplc.com/investors provides a wealth 
of information for shareholders. It is also possible to sign up to receive email alerts for reports and 
press releases relating to Pearson at www.pearsonplc.com. 

Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or 
building society account, with the dividend confirmation voucher sent to the shareholder’s registered 
address. Equiniti can be contacted for information on 0371 384 2043*.

Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)

The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the company’s shares on the London stock market with 
their cash dividend. For further information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268*.

Shareholder information online

Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)

Shareholder information can be found on our website at www.pearsonplc.com/investors.

Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder information online. You can  
check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at  
www.shareview.co.uk. For more information, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0371 384 2043* or, for those 
shareholders with hearing difficulties, text phone number 0371 384 2255*.

Information about the Pearson share price

Equiniti offers a Flexible Stocks and Shares ISA. For more information, please visit www.eqi.co.uk  
or call customer services on 0345 070 0720*.

Share dealing facilities

Equiniti offers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson shares. For further information, 
please contact their telephone dealing helpline on 0345 603 7037* or, for online dealing, log on 
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on 
your share certificate.

The company’s share price can be found on our website at www.pearsonplc.com/investors/
performance/share-price-dividend. It also appears in the financial columns of the national press.

A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti. Please telephone 0371 384 2248* for 
details or log on to www.shareview.co.uk to download a form.

2023 dividends

Interim

Final1

Payment Date

Amount per share

18 September 2023

3 May 2024

7.0 pence

15.7 pence

Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish 
to donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered charity number 1052686).

Further information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported may be obtained from their 
website, www.ShareGift.org, or by contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.

ShareGift

1.  Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2024 Annual General Meeting.

2024 financial calendar

Ex-dividend date

Record date

Last date for dividend reinvestment election

Annual General Meeting

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)

21 March 2024

22 March 2024

12 April 2024

26 April 2024

Pearson’s ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO. 
Each ADR represents one ordinary share. For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts 
and dividends, please contact BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, PO Box 43006, Providence, RI 
02940-3078, telephone 1 (866) 259 2289 (toll free within the US) or 001 201 680 6825 (outside the 
US). Alternatively, you may email shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com. 

Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment

3 May 2024

Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Bank of New York Mellon, and for 
beneficial ADR holders (and/or nominee accounts) through your US brokerage institution. Pearson 
will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F.

*Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 247

Other information (unaudited)Shareholder Information continued

Share register fraud: protecting your investment

Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide recommendations or investment 
advice and neither does it appoint third parties to do so. As required by law, our shareholder  
register is available for public inspection, but we cannot control the use of information obtained by 
persons inspecting the register. Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Pearson 
with caution.

For more information, please log on to our website at www.pearsonplc.com/en-GB/investors/
shareholders/shares-shareholding 

Tips on protecting your shares

 — Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and 

shred any unwanted documentation

 — Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address

 — Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend 

cheque or, better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your  
bank account

 — Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 248  

Other information (unaudited)Reliance on this document 
The intention of this document is to provide information to shareholders and is not designed to be 
relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose. 

Forward-looking statements 

This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Pearson’s financial condition, 
business and operations and its strategy, plans and objectives. Readers are cautioned not to  
place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify  
forward-looking statements by terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan”, 
“anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “predict”, “potential”, “continue” or the negative of these terms or 
other comparable terminology. 

By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and 
other factors that may cause Pearson or its industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance 
or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or 
achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. This is because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future. They are based on numerous 
expectations, assumptions and beliefs regarding Pearson’s present and future business strategies 
and the environment in which it will operate in the future. Pearson believes that the expectations 
reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, although it cannot guarantee future 
results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.

There are various factors which could cause Pearson’s actual financial condition, results and 
development to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements, many of which are outside Pearson’s control.  
These include international, national and local conditions, as well as the impact of competition.  
Such risks and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in Pearson’s  
publicly-filed documents and, in particular, the risk factors set out in this document, which  
you are advised to read.

Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as  
required by law, Pearson gives no undertaking to update any forward-looking statements in  
this document whether as a result of new information, future developments, changes in its 
expectations or otherwise.

Finally, as an example, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections, including 
trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest 
or exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated cost savings and synergies and the 
execution of Pearson’s strategy, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements, 
specifically the margin target, financial expectations, 2024 outlook and 2025 ambition information, 
included on page 27 of this document have been prepared by, and is the responsibility of, Pearson’s 
management. Ernst & Young LLP has not audited, reviewed, examined, compiled nor applied agreed-
upon procedures with respect to these forward-looking statements and, accordingly, Ernst & Young 
LLP does not express an opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 249

This Report is printed on Edixion Off set which has been independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®). 
Printed in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral® company. 
Both manufacturing paper mill and the printer are registered to the 
Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.

Consultancy and design by Black Sun Global. 
www.blacksun-global.com

P

e

a

r

s

o

n

p

l

c

A

n

n

u

a

l

r

e

p

o

r

t

a

n

d

a

c

c

o

u

n

t

s

2

0

2

3

Principal offices
80 Strand, 
London WC2R 0RL, UK

T +44 (0)20 7010 2000

221 River Street, 
Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA

T +1 201 236 7000

Pearson plc

Registered number 53723 (England)

 
 
 
 
 
 
