At a glance

Corporate overview

At Pearson, we know few things matter to the 
world more than education. That’s why we’re 
all working together to support people on their 
learning journey, wherever that path takes them. 
We’re on a journey too, building a company that 
puts learners at the heart of everything we do.

The future of learning is vibrant, high quality 
learning experiences that help everyone realise 
the life they imagine. 2023 has been a critical 
year in Pearson’s progress toward achieving our 
vision. A changing global economy, a need for 
new and different skills within communities, and 
new technology like generative AI challenged 

Our sustainable business pillars

the education space. Our resilience and ability 
to capitalise on changing market dynamics 
reinforced confidence in our strategy, our 
people, and the strength of our underlying 
business. As we look ahead to 2024, we remain 
committed to our goal of delivering long-term 
profitable growth, while we evolve our strategy 
to seize emerging opportunities and accelerate 
our digital expansion.

This Annual Report showcases strong 2023 
growth, driven by our five divisions and our 
continued efforts to create interconnectivity 
between them. By delivering excellent financial 
results, driving a culture of performance, and 
leaning into new technology, like generative 
AI, we’re making progress every day toward a 
future of sustainable, profitable growth for 2024 
and beyond.

Our purpose

To add life to a lifetime  
of learning.

Our vision 

We want everyone to realise the life they 
imagine through learning.

Our mission 

Create vibrant and enriching learning 
experiences designed for real-life impact.

Driving learning for everyone  
with our products

Empowering our people  
to make a difference

Leading responsibly for  
a better planet

 Read more on Sustainability on page 34

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 2  

Strategic reportChair’s note

Our reshaped portfolio is 
more focused, we are firmly 
established as a digital-
first learning company and 
technology is opening up 
exciting opportunities that  
will drive growth for many  
years to come.
Omid Kordestani Chair

2023 full year dividend growth

6%

Return on capital in 2023

10.3%

Overview

I am delighted to report that Pearson colleagues around the 
world have delivered another strong performance in 2023.  
It has been a transformational year for the business, further 
testament to the strategy we launched three years ago that  
has fundamentally repositioned Pearson so that we can serve 
ever more people through their lifelong learning journey.  
Our reshaped portfolio is more focused, we are firmly 
established as a digital-first learning company and technology  
is opening up exciting opportunities that will drive growth for 
many years to come. 

Our culture has evolved significantly so that there is now a far 
greater sense of accountability across the global business and 
an increased focus on execution and delivery. There is also more 
interconnectivity across our divisions with growing collaboration 
underpinned by a shared belief in the important role Pearson 
plays in improving society through learning.

Financial and operational highlights

For a third consecutive year, Pearson has delivered a strong 
financial performance with sales of £3,674m (£3,841m in 2022), 
representing 5% growth on an underlying basis, excluding the 
OPM and Strategic Review businesses. Statutory operating profit 
was £498m (£271m in 2022), or £573m on an adjusted basis, up 
31% versus 2022. This was supported by our ongoing work to 
streamline the business and make it more efficient. During the 
year we successfully delivered £120m of cost savings, improving 
adjusted operating profit margin to 16%.

Pearson has continued to generate strong free cash flow 
enabling us to maintain a robust financial position whilst also 
supporting ongoing investment in the business. This is fuelling 
Pearson’s evolution, particularly in digital and generative AI which 
are changing the way that people learn for good.

Our strong cash generation enables us to deliver returns 
for shareholders, with a £300m share buyback programme 
commenced in 2023 supplementing our progressive ordinary 
dividend. We have also announced that we will be extending 
this programme by £200m in 2024. Reflecting the strong 
performance in 2023 and its confidence in the outlook for the 
business, the Board is recommending a 6% increase in the final 
dividend for a full year dividend of 22.7 pence per share.

This will be paid on 3 May 2024 to shareholders on the register 
on 22 March 2024. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 3

Strategic reportChair’s note continued

Learning for impact

With our purpose of adding life to a lifetime of learning, we are 
focused on delivering Learning for Impact. We take a considered 
approach to the adoption of technologies such as generative 
AI that have enormous potential but also entail new risks, and 
we are committed to the highest standards of data privacy and 
security. We empower our people to make a difference, making 
further progress on employee engagement in the year as we 
continue to invest in talent and drive a culture of belonging 
that aims for increasingly diverse representation throughout 
the company. We recognise our responsibility to reduce our 
environmental impact, and are on track to meet our target of 
halving our carbon emissions by 2030, having made excellent 
progress to date, with a reduction of 16% vs 2022. This is the 
product of many different initiatives across our operations and 
supply chain, with significant benefits coming from our strategy 
to become increasingly digital, reducing the footprint and 
impacts of our print operations.

The Board

We have a strong, diverse and highly experienced Board which 
continues to offer valuable perspective, insight and leadership. 
There were some changes to the Board during the year due to 
retirement, giving us the opportunity to welcome new talent and 
fresh thinking.

In June, we were delighted to welcome two new Non-Executive 
Directors, Alison Dolan and Alex Hardiman. Alison has been 
Chief Financial Officer at Rightmove plc since 2020 and brings 
extensive commercial and operational finance experience, 
specifically in digital businesses. Alex currently serves as The New 
York Times’ Chief Product Officer and was previously at Facebook 
where she served as Head of News Products.

Tim Score, Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, will 
step down from the Board at the AGM in April 2024 following 
a nine year tenure. His vast experience has been enormously 
valuable to Pearson and I would like to thank him hugely for 
the significant contribution that he has made to the business. 
I am pleased that Graeme Pitkethly will be taking over the role 
as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director once Tim has 
stepped down. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 4  

CEO succession

In September, we announced that Andy Bird would be retiring 
from his role as our Chief Executive. On behalf of the Board 
and all the Group’s stakeholders, I would like to thank Andy 
for his outstanding leadership, and his implementation of the 
ambitious vision and strategy that have successfully transitioned 
Pearson into the business we are today. During his tenure, 
adjusted operating profit has increased from £313m to £573m, 
and shareholders have benefited from a total 3-year return of 
53%. Andy has accelerated our digital proposition and capability 
so that 82% of our portfolio today is digital or digitally-enabled. 
The launch of Pearson+ in July 2021 has been an important 
contributor, bringing us meaningfully closer to consumers and 
the platform had grown to around 5m registered users by the 
end of the full calendar year. 

AI has been part of Pearson’s DNA for many years, and under 
Andy’s stewardship, we have leveraged advances in generative 
AI to enhance the value of our content with plans to make it 
available to millions more students across key titles in the year 
ahead. Having also put in place a strong management team, 
Andy leaves Pearson well-placed for the future.

Following a thorough selection process, which you can read 
more about on pages 83 and 91 respectively, the Board was 
delighted to appoint Omar Abbosh to succeed Andy. Omar is an 
inspirational, dynamic and growth-orientated leader with deep 
commercial, technology and operational expertise focused on 
delivering high-quality services and products across diverse 
markets and customer sets. He has extensive experience in 
creating and executing strategies to enable companies to 
harness technology and succeed in a world of disruptive change. 
He shares our values and our ambition and has a strong track 
record of execution. Omar joined us in January 2024 and the 
Board and I are enjoying working with him as we accelerate our 
strategy and continue to deliver value for all our stakeholders.

Strategic reportTotal 1-year 
shareholder return
5%

Our robust financial  
position and strong 
cash generation enable 
investment to strengthen 
our platform for the  
future while also funding 
attractive distributions  
to shareholders.

Governance

Through my face-to-face meetings with investors during the past 
year, I have heard first-hand views on a range of topics including 
strategy, succession, corporate governance, remuneration, 
environmental and social issues, as well as operational and 
financial performance. We have taken all their feedback and 
again sought to enhance our disclosures in this Annual Report.  
I look forward to hearing how we can continue to improve.

We have engaged extensively over the past year on 
remuneration with shareholders and their advisors, and 
executive remuneration remains a key area of focus for both 
the Board and the Remuneration Committee. The directors’ 
remuneration policy that was approved at last year’s AGM seeks 
to ensure that we can attract and retain the talent required to 
drive Pearson’s success; that our executives are appropriately 
incentivised to achieve stretching targets; and that the structure 
of such incentives best aligns with the interests of shareholders 
and supports the delivery of long-term, sustainable returns. It’s 
important to underline that incentives will only be realised in full 
if stretching annual and longer-term performance targets are 
met. Sherry Coutu CBE, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
sets out our approach on pages 107-109. 

Outlook

Our strong performance in 2023 underpins our confidence that 
we have the right strategy in place to drive continued sustainable 
growth. Our robust financial position and strong cash generation 
enable investment to strengthen our platform for the future 
while also funding attractive distributions to shareholders. We 
are excited about the experience and expertise that Omar brings 
to Pearson. Pearson is well-placed to make good progress in the 
year ahead and beyond. 

Omid Kordestani Chair

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 5

Strategic reportChief Executive’s review

Pearson is  
well positioned 
today, with  
a stable platform 
for continued 
growth.

Omar Abbosh Chief Executive

Sales

£3,674m

(2022: £3,841m) headline decrease of 4%

Statutory operating profit 

£498m

increase year on year of 84%

Underlying sales growth increase

Adjusted operating profit in 2023

5%*

£573m

increase year on year of 31%  
on an underlying basis

Dear Shareholders,
I want to start by sharing how delighted I am to join this very 
special company alongside this talented and passionate group  
of Pearson employees.

I’m pleased to report another year of strong financial 
performance with underlying sales growth of 5% and adjusted 
operating profit of £573m, up 31% compared to 2022. We have 
also improved the adjusted operating profit margin by 4% to 
16%. This has been driven by our strong execution and the 
combination of our unique capabilities in assessment, content, 
and services, all of which stand us in good stead going forward. 

Delivering for Growth

These results reflect exciting progress across the business  
and especially strong financial performance in Assessment  
& Qualifications and English Language Learning. Further,  
our commitment to cost efficiencies delivered £120m in savings 
for the Group. Our careful stewardship of shareholder funds 
means we launched a share buyback of £300m in 2023 and 
announced an extension of this by a further £200m in 2024.  
Our strong balance sheet and excellent cash flows help us  
invest in opportunities to drive growth and create further  
value for our stakeholders. 

Several strategic achievements in 2023 
also laid the foundation for our future:

 — In Assessment & Qualifications, we saw strong performance 
in Pearson VUE, particularly in the IT and healthcare sectors. 
We completed the acquisition of PDRI, a trusted provider 
of workforce assessment services. In this business, we are 
already seeing promising revenue generation and new 
contracts with the US federal government. 

 — In English Language Learning, we won recognition for the 

Pearson Test of English in Canada for student and economic 
migration visas. With English as the gateway to employment 
and study in Canada, this opens a significant new business 
opportunity for us. In partnership with Pearson VUE, we 
opened our largest test centre, to help serve the growing PTE 
market in India. We also launched workplace specific content 
as well as other enhanced features in Mondly. 

 * Taking portfolio adjustments and FX into account and excluding the OPM and Strategic Review businesses.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 6  

Strategic report — Generative AI was a major focal point in Higher Education as 
we began the beta of our AI tools in Mastering and Pearson+. 
With over 60,000 AI conversations in Mastering Chemistry 
alone, we are helping students learn the most complex 
concepts. The positive student reaction to the tools led us to 
expand the beta for 2024. What’s more, Pearson+ passed the 
milestone of one million paid subscriptions this calendar year. 
All of this taken together with improved platform stability and 
improvements in our sales teams, meant Pearson’s Higher 
Education division increased platform sales while making 
significant strides in its overall digital consumer experiences.

 — Within our Workforce Skills business, we evolved from a 

unified product approach to building a powerful technology 
stack that has enabled us to expose the core capabilities as 
modular offerings that can be tailored to our customers. This 
is just one element underpinning the solid sales figures we 
saw in 2023. 

 — Virtual Learning launched a new Connections Academy 

Career Pathways programme in five schools to offer students 
high school, university, and career credentials through an 
innovative tri-credit approach. We plan to roll out the initiative 
to more schools in 2024. 

 — Finally, in a major step toward the simplification of our 
portfolio, we completed the sale of our Pearson Online 
Learning Services business in June. 

This progress could not have happened without the leadership 
of Andy Bird. He paved the way for us, and I’d like to thank him 
for laying the groundwork for our bright days ahead. 

Looking Forward with Confidence

Since I joined Pearson, I’ve become even more confident  
about the reasons I came here. 

First, it’s clear to me that Pearson is a strong, stable company 
with many growth options. Second, we have a purpose that is 
unmatched and a genuine ability to help people on their learning 
journey which, quite literally, changes lives. Finally, our world is 
also at an inflection point with AI. The next decade will centre 
on the application of AI in business, in communities, and in our 
individual lives. 

The opportunities to use AI as a tool for better learning, while 
driving growth in our business are immense. With our vast, high 
quality data sets and our trusted IP, we are well positioned to 
lead on creating value from AI in the future.

It’s against this backdrop that I’m setting three strategic priorities 
for 2024. Firstly, we will deliver on our 2024 guidance with an 
intense focus on organic growth, execution, and the needs of 
our customers. Secondly, we are sharpening our focus on the 
enterprise market. This is a large and still forming market, with 
no dominant player and presents good opportunity for us. 
Thirdly, we’re optimistic about the possibilities that AI brings. We 
are increasing the energy by which we infuse our products and 
services with AI solutions that delight and support customers  
and consumers.

A Future Built on Our Strengths

At Pearson we do three things. We create and curate world class 
learning and assessment content. We distribute this content 
digitally and through physical materials to millions of users 
globally. And we help individuals, employers and institutions build 
and verify skills.

These activities are made possible by our unique strengths, 
such as our long term and diverse customer relationships; the 
global size and scale of our Pearson VUE business; the depth 
and quality of our content in textbooks, assessments, videos, and 
exams; our network of trusted authors; the differentiated Global 
Scale of English; our deep expertise in learning science; and 
above all, our trusted and well-respected brand.

These strengths are a testament to the wonderful people of 
Pearson, and I want to thank them for their contribution to our 
success in 2023. I am excited for their partnership as we evolve 
our company to meet the diverse needs of learners around  
the world. 

I believe Pearson is that rare type of company with an ability 
to deliver sustainable growth alongside a purpose that is 
meaningful to millions of people.

There is much more to come from Pearson. 

Omar Abbosh Chief Executive

The opportunities to use AI 
as a tool for better learning, 
while driving growth in 
our business are immense. 
With our vast, high quality 
data sets and our trusted 
IP, we are well positioned 
to lead on creating value 
from AI in the future.

Free cash flow in 2023

£387m

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 7

Strategic reportDivisional overviews

Assessment & Qualifications

Virtual Learning

Sales
£1,559m

Sales
£616m

Following the sale of the Pearson Online Learning Services 
business in the first half of 2023 and the loss of the ASU contract, 
the Virtual Learning business now works with customers in  
three ways: Partner Schools (c.95% sales), District Partnerships 
(c.3% sales), and Pearson Online Academy (c.2% sales). 

The Partner Schools business provides tailored Virtual School 
solutions to public K-12 districts in the US, combining Pearson's 
courseware, instructional services, and support for high-quality, 
flexible online learning. Although providing much smaller  
revenue contribution, the District Partnerships channel  
offers customisable virtual education solutions for K-12  
districts, focusing on smaller student cohorts with a more 
disaggregated approach than Partner Schools, ensuring  
access to quality, adaptable remote learning for various needs. 
We also offer Pearson Online Academy, which while small, 
extends similar services to Partner Schools but as a private, 
globally accessible option. 

Virtual Learning launched a new Connections Academy Career 
Pathways programme in five schools for middle and high school 
students, where we are offering a tri-credit approach to career-
readiness courses in partnership with Coursera and Acadeum, 
amongst others. We saw encouraging enrolment trends in these 
schools and are planning to roll the initiative out to additional 
schools in 2024 to drive future growth. 

The Assessment & Qualifications division comprises four 
business units: Pearson VUE, Clinical Assessment, US Student 
Assessment, and UK & International School Qualifications. 
Pearson VUE excels as a global leader in scaled testing services, 
serving numerous industry sectors with its extensive test centre 
network and flexible delivery options. This line of business 
meets the critical need for workforce reskilling and professional 
certification, underpinning professional development at various 
stages. In Clinical Assessment, Pearson provides high-quality, 
research-backed assessment products for mental health and 
learning evaluations, serving professionals in healthcare  
and education. 

Pearson's US Student Assessment specialises in customised 
large-scale testing programmes for US K-12 education, focusing 
on state-specific criteria and enhancing education standards. 
Internationally, Pearson offers globally recognised UK curriculum 
based qualifications such as GCSEs and A-levels, as well as 
courseware for English speaking regions throughout the world, 
supporting foundational student progression worldwide. These 
qualifications, coupled with Pearson's content expertise and 
scale of delivery, make it a key player in shaping global education 
standards and student futures. 

In 2023, the division demonstrated strong financial performance, 
growth, and overall customer retention. 2024 will focus on 
maintaining strong competitive positions through contract 
renewals and new wins, while scaling value chain and adjacent 
market opportunities.

Select plans include VUE moving further up the technology 
certification value chain, UK & International Qualifications 
capitalising on the growing demand for international education 
and Clinical Assessment building out its international portfolio 
and creating new digitally-enabled business subscription models.

Assessments sit at the heart 
of the value we bring to 
customers. Our ability to 
deliver in large volumes, 
in multiple languages, and 
across countries all over the 
world, makes us a trusted 
provider of choice.

Art Valentine President – Assessment  
& Qualifications

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 8  

Strategic reportHigher Education

English Language Learning

Sales
£855m

Sales
£415m

Pearson is the market leader in providing world-class learning 
experiences in the post-secondary market. Renowned as a 
market leader in both eText and courseware products, including 
MyLabs, Mastering, Pearson+ and Revel, Pearson caters to 
millions of students worldwide.

Pearson’s goal is to scale teaching excellence, enhance learner 
outcomes, and to support faculty in their workflows. Pearson’s 
strength lies in its relationship with authors, its proprietary 
educational technology platforms, and deep understanding of 
learning science, all of which are evolving with the AI landscape. 
Pearson’s close relationships with instructors and faculty, 
who play a key role in adopting course materials, contribute 
significantly to its competitive edge.

In 2023, Pearson was the first major higher education publisher 
to integrate generative AI study tools into its propriety academic 
content. It also grew Pearson+ subscriptions, adding over 1 
million eTextbook subscriptions during the calendar year. In the 
upcoming year, the focus is on scaling AI-enhanced offerings and 
continuing to deliver outstanding value for learners and faculty 
with significant product upgrades.

Our vision is to become the world’s leading destination for 
committed learners to build and prove their proficiency in 
English, offering comprehensive English learning and assessment 
solutions, including the Pearson Test of English (PTE). Catering 
to a wide range of learners, including those in workplaces, 
schools (via institutional courseware and the Wizard platform), 
and individuals (through Mondly), Pearson provides diverse 
avenues for English proficiency. Central to Pearson's approach 
is the blend of leading pedagogical expertise in English language 
education with advanced technology. This strategy is geared 
towards delivering personalised, scalable English language 
learning for anyone seeking to use English for their personal or 
professional goals.

English Language Learning expanded partnerships and grew 
the PTE business in 2023, administering over 1 million tests. The 
2024 strategy includes scaling the PTE business in Canada and 
growing corporate assessment and study offerings, leveraging 
technological advancements.

What learners are demanding 
is evolving. We are listening 
to these changing needs and 
expectations, and enhancing 
our products to help students 
succeed in their learning goals.

Tom ap Simon President – Higher Education 
and Virtual Learning

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 9

Strategic reportDivisional overviews continued

Workforce Skills

Sales
£220m

The Workforce Skills division at Pearson includes both Vocational 
Qualifications (VQ) and Workforce Solutions. Pearson VQ 
is a global leader in career-focused qualifications, offering 
programmes that are rooted in real-world work scenarios. 
These qualifications enable hundreds of thousands of students, 
apprentices, and workers in the UK and globally to develop 
and apply knowledge, skills, and behaviours essential for 
employability. One in five working-age individuals in the UK 
holds a BTEC from Pearson, and its vocational qualifications are 
increasingly adopted by global ministries of education to advance 
skills reform.

Pearson Workforce Solutions addresses the evolving needs 
of businesses for skilled talent in a rapidly changing economy. 
Workforce Solutions assists companies in understanding and 
bridging their skills gaps, fostering genuine skills development 
aligned with commercial objectives. Pearson's corporate and 
employee solutions are modular and interconnected by a 
common skills framework, supporting organisations at various 
stages of their skills transformation journey and optimising their 
existing tools for maximum impact.

2023 saw us deliver a solid performance, with our qualifications 
performing well in institutional and corporate markets, and 
Workforce Solutions continuing to acquire new customers 
and expand existing relationships. The 2024 agenda includes 
driving market share gains, expanding addressable markets, and 
developing upskilling and reskilling solutions through  
key partnerships.

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 10  

Strategic report2023 highlights

A year of strategic and 
operational progress

Sales

£3,674m

(2022: £3,841m) headline

decrease of 4%

Underlying sales growth 
increase of 

5%*

Statutory operating profit 

£498m

increase year on year of 84%

Adjusted operating profit

£573m

increase year on year of 31% 
on an underlying basis

 * Taking portfolio adjustments and FX into account and excluding the OPM and 

Strategic Review businesses

Acquired PDRI  
to drive additional 
growth in our biggest 
business: Assessment  
& Qualifications

 Read more on page 32

Delivered £120m cost 
savings, accelerating 
Group adjusted 
operating profit margin 
expansion to 16%

 Read more on page 3

Launched beta versions 
of generative AI tools 
in Mastering and MyLab 
and Pearson+

 Read more on page 9

Strong cash 
performance, with free 
cash flow of £387m, 
and launched a £300m 
share buyback 

 Read more on page 31

The success of Pearson+  
is proof we’re delivering on 
our commitment to give 
students the vibrant and 
enriching learning  
experiences they deserve.
Lynne Frank Chief Marketing Officer and Co-
President, Direct to Consumer

Passed milestone  
of 1m cumulative  
paid subscriptions  
for Pearson+

 Read more on page 15

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 11

Strategic reportStrategic priorities

An integrated strategy

Key

AQ

Assessment & Qualifications

WS

Workforce Skills

VL

Virtual Learning

HE

Higher Education

EL

English Language Learning

DC

Direct to consumer offering

Our corporate strategy is grounded in three primary objectives – 1) to deliver sustainable, profitable sales growth, 2) to focus on 
execution, quality, and trust across the business, and 3) to delight our customers and be obsessed with meeting their expectations. We 
will achieve these objectives through our continued dedicated commitment to building trusted relationships with consumers throughout 
their lifelong learning journey via an ecosystem of interconnected solutions. 

Realising this vision will require us to remain focused on increasing our scale and reach by investing in and deepening our institutional, enterprise, government, and direct to consumer relationships. We will 
continue to capitalise on synergies across our businesses and lean into our competitive strengths, most notably as a global leader in trusted learning content and assessments.

We believe that by enabling consumers with best-in-class, integrated tools for learning, along with the assessments and credentials to demonstrate their knowledge and skills, we will create lasting value for 
our customers, learners, and other stakeholders, whilst delivering outsized growth for our investors.

Strategic Priority #1: Pearson’s commitment to sustainable and profitable revenue growth yielded important achievements across its divisions, underlining the company’s market-leading capabilities  
and strategic execution. Looking to 2024, Pearson’s strategic focus remains steadfast on continuing to deliver profitable revenue growth, with each division poised to expand its market impact through 
targeted initiatives.

Strategic priority 

Progress in FY23

Objectives for FY24

AQ Acquired PDRI in March 2023, leading to major federal contract wins with the TSA and 

AQ Scale value chain and adjacent market opportunities across sub-divisions, with a 

US Air Force 

HE

Invested in product improvements and implemented new sales teams and processes, 
in addition to achieving a profitability increase of 3% driven by cost savings

Deliver 
sustainable 
and 
profitable 
revenue 
growth

EL Grew PTE volumes c.50% to over 1m tests administered and earned recognition for the 

Student Direct Stream and Migration in Canada

VL Launched and enrolled over 1k students in an innovative career readiness offering 

continued drive to grow within the federal market by providing secure and scalable 
testing services tailored to the government workforce

HE Pilot innovative courseware pricing models to drive competitiveness in the growing 
Open Educational Resources (OER) and Do-It-Yourself (DIY) market segments, whilst 
continuing to drive international market growth with targeted investments in the Higher 
Education sector

EL Further scale the PTE business and continue to gain market share in Canada, as well as 
expand the corporate offerings for assessment and study by leveraging the flexibility of 
the Mondly and Versant (mid-stakes assessment) platforms

VL Transform the enrolment funnel to bring down the lead-to-enrolment time to 1-2 
weeks, a c.75% reduction, aiming to improve student acquisition and retention

WS Expanded workforce reach to 66 of the Fortune 500 companies, achieving a growth rate 

WS

of 11%

Invest in skills intelligence, credentialing, and assessment solutions, and evolve 
corporate solutions from single to multi-product sales

DC Grew the Pearson+ platform to around 5m registered users by end of calendar year 
2023 and passed the milestone of 1m cumulative paid subscriptions for the same 
calendar year

DC Drive Pearson+ growth by expanding distribution and further scaling  

Channels subscriptions

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 12  

Strategic report 
 
 
 
 
Key

AQ

Assessment & Qualifications

WS

Workforce Skills

VL

Virtual Learning

HE

Higher Education

EL

English Language Learning

DC

Direct to consumer offering

Strategic Priority #2: Pearson’s focus on execution, quality, and trust across its business divisions led to significant achievements, reinforcing its position as a leader in educational services and products. 
Looking forward, Pearson is set to further strengthen this commitment across all business divisions, with a clear focus on innovation and strategic development.

Strategic priority 

Progress in FY23

Objectives for FY24

AQ Launched the Pearson Assessment for Learning Suite - a complementary set of services for 

AQ Invest in product and platform development to improve and expand go-to-market efforts 

US school districts

in 2024

Focus on 
execution, 
quality, and 
trust across 
the business

HE Retained the market-leading position within the Higher Education space driven by 
reaffirming commitment to sales leadership and enhancing execution capability

HE Continue to develop innovative AI features and product enhancements

EL Launched an enhanced e-commerce journey and fortified relationships with key PTE 

regional partners

EL

Invest in digital platforms and experiences, and utilise the Mondly platform as a versatile 
tool for trialling technology capabilities and propositions

VL Reduced marketing cost per enrolment by approximately 25% over the last year, significantly 

VL Target development of an additional 15 career programmes, up from five last year, and 

improving operational efficiency

scale to new schools and states

WS

Improved performance in qualification result delivery within Vocational Qualifications 
ensuring learners had their results when needed

WS Prioritise technology based strategic projects, such as leveraging AI in quality assurance 

within the enterprise qualifications businesses

DC Enhanced Pearson+ from primarily an e-reading platform to a more robust educational 

DC Expand course offerings available on the Channels platform, building on the 23 college 

resource by introducing Channels, delivering tutorial video content and practice problems

courses supported in 2023

Strategic Priority #3: Pearson’s dedication to delighting customers and providing exceptional educational experiences was evident across all divisions. Looking ahead, the divisions will continue to drive 
this strategic initiative, ensuring that customer satisfaction remains at the forefront of the company’s operations.

Delight our 
customers 
and be 
obsessed 
with meeting 
their 
expectations

AQ Improved standards of customer care across the A&Q businesses, with examples including 
shifting from a regional to global approach model, in addition to VUE opening its largest 
company-owned test centre in Chandigarh, India, with capacity to deliver 14k high-stakes 
tests per month

HE Piloted and launched AI-enhanced eText and Mastering titles, incorporating cutting-edge 

technology

EL

Improved the e-commerce journey for PTE, making it easier for customers to access and 
purchase products, enhancing the overall user experience and improving the NPS score 
from 52 to 55

AQ Expand VUE value chain capabilities into learning and test prep for the technology 

certification segment, and release major flagship revisions for the Clinical Assessment sub-
division that maintain brand promise but meet current market needs

HE

EL

Increase the selection of AI-enhanced titles and invest in the channels component of 
Pearson+ with diverse formats, including integrated videos

Implement more advanced Mondly content and expand reach to institutional and 
enterprise customers by harnessing synergies with the wider ELL portfolio

VL Created c.370k custom assessments since the start of the 2023/24 school year, exceeding 

VL

the initial target by more than 20x, enabling teachers to further improve the student learning 
experience and maintain a strong NPS score of +67

Improve overall customer satisfaction by integrating content directly onto the Virtual 
Learning platform, in addition to driving operational improvements and expanding 
programme offerings

WS Streamlined operations and implemented an improved go-to-market strategy for strategic 
accounts, utilising an integrated, team-selling approach to capitalise on strong traction with 
government entities and large organisations for Workforce Solutions

WS Develop customised solutions and professional services that align with enterprise 

requirements, and launch the Official GED App by Summer 2024

DC

Invested in AI and introduced AI-generated content summarisation, explanations, and 
practice quizzes to enhance the user experience within Pearson+

DC Leverage the interconnectedness of Pearson+ with Higher Education’s courseware to 

enhance personalisation and trial career-focused propositions

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 13

Strategic report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divisional spotlights

Assessment & Qualifications

Spotlight on Clinical Assessment: Business model innovation enabled 
by digital capability, driving growth and customer satisfaction in K-12 
Special Education

Opportunity

Our Clinical Assessment business represents one of the four 
sub-divisions within Assessment & Qualifications. We have been a 
longstanding leader in special education assessment, catering to 
the requirements of psychologists, educators, speech pathologists, 
and other professionals that support the special learning needs of 
students. Throughout our interactions, we always aim to match the 
evolving needs of the important customers we serve with our gold-
standard products and state-of-the-art capabilities. Our portfolio of 
intellectual property drives much of our competitive advantage as we 
offer hundreds of products to the market to support a broad array  
of needs.

Meeting the growing mental health and learning support needs 
of student populations has become increasingly complex, making 
resource planning for physical assessment products difficult at best. 
With our Digital Assessment Library for Schools (DALS) offering, 
we leverage our expertise and digital innovation to remove the 
guesswork from resource planning.

Progress so far

In 2017 we launched DALS, a subscription offering that provides 
unlimited access to an industry-leading set of testing instruments. 
Our Special Education customers are no longer forced to commit to 
specific evaluation products and diagnostic needs of an unknown 
student population and are freed from having to anticipate inventory 
and its cost implications during the budget season. Our customers 
are excited by the cost-predictability. But more importantly, the 
access to a broader set of instruments allows our professionals 
to tailor evaluations to the unique needs of individual students, 
improving responsible and efficacious use of Individualised Education 
Plan (IEP) funding. 

Since its inception, DALS has quickly become the preferred model for 
Special Education, which is outlined by its exceptional growth. In fact, 
other clinical assessment publishers have recognised the importance 
of DALS and we have begun offering optional DALS upgrades that can 
include competitor products.

DALS has achieved year-over-year growth of 23% and a five-year 
CAGR at nearly 80%, supported by exceptional renewal rates. It is 
now being used by districts servicing 25% of IEPs currently in place 
across the country. In 2023, we signed deals with some of the largest 
and most influential school districts in the US, including Chicago 
Public Schools, Miami-Dade, and Los Angeles Unified School District. 
These deals represent a strong endorsement of the value and quality 
of this offering, and we are honoured to be a trusted partner.

As we look ahead to 2024 and beyond, we are excited to expand the 
subscription model to new regions and markets, and are currently in 
the process of exploring expansion into the healthcare and private 
practice segments. In addition to this, we plan to introduce new 
features and functionalities that will further differentiate our offering 
from the competition. Some of the highlights include:

 — Expanding DALS in Canada, Australia, and the UK, where we 

have already introduced the model in 2023 and received positive 
feedback from customers. We will continue to market and 
promote DALS in these regions, as well as explore opportunities in 
other international markets.

 — Launching the Digital Assessment Library for University & College 
Counselling Centres, a new segment that has a high demand 
for mental health assessments and interventions, especially in 
the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have partnered with 
Titanium Schedule, a leading software provider for counselling 
centres, to integrate our offering into their platform and reach 
their existing customer base.

 — Adding new and revised assessments to the DALS portfolio, as 

well as complementary assessments from other test publishers, 
such as the MHS Education Library. This will ensure that our 
DALS customers have access to the most up-to-date and 
comprehensive selection of digital assessments available.

The Digital Assessment Library has been an important evolutionary 
step for Pearson, reinforcing our leadership by facilitating a 
virtuous cycle of innovation, customer feedback, and continuous 
improvement, as we leverage our digital platforms and data to 
enhance our products and services. We are confident that our 
offering will continue to drive growth and customer satisfaction for 
our business in 2024 and beyond.

The benefits of  
targeted investment, 
reshaping the  
portfolio, and delivering 
on strategy are 
reflected in our strong 
financial performance.

Sue Kolloru Chief Strategy Officer

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 14  

Strategic reportEnglish Language Learning

Spotlight on PTE, part of our high-stakes 
assessments business

Opportunity

Our business is centred on three key 
components which represent a c.£6bn 
addressable market: 

 — High Stakes Assessments: an addressable 
market upwards of £900m. Our flagship 
product PTE is a verified, secure 
certification of English proficiency for 
international migrants and students.

 — Institutional English Language Learning: 
an addressable market of c.£3bn. We 
offer digital and blended courseware 
solutions to academic institutions, private 
language schools and enterprises across 
the globe. 

 — Online Direct to Consumer: an 

addressable market of c.£2bn, which we 
have entered through our acquisition  
of Mondly.

Progress so far
Our high-stakes assessments business 
saw strong volume growth of c.50% in 
2023, driven by market share gains in key 
countries like India. The past year has also 
seen our PTE product earn key approval for 
the Student Direct Stream and Migration 
in Canada; these notable recognitions 
underscore the impact and extensive reach 
that our initiatives have had within the 
broader language learning sphere.

Our achievements in the broader high-stakes 
assessments space have been underpinned 
by a holistic comprehension of the 
challenges faced by test takers coupled with 
a commitment to solving their pain points. 
A key driver of our success lies in creating 
a better end-to-end experience for the test 
taker, from booking their test, preparing  
for it, and taking it in one sitting in our  
highly secure and convenient VUE  
test centres, to receiving their score in 
industry-leading return times, with bias  
and stress removed from the scoring 
process. Strategic collaborations with 
local partners in key markets have proven 
instrumental in scaling our operations and 
driving sales. Concurrently, our impactful 
hyper-local marketing campaigns have 
effectively heightened awareness of our 
distinctive offerings, further solidifying  
our market position.

We enter 2024 in a strong position, 
continuing the momentum from the prior 
year. We are poised to continue investing 
in our high-stakes assessment ecosystem, 
encompassing advancements in assessment 
technology, strategic partnerships, and 
test security and integrity. These initiatives 
are strategically aligned to elevate the 
overall customer experience, fostering 
increased market share gains. In addition, 
our commitment extends to the expansion 
and scaling of assessments within our 
portfolio, including our Versant suite of tests. 
These endeavours reflect our dedication 
to sustained growth and excellence in the 
dynamic landscape of mid- and high-stakes 
assessments. With our combination of 
technological capability and deep learning 
expertise, we will continue to bring real value 
to the language learning market.

Pearson+

Spotlight on the development of our  
Channels feature alongside user growth  
and monetisation

Opportunity

We are a frontrunner in the Higher Education 
courseware market, with our influence 
underscored by the millions of students 
currently enrolled in courses utilising 
Pearson eTextbooks.

Capitalising on this robust market position, 
our initiatives are outlined in two phases 
over the forthcoming year:

1.  Shift eTextbook consumption directly to 
Pearson+ and improve monetisation

2.  Engage and retain students with 

relevant and valuable services beyond 
eTextbooks, to improve average revenue 
per user, and ultimately consumer 
lifetime value

Pearson+ is currently monetised through 
paid access to eTextbooks by students 
after the faculty adopts content in their 
courses. Our existing Higher Education 
business provides a large, efficient customer 
acquisition funnel for Pearson+. Study 
features, such as Pearson+ Channels, will 
encourage further use of the application 
beyond the eTextbook. Over time, Pearson+ 
users can be further monetised through 
cross-selling other relevant Pearson 
products and services, such as Mondly.

Progress so far

Over 2023 we made significant progress 
advancing our Pearson+ strategy. Most 
notably, we added and enhanced what 
students want, including beta AI study 
features in three titles, improved search, 
simpler e-commerce, and an overall better 
user experience. 

By further developing Channels with video 
content and practice questions this year, 
Pearson+ is an increasingly valuable study 
tool for students in 23 college courses, 
including courses that do not require 
Pearson eTextbooks. To provide increased 
access, we have also bundled together 
Pearson+ eTextbooks and Channels in an 
affordable “Study and Exam Prep Pack”.

For the first time, we saw Pearson+ reach 
1m paid subscriptions in a calendar year, 
with the total number of Pearson+ registered 
users reaching around 5m by the end of the 
2023 calendar year, validating the platforms 
appeal and effectiveness in meeting the 
diverse needs of our audience.

Looking ahead to 2024, we aim to drive 
continued growth by expanding our 
distribution. Additionally, we plan to 
capitalise on the synergies between 
Pearson+ and Higher Education’s 
courseware, in particular the combined 
platform capabilities, and use this as a 
springboard to optimise personalisation  
and diversify our course offerings. As we 
continue to expand our reach and enhance 
the value proposition of Pearson+, these 
initiatives serve as a testament to our 
commitment to innovation and our ability to 
deliver products and services that resonate 
with our user base. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 15

Strategic reportStakeholder engagement

Learning from our stakeholders

As learning evolves into something more fluid and more necessary across our lifetime, the needs of learners are changing too. Our ability 
to meet them at this pivotal moment, depends in part on our ability to engage with and mobilise a diverse group of stakeholders. We are 
building a company that is digital-first and puts the consumer at the heart of all we do. 

Building strong relationships inside and outside Pearson means we can make an impact on the people and communities we serve. In return, all of these stakeholders - consumers, employees, shareholders, 
educators, employers, business partners, and government - can make a positive impact on our business. This year, more than ever, we’ve seen a renewed effort to partner with stakeholders to respond to the 
needs of people as they move through different life stages. 

We all benefit when a cross-section of stakeholders collaborate and come together to meet the needs of learners and to help to drive growth for the company. 

Consumers

Why and how we engage
With our efforts to engage more deeply with consumers, Pearson 
is bringing to life its commitment to put the consumer at the 
heart of everything we do. This helps us more fully understand 
how consumers use our products, perceive the company, and 
feel about the trends driving learning in a digital era. 

We research and engage with consumers holistically, by studying 
how they use our products, how they think, and the culture that 
shapes their behaviour. This includes conducting consumer focus 
groups and ethnographic research, trend and sentiment analysis, 
and competitive analysis. 

In some specific cases, this also includes surveying consumers 
directly via our products. This kind of engagement recently has 
been used in Pearson+ and in Mastering to gauge user opinions 
on the effectiveness of our new generative AI study tools. In 
those cases, students were asked if they believe that the tools 
were helpful in their studies and how likely they were to use 
them again. Product teams for both products have also been 
engaging indirectly with consumers by analysing layers of student 
usage data and testing enhancements based on that. 

Finally, we are making a concerted effort to push consumer 
insights further into the company, through newsletters, employee 
learning sessions, and other resources. This helps us cultivate an 
‘outside-in’ approach to understand the people who buy and use 
our products and services and generates greater awareness of 
the culture and trends impacting our business. 

Outcome of engagement 
Understanding our consumers allows us to be more effective 
in the design and creation of products, along with go-to-market 
strategies and ongoing implementation. 

Consumer feedback has been particularly critical as Pearson 
rolled out its beta of generative AI features in Pearson+ and 
Mastering. Student feedback early in the design process was 
clear in telling us that students wanted AI features that helped 
them obtain better grades. Designers were able to focus on 
the features that would be most effective in doing that. By the 
end of the Autumn 2023 semester, 75% of those using the AI 
study tools ranked them as helpful or very helpful. In Pearson+ 
and Mastering, product managers have been acting on other 
user feedback to improve AI experiences in real time, including 
adjusting tonality to meet student prompts and incorporating 
positive language to encourage students to succeed. Together, 
the feedback before and during the beta will lead to the expansion 
of AI study in at least 40 more Mastering and MyLab titles. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 16  

Strategic reportEducational institutions  
and educators

Why and how we engage
Educators are a cornerstone of our business and they maintain a 
close relationship with learners. Our engagement with educators 
helps to improve the teaching and learning experience, and often 
provides them with valuable professional development and gives 
Pearson insights on the needs of learners at all levels. 

In our Virtual Schools business, part of our Virtual Learning 
division, our annual teacher and school leader conferences bring 
together teachers, school staff, and Pearson teams to attend 
sessions facilitated by experts from across the learning and 
education industry. 

In our US Student Assessment business, we hold working 
sessions with educator committees in customer states as 
assessments are being developed. 

In our Higher Education business, we employ a full-time team of 
active faculty advisors dedicated to supporting instructors in the 
setup and use of our products. Our Higher Education business 
has also conducted two surveys with faculty this year, measuring 
and tracking educator sentiment on the use of generative AI in 
learning. The division runs an ongoing, weekly AI webinar series 
to serve as professional development opportunities for faculty, 
awarding them a Credly badge for their participation.

In the UK, we brought together the perspectives of over 6,000 
educators and 1,000 students to create and release the second 
Pearson School Report. The report takes an in-depth look at life 
in schools and how educators are pioneering change. It shares 
their invaluable insights on challenges, opportunities, diversity, 
equity and inclusion, plus sustainability and digital innovation. 
The report has reached a vast audience through accompanying 
media articles, free support and events. 

Outcome of engagement 
All of our educator engagement leads to a better understanding 
of how products are used in market and also raises the profile 
of Pearson in this important customer segment. Through our 
engagement, we build trust with educators and we help them see 
us as a true partner in their work. 

Many of our more than 2,000 Pearson authors are also educators, 
along with being experts in their fields. They give us valuable  
insights about how their own students use our products. And, they 
help us test new ways of using digital tools in the courseware  
they author. 

Across the board, our work with educators contributes directly 
to the quality of our products. Specifically, our engagement with 
educator committees at the US state level ensures that our US 
school assessments are aligned to state standards and free  
of bias. 

Our Virtual Schools’ conferences ensure that educators learn 
from one another in peer-to-peer engagement, tailoring 
solutions and exploring learnings that support the needs  
of students.

In our Higher Education business, our faculty engagement 
provides ongoing feedback on new AI product features such as 
generative AI and helps us understand how to best tailor those 
features to the needs of faculty and students, helping both 
become more effective users of AI. 

The Pearson Schools report is another example of how listening 
to and engaging with educators builds trust and visibility with this 
important customer group. 

Annual report and accounts 2023  Pearson plc 17

Strategic report