Annual Report 2023

[[Connecting 
the world’s 
most dynamic 
markets]]

Strategic report

We are a leading international  
cross-border bank 

Standard Chartered connects the world’s most dynamic markets, 
serving the businesses that are the engines of global growth and 
supporting people to meet their ambitions. Every day, we help 
clients to manage and invest their finances safely and seamlessly, 
and grow their businesses and wealth with confidence.

Over our 170 year history, and across a unique geographical footprint that 
connects Asia, Africa and the Middle East to each other and the world,  
we’ve built a bank like no other, with diverse capabilities and partnerships  
that set us apart. Inspired by our brand promise, we are here for good.

Financial KPIs1

Non-financial KPIs 2

Return on tangible equity

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

Diversity and inclusion: women in senior roles4

10.1%  240bps

Underlying basis

8.4%  160bps

Reported basis

14.1%  10bps 

Above our 13-14 per cent target range

Total shareholder return

9.4% 2022: 41.4%

32.5%   0.4ppt 

Mobilising Sustainable Finance $

$87.2bn   $29.8bn

Employee net promoter score (eNPS) 

25.86   8.31 points

Other financial measures1, 3

Operating income

Profit before tax

Earnings per share

Tangible net asset value 
per ordinary share

$17,378m   13% 

Underlying basis

$5,678m  

Underlying basis

 27% 

128.9cents   31.0 cents 

Underlying basis

$13.93   12%

$18,019m   10%

Reported basis

$5,093m   24% 

Reported basis

108.6cents   22.7 cents 

Reported basis

Stakeholders

Throughout this report, we use these icons to represent the different stakeholder groups for whom we create value.

Clients

Regulators and 
governments

Investors

Suppliers

Society

Employees

1  Reconciliations from underlying to reported and definitions of alternative performance measures can be found on pages 80 to 87

2  For more information on our culture of inclusion see page 24, and for more on our Sustainability Aspirations see page 66

3  Year-on-Year growth on Operating Income and Profit before tax is on constant currency basis

4  Senior leadership is defined as Managing Directors and Band 4 roles (including Management Team)

In this report

Strategic report
02  Who we are and what we do
04  Where we operate
06  Group Chairman’s statement
10  Group Chief Executive’s review
14   Key performance indicators
16  Market environment
20  Business model
24  Our strategy
26  Our Stands
28  Client segment reviews
Regional reviews
31 
 Group Chief Financial  
34 
Officer’s review

44  Group Chief Risk Officer’s review
 Stakeholders and Sustainability 
52 
overview
 Underlying versus reported results 
reconciliations

80 

86   Alternative performance measures
88   Viability statement

Client segment  
reviews

Sustainability review
Sustainability review
92 
 Sustainability Aspirations
94 
Sustainability Strategic Pillars
99 
 Climate- and sustainability-related 
120 
governance
 Managing Environmental and  
Social Risk

125 

126   Managing Climate Risk
130 

Integrity, conduct and ethics

Directors’ report
136 

 Group Chairman’s governance 
overview

137  Board of Directors
142  Management Team
145  Corporate governance
182  Directors’ remuneration report
208 
217  Other disclosures
229 

 Additional remuneration disclosures

 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

Risk review and Capital review
234  Risk profile
298   Climate risk
314 

 Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework

320  Principal risks
338  Capital review

Independent Auditor’s report

Financial statements 
346 
359  Financial statements
366  Notes to the financial statements

Supplementary information
490 
498 
504 

 Supplementary financial information
 Supplementary people information
 Supplementary sustainability 
information
 Shareholder information

517 
521  Main awards and accolades in 2023
523   Glossary

Regional reviews

p31

Group Chief Executive’s  
review

p28

Our strategy

p52

p24

Stakeholders  
and Sustainability overview

p10

About this report

Sustainability and ESG reporting 
The Group includes Environmental, Social and  
Governance (ESG) and sustainability information in this 
Annual Report, providing investors and stakeholders  
with an understanding of the implications of relevant 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities, and progress 
against our objectives.

We have observed our obligations under: (i) sections 414CA 
and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006; (ii) the UK’s 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules in respect of 
climate-related disclosures; and (iii) the ESG Reporting 
Guide contained in Appendix C2 to the Rules Governing  
the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited. We have made disclosures consistent with 
the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations and recommended disclosures 
throughout this Annual Report.

In preparing this report we have given consideration to  
(but do not align in full with) the guidance provided by  
the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) 
Standards finalised in 2023: IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, noting that 
IFRS S2, although largely based on TCFD, requires a more 
granular level of disclosure. IFRS S1 and S2 are voluntary 
standards and compliance is not yet required in the Group’s 
listing locations. Additionally, we publish an ESG reporting 

index against the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Universal Standards and select GRI Topic Standards, 
and the World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism 
Metrics framework.

 The Group’s sustainability-related 
disclosures can be accessed via  
sc.com/sustainabilityhub 

Alternative performance measures
The Group uses a number of alternative performance 
measures in the discussion of its performance. These 
measures exclude certain items which management 
believes are not representative of the underlying 
performance of the business and which distort 
period-on-period comparison. They provide the reader 
with insight into how management measures the 
performance of the business.

For more information on Standard 
Chartered please visit sc.com

All information presented in the Chairman, CEO and CFO 
statements are on an underlying basis unless otherwise 
stated. A reconciliation from underlying to reported and 
definitions of alternative performance measures can be 
found on pages 80 to 87.

Unless another currency is specified, the word ‘dollar’ or symbol ‘$’ 
in this document means US dollar and the word ‘cent’ or symbol ‘c’ 
means one-hundredth of one US dollar. Disclosures in the 
Strategic report, Sustainability review, Directors’ report, Risk 
review and Capital review and Supplementary information are 
unaudited unless otherwise stated. Unless context requires within 
the document, ‘China’ refers to the People’s Republic of China  
and, for the purposes of this document only, excludes Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong), Macau Special 
Administrative Region (Macau) and Taiwan. ‘Korea’ or ‘South 
Korea’ refers to the Republic of Korea. Asia includes Australia, 
Bangladesh, Brunei, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, 
Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, 
Vietnam, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau, 
Taiwan; Africa and Middle East (AME) includes Bahrain, 
Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ghana, Iraq, Kenya, Mauritius, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, 
Tanzania, UAE, Uganda, and Zambia; and Europe & Americas 
(EA) include Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Falkland Islands, France, 
Germany, Israel, Jersey, Poland, Sweden, Türkiye, the UK, and the 
US. Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that the 
number is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is zero 
and ‘nm’ stands for not meaningful. Standard Chartered PLC is 
incorporated in England and Wales with limited liability, and is 
headquartered in London. The Group’s head office provides 
guidance on governance and regulatory standards. Standard 
Chartered PLC. Stock codes are: LSE STAN.LN and HKSE 02888.

01

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic report 
Who we are 

Who we are  
and what we do

Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity 
through our unique diversity. We serve three client 
segments in three regions, supported by eight 
global functions. 

Our client segments

3. 

1. 

Total operating income

$17,378m

Underlying basis

$18,019m

Reported basis

2. 

Enabling and supporting our businesses

1. Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking
Supporting clients with their transaction 
1. 
banking, financial markets, corporate finance 
and borrowing needs, Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking provides solutions to nearly 
20,000 clients in the world’s fastest-growing 
economies and most active trade corridors.

4. 

3. 

2. Consumer, Private  
& Business Banking
Serving more than 11 million individuals and  
small businesses, Consumer, Private & Business 
Banking focuses on the affluent and emerging 
affluent in many of the world’s fastest-growing 
economies.

2. 

3. Ventures
Ventures promotes innovation, invests in 
disruptive financial technology and explores 
alternative business models. It represents a 
diverse portfolio of over 30 ventures and  
more than 20 investments

4. Central and other items

Operating income

$11,218m
Underlying basis

$11,788m
Reported basis

$7,106m
Underlying basis

$7,151m
Reported basis

$156m
Underlying basis

$156m
Reported basis

$(1,102)m
Underlying basis

$(1,076)m
Reported basis

Our client-facing businesses are supported by our global 
functions, which work together to ensure the Group’s operations 
run smoothly and consistently.

Group Chief Financial Officer 

Legal 

Global functions

Conduct, Financial Crime  
and Compliance 

Partners internally and externally to 
achieve the highest standards in 
conduct and compliance to enable  
a sustainable business and to fight 
financial crime.

Corporate Affairs, Brand  
and Marketing 

Comprises seven support functions: 
Finance, Treasury, Strategy, Investor 
Relations, Corporate Development, 
Supply Chain Management and 
Property. The leaders of these  
functions report directly to the  
Group Chief Financial Officer.

Group Internal Audit 

Manages the Group’s marketing and 
communications and engagement  
with stakeholders to promote and 
protect the Group’s reputation, brand 
and services.

An independent function whose 
primary role is to help the Board  
and Management Team protect the 
assets, reputation and sustainability  
of the Group.

Human Resources 

Maximises the value of investment  
in people through recruitment, 
development and employee 
engagement.

02

Provides legal advice and support  
to the Group to manage legal risks  
and issues.

Risk 

Responsible for the overall second- 
line-of-defence responsibilities related 
to risk management, which involves 
oversight and challenge of risk 
management actions of the first line.

Transformation, Technology  
& Operations

Responsible for leading bank-wide 
transformation and for reshaping  
the Group’s systems and technology 
platforms to ensure we provide robust, 
responsive, and innovative technology 
and digital solutions. Also manages all 
client operations, seeking to provide an 
optimal client service and experience 
across the board. 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic report 
 
 
 
3. 

1. 

2. 

Our regions

4. 

1. 

3. 

Total operating income

$17,378m

Underlying basis

$18,019m

Reported basis

2. 

1. Asia
We are present in 21 markets, including Hong 
Kong and Singapore which contribute the 
highest income.

2. Africa and Middle East
We have a presence in 18 markets of which the 
most sizeable by income are UAE, Pakistan, 
Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and Ghana.

3. Europe and the Americas
Centred in London, with a growing presence 
across continental Europe, and New York,  
we operate in both North America and several 
markets in Latin America. 

4. Central and other items

Operating income

$12,429m
Underlying basis

$12,651m
Reported basis

$2,806m
Underlying basis

$2,924m
Reported basis

$1,397m
Underlying basis

$1,702m
Reported basis

$746m
Underlying basis

$742m
Reported basis

Enabling and supporting our businesses

Valued behaviours

Our valued behaviours are the guiding principles for how  
we work together, and the way we do business, every day.

Never settle

Better together

Do the right thing

•  Continuously improve and innovate

•  See more in others

•  Live with integrity

•  Simplify

•  “How can I help?”

•  Think client

•  Learn from your successes and failures

•  Build for the long term

•  Be brave, be the change

03

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic report 
 
 
 
Asia

We have a long-standing and deep 
franchise in some of the world’s fastest-
growing economies. Our Asia region 
generates two-thirds of our income.  
The two markets contributing the highest 
income are Hong Kong and Singapore.

Australia
Bangladesh
Brunei
Cambodia
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia

Japan
Korea
Laos
Macau
Mainland China
Malaysia
Myanmar

Nepal
Philippines
Singapore
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Vietnam
Taiwan

Read more on page 31

Where we operate

Where we operate

We operate in the world’s most 
dynamic markets which set the 
pace for global growth and 
prosperity. Our unique geographic 
footprint connects high-growth  
and emerging markets in Asia, 
Africa and the Middle East with 
more established economies 
in Europe and the Americas, 
allowing us to channel capital 
to where it’s needed most. 

For more than 170 years, we have 
used the power of our network 
to maximise opportunities for 
people and businesses who trade, 
operate or invest in these regions.

Our diverse experience, capabilities 
and culture set us apart.

[[We are present  
in 52 markets]]

04

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportAfrica and the Middle East

Europe and the Americas

We have a deep-rooted heritage in Africa 
and the Middle East. The United Arab 
Emirates, Pakistan, Kenya, Nigeria,  
South Africa, and Ghana are our largest 
markets by income.

We support clients in Europe and  
the Americas through hubs in London  
and New York and have a strong 
presence in several European and  
Latin American markets.

Bahrain
Botswana
Côte d’Ivoire
Egypt
Ghana
Iraq

Kenya
Mauritius
Nigeria
Oman
Pakistan
Qatar

Saudi Arabia
South Africa
Tanzania
UAE
Uganda
Zambia

Argentina
Brazil
Colombia
Falkland Islands
France

Germany
Israel
Jersey
Poland

Sweden
Türkiye
UK
US

Read more on page 32

Read more on page 33

05

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Group Chairman’s statement

Group Chairman’s  
statement

[[Embedding  
a culture of 
excellence  
to deliver 
sustained  
value]]

Dr José Viñals 
Group Chairman

06

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

During 2023, the Group continued to improve profitability, 
delivering on our objective to achieve a double-digit return on 
tangible equity (RoTE) for the full year. Our high-growth 
markets, where we are intent on making further investment, 
continue to deliver strongly despite an uncertain picture for 
the global economy. 

This performance came against a backdrop of rising interest 
rates in many large economies, which undoubtedly gave a 
strong tailwind for the business. However, it is also a product 
of our clear strategy, discipline and tireless execution – a 
significant achievement for our colleagues, led by our Group 
Chief Executive, Bill Winters, and his Management Team. 
Their skills and dedication remain essential to our 
performance, and my deepest thanks go to all of them. 

We have recently bid a fond farewell to Andy Halford, who 
formally stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer on 
3 January 2024. Since his arrival in the role in 2014, Andy has 
been a much-valued colleague and friend and made a 
phenomenal contribution by helping to steer the business 
through a challenging external environment. Under his watch 
we strengthened our foundations, reset our risk appetite and 
redefined the Group’s strategy. He leaves with our very best 
wishes, and will continue in an advisory role until his retirement 
in August. It is with pleasure that we welcome Diego De Giorgi 
who joins us as Andy’s successor. I am looking forward to 
working closely with Diego and Bill to drive further excellence 
for clients and higher value for shareholders.

Advancing our strategic and financial goals 
I have said before that our objective is to grow income in a 
strong, safe and sustainable manner, while maintaining both 
cost and capital discipline, and I am delighted to say that was 
the case last year. We are confident that our improved RoTE, 
which reached 10.1 per cent in 2023, will be a milestone on the 
way to further long-term success for the Group, underpinned 
by strong performance across the business. We grew income 
13 per cent on a constant currency basis while maintaining a 
strong capital and liquidity position and positive income-to-
cost jaws. We expect our RoTE to steadily increase from  
10 per cent, and are targeting 12 per cent in 2026 and to 
progress thereafter. 

The strength of our financial performance affirms that the 
strategy that we set out in 2021 is working. We remain  
focused on investment in high-growth markets and have 
made significant progress against our strategic priorities 
across Network, Affluent, Mass Retail, and Sustainability. 

I am acutely aware of the underperformance of our share 
price in recent months, which I believe does not reflect  
the progress we are making. Both the Board and the 
Management Team are absolutely focused on delivering 
sustained, long-term value for our shareholders. I believe our 
solid performance in 2023 gives us a good base from which to 
do this. As Bill details in the following pages, we have further 
sharpened the actions we will take to accelerate performance 
and future growth. 

‘We remain focused on investment  
in high-growth markets and have 
made significant progress against  
our strategic priorities’

Firstly, we will continue to rely on our stronger capabilities to 
further enhance returns in our Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking and Consumer, Private & Business 
Banking businesses, with a focus on driving income growth in 
high-returning areas. Secondly, we will improve operational 
leverage within the Group, addressing structural inefficiencies 
and complexities whilst protecting income. Finally, we will 
continue to return substantial capital to shareholders. This 
year, we are pleased to be able to provide an increased 
full-year dividend of 27 cents per share and are announcing  
a further share buyback of $1 billion. 

Alongside the importance of delivering improved financial 
performance, our Purpose and brand promise to be here for 
good remain cornerstones of our business. We are keenly 
aware of our role in supporting our clients and communities  
as they anticipate and respond to economic and social 
challenges. This is why we remain true to our Stands – 
Accelerating Zero, Resetting Globalisation and Lifting 
Participation – which are delivered through the execution  
of our strategy, and which give us an active framework for 
positive impact across our footprint. 

We updated our net zero roadmap in April 2023, committing 
to an absolute emissions target and trajectory for the oil  
and gas sector. In this year’s Annual Report, we disclose the 
targets and science-based methodologies for our financed 
emissions in 11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors identified as 
decarbonisation priorities by the Net Zero Banking Alliance, 
demonstrating our commitment to support the transition of 
the real-world economy.

We have also recently announced our decision to become an 
early adopter of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures, highlighting the rising importance of nature and 
biodiversity as a necessary consideration in sustainability. 
Given that our footprint represents some of the most complex 
and diverse natural capital in the world, working across our 
business and with our clients to preserve, restore and enhance 
nature is critically important.

It is my honour to be able to act as a voice for our Stands on 
behalf of the Group as Co-Chair of the United Nations’ Global 
Investors for Sustainable Development Alliance, as well as at 
various global platforms and by engaging with stakeholders 
across our markets. 

Driving higher standards 
The Board remains committed to firmly embedding a  
culture of excellence across the organisation, building high 
standards through a ‘one bank’ culture of ambition, action 
and accountability that puts our clients at the heart of all  
we do. We are at our best when we harness the full talent  
and potential of the diverse markets in which we operate. 

Both the Board and the Management Team are dedicated to 
maintaining our status as an employer of choice. That means 
offering our colleagues a variety of ways to build their skillset, 
attracting the best talent through our doors with a diverse set 
of career paths within the Group and progressive employee 
policies, such as the standardised parental leave announced 
last year. 

As the world continues to change around us, we also 
recognise the ongoing importance of technology and 
continuous improvement in maintaining our competitive 
edge, and in building an innovation-led culture that  
allows colleagues to try new things within an effective  
and comprehensive risk management framework. We are 
intent on capturing the benefits of new, game-changing 
technologies like artificial intelligence, whilst protecting  
the information and financial security of our clients. 

07

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Group Chairman’s statement

Group Chairman’s statement  
continued

It has been an extremely active year for the Board, with 
frequent in-depth briefings on geopolitical, cyber and  
sectoral risks, and a sharp focus on corporate governance.  
We continue to build out our resilience in both the financial 
and non-financial dimensions of risk and compliance across 
our varied markets. This gives us the confidence to achieve  
our strategic goals and act decisively to grasp new  
business opportunities. 

We continue to maintain a diverse range of skillsets and 
backgrounds on our Board. Jasmine Whitbread, a long-
standing director and impactful former chair of the Culture 
and Sustainability Committee, stepped down from the  
Board at last year’s AGM. As announced on 16 February  
2024, Gay Huey Evans will step down from the Board with 
effect from 29 February 2024 after serving nine years and 
contributing significantly to the Board and its Committees, 
especially as Chair of the former Board Financial Crime Risk 
Committee. Carlson Tong, another much-valued Board 
member, will step down from the Board on 9 May 2024,  
ahead of the AGM. I would like to thank Jasmine, Gay and 
Carlson for their many contributions during their time with us.

On 16 February 2024, we announced that Diane Jurgens  
will join the Board from 1 March 2024. Diane is a highly 
experienced and respected technologist who will bring 
significant technology and transformation expertise and 
insight to the Board having operated across a variety of 
sectors and the Group’s key markets.

Our dynamic markets
In 2023 I continued to spend time across our markets, seeing 
their dynamism first-hand and experiencing the ambition of 
our colleagues as they work together for greater growth. 

Guided by our Purpose – to drive commerce and prosperity 
through our unique diversity – we are investing heavily in 
fast-growing economies and trade corridors in Asia, Africa 
and the Middle East, and bringing innovative digital products 
to new clients. A good example of this is Solv, our e-commerce 
platform for small and medium-size enterprises. We’re also 
positioning ourselves to be a positive force in the expansion of 
sectors that will deliver a more sustainable global economy, 
like renewables and electric vehicles. 

I’m more confident than ever that we are investing in the  
right places for strong, safe and sustainable growth, and in 
our role as a connector bank in an ever more complex and 
fragmenting world. We provide our clients with the right 
solutions gained from deep experience of our markets, and 
continue to be a trusted partner for them as they look to seize 
opportunities across our footprint.

‘I’m more confident than ever  
that we’re investing in the right  
places for strong, safe and  
sustainable growth, and in our role  
as a connector bank in an ever  
more complex, fragmenting world’

08

Looking ahead with confidence 
We expect to see a ‘soft landing’ for the world economy in 
2024. This is no small achievement as we have witnessed the 
most aggressive period of monetary policy tightening in 
decades. This, plus other favourable supply side developments 
have led to a fall in inflation in most countries, engendering 
expectations of official interest rate cuts in many economies 
this year. Growth, in turn, remains resilient, with emerging 
markets expected to keep growing considerably faster  
than developed economies, and Asia continuing to lead 
global growth. 

However, one cannot be complacent about the years ahead. 
The ‘last mile’ of inflation may prove stickier than expected, 
and geopolitical risks abound. As we begin 2024, the war 
between Ukraine and Russia continues, increasing uncertainty 
for nations in Europe and elsewhere. We see renewed conflict 
in the Middle East, bringing tragedy to many communities 
and disruption to the Red Sea, a key chokepoint in global 
supply chains.  

2024 is also a year of major elections in the United States, 
India and probably the United Kingdom, as well as other 
markets in our footprint. These all have the potential to affect 
the economic situation.  

With so much at stake, we must take care not to needlessly 
damage the means of growth and wealth creation. I have 
frequently spoken in defence of open, rules-based trade  
as a lynchpin of global economic growth. This year, the 
challenges around it remain powerful, with the risk of further 
fragmentation. 

I believe the system of global trade that has been created 
with such care over many decades is one of humanity’s 
foremost achievements. It is not perfect by any means, but  
it has arguably brought more opportunity and prosperity to  
a greater number of people than any other force in history.  
Like every intricate system, it is easy to damage and hard  
to rebuild. Safeguarding and making it more inclusive and 
sustainable requires constant vigilance and cooperation from 
policymakers, legislators, and the private sector in an evolved, 
modernised multilateral system.

While the external landscape remains uncertain, we are 
confident that we are well positioned to navigate the 
challenges and seize the opportunities ahead. Our results  
in 2023 show we are doing just that. We remain focused on 
continuing to deliver excellence for our clients, and sustained 
value for shareholders, in 2024 and beyond.  

Dr José Viñals 
Group Chairman

23 February 2024

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023S
S
t
t
r
r
a
a
t
t
e
e
g
g
i
i
c
c
r
r
e
e
p
p
o
o
r
r
t
t

[[Standard Chartered and 
IFC aim to boost global 
trade by more than  
$6 billion]] 

In April, we signed a deal to invest $700 million in the IFC’s Global Trade 
Liquidity Programme, which is expected to support up to $6.4 billion in trade 
over three years across Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. 

The deal is a renewal of a facility first launched in 2009 and has supported  
$20.5 billion in global trade through more than 150 Emerging Market Issuing  
Banks in 37 countries.

Read more at sc.com/IFC

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

09

 
 
Strategic report Group Chief Executive’s review

Group Chief  
Executive’s review

[[Delivering 
sustainably 
higher returns]]

Bill Winters  
Group Chief Executive

10

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

We produced strong results in 2023, demonstrating the value  
of our franchise and delivering our target to push past the  
10 per cent Return on Tangible Equity (‘RoTE’) milestone. But  
10 per cent is not the extent of our ambition. We have the right 
strategy, business model and intent to build on this momentum. 
We have set out clear actions to deliver sustainably higher 
returns, with RoTE increasing steadily from 10 per cent, 
targeting 12 per cent in 2026, and to progress thereafter.

Full year 2023 income of $17.4 billion was up 13 per cent on a 
constant currency basis, benefitting not only from rising interest 
rates but also encouraging underlying business momentum. 
Good cost discipline has enabled us to generate significantly 
positive income-to-cost jaws of 4 per cent for the year, even 
with continued underlying investment. Loan impairment 
declined, primarily due to reduced impairments from China 
commercial real estate and sovereign risks, with the overall 
portfolio remaining resilient. All this has helped us grow 
underlying profit before tax 27 per cent year-on-year, to 
$5.7 billion, the highest level for ten years. 

We remain highly liquid and strongly capitalised. We finished 
the year with a Common Equity Tier 1 (‘CET1’) ratio of 14.1 per 
cent, above the top of our target range, allowing us to increase 
our full year ordinary dividend by 50 per cent to 27 cents per 
share. We undertook in February 2022 to return over $5 billion  
to shareholders by the end of 2024. With this full year dividend 
and the $1 billion share buyback announced today, we will have 
exceeded that target well ahead of schedule. 

As we start the new year, I would like to take a moment to  
thank my friend and much valued colleague, Andy Halford, 
who decided to retire this year. Andy has been a great partner 
to me and the Board and has successfully helped steer the 
Group over the last ten years. I’d also like to extend a warm 
welcome to Diego De Giorgi as he takes over as the Group 
Chief Financial Officer. Diego brings with him over 30 years of 
financial services experience and I am sure he will continue to 
build on the progress we have made.

Our strategy is driving success
Our strategy is designed to deliver our Purpose: to drive 
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. We set 
out four strategic priorities in early 2021: continue to grow our 
Network and Affluent client businesses, return to growth in 
Mass Retail and advance on all fronts of our Sustainability 
agenda. We are making good progress in every area.

•  Income from our cross-border Network business grew  
31 per cent in 2023, with standout growth rates in our  
China offshore corridors to the Middle East and ASEAN,  
up 67 per cent and 53 per cent respectively

•  We increased the total number of Affluent clients to 

2.3 million. This helped drive significantly higher levels of  
net new money in 2023, with net inflows of $29 billion,  
up 50 per cent, year-on-year, and deliver 24 per cent growth 
in income from this client segment

•  We grew our Mass Retail client base by over 1 million to 

9.5 million. We have continued to grow our digital banks,  
Mox in Hong Kong and Trust in Singapore. They remain two 
of the fastest growing digital banks globally and underline 
our ability to partner and launch differentiated customer 
propositions. The Mass Retail business also serves a valuable 
strategic purpose as a pipeline for future Affluent clients,  
with 224,000 of our Mass Retail clients moving up to Affluent 
clients in 2023

•  Our dedicated Chief Sustainability Office unit acts as a 

centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution of the 
Group-wide Sustainability strategy and the achievement  
of our net zero roadmap, further details of which are set out  
in the Annual Report. Our Sustainable Finance franchise 
generated over $0.7 billion income in 2023, a year-on-year 
growth rate of 42 per cent and we are well on our way to 
deliver a billion dollars in income by 2025. We have mobilised 
$87 billion of sustainable finance since the beginning of  
2021, making good progress as we advance towards our 
$300 billion target by 2030

Great execution on our 2022 strategic actions
We set out five actions in 2022 designed to accelerate delivery 
of double-digit RoTE. The strong execution of these actions over 
the last two years, where we have either achieved our targets 
ahead of plan or they are well on track, has enabled us to reach 
that milestone in 2023.

•  We are ahead of schedule to drive improved returns in 

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (‘CCIB’). We 
targeted around 160 basis points improvement in income 
return on risk-weighted assets (‘IRoRWA’) to 6.5 per cent in 
2024. The team exceeded this target in 2023, delivering an 
IRoRWA of 7.8 per cent. This was driven by particularly strong 
growth in income from Financial Institution clients, which now 
accounts for 49 per cent of CCIB income, delivering close to 
the 50 per cent target one year early. The team has also 
successfully executed $24 billion in risk-weighted assets 
optimisation over the last two years, exceeding the target  
of $22 billion. The completion of the sale of the Aviation 
Finance business also created further capacity for CCIB to 
grow higher returning business

•  We are also ahead of our 2024 target to transform 

profitability in Consumer, Private and Business Banking 
(‘CPBB’). The team has achieved its 60 per cent cost-to-
income target one year ahead of plan, with a nine-
percentage point improvement in 2023. They have delivered 
$0.4 billion of structural expense savings from rationalising 
the branch network, process re-engineering, headcount 
efficiencies and further automation

•  We have continued to seize the China opportunity, with our 
China-related business performing well, despite post-COVID 
domestic recovery tracking below expectations. We set a 
target of doubling the operating profit before tax of our 
onshore and offshore China business by the end of 2024  
and we almost achieved that in 2023, generating $1.3 billion. 
This was driven primarily by offshore-related income, which 
delivers significantly higher returns, growing 42 per cent.  
Our onshore income, despite the domestic headwinds, grew 
4 per cent. Looking forward, we continue to be confident  
in the long-term opportunities that China re-opening will 
generate for our unique franchise

•  We continued to create operational leverage, and are on 
track to deliver the three-year $1.3 billion expense savings 
target, which has helped us absorb inflationary pressure  
and continue to invest. Our cost-to-income ratio is down  
7 percentage points since the end of 2021 to 63 per cent for 
2023, so we are well advanced towards our target of around 
60 per cent by 2024

•  Our equity generation and discipline on risk-weighted assets 
this year have created capacity for us to continue to deliver 
substantial shareholder distributions. With the final ordinary 
share dividend for 2023 and a new $1 billion share buyback 
programme starting imminently, means we are well ahead  
of our total target of returning in excess of $5 billion by the 
end of 2024. We will continue to actively manage the Group’s 
capital position with the target of a further capital return of 
at least $5 billion over the next three years

11

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Group Chief Executive’s review

Group Chief Executive’s review  
continued

Building on our achievements to deliver 
sustainably higher returns
Our unique footprint across the world’s most dynamic markets 
gives us a strategic advantage and underpins my confidence 
that we can continue to grow even in a less supportive interest 
rate environment. Our objective is to ensure that income 
growth translates into structurally higher profitability, striking  
a balance between maintaining the diversity that our clients 
value, while taking out unnecessary complexity that slows us 
and drags returns. 

We are therefore taking further action in each of our three 
client businesses to drive income growth:

•  In CCIB, we will seek to drive growth in high-returning 

businesses such as cross-border income, targeting an 8 to 
10 per cent underlying growth rate over the next three years. 
Additionally, building on our strength as a top two network 
trade bank, we are targeting to grow Trade and Working 
Capital income by 6 to 8 per cent between 2024 and 2026. 
The team is also driving growth in financing related income 
(Global Credit and Lending) with a particular focus on 
accelerating the originate to distribute strategy, targeting  
an 8 to 10 per cent CAGR to 2026

•  In CPBB, we will build on our strengths in the Affluent client 
business, targeting to attract over $80 billion of net new 
money over the next three years, a 19 per cent increase from 
the previous three years. We also intend on accelerating the 
growth in our international client business, with the target of 
increasing the number of international Affluent clients from 
274,000 to over 375,000 by 2026

•  Building on the remarkable momentum in our two digital 
banks, Mox and Trust, we are targeting for the Ventures 
segment to be RoTE accretive by 2026

By executing these actions, we expect to grow income at a 
compound annual rate of between 5 and 7 per cent over the 
next three years, well above the anticipated rate of growth for 
the global economy. 

We are also taking action to transform the way we operate, 
addressing structural inefficiencies and complexity whilst 
protecting income. Starting this year, we will run a bank-wide 
programme called Fit for Growth, to accelerate our previous 
efforts to simplify, standardise and digitise our business. We will 
fundamentally improve our productivity, client and employee 
experience and create capacity to reinvest in incremental 
growth initiatives.

This programme will save around $1.5 billion of cumulative 
expenses over the next three years and we expect to incur a 
similar amount in terms of the cost to achieve these permanent 
organisational and financial benefits. This will help us to deliver 
positive income-to-cost jaws in each of the next three years 
and keep operating expenses below $12 billion in 2026. 

Continuing to deliver strong income growth, combined  
with improving operational leverage and maintaining our 
responsible approach to risk and capital, means we expect 
RoTE to increase steadily from 10 per cent, targeting 12 per cent 
in 2026 and to progress thereafter.

12

Uniquely positioned and confident in the future
We are in a privileged position to take advantage of significant 
growth opportunities that will continue to come from the 
markets in our footprint, generating value for our clients and 
the communities in which we operate. 

Whilst we expect global growth to stay below potential at  
2.9 per cent in 2024, as high interest rates put a drag on 
consumers as well as investment spending, Asia is likely to be 
the fastest-growing region continuing to drive global growth, 
expanding by 4.9 per cent. Easing inflation is likely to allow 
major central banks to start cutting rates in the second half of 
2024, with a focus on supporting softening economic activity. 

Downside risks to this outlook include a sharper than expected 
slowdown in major economies, sustained inflationary pressures, 
a sluggish housing market in China and increased geopolitical 
tensions. But we also see significant opportunities emerging:

•  Higher capex to meet sustainability targets and moves 
towards digitalisation could boost productivity growth

•  Within emerging markets, countries in Asia are best placed 
to take advantage of digitalisation, including generative AI

•  Relatively younger populations, as well as the adoption of 
digital technology, will allow emerging markets to become 
increasingly important to global growth

Our share price reflects little of our optimism about prospects 
and seems heavily influenced by the downside concerns 
mentioned above. The concerns are real, and we take them 
seriously. We maintain a strong capital position and liquidity to 
absorb any adverse impact on us and our clients. We believe 
that the value of our franchise will become increasingly clear  
to the broader market as we continue to grow our profits  
and exceed market expectations in those very areas of  
most concern.

In conclusion: significant progress with ambition 
for more
We delivered a strong performance in 2023, achieving our 
10 per cent RoTE milestone, while maintaining a strong  
balance sheet and a robust capital position. But we know  
we must do more. 

We have made significant progress on our five strategic 
actions, with most targets either delivered ahead of plan or  
well on track, providing a strong platform to grow and drive 
sutainably higher returns. And while much external uncertainty 
persists, we are optimistic for the markets and strength of our 
businesses in our footprint. But we are far from complacent, and 
my Management Team and I remain focused on delivering on 
our targets, seizing the growth opportunities we have, driving a 
culture of excellence and creating exceptional long-term value 
for our clients, shareholders and communities.

Finally, I would like to acknowledge the remarkable efforts of 
our colleagues again this year. Their impressive dedication to 
our customers and the communities that we serve help to 
manifest our brand promise to be here for good.

Bill Winters 
Group Chief Executive

23 February 2024

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Management Team

1.

5.

9.

2.

6.

3.

7.

4.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 Bill Winters  
Group Chief Executive

 Diego De Giorgi  
Group Chief Financial Officer

 Simon Cooper  
CEO, Corporate, Commercial  
& Institutional Banking and  
Europe & Americas

 Claire Dixon  
Group Head, Corporate Affairs,  
Brand and Marketing

 Judy Hsu  
CEO, Consumer, Private  
and Business Banking

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

 Mary Huen 
CEO, Hong Kong and Cluster  
CEO for Hong Kong, Taiwan  
and Macau

 Benjamin Hung  
CEO, Asia

 Tanuj Kapilashrami  
Group Head, Human Resources 

 Sunil Kaushal 
CEO, Africa & Middle East

10. 

 Roel Louwhoff  
Chief Technology, Operations  
and Transformation Officer

11. 

 Tracey McDermott, CBE  
Group Head, Conduct,  
Financial Crime and Compliance

12. 

 Sandie Okoro  
Group General Counsel 

13. 

 Sadia Ricke  
Group Chief Risk Officer

14. 

 Paul Day* 
Group Head, Internal Audit

* 

 Paul represents Group Internal  
Audit as an invitee at Management  
Team meetings

13

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report

Key performance indicators

Key performance indicators

We measure our progress against Group key performance indicators 
(KPIs), as detailed below, as well as client KPIs, which can be found on 
pages 28 to 30. Our Group KPIs include non-financial measures reflecting 
our commitment to build an engaged, diverse and inclusive culture and 
support social and environmental outcomes.

Financial KPIs

Underlying return on  
tangible equity (RoTE)1,2 % 

Alignment to  
remuneration 

Common Equity  
Tier 1 ratio % 

Alignment to  
remuneration 

+240bps 

+10bps 

2023

20222

20212

2020

2019

10.1%

7.7%

6.5%

3.0%

6.4%

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

14.1%

14.0%

14.1%

14.4%

13.8%

Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the Group’s 
profitability as a percentage of the value of shareholders’ 
tangible equity.

Progress in 2023 Our strategy to drive improved levels of 
return on tangible equity (RoTE) is working. RoTE for the  
year of 10.1 per cent is 240 basis points higher year-on-year.

1  The underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders expressed as  

a percentage of average ordinary shareholders’ tangible equity.

2   2021-2022 have been restated to reflect market and business exits 

announced in 1Q’23.

Aim Maintain a strong capital base and Common Equity 
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio.

Progress in 2023 The Group remains well capitalised and 
highly liquid with a CET1 ratio of 14.1 per cent above our 
target range, enabling the Board to announce a 50 per cent 
increase in the full-year dividend and a further $1 billion share 
buyback programme to start imminently.

The components of the Group’s capital are 
summarised in the Capital review on page 338 to 343.

Total shareholder return (TSR)¹ %  

9.4% 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

14

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Alignment to  
remuneration 

Aim Deliver a positive return on shareholders’ investment 
through share price appreciation and dividends paid.

Progress in 2023 Our TSR for the full year was 9.4%.

1  Combines simple share price appreciation with dividends paid to show  

the total return to the shareholder and is expressed as a percentage total  
return to shareholders.

9.4%

41.4%

(2.0)%

(34.6)%

20.2%

 
Alignment to remuneration
Reward for all Group employees, including executive 
directors, continues to be aligned to the Group’s strategic 
priorities, through our annual and long-term incentive 
scorecards. Our approach to remuneration is consistent 
for all employees and is designed to create alignment with 
our Fair Pay Charter, which applies globally. However, our 
pay structures may vary according to location (to comply 
with local requirements). Variable remuneration falls into 
two categories: annual incentive and a long-term incentive 
plan (LTIP) which are aligned to the KPIs indicated:

  Annual incentive is based on measurable 

performance criteria linked to the Group’s strategy 
and assessed over a period of one year.

  LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have 

the ability to influence the long-term performance 
of the Group. Awards are performance dependent 
based on measurable, long-term criteria.

Read more in our Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 182 to 216

S
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

Non-financial KPIs

Diversity and inclusion:  
Women in senior roles1 %

+0.4ppt 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

Alignment to  
remuneration 

Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance1,2 $

Alignment to  
remuneration 

+$29.8bn 

2023

2022

2021  The Group announced this target in Q4 2021.

$87.2bn^

$57.4bn

32.5%

32.1%

30.7%

29.5%

28.5%

Aim Increase representation of women in senior leadership 
roles¹ to 35 per cent by 2025.

Aim Cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation 
target between 2021 and 2030.

Progress in 2023 In 2023, the proportion of senior leadership 
roles occupied by women has increased to 32.5 per cent.  
This is up by 0.4 percentage points from December 2022  
(32.1 per cent) and 7 percentage points since December 2016 
(25.3 per cent).

1  Senior leadership is defined as Managing Director and Band 4 roles 

(including Management Team).

Progress in 2023 We made strong progress against this 
target during the year, see more on page 94.

1  Defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients which 

supports: (i) the preservation, and/or improvement of biodiversity, nature or 
the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, 
including the alignment of a client’s business and operations with a 
1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social 
purpose ; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability 
objectives (known as sustainability-linked finance)

2  Figures reflect cumulative Sustainable Finance mobilised since January  
2021 up to September of each year. Values noted with a caret symbol (^)  
are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at  
sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Alignment to  
remuneration 

Employee net promoter score (eNPS)1 

+8.31points 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

25.86

17.55

12.94

17.51

11.51

Aim Improve the overall employee experience across the 
Group by creating a better work environment for our 
colleagues that should translate into an improved client 
experience.

Progress in 2023 The eNPS score is up by 8.31 points to 25.86,  
which is our highest ever score.

1  eNPS ranges from -100 to +100 and is based on a single question which 
measures whether colleagues would recommend working for the Bank.  
It is calculated by deducting percentage of detractors from percentage  
of promoters.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

15

 
 
Strategic report Market environment

Market environment

Macroeconomic factors affecting the global landscape

Global macro trends

Trends  
in 2023

Outlook  
for 2024

Medium- 
and long- 
term view 

•  Global GDP growth continued to slow in 2023, 
likely to 3.1 per cent, from 3.5 per cent in 2022, 
as central banks continue to tighten policy and 
the boost from post-pandemic reopening of 
economies faded.

•  Asia was the best-performing region, recording 
growth of 5.1 per cent, on strong momentum in 
India and favourable base effects in China. Sub-
Saharan Africa likely saw growth of 3 per cent in 
2023, nearly unchanged from 2022, supported by 
domestic reform momentum in key economies.

•  Among the majors, despite a banking-sector crisis 
in the first half of the year, the US recorded annual 
growth of 2.5 per cent on the back of resilient 
domestic demand, while growth slowed sharply in 
the UK to 0.1 per cent.

•  Global growth is likely to stay below-trend at 

2.9 per cent in 2024 as high interest rates drag on 
consumers as well as investment spending.

•  Asia will likely be the fastest-growing region and 

will continue to drive global growth, expanding by 
4.9 per cent. Among the majors, the US is expected 
to experience below-trend growth of 1.8 per cent 
in 2024, the UK will grow just 0.1%, while the euro 
area is likely to see an overall modest expansion of 
0.6 per cent.

•  Easing inflation is likely to allow major central 

banks to start cutting rates from Q2 2024, with a 
focus on supporting softening economic activity.

•  The euro-area economy grew by 0.5 per cent 
in 2023 following 3.4 per cent growth in 2022, 
supported by household demand and a positive 
contribution from exports in H1.

• 

In most majors, labour markets remained strong, 
with low unemployment rates that helped support 
consumer confidence.

•  Major central banks like the Fed and ECB 

continued to tighten monetary policy in the first 
three quarters of 2023 with a view to bringing 
inflation back to target levels. Fiscal policy 
remained accommodative as governments tried 
to shield consumers and businesses from still 
elevated prices.

•  Unfavourable global liquidity conditions are likely 
to make it difficult for some emerging markets to 
access international financing, forcing them to 
seek multilateral support.

•  Downside risks to this outlook include a sharper 
than expected slowdown in major economies, 
sustained inflationary pressures, a sluggish 
housing market in China, and another flare-up of 
geopolitical tensions.

High interest rate environment
•  Trade fragmentation and heightened geopolitical 
risks and related supply disruptions together with 
still resilient labour markets have the potential to 
keep inflation elevated over the medium term.

•  Concerns about inflation are likely to see central 

banks adopting a cautious approach to monetary 
easing,  with the risk that rates stay elevated for 
an extended period of time.

•  Fiscal policy might also turn from a tailwind 
to a headwind for growth. High public debt 
and government deficits also mean that most 
economies are looking to tighten fiscal policy over 
the medium term. 

•  There may be adverse environmental, agricultural, 
and economic consequences of a severe El Niño 
weather cycle. South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa 
economies are most at risk from the impact on 
agricultural production; and although El Niño has 
varying impacts on GDP growth, it is inflationary 
for most economies. 

Broader global trends
•  The world economy could see a permanent loss of 
economic output or ‘scarring’ due to the recession 
following the pandemic. This would make it harder 
for emerging markets to catch up with developed 
markets.

•  Long-term growth in the developed world is 

constrained by ageing populations and high levels 
of debt, exacerbated by the policy response to 
COVID-19.

•  Rising nationalism, anti-globalisation and 

protectionism are threats to long-term growth 
prospects in emerging markets.

•  However, there are potential offsets. Higher 

capex to meet sustainability targets, and moves 
towards digitalisation could boost productivity 
growth, proving an antidote to economic scarring 
concerns. Within emerging markets, countries 
in Asia are best placed to take advantage of 
digitalisation, including generative artificial 
intelligence (AI).

•  Growing trade fragmentation could undermine 

the resilience of globalisation, driving up consumer 
prices, and slowing the pace of economic 
convergence for emerging markets.

•  Relatively younger populations, and the adoption 
of digital technology, will allow emerging markets 
to become increasingly important to global 
growth.

• 

In order to meet net zero targets, energy-related 
spending will have to increase significantly; 
headwinds include insufficient funds across 
emerging markets, labour shortages and supply 
chain constraints.

16

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Regional outlook

Asia

•  China’s economic activity remains below potential, leaving room 
for further recovery. We forecast 2024 growth at 4.8 per cent. The 
post-COVID recovery has been disappointing, due to continuing 
contraction of the property sector, a negative contribution from 
foreign trade, and a lack of confidence on the part of consumers 
and private businesses. While GDP growth picked up to 5.2 per cent 
in 2023 on the reopening boost, policy support and a favourable 
base, economic activity is currently 2–3 percentage points below 
trend according to our estimate. We expect the government to set 
a growth target of around 5 per cent in 2024, the same as in 2023, to 
narrow the negative output gap and prevent deflation expectation 
from becoming entrenched.

•  While housing market adjustment will likely continue, we expect 
it to exert less of a drag on growth next year. The authorities 
have turned more supportive of the sector since the July Politburo 
meeting, relaxing purchase restrictions, lowering mortgage rates, 
accelerating renovation of urban villages, and pledging to meet 
reasonable financing need from eligible property developers. 
Consumption is likely to remain the key driver of the economy, with 
consumers showing renewed willingness to draw on their excess 
savings. The easing bias of macro policies is likely to remain to 
consolidate the recovery. We expect the People’s Bank of China to 
increasingly rely on expansion of its balance sheet to inject ample 
liquidity, keeping the credit condition relatively easy. The official 
budget deficit may exceed the implicit ceiling of 3 per cent of GDP, 
with the central government more willing to share the debt burden. 
However, the upside is likely to be capped by private sector’s 
hesitation to expand investment.

•  Hong Kong’s outlook remains challenging. We expect growth to 
slow to 2.9 per cent in 2024 from 3.2 per cent in 2023, a reflection 
of still cautious household and business sentiment. The positive 
factors, including a continued normalisation in tourist arrivals and 
a persistently tight labour market, may not be sufficient to offset 
a weak property market and elevated US interest rates that keep 
weighing on investment appetite. We expect Korea’s growth to 
accelerate to 2.1 per cent from 1.4 per cent in 2023, benefiting from 
a potential upcycle of semiconductors, but prolonged high-interest 
rates and rising commodity prices will adversely affect Korean 
consumption and construction investment.

• 

In India, we expect FY25 (year beginning April 2024) GDP growth 
to likely moderate to 6.3 per cent vs 6.8 per cent for FY24 amid 
slower global growth, higher interest rates and slowing consumer 
demand . However, the growth dynamics are likely to stay strong. 
Rising real wages are likely to support rural demand and we expect 
private capex recovery post national elections in April/May 2024; 
the current ruling party is widely expected to return to power. 
Meanwhile, inflation pressures are expected to ease slightly to 5 per 
cent in FY25 vs 5.4 per cent in FY24. Hence, we see a shallow rate cut 
cycle of 50 bps starting June 2024 amid easing global rates. Ample 
foreign exchange (FX) reserves and yet another year of balance 
of payment surplus led by index inclusion related inflows, remain 
a strong buffer for the economy and are likely to limit FX market 
volatility. The key risks to our view can emanate from higher oil 
prices and/or tighter global financial conditions.

Actual and projected growth by market in 2023 and 2024 %

China

2024

2023

Hong Kong

2024

Korea

India

2023

2024

2023

2024

2023

Indonesia

2024

2023

Singapore

2024

2023

4.8%
5.2%

2.9%
3.2%

2.1%
1.4%

6.3%
6.8%

5.2%
5.1%

2.6%
1.1%

•  While global demand may remain soft in 2024, we expect the 

external drag on externally oriented economies in Association of 
South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), including Singapore, Vietnam, 
Malaysia and Thailand, to be more moderate due to favourable 
base effects. In addition, a bottoming of the global electronics cycle 
may help these economies, though we do not expect a significant 
recovery given weak external demand and uncertainty. Domestic 
activity may see consumption and investment sentiment partly 
affected by higher interest rates and still-high inflation earlier in 
the year. But potential rate cuts and easing inflation in H2 and likely 
stable labour markets should provide support. Election spending in 
Indonesia may also provide a boost to consumption earlier in the 
year. Tourism recovery may continue to bolster growth in 2024 but 
the support may be fading. Inflation is expected to moderate in 
2024 on favourable base effects and tighter monetary policies but 
upside risks arise from potentially higher food and energy prices, 
especially with the latest developments in the Middle East. 

•  Monetary policy in the region may remain tight for longer given 

upside risks to inflation, and this poses a downside risk to economic 
growth, but some easing is expected in H2 which will help support 
growth sentiment. On balance, growth may remain somewhat 
subdued and similar to 2023, but lower inflation and rate cuts in H2 
may help offset a weaker H1.

See our regional performance on page 31

17

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Market environment

Market environment
continued

Regional outlook continued

Africa and the  
Middle East

Europe and  
the Americas

Actual and projected growth by market in 2023 and 2024 %

Actual and projected growth by market in 2023 and 2024 %

Nigeria

2024

UAE

2023

2024

2023

UK

USA

3.5%
2.7%

4.0%
2.7%

2024

2023

2024

2023

0.1%
0.1%

1.8%
2.5%

•  For Sub-Saharan Africa, external factors remain a key headwind. 
Constrained or more expensive access to external financing is 
a challenge, especially given a concentration of external debt 
maturities in the years ahead. Scaled-up multilateral support for 
emerging and frontier economies is likely to be a partial mitigant. 
Whether the US  can avoid a hard landing will be key to risk 
appetite. FX liquidity remains an issue, although encouragingly 
FX reforms are now underway in key markets. Higher oil prices 
may increase pressures. Common Framework debt restructuring 
progress in Zambia and Ghana remains key to economic prospects, 
as they look to build resilience to further shocks. 

• 

In Nigeria, with a new cabinet and central bank leadership in place, 
we expect fuel subsidy and FX reforms to be completed in 2024. 
New investment in LNG production and a scaling up of domestic 
refining capacity should add to economic resilience.  In South 
Africa, while load shedding has improved, port and rail bottlenecks 
may hold back growth. In Kenya, increased concessional financing 
and a partial refinancing of the 2024 Eurobond have eased 
external liquidity concerns, but fiscal consolidation will be key to 
stabilising high debt levels. 

•  Higher for longer rates, higher commodity prices and elevated 
regional tensions highlight the divergence between MENAP oil 
exporting and oil importing economies. The Gulf Cooperation 
Council (GCC) is likely to continue using oil windfalls to reverse the 
deterioration in government balance sheets stemming from the 
late-2014 and 2020 oil price shocks. The UAE, Oman and Qatar 
have committed to de-leveraging alongside the rebuilding of 
external buffers. In Saudi Arabia, drawdowns at the Central Bank 
continue to support growing Public Investment Fund assets; robust 
domestic investment and execution of giga-projects aim to expand 
potential in the non-oil economy. Headline growth in Saudi Arabia 
may be modest, given extension of oil output cuts. However, GCC 
non-oil growth remains robust against external headwinds, aided 
by lower levels of domestic inflation.

See our regional performance on page 32

•  The US economy has been resilient in the face of sustained 

monetary policy tightening. But as credit growth slows, housing 
affordability weakens and delinquencies rise as higher rates feed 
through to the real economy, and we expect a slowdown in growth 
over the course of 2024. In the euro area, we expect growth to be 
elusive until rate cuts start in Q2, before picking up modestly in H2.

•  Headline inflation has fallen sharply for both the US and Euro area, 
but core inflation still remains off target. Central banks will remain 
alert to any signs of renewed upside risks to inflation, stemming 
from ongoing tight labour markets and geopolitical tensions.

•  The Fed and ECB have likely completed their rate-hiking cycles. 
Lower inflation leaves room for cuts from both central banks 
beginning in Q2; we expect the Fed to deliver 100bps and the  
ECB to deliver 125bps by end-2024.

•  There is likely to be less of a tailwind to growth in Europe from 
fiscal policy as new fiscal rules and higher interest rates force 
consolidation of budget deficits, and programmes introduced 
during the 2022–2023 energy crisis come to an end. The US 
economy has benefitted from fiscal support for infrastructure 
investment, but this impulse is likely to fade in 2024.

• 

In Latin America, weakening domestic demand, and a downtrend 
in inflation should support further monetary easing by the region’s 
central banks, most of which have already started rate cuts.  
Lower interest rates are likely to support better recovery in H2 2024, 
although sluggish external demand and tight global financial 
conditions could be headwinds. 

See our regional performance on page 33

18

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report

Section heading

S
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

[[Zodia Custody and 
Zodia Markets flourish 
in 2023]] 

SC Ventures backed, UK-based Zodia Custody and Zodia 
Markets both continued to grow in 2023. Zodia Custody – an 
institution first digital asset custodian – launched in Australia, 
Hong Kong, Japan, Luxembourg and Singapore and secured 
$36 million in Series A funding. Meanwhile, Zodia Markets – a 
digital asset brokerage and exchange platform - expanded 
into UAE and was registered as a Virtual Asset Service Provider 
with the Central Bank of Ireland. 

Read more at zodiamarkets.com and zodia.io

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

19

19

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic report 
Strategic report

Business model

Business model

Our business

We help corporates and financial 
institutions connect and maximise 
opportunities across our global 
network, and we support individuals 
and local businesses in growing 
their wealth.

Corporate, Commercial 
and Institutional Banking 
(CCIB)

Consumer, Private and 
Business Banking  
(CPBB)

We support large corporates and financial 
institutions across the world’s most  
dynamic markets, helping unlock growth 
opportunities and create sustainable value.

We support small and medium-sized 
enterprises and individuals, from Mass Retail 
clients to Affluent including high-net-worth 
individuals, both digitally and in person.

Ventures
We promote innovation, invest in disruptive financial technology and explore alternative 
business models. Our diverse portfolio of ventures includes two market-leading digital banks  
in Singapore and Hong Kong.

Our products and services

Financial Markets

Transaction Banking

Wealth Management

Retail Products

•  Macro, commodities 
and credit trading

•  Financing and 

•  Debt capital 
markets and 
leveraged finance

securities services

•  Project and export 

•  Sales and structuring

finance

•  Cash management

•  Investments

•  Deposits

•  Trade finance 

•  Insurance

•  Mortgages

•  Working capital

•  Wealth advice

•  Credit cards

•  Portfolio 

management

•  Personal loans

How we generate returns

We earn net interest income on loans and deposit products, fee income on financing 
solutions, advisory and other services, and trading income from providing risk 
management in financial markets.

Income
Net interest income
Fee income
Trading income

Profit after tax

Income gained from  
providing our products  
and services minus  
expenses, impairments  
and taxes

Return on  
tangible equity

Profit after tax  
generated relative to 
tangible equity invested

20

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023What makes us different

Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through 
our unique diversity – this is underpinned by our brand 
promise, here for good. Our Stands – aimed at tackling 
some of the world’s biggest issues – Accelerating Zero, 
Lifting Participation and Resetting Globalisation (see 
page 26 for more) challenge us to use our unique position 
articulated below.

Client focus
Our clients are our business.  
We build long-term 
relationships through trusted 
advice, expertise and best-in-
class capabilities.

Distinct  
proposition
Our understanding of our 
markets and our extensive 
international network  
allow us to offer a tailored 
proposition to our clients, 
combining global expertise 
and local knowledge.

Robust risk  
management
We are here for the long term. 
Effective risk management  
allows us to grow a sustainable 
business.

Sustainable  
and responsible 
business
We are committed to 
sustainable social and  
economic development  
across our business,  
operations and communities.

1  2022 figures restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation 

Finance and (iii) Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)

2   Compound Annual Growth Rate

How we are shaping our future

We have progressed strongly 
in delivering our strategy 
to accelerate returns.
In 2022, we set out to uplift our return on tangible 
equity (RoTE) to 10% by 2024. In 2023, we have 
improved our RoTE to 10.1%, with strong progress in 
delivering against the five strategic actions we set  
out to accelerate our returns:

•  Driving improved returns in CCIB: income return  

on risk weighted assets further enhanced to 7.8% 
(20221: 6.2%) and plan to reduce $22bn of risk 
weighted assets between 2022 and 2024 fully 
delivered early during the year

•  Transforming profitability in CPBB: cost-to-income 

ratio further improved to 60% (20221: 69%), 
supported by the continuous delivery of business 
savings and digitisation programme

•  Seizing opportunities in China: China onshore  
and offshore profit before tax grown to $1.3bn 
(increased 1.6 times vs. 20221), despite recent 
market challenges

•  Creating operational leverage by delivering $1.3bn 
of sustainable cost saves over 2022–2024: $0.4bn  
of cost saves in 2023, bringing 2022–2023 total  
to $0.9bn

•  Delivering sustainable shareholder distributions  
in excess of $5bn over 2022–2024: $2.7bn total 
distributions for 2023, bringing 2022–2023 total to 
$4.5bn; plus a new $1bn share buyback programme 
starting imminently in 2024.

We have further optimised our businesses and 
footprint. In 2023, we completed the sale of our 
Aviation Finance leasing business. For the seven 
Africa and Middle East (AME) markets and two 
additional AME CPBB businesses we announced to 
exit in 2022, we have completed the sale of our Jordan 
business and closed our Lebanon representative 
office, and have signed binding agreements for the 
divestment of the remainder.

The significant progress we have made on our 
strategic agenda has provided us with a strong 
platform to grow and drive sustainably higher returns. 
We target RoTE to increase steadily from 10%, 
targeting 12% in 2026 and to progress thereafter.  
Key actions for the next three years include:

•  Continue to deliver strong income growth targeting 
5-7% income growth CAGR2 for the next three years

• 

Improving operational leverage through the Fit for 
Growth programme, to simplify, standardise and 
digitise key elements of the Group, enabling the 
Group to keep annual operating expenses below 
$12bn in 2026

•  Continuing active management of the Group’s 

capital position, with the target of a further capital 
return of at least $5bn over the next three years.

21

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportBusiness model  
continued

The sources of value we rely on

We aim to use our resources in a sustainable way  
to achieve the goals of our strategy.

How we are enhancing our resources

Human capital
Diversity differentiates us. Delivering 
our Purpose rests on how we continue 
to invest in our people, the employee 
experience we further enhance, and 
the culture we strengthen. 

International network
Our network is our unique competitive 
advantage and connects companies, 
institutions and individuals to, and in, 
some of the world’s fastest-growing 
and most dynamic regions.

Local expertise
We are deeply rooted in our markets 
with a strong understanding of key 
economic drivers, offering us insights 
that help our clients achieve their 
ambitions.

Brand recognition
We are a leading international 
banking group with 170 years of 
history. In many of our markets,  
we are a household name.

Financial strength
With $823bn in assets on our balance 
sheet, we are a strong and trusted 
partner for our clients.

Technology
Our strong digital foundations and 
leading technological capabilities 
continue to enable a data-driven 
digital bank that delivers world-class 
client service.

Consumer client 
satisfaction metric1

56.6%

2022: 49.8%

CET1 capital

$34bn

1  Excludes CCIB and Business Banking clients.  
1  Excludes CCIB, private bank and business banking clients
Includes Private Banking. Restated for 2022

22

•  Upskilling and reskilling our people continues to be 
a priority – more than 30,000 colleagues undertook 
learning in 2023 to build future-ready skills, including in 
sustainable finance, data and analytics, digital, cyber 
security, and leadership.

•  We continue to strengthen a work environment that 

supports inclusion, innovation, and high performance, 
with an ongoing focus on wellbeing. This includes  
further embedding flexible working across our  
markets, providing enhanced benefits, and building  
the capabilities of our people leaders.

•  Across our international network, we are investing 
in capabilities such as digital channels and client 
experiences to access new high-growth segments,  
grow our share of wallet with existing clients and  
create new business model opportunities.

•  We are strengthening our Transaction Banking, Financial 
Markets and Sustainable Finance solutions in CCIB and 
Wealth Management offerings in CPBB to meet the 
needs of our cross-border clients across our network.

•  We continue to enhance our product, advisory and 
digital capabilities to serve our individual clients. In 
2023, we launched more than 20 new digital wealth 
capabilities, made our Signature Chief Investment Office 
(CIO) funds available in 12 markets and launched new 
digital loan partnerships.
In Business Banking, we continued to support the growth 
of small and medium-sized enterprises by making digital 
loan origination available in five markets and expanding 
the SC Women’s International Network, our offering for 
women entrepreneurs, to five markets.

• 

• 

In 2023, we continued to invest in our brand through 
our ‘Possibilities are Everywhere’ global advertising 
campaign, highlighting our distinctive brand promise to 
be here for good and showcasing how we help people, 
companies and communities grow and prosper across 
our international network. 

•  We have been successful in leveraging our brand and 
insights to support business growth. Media sentiment 
towards the Group continued to exceed the average for 
the banking sector and ranked top three in most of our 
key markets over 2023.

•  Our capital position remains strong, with a CET1 ratio  
of 14.1% at the end of 2023, above the target range of  
13–14 per cent.

•  We continue to maintain a strong and resilient funding 

profile, with a Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) of 145% and 
a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) of 138% at the end 
of 2023.

•  We are maintaining momentum on simplification and 
harmonisation of our technology estate, integrating 
platforms using the cloud where appropriate, and 
investing in our engineering capabilities and best-in-
class tools to provide secure and resilient technology.

•  We are accelerating automation to optimise our 
technology stack and enhancing the end-to-end 
delivery from requirements to deployment via a 
new, single platform that enables our colleagues to 
collaborate on technology projects in a consistent and 
efficient manner.

•  We have continued delivering value to our clients  

by improving speed to market, as enabled by more 
efficient and scalable technology development and 
delivery processes.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportBusiness modelThe value we create

We aim to create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders in a sustainable way.

Read more on stakeholder 
engagement on pages 54 to 64

Clients
We deliver banking solutions for our clients across our 
network, both digitally and in person. We help individuals 
grow their wealth while connecting corporates and 
financial institutions to opportunities across our network.

Suppliers
We engage diverse suppliers, locally and globally,  
to provide efficient and sustainable goods and  
services for our business.

Total active  
individual clients1

Total CCIB and Business 
Banking clients1

Total spend in 2023

Active suppliers

11.8m

20222: 10.4m

226,000

20222: 232,000

$4.5bn

2022: $4.3bn

11,600

2022: 11,700

Employees
We believe that great employee experience drives great  
client experience. We want all our people to pursue their 
ambitions, deliver with purpose and have a rewarding 
career enabled by great people leaders.

Regulators and governments
We play our part in supporting the effective functioning  
of the financial system and the broader economy by 
proactively engaging with public authorities and by  
paying our taxes. 

Senior appointments  
which are internal 

Employees committed  
to our success 

Corporate Taxes and Bank 
Levy paid in 2023

60%

2022: 67% 

97%

2022: 96% 

$1,476m

20223: $926m 

Society
We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible 
company, working with local partners to promote social  
and economic development.

Investors
We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term  
sustainable value for our investors.

Community investment 

Dividends declared in 2023

Share buy-backs in 2023

$68.6m

2022: $51.3m 

$728m

2022: $523m

$2.0bn

2022: $1.3bn

1   Excluding customers served or supported by Ventures segment 

2   2022 figures restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME and (ii) Aviation Finance

3   2022 restated to include bank levy

23

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report

Strategy

Our strategy

To become a  
leader in global 
finance

Over the past year, we have executed strongly against our 
strategy, with a considerable uplift in our return on tangible 
equity (RoTE) delivered. 

We continue to focus on:

•  Four strategic priorities: Network business, Affluent client 

business, Mass Retail business, and Sustainability

•  Three critical enablers: People and Culture, Ways of 

Working, and Innovation.

While the macroeconomic and industry environments  
continue to evolve, we believe the strategy remains fit for  
the Bank. 

Our strategic priorities and enablers will continue to be 
supported by our three Stands: Accelerating Zero, Lifting 
Participation and Resetting Globalisation (please find more 
details of our Stands on page 26).

Critical enablers 

People  
and Culture
We invest in our people by building 
future-ready skills, providing a 
differentiated employee experience, 
and strengthening our inclusive and 
innovative culture. We do this by: 

•  Embedding our refreshed 

approach to performance, reward 
and recognition that puts greater 
focus on ambition, collaboration, 
and innovation

•  Increasing re-skilling and upskilling 
towards future roles and work, 
aligned with our business strategy 
and workforce’s aspirations

•  Strengthening leadership 

capability through modernised 
development programmes and 
measurement platforms

•  Focusing on wellbeing to enhance 

resilience, productivity and 
performance, as well as offering 
progressive, purpose-led benefits

•  Further embedding flexible 

working across our footprint,  
with over 52,000 employees in  
44 markets now on agreed 
flexi-working arrangements.

Ways of Working 

Innovation 

We drive client-centricity with a focus 
on speed to value for our clients.  
We are improving our operating 
rhythm and organisational agility 
while empowering our people to 
continuously improve the way  
we work.

We continue strong progress on:

•  Simplifying and transforming  
the way we invest, operate  
and execute

•  Harnessing operational efficiencies 

to help us continue the drive of 
commerce and prosperity in  
our markets

•  Enhancing the way we deliver and 
manage change across the Bank, 
anchored around simplifying our 
processes end-to-end.

We embed innovation through 
digitising our core, leveraging 
partnerships to drive scale and 
extended reach, and building new 
business models through ventures. 

We continue to focus on:

•  Modernising and strengthening 
our technology estate and data 
management

•  Exploring and experimenting  
to enhance client experience, 
develop new platforms and 
improve operational resilience

•  Leveraging partnerships to  

access new clients and strengthen 
our capabilities

•  Building, launching, and scaling 

innovative ventures while driving 
ventures’ collaboration with the 
broader Bank and its clients.

Culture of inclusion score

Speed to value1

Percentage of revenue  
from new businesses3

83.2% 

2022: 83.1%

150days 

2022: 160 days

36%  

2022: 22%

Women in senior roles

Consumer client satisfaction metric2

32.5% 

2022: 32.1%

56.6%  

2022: 49.8%

1  Speed to value measures the time taken to deliver a change from ideation till customer go-live and is based on the weighted average of lead time across 

Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) and Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) businesses.

2  Excludes CCIB and Business Banking clients. Includes Private Banking. Restated for 2022.

3 

Income from digital initiatives, innovation and transformation of the core, the majority of which will come from new and upgraded platforms and partnerships. 
Also includes Sustainable Finance income and 100 per cent of Ventures income. 

24

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 
Strategic priorities

Network business

Affluent client business

Through our unique network, we enable global trade and 
investment through financing, payments, asset origination  
and risk management, with an increasing focus on  
Sustainable Finance.

Our on-the-ground presence and capabilities in more than  
50 markets give us an advantage in advice and deal execution 
for corporates and financial institutions by:

•  Helping our clients seize opportunities in shifting supply chains, 

tapping into existing and emerging trade and investment 
corridors such as intra-Asia, and supporting our European  
and American clients’ access to emerging markets assets

•  Continuously improving client experience with market-

leading digital platforms that allow seamless onboarding, 
client servicing and application programming interface (API) 
connectivity

•  Developing differentiated propositions in high-returning, high-
growth sectors such as Technology, Media & Telecom (TMT), 
Healthcare, Cleantech and Electric Vehicles.

CCIB network income

Percentage of CCIB 
transactions digitally initiated

We offer comprehensive solutions, personalised advice,  
and exceptional client experiences to help our Affluent  
clients manage and grow their wealth, at home and abroad. 

As a leading international wealth manager, we are 
strengthening our competitive advantage by:

•  Unlocking the value of our network, leveraging our wealth 
hubs in Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Jersey to deliver 
a seamless global proposition and client experience with 
wealth, advisory and digital capabilities

•  Maximising synergies across our client portfolios and the Bank 
by nurturing clients up the Affluent client continuum with our 
deep local expertise and differentiated propositions, and by 
partnering with CCIB to offer solutions such as real estate and 
acquisition financing to ultra-high-net-worth clients

•  Delivering expert advice and digital-first wealth solutions via 
an open architecture approach, supported by investments in 
innovation and scalable platforms.

Affluent client income

Active Affluent clients

$6.9bn

20221: $5.2bn

65.7%

2022: 61.5%

$4.6bn

20222: $3.7bn

2.3m

20222: 2.1m

Mass Retail business

Sustainability

Mass Retail is strategically important to our client  
continuum. It demonstrates our deep local expertise, 
commitment to and relevance in the markets where we operate. 

Besides providing a continuous stream of clients who become 
more affluent over time, Mass Retail underscores our 
commitment to lifting participation in the communities we serve. 

Our focus is on:

•  Continuing the pivot towards a digital-first model to become 

more personalised, relevant and real-time 

•  Sharpening our onboarding and engagement capabilities 
through digital sales and marketing, advanced analytics 
capabilities and straight-through self-service

•  Launching and developing new business models with 

leading global and regional partners to leverage synergies in 
distribution, digital capabilities and risk management to serve 
customers at scale.

We aim to support the sustainable economic and social 
development of our markets, helping people to thrive long-term.

In line with our Stands, we are committed to accelerating the 
transition to net zero, lifting participation in the economy and 
resetting globalisation. Our focus includes:

•  Continuing to scale our sustainable and transition finance 

business by integrating sustainability as a core component of 
our value proposition and enhancing our suite of Sustainable 
Finance products and solutions across CCIB and CPBB

•  Progressing on our pathway to achieve net zero financed 

emissions by 2050, including setting interim 2030 targets for 
additional high-emitting sectors and enhancing our existing 
climate risk governance and management processes

•  Contributing our skills, experience and networks to initiatives 

and coalitions that aim to further develop the global 
sustainability ecosystem

•  Seeking to partner with our clients and communities to 

mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion and 
entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers global initiative.

Active Mass retail  
clients

Percentage of digital 
sales for Retail Products

Cumulative Sustainable 
Finance mobilised since 20213

Sustainable Finance 
income in 20236

9.5m

20222: 8.3m

56% 

2022: 48%

$87bn4

2022: $57bn5

$720m

2022: $508m

1   2022 figures restated for removal of (i) exit markets and business in Africa and Middle East (AME) and (ii) Aviation Finance.
2  2022 figures restated for removal of exit markets and business in AME.
3  Defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients which supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of biodiversity, nature or the 
environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including alignment of a client’s business and operations with  
a 1.5 degrees Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivises clients to meet their own sustainability objectives  
(known as sustainability-linked finance). 

4   January 2021 to September 2023 cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation target by 2030. 
5  January 2021 to September 2022 cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation target by 2030.
6   Defined as income generated from Sustainable Finance products as listed in the Green and Sustainable Product Framework. For further information, please refer 

to pages 99 to 101.

25

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Our Stands

Our Stands

Climate change, stark inequality and the unfair aspects  
of globalisation impact us all. We’re taking a stand  
by setting long-term ambitions on these issues where  
they matter most. This works in unison with our strategy, 
stretching our thinking, our action and our leadership  
to accelerate our growth.

Accelerating  
Zero

Lifting  
Participation

Resetting  
Globalisation

The world must reach net zero carbon 
emissions by 2050 to limit the worst 
effects of climate change. This will 
require efforts across stakeholder 
groups to accelerate the transition to a 
low-carbon, climate-resilient economy.
Policymakers, corporates and financial 
institutions must play a substantial  
part in this to ensure that finance is an 
enabler of change. The need for a just 
transition that addresses environmental 
challenges, while ensuring inclusive 
economic and social development in  
the footprint markets where we operate, 
is a priority for the Group.

Inequality, along with gaps in economic 
inclusion, mean that many young 
people, women, and small businesses 
struggle to gain access to the financial 
system to save for their futures and to 
grow their businesses. We want to 
increase access to financial services  
and make them available at low cost. 
We strive to expand the reach and scale 
of accessible banking and to connect 
clients and our wider communities to  
the skills and educational opportunities 
that promote and sustain access to 
finance and economic opportunity.

Globalisation has lifted millions out  
of poverty but left many behind.  
We advocate for a new model of 
globalisation based on transparency  
to build trust, renew confidence and 
promote dialogue and innovation.  
We connect the capital, expertise and 
ideas needed to drive new standards 
and create innovative solutions for 
sustainable growth. We work  
across our markets to shape a new 
understanding of growth, one that  
is based on inclusivity, sustainability  
and our ambition to support people  
and communities for the long term.

26

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023S
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

[[SC Ventures 
launches Tawi]] 

In May, SC Ventures, our innovation, fintech 
investments and ventures arms, launched  
Tawi – an Agritech B2B marketplace for 
smallholder farmers in Kenya. As part of the 
Tawi marketplace, farmers have access to an 
e-commerce platform helping them connect  
with commercial kitchens and reduce post-
harvest losses. 

Tawi also helps improve price transparency and 
efficient supply chain management. By the end  
of 2023, Tawi had onboarded more than 1,000 
farmers (65 per cent women), more than 700 
commercial kitchens (34 per cent women-led 
businesses) and fulfilled more than 6,000 orders. 
Tawi is also working to launch financial services 
including agri-loans, savings and working capital 
to enhance financial inclusion.

Read more at tawifresh.com

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

27

Strategic report 
We are also committed to promote sustainable finance in  
our markets and channeling capital to where the impact will 
be greatest. We are delivering on our ambition to support 
sustainable economic growth, increasing support and funding 
for financial offerings that have a positive impact on our 
communities and environment.

Strategic priorities 
•  Deliver sustainable growth for clients by leveraging our network  

to facilitate trade, capital and investment flows across our  
footprint markets

•  Generate high-quality returns by improving funding quality and 

income mix, growing capital-lite income and driving balance sheet 
velocity while maintaining disciplined risk management

•  Be a digital-first and data-driven bank, that delivers enhanced 

client experiences

•  Accelerate our sustainable finance offering to our clients through 
product innovation and enabling transition to a low-carbon future

Progress 
•  Our underlying income performance is driven by our diversified 
product suite and expanded client solutions supported by the 
higher interest rate environment. Our cross-border income currently 
contributes to 61 per cent of total CCIB income with growth across 
strategic corridors

•  Robust balance sheet quality with investment-grade net exposures 
representing 66 per cent of total corporate net exposures (2022:  
70 per cent) and high-quality operating account balances broadly 
stable at 65 per cent of Transaction Banking and Securities Services 
customer balances (2022: 67 per cent)

•  We defended against liabilities attrition through active pricing 

management

•  Our client migration to the Straight to Bank NextGen platform  
is successfully completed. We achieved digital adoption of  
65.7 per cent (2022: 61.5 per cent) across Cash, Trade and FX,  
by driving client awareness and adoption programs. Client 
experience remains at the centre of our digital transformation,  
with our Net Promoter Score at 78.6 per cent (2022: 68.4 per cent)

•  We are ~70% of the way towards delivering our $1 billion income 
from sustainable finance franchise by 2025, and have mobilised 
$87 billion in sustainable financing against our $300 billion 
commitment by 2030

Performance highlights 
•  Underlying profit before tax of $5,436 million up 42 per cent at 
constant currency (“ccy”), primarily driven by higher income  
and lower credit impairment charges, partially offset by  
higher expenses

•  Underlying operating income of $11,218 million up 20 per cent at ccy 
primarily due to strong performance in Cash Management from 
pricing discipline in a rising interest rate environment. Financial 
Markets was down 2 per cent at ccy, mainly from lower revenue  
in FX and Commodities on the back of lower market volatility, 
subdued primary issuances and non-repeat of the gains on 
mark-to-market liabilities in 2022. Excluding the latter, Financial 
Markets was up 3 per cent

•  Underlying operating expenses were up by 10 per cent at ccy 

largely due to inflationary pressure, targeted investments  and 
strategic hires to support business growth

•  Risk-weighted assets were down by $1.6 billion since 31 December 
2022, mainly as a result of optimisation initiatives partly offset  
by business growth. We achieved $10.3 billion optimisation in 
risk-weighted assets in 2023 ($24.2 billion since January 2022)

•  Underlying RoTE increased from 13.4 per cent to 19.5 per cent

Corporate, 
Commercial and 
Institutional Banking

KPIs

Profit before taxation

$5,436m 

$5,747m 

 42% 

underlying basis

 49% 

reported basis

Return on tangible equity (RoTE)

19.5% 

 610bps 

underlying basis

20.6% 

 700bps 
reported basis

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

$142bn   $1.6bn

2023

Income Return on risk-weighted assets (Income RoRWA)
7.8%
6.2%
4.7%

2022

2021

Aim: Achieve RoRWA of 6.5% by 2024.

Analysis: CCIB income RoRWA improved to 7.8% in 2023, up 160bps 
YoY and in line with our 2024 target, driven by higher income and 
disciplined risk management.

Contribution of Financial Institutions segment  
to total income

2023

2022

2021

49%
47%
44%

Aim: Drive growth in high-returning Financial Institutions segment.

Analysis: Share of Financial Institutions income improved to 49 per cent  
in 2023 as we applied continued focus to this segment to drive income  
and returns.

Segment overview 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking supports 
local and large corporations, governments, banks and 
investors with their transaction banking, financial markets  
and borrowing needs. We provide solutions to nearly 20,000 
clients in some of the world’s fastest-growing economies  
and most active trade corridors. Our clients operate or invest 
across 45 markets across the globe.

Our strong and deep local presence enables us to help 
co-create bespoke financing solutions and connect our  
clients multilaterally to investors, suppliers, buyers and sellers. 
Our products and services enable our clients to move capital, 
manage risk and invest to create wealth. Our clients represent 
a large and important part of the economies we serve. 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking is at the 
heart of the Group’s shared Purpose to drive commerce and 
prosperity through our unique diversity.

28

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportClient segment reviewsWe are committed to realising greater synergies from our 
international network and the Group’s other client segments, 
from delivering holistic propositions to clients with cross-
border investment needs to offering employee banking 
services to Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking 
clients. Consumer, Private and Business Banking also provides 
a source of high-quality liquidity for the Group.

Strategic priorities 
•  Maximise the value of our international network, with wealth  
hubs in Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Jersey, to provide  
Affluent clients with a global wealth proposition built on deep  
local expertise and seamless cross-border client experience

•  Unlock synergies from nurturing clients up our client continuum,  
by helping them grow and protect their wealth through expert 
advice and best-in-class wealth propositions

•  Grow Mass Retail profitably, via digital-first sales and service 

business models, partnerships, and data analytics

•  Continue to improve client experience and efficiency through 

digitalisation, process simplification and operational excellence

Progress 
•  Accelerated Affluent growth momentum in New to Bank clients, 

NNM and income across Priority Banking and Private Bank

•  Rolled out Standard Chartered-INSEAD Wealth Academy to  

more markets with over 900 senior frontline staff upskilled to be 
future-ready advisors 

•  Enhanced cross border digital capabilities to improve client 

experience

•  Expanded myWealth suite of digital advisory tools to enable RMs 
to provide personalised portfolio construction and investment 
ideas for clients

•  Recognised as a leader in digital Wealth capabilities with 

20 industry awards received in 2023

•  Enhanced digital capabilities in key markets focusing on frictionless 
mobile experience, leading to an average rating of 4.6 on App Store 
and Play Store in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, China and Pakistan

•  Continued to transform our Mass Retail business by scaling 

sustainably through partnerships, digital client engagement,  
and automation

•  Eight Mass Retail partnerships live across our footprint in China, 

Indonesia, Vietnam and Singapore, reaching more than 2.6 million 
clients

Performance highlights 
•  Underlying profit before tax of $2,487 million was up 60 per cent at 
ccy driven by higher income, offsetting higher expenses and higher 
credit impairments

•  Underlying operating income of $7,106 million was up 19 per cent 
(up 22 percent at ccy). Asia was up 20 per cent at ccy and Africa 
and the Middle East was up 36 per cent at ccy

•  Strong income growth mainly from Deposits up 76 per cent at ccy 
with improved margins and balance sheet growth coupled with 
10 per cent (ccy) growth from Wealth Management. This offsets 
lower income in Mortgages, and Unsecured Lending largely due to 
margin compression impacted by a rising interest rate environment

•  Underlying RoTE increased from 15.8 per cent to 25.3 per cent

Consumer, Private  
and Business Banking

KPIs

Profit before taxation

$2,487m 

$2,427m 

 60% 

underlying basis

 63% 

reported basis

Return on tangible equity (RoTE)

25.3% 

 950bps 

underlying basis

24.7% 

 950bps 
reported basis

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

$51bn   $0.6bn

Affluent Net New Money (NNM)

2023

2022

2021

29.1bn
19.4bn
18.1bn

Aim: Acquire NNM from new and existing Affluent clients, via 
innovation, advisory-led and digital-first Wealth propositions.

Analysis: Affluent NNM increased by 50% YoY in 2023, supported  
by strong new-to-bank client acquisition momentum, cross-border 
referrals and digital-driven client engagement

Digital Sales for Retail Products 

2023

2022

2021

56%
48%
41%

Aim: Sharpen our on-boarding and engagement capabilities 
through digital sales and marketing, advanced analytic capabilities 
and straight-through self-service to improve client experience  
and efficiency

Analysis: Digital onboarding for Retail Products has seen significant 
growth increasing to 56% in 2023 vs. 41% in 2021.

Segment overview 
Consumer, Private and Business Banking serves more than 
11 million clients in many of the world’s fastest-growing 
markets. Our client continuum spans from Mass Retail to 
Affluent, including high-net worth clients served by our  
Private Bank. We leverage digital banking channels with a 
human touch to provide clients with differentiated products 
and services such as deposits, payments, financing, wealth 
management and personalised advice. We also support  
small business clients with their business banking needs. 

29

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic priorities 
•  SC Ventures’ focus is on building and scaling new business models 
– across the four themes of Online Economy & Lifestyle, SMEs & 
World Trade, Digital Assets and Sustainability & Inclusion. We do 
this by connecting ecosystems, partners and clients to create value 
and new sources of revenue, providing optionality for the Bank. 
Through its fund SC Ventures advances the Fintech agenda by 
identifying, partnering, and taking minority interests in companies, 
which can be integrated into the Bank and Ventures. Focus is on 
innovative, fast-growing, technology-focused companies which 
accelerate transformation in the financial industry.

•  Mox continues to grow the customer base and drive main bank 
relationships across mass and mass affluent segments in Hong 
Kong. Mox’s vision is to set the global benchmark for digital  
banking from Hong Kong. It aims to be the leading Hong Kong 
virtual bank for Cards, Digital Lending and continues to further  
expand services, including the recent launch of Digital Wealth 
Management services.

•  Trust Bank aims to become the fourth largest retail bank in 

Singapore by the end of 2024. To achieve this, it will scale through 
its partner ecosystem and deepen its customer relationships with 
the mass and mass affluent customer segments.

Progress 
•  Business performance in 2023 saw continued positive momentum 
for SC Ventures – five ventures were launched, funds were raised 
amidst a challenging environment, geographical reach was 
expanded, and the business exited two investments successfully.  
As a result, the SC Ventures customer base grew by 25 per cent to 
reach 587,000 with Gross Transactional Value (GTV) growing by  
15 per cent to $18 bn. One significant milestone for SC Ventures in 
2023 was the establishment of a partnership with SBI Holdings 
setting up a $100m digital asset joint venture in the UAE, a region 
fast becoming a hub for fintechs in the digital asset space.  
SC Ventures, through a number of innovative fintech ventures  
(such as Shoal, Tawi and myZoi), continues to drive sustainability, 
financial inclusion and financial literacy for the underbanked.

• 

In 2023, Mox had a strong focus on expanding its card and digital 
lending services and recorded a strong performance and an 
engaged customer base. Mox has more than 523,000 customers, 
up 1.2 times YoY, with customers holding an average of 3.1x 
products. It delivered close to three times YOY growth in revenue 
with both deposits and lending expanding over 30 per cent YOY 
basis. Mox reached 36 per cent (ranked #1) and 30 per cent of 
(ranked #2) market share in lending and deposits respectively 
among all Hong Kong virtual banks in H1. The bank was recognised 
in Forbes’ World’s Best Banks 2023, and The Asian Banker Hong 
Kong Awards 2023 as the Best Digital-only Bank in Hong Kong,  
and was ranked fifth in the World’s Top 50 Digital Banks 2023 by 
The Digital Banker. The Mox app is the top-rated Hong Kong virtual 
banking app in Apple App Store. Mox consistently has the best  
Net Promoter Score (NPS) among all Hong Kong virtual banks. 

•  Trust Bank continued to scale and, by reaching 12 per cent market 

share a year after launch, became one of the world’s fastest 
growing digital banks. Product development remained on track, 
with the launch of unsecured loans, supplementary credit cards, 
and broadening of the general insurance offering. By the end of 
2023, its customer base had grown 1.7 times YoY to 700,000 
customers and deposit balances had grown 3.0 times YoY to $1.4bn. 
Customer engagement remained strong with card activation  
of 85 per cent and more than 2m digital coupons redeemed by 
customers in the Trust ecosystem. In its first year of operation,  
Trust was recognised as the best digital retail bank in Singapore 
and Southeast Asia by The Digital Banker and was the number  
one rated banking app in the Singapore Apple App Store.

Performance highlights 
•  Underlying loss before tax of $408 million was up $45 million,  

driven mainly by higher expenses as we continue to invest in new 
and existing ventures.

•  Risk-weighted assets of $1.9 billion have increased $0.6 billion 

mainly due to continued investment in new and existing ventures 
and minority interests.

Ventures

KPIs

Loss before taxation

External Funds Raised

$408m 

$64m 

 12% underlying basis

 41%

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

New Ventures launched

$1.9bn 

 $0.6bn

5

 2

Gross Transaction Value

Customers

$18bn

 $2bn

2m

Gross Transaction Value 

2023

2022

2021

Customers

2023

2022

2021

$18bn
$16bn
$10bn

1.8m
1.3m
0.5m

Customer numbers for 2021 and 2022 normalised for the exit of Cardspal 
in 2023

Segment overview 
Formed in 2022 the Ventures client segment is a consolidation 
of SC Ventures and its related entities as well as the Group’s 
two majority-owned digital banks Mox in Hong Kong and 
Trust in Singapore.

•  SC Ventures is the platform and catalyst for the Group to 

promote innovation, invest in disruptive financial technology 
and explore alternative business models. It represents a 
diverse portfolio of over 30 ventures and more than 
20 investments.

•  Mox, a cloud-native, mobile only digital bank, was launched 
in Hong Kong as a joint venture with HKT, PCCW and Trip.
com in September 2020.

•  Trust Bank is Singapore’s first cloud-native bank and  
was launched in a partnership with FairPrice Group in 
September 2022.

30

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportClient segment reviewsStrategic report

Regional reviews

Asia

Loans and advances  
to customers (% of group)

Profit before taxation

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

$156bn 

 $5bn

$4,740m

 32%

underlying basis

$3,812m 

 16%

reported basis

Income split by key markets

Hong Kong

Singapore

India

Others

74%

34%

20%

10%

36%

Region overview
The Asia region has a long-standing and deep franchise 
across some of the world’s fastest-growing economies.  
The region generates over two-thirds of the Group’s income 
from its extensive network of 21 markets. Of these, Hong Kong 
and Singapore contributed the highest income, underpinned 
by a diversified franchise and deeply rooted presence. 

The region is highly interconnected, with three distinct and 
potent sub-engines of Greater China, ASEAN and South Asia. 
Our global footprint and strong regional presence, distinctive 
proposition, and continued investment position us strongly  
to capture opportunities as they arise from the continuing 
opening up of China’s economy where we now earn two 
dollars offshore from Chinese clients for every dollar we earn 
onshore, the growing connectivity of ASEAN and the strong 
economic growth in India. 

The region is benefiting from rising trade flows, especially 
intra-Asia, continued strong investment, and a rising middle 
class which is driving consumption growth and improving 
digital connectivity.

Progress 
•  We continue to advance our China strategy both on- and off-shore, 
and have also made a material increase in both the number of, and 
the income contribution from New to Bank affluent Mainland China 
customers and adding new clients through digital partnerships.  
The China business delivered record income on-shore and has 
grown network income strongly along a number of key corridors in 
ASEAN, up 53 per cent and ME up 67 per cent YoY. We have also 
made progress with  digital partnerships launching new 
partnerships JD.com and KCB.

•  Strong Asia cross border momentum including India Singapore 
corridor up 29 per cent YoY highlighting the role of Singapore as  
a financial hub for clients in ASEAN as well as India

•  Our two strong international financial hubs in Hong Kong and 
Singapore, delivered strong income growth driven by Wealth 
Management with Affluent clients, increased Financial Markets 
activity with Corporate and Institutional clients and a material 
improvement in the net interest margin. 

•  Our digital agendas have progressed; and our virtual bank Mox  
has the largest loan book and the 2nd largest deposits base  
among virtual banks in Hong Kong, while our digital bank Trust,  
is becoming one of the world’s fasting growing digital banks;  
more than one in ten Singaporeans now bank with Trust.

Strategic priorities 
•  Leverage our network strength to serve the inbound and outbound 
cross-border trade and investment needs of our clients, particularly 
across high-growth corridors e.g., China–ASEAN, China–South Asia, 
China-AME and KR-ASEAN

Performance highlights 
•  Underlying profit before tax of $4,740 million was up 32 per cent at 
constant currency (ccy) on the back of higher income and lower 
credit impairment, partially offset by 8 per cent (ccy) increase in 
operating expenses

•  Capture and monetise opportunities arising from China’s opening 

and accelerate growth in Asia

•  Turbocharge our Affluent and Wealth Management businesses 

through differentiated propositions and service

•  Continue to invest and advance in technology, digital capabilities 
and partnerships to enhance client experience and build scale 
efficiently

•  Support clients’ sustainable finance and transition needs and 

continue to strengthen our thought leadership status

•  Underlying operating income of $12,429 million was up 15 per cent 
at ccy, mainly from strong double-digit increases across Cash 
Management and Retail Deposits, underpinned by expansion in 
margins and Wealth Management partly offset by lower Mortgage 
income and a loss in Treasury Markets

•  Credit Impairment improved 18 per cent year-on-year (YoY)

•  Loans and advances to customers were down 5 per cent (reported 
and ccy); Customer accounts were up 9 per cent (reported and ccy) 
YoY

•  Risk-weighted assets up $5 billion YoY

•  RoTE increased to 16.4 per cent from 11.9 per cent in FY22

31

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportAfrica and the  
Middle East

Profit before taxation

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

Loans and advances  
to customers (% of group)

$1,311m 

 90%

underlying basis

$1,317m 

 87%

reported basis

$38.4bn 

 $2.3bn

Income split by key markets

UAE

Pakistan

Kenya

Others

7%

28%

13%

9%

50%

Region overview
We have a rich heritage in Africa and the Middle East (AME) 
with deep client relationships and historical contributions  
to the economy and the communities. Our unique footprint  
in the region, as well as across centres in Asia, Europe and  
the Americas, enable us to seamlessly support our clients. 
AME is becoming increasingly important for global trade  
and investment corridors, and we are well placed to facilitate 
these flows.

Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) markets are expected to 
outpace global growth on the back of macro-economic 
tailwinds, higher government spend in diversified areas, 
bilateral trade negotiations and evolving economic 
partnerships. The macro-economic risk remains elevated in 
some markets in the region due to a high level of sovereign 
debt and FX liquidity challenges, but they remain integral to 
the economic corridors for our global clients. Overall, AME’s 
medium and long-term attractiveness remains compelling 
and intact, and it is an important part of our global network 
proposition for our clients.

Strategic priorities
•  Provide best-in-class structuring and financing solutions and drive 

creation through client initiatives

•  Accelerate growth in differentiated international network and 

Affluent client businesses

• 

Invest in market-leading digitisation initiatives in CPBB to protect 
and grow market share in core markets, continue with our 
transformation agenda to recalibrate our network and streamline 
structures

•  Be an industry leader in the transition to net zero across the region

•  Simplify footprint and refocus on strategic growth areas

•  Further embedded our International Banking proposition, 

activating our diverse footprint across Africa and the Middle East. 
This has resulted in more than 150 per cent growth in Priority 
Banking client base across our International Banking corridors  
for the region

•  Enhanced our digital offering in Africa by becoming the first 

international bank with digital fixed income solutions in Kenya, 
Nigeria and Ghana, extending our micro-investment solution (SC 
Shillingi) to Uganda, and launching digital personal loans in Kenya

•  Our Saudi franchise saw strong growth following the branch set-up 
in 2021 while a new branch launched recently in Egypt provides 
additional growth opportunities in the region

•  The sale of the Jordan business has been completed and buyers 
have been announced for select sub-Saharan African businesses 
that were identified for exit as part of our strategic announcement 
in 2022

•  Sustained productivity actions have resulted in an improved Cost  

to Income Ratio at 56 per cent (vs. 63 per cent in FY‘22) and  
an improvement in productivity with income per headcount  
(up 18 per cent year-on-year)

Performance highlights
•  Underlying profit before tax of $1,311 million, the highest annual 

profit since 2015, was up 66 per cent (up 90 per cent at ccy), driven 
by higher income and a net release in credit provisions partially 
offset by an increase in expenses 

•  Underlying operating income of $2,806 million was up 14 per cent 
(up 26 per cent at ccy) with strong growth in Cash Management, 
Retail Deposits and Financial Markets. Income was up 29 per cent 
(up 38 per cent at ccy) in Middle East, North Africa, Pakistan, up 
1 per cent (up 14 per cent at ccy) in Africa

•  Credit Impairment net release of $91 million in FY23 compared to 

$119 million charge in FY22 reflecting a non-repeat of the prior year’s 
sovereign related impairments and releases relating to historic 
CCIB provisions

Progress
•  Topped the regional DCM league tables for the tenth consecutive 
year and secured the first rank in GCC G3 Bond and Sukuk issuance

•  Loans and advances to customers were up 8 per cent YoY  

(up 15 per cent at ccy) and customer accounts were up 4 per cent 
(up 9 percent at ccy) since 31 December 2022

•  Supported Sustainable Finance across our footprint through our 
comprehensive product offering. ESG DCM volumes across the 
Middle East grew by over 160 per cent year on year, on the back of 
some of the largest and most innovative ESG deals in the region

•  Strong cross-border income growth of 39 per cent with broad-

based growth across all our key corridors

•  Risk-weighted assets were 6 per cent lower than 31 December 2022, 
despite the impact of sovereign downgrades, due to continuing 
RWA optimisation activities, de-risking in markets with elevated 
macro-economic risk and currency devaluation

•  RoTE increased to 16.6 per cent from 9.3 per cent in FY22

32

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportRegional reviewsEurope and  
the Americas

Loss before taxation

Risk-weighted assets (RWA)

Loans and advances  
to customers (% of group)

$330m 

 139%

underlying basis

$28m 

 103%

reported basis

$46.1bn 

$4bn

Income split by key markets

US

UK

Others

18%

62%

7%

31%

Progress 
•  Strong growth of 33 per cent in global cross-border network 

business with Europe and the Americas CCIB clients across key 
footprint markets

•  Financial Institutions segment growth of 32 per cent, now 

accounting for 60 per cent of the CCIB business for European  
and Americas clients.

•  Material growth in income from sustainable finance products  

and expansion of our sustainable product offering

• 

In CPBB we see positive momentum on Net New Money in 2023 
coupled with strong growth in mortgage balances for our high  
net worth clients

Performance highlights
•  Underlying loss before tax of $330 million driven by lower income 

and increased expenses

•  Underlying operating income of $1,397 million was down 40 per 

cent reflecting the increased cost of hedges within Treasury whilst 
strong growth in Transaction Banking income was partly offset by 
lower Financial Markets income

•  Expenses increased by 12 per cent at ccy largely due to increased 

investment spend and the impact of inflation

•  Credit impairments for the region remain well controlled

•  FY23 RoTE negative 3.6 per cent down from 8.6% per cent in FY22

Region overview
The Group supports clients in Europe and the Americas 
through hubs in London, Frankfurt and New York as well  
as a presence in several other markets in Europe and Latin 
America. Our expertise in Asia, Africa and the Middle East 
allows us to offer our clients in the region unique network  
and product capabilities. 

The region generates significant income for the Group’s 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking business. 
Clients based in Europe and the Americas contribute over 
one-third of the Group’s CCIB client income. Over three-
quarters of client income is booked in the network, generating 
above-average returns.

In addition to being a key origination centre for CCIB, the 
region offers local, on-the-ground expertise and solutions to 
help internationally minded clients grow across Europe and 
the Americas. The region is home to the Group’s two biggest 
payment clearing centres and the largest trading floor.

Our European CPBB business focuses on serving clients with 
links to our footprint markets.

Strategic priorities 
•  Leverage our network capabilities to connect new and existing 
Corporate and Financial Institutions clients in the West to the 
fastest-growing and highest-potential economies across  
our footprint

•  Supercharge our FI Franchise

•  Grow the business we capture from inbound trade flows from our 

East to West Corridors

•  Further develop our Sustainable Finance product offering and risk 

management capabilities

•  Enhance capital efficiency, maintain strong risk oversight and 

further improve the quality of our funding base

•  Expand assets under management in CPBB and continue to 

strengthen the franchise

33

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report Group Chief Financial Officer’s review

Group Chief Financial 
Group Chief Financial 
Officer’s review
Officer’s review

[[Back to  
growth and  
improving 
returns]]

Diego De Giorgi 
Group Chief Financial Officer

34

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

•  Credit impairment was a $528 million charge, a reduction  
of $308 million representing an annualised loan loss rate of 
17 basis points. The impairment charge includes $282 million 
in relation to the China commercial real estate sector,  
$354 million in the Consumer, Private and Business Banking 
(‘CPBB’) portfolio and $85 million from Ventures partly  
offset by a $45 million net release from sovereign-related 
exposures and a net release in other Corporate exposures 

•  Other impairment increased by $91 million to $130 million 

primarily relating to write-off of software assets

•  Profit from associates and joint ventures decreased  

44 per cent to $94 million reflecting a lower profit share  
from Bohai 

•  Restructuring, other items and goodwill and other 
impairment totalled $585 million. This included an 
impairment charge of $850 million reflecting a reduction  
in the carrying value of the Group’s investment in Bohai 
following a refresh of the value-in-use calculation. Other 
items include the sale of the Aviation Finance business,  
of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the 
leasing business and a loss of $47 million in relation to a sale 
of a portfolio of Aviation loans. Restructuring charges of  
$14 million include the impact of actions to transform the 
organisation to improve productivity, partly offset by profits 
from businesses classified as held-for-sale. Movements  
in the Debit Valuation Adjustment (‘DVA’) were a positive  
$17 million 

•  Taxation was $1,631 million on a reported basis, with an 
underlying effective tax rate of 29.1 per cent down from  
29.9 per cent in the prior year reflecting a favourable change 
in the geographic mix of profits partly offset by increased 
losses in the United Kingdom where the Group currently 
does not recognise a tax benefit

•  Underlying return on tangible equity (‘RoTE’) increased by  
240 basis points to 10.1 per cent reflecting an increase in 
profits and lower average tangible equity benefitting from 
distributions to shareholders and movements in reserves 
primarily through the course of 2022

•  Underlying basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) increased  

32 per cent to 128.9 cents and reported EPS of 108.6 cents 
increased by 26 per cent

•  A final ordinary dividend per share of 21 cents has been 

proposed taking the full-year total to 27 cents, a 50 per cent 
increase. The Group also completed two share buyback 
programmes totalling $2 billion which along with a new 
share buyback programme of $1 billion to start imminently. 
Since 1 January 2022, total shareholder distributions 
announced total $5.5 billion

Summary of financial performance
The Group delivered on its key financial objective for 2023, 
achieving a 10 per cent underlying return on tangible equity, 
supported by significant progress on the five strategic actions 
set out in 2022. Underlying profit before tax increased 27 per 
cent at constant currency as the Group delivered 4 per cent 
positive income-to-cost jaws. Income grew 13 per cent on a 
constant currency basis as the Group took advantage of the 
favourable interest rate environment. Expenses increased 8 
per cent at constant currency, while the Group incurred a loan 
loss rate of 17 basis points, well below its historical average. 
The Group reduced the carrying value of its investment in 
China Bohai Bank (‘Bohai’) by $850 million and booked a  
$262 million net gain from selling its Aviation Finance business. 
The Group remains well-capitalised and highly liquid with a 
liquidity coverage ratio of 145 per cent and a CET1 ratio of  
14.1 per cent, above its target range, enabling the Board to 
announce a further $1 billion share buyback programme.  
The terms of the buyback will be published, and the 
programme will start shortly. 

All commentary that follows is on an underlying basis and 
comparisons are made to the equivalent period in 2022 on  
a reported currency basis, unless otherwise stated.

•  Operating income of $17.4 billion increased by 10 per cent 
year-on-year or 13 per cent on a constant currency basis  
as the Group benefitted from the positive impact of  
rising interest rates, and a partial recovery in Wealth 
Management partly offset by losses from hedges

•  Underlying net interest income increased 20 per cent or  

23 per cent on a constant currency basis as the net interest 
margin increased 26 basis points or 18 per cent with the 
Group having increased its pricing on assets and the yield 
on its Treasury portfolio more quickly than it repriced its 
liability base, reflecting strong pricing discipline and 
passthrough rate management as interest rates increased 
in key footprint currencies. This was partly offset by an 
additional 15 basis points drag from short-term and 
structural hedges due to rising interest rates, 16 basis points 
headwind from migration into higher priced term deposits 
from lower rate paid current and savings accounts (‘CASA’) 
as well as adverse changes in the mix between Treasury 
and customer assets 

•  Underlying non NII was stable, or 2 per cent higher on a 
constant currency basis. This was in part due to a strong 
Wealth Management performance, which was up 10 per 
cent on a constant currency basis as it benefitted from  
a steady flow of new to bank clients and net new money.  
An accounting asymmetry resulting from Treasury 
management of business as usual FX positions also 
contributed to an increase in non NII, with a partial offset 
from reduced net interest income

•  Operating expenses excluding the UK bank levy increased 

7 per cent, or 8 per cent on a constant currency basis, 
reflecting the Group’s continued investment into business 
growth initiatives, strategic investments and higher  
inflation partly funded by cost efficiency actions. The Group 
generated 4 per cent positive income-to-cost jaws at 
constant currency and the cost-to-income ratio improved 
by 2 percentage points to 63 per cent

35

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSummary of financial performance

Underlying net interest income5
Underlying non NII5

Underlying operating income

Other operating expenses

UK bank levy

Underlying operating expenses

Underlying operating profit before impairment and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment3

DVA

Other items⁶

Reported profit before taxation 

Taxation

Profit for the year

Net interest margin (%)2
Underlying return on tangible equity (%)2

Underlying earnings per share (cents)

2023 
$million

9,557

7,821

17,378

(11,025)

(111)

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

(14)

(850)

17

262

5,093

(1,631)

3,462

1.67

10.1

128.9

20224
$million

7,967

7,795

15,762

(10,307)

(102)

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

(99)

(322)

42

20

4,286

(1,384)

2,902

1.41

7.7

97.9

Change 
%

Constant 
currency  
change¹
%

23

2

13

(8)

(2)

(8)

22

32

nm⁷

(43)

27

89

(164)

(60)

nm⁷

24

(25)

24

20

–

10

(7)

(9)

(7)

17

37

nm⁷

(44)

22

86

(164)

(60)

nm⁷

19

(18)

19

26

240

32

1.   Comparisons presented on the basis of the current period’s transactional currency rate, ensuring like-for-like currency rates between the two periods

2.   Change is the basis points (‘bps’) difference between the two periods rather than the percentage change 

3.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(‘Bohai’)

4.  Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

5.   To be consistent with how we the compute Net Interest Margin (‘NIM’), and to align with the way we manage our business, we have changed our definition of 

Underlying Net Interest Income (‘NII’) and Underlying non NII. The adjustments made to NIM, including interest expense relating to funding our trading book, will 
now be shown against Underlying non NII rather than Underlying NII. Prior periods have been restated. There is no impact on total income

6.  Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

7.   Not meaningful

Reported financial performance summary

Net interest income

Non NII

Reported operating income

Reported operating expenses

Reported operating profit before impairment and taxation

Credit impairment

Goodwill and other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Reported profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year

Reported return on tangible equity (%)2

Reported earnings per share (cents)

2023 
$million

7,769

10,250

18,019

(11,551)

6,468

(508)

(1,008)

141

5,093

(1,631)

3,462

8.4

108.6

2022 
$million

7,593

8,725

16,318

(10,913)

5,405

(836)

(439)

156

4,286

(1,384)

2,902

6.8

85.9

Change 
%

Constant 
currency  
change¹
%

5

20

13

(7)

25

34

(130)

(10)

24

(25)

24

2

17

10

(6)

20

39

(130)

(10)

19

(18)

19

160

26

1.   Comparisons presented on the basis of the current period’s transactional currency rate, ensuring like-for-like currency rates between the two periods

2.   Change is the basis points (‘bps’) difference between the two periods rather than the percentage change 

36

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Financial Officer’s reviewOperating income by product

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Macro Trading

Credit Markets

Credit Trading
Financing Solutions & Issuance3

Financing & Securities Services3

Lending & Portfolio Management

Wealth Management

Retail Products

CCPL & other unsecured lending

Deposits

Mortgage & Auto

Other Retail Products

Treasury

Other

Total underlying operating income

2023 
$million

20222,3
$million

Change 
%

Constant 
currency  
change¹
%

5,837

1,294

4,543

5,099

2,827

1,803

554

1,249

469

498

1,944

4,969

1,161

3,437

236

135

(902)

(67)

17,378

3,874

1,343

2,531

5,345

2,965

1,761

488

1,273

619

558

1,796

4,027

1,202

2,021

633

171

337

(175)

15,762

51

(4)

79

(5)

(5)

2

14

(2)

(24)

(11)

8

23

(3)

70

(63)

(21)

nm⁴

62

10

54

(1)

83

(2)

(1)

5

17

–

(22)

(9)

10

26

(1)

74

(62)

(19)

nm⁴

52

13

1.   Comparisons presented on the basis of the current period’s transactional currency rate, ensuring like-for-like currency rates between the two periods

2.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance 

3.  Shipping Finance is now reported under Financing Solutions & Issuance which was reported under Financing & Securities Services in 2022

4   Not meaningful

The operating income by product commentary that follows  
is on an underlying basis and comparisons are made to the 
equivalent period in 2022 on a constant currency basis, unless 
otherwise stated.

Lending and Portfolio Management income decreased  
9 per cent reflecting the impact of risk-weighted assets 
optimisation actions which contributed to lower balances  
and an increase in portfolio management costs.

Transaction Banking income increased 54 per cent with  
Cash Management income up 83 per cent reflecting strong 
pricing discipline and passthrough rate management to take 
advantage of a rising interest rate environment. Trade & 
Working Capital decreased 1 per cent, reflecting lower 
balance sheet and contingent volumes due to a reduction in 
economic activity and clients’ preference for local currency 
financing provided by local banks. This was partly offset by 
higher margins as the Group focused on higher-returning 
trade products. 

Financial Markets income decreased 2 per cent and was up  
3 per cent excluding the non-repeat of $244 million gain  
on mark-to-market liabilities in 2022. Flow income grew by  
7 per cent which was more than offset by the 15 per cent 
reduction in episodic income, driven by subdued market 
volatility, reduced issuances and the non-repeat of prior year 
fair value gains on mark-to-market liabilities. Macro Trading 
was down 1 per cent with declines in FX and Commodities 
partly offset by a double-digit increase in Rates from an 
expanded product offering. Credit Markets income was up  
5 per cent primarily from higher Credit Trading income. 
Financing & Securities Services income was down 22 per cent  
as the benefit of higher interest rates on Securities Services 
balances was offset by negative movements in XVA and  
the non-repeat of mark-to-market gains.

Wealth Management income grew 10 per cent with 
Bancassurance up 17 per cent and Treasury Products up  
16 per cent partly offset by lower income from Wealth 
Management Lending which was down 15 per cent on  
the back of client deleveraging and margin compression. 
There was continued strong growth in net new sales, which 
totalled $14 billion and offset adverse market movements as 
Wealth Management assets under management remained 
broadly stable.

Retail Products income increased 26 per cent. Deposits  
income was up 74 per cent due to active passthrough rate 
management in a rising interest rate environment partly 
offset by migration of Retail CASA balances into Time 
Deposits. Mortgage & Auto income decreased 62 per cent  
on the back of lower volumes and the impact of the Best 
Lending Rate cap in Hong Kong restricting the ability to 
reprice mortgages, despite an increase in funding costs  
from higher interest rates. CCPL income decreased 1 per cent 
reflecting reduced margins from increased funding costs 
partly offset by increased balances, driven by partnerships 
and the new digital banks.

Treasury income was a $902 million loss primarily due to losses 
from structural and short-term hedges in a rising interest rate 
environment. The remaining short-term hedges mature in 
February 2024. 

37

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportProfit before tax by client segment and geographic region

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items (segment)

Underlying profit before taxation

Asia

Africa & Middle East

Europe & Americas

Central & other items (region)

Underlying profit before taxation

2023 
$million

5,436

2,487

(408)

(1,837)

5,678

4,740

1,311

(330)

(43)

5,678

2022²
$million

3,990

1,593

(363)

(575)

4,645

3,616

792

834

(597)

4,645

Change 
%

Constant 
currency  
change1
%

36

56

(12)

nm³

22

31

66

(140)

93

22

42

60

(12)

nm³

27

32

90

(139)

95

27

1.   Comparisons presented on the basis of the current period’s transactional currency rate, ensuring like-for-like currency rates between the two periods

2.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

3.   Not meaningful

The client segment and geographic region commentary that 
follows is on an underlying basis and comparisons are made 
to the equivalent period in 2022 on a constant currency basis, 
unless otherwise stated. 

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (‘CCIB’) 
profit increased 42 per cent. Income grew 20 per cent with 
Cash Management benefitting from disciplined pricing 
initiatives in a rising interest rate environment partly offset  
by lower episodic income within Financial Markets and lower 
Lending income as CCIB delivered on its RWA optimisation 
initiatives. Expenses were 10 per cent higher while credit 
impairment decreased $302 million with lower charges in 
relation to the China commercial real estate sector and 
releases on historic provisions within the remaining portfolio.

Consumer, Private & Business Banking (‘CPBB’) profit 
increased 60 per cent, with income up 22 per cent, benefitting 
from higher interest rates on Retail Deposits income and a 
recovery in Wealth Management. This was partly offset by 
lower Mortgage income negatively impacted by the Best 
Lending Rate cap in Hong Kong. Expenses increased  
6 per cent while credit impairment was $92 million higher.

Ventures loss increased 12 per cent to $408 million, reflecting 
the Group’s continued investment in transformational  
digital initiatives. Income increased five-fold to $156 million 
while expenses grew by 27 per cent. This resulted in a  
lower operating loss before impairment year-on-year.  
The impairment charge increased $69 million to $85 million 
reflecting increased bankruptcy related write-offs in Mox 
where credit criteria have now been adjusted to reduce the 
current elevated delinquency rate.

Central & other items (segment) recorded a loss of $1.8 billion 
as income declined by $1.3 billion mostly reflecting the  
losses from structural and short-term hedges booked within 
Treasury. Expenses increased by $43 million while there  
was a net release in credit impairment primarily relating to 
sovereign-related exposures. Associate income reduced by 
$65 million reflecting lower profits at Bohai.

Asia profits increased 32 per cent as income grew 15 per cent, 
expenses increased by 8 per cent and credit impairments 
reduced by $146 million. The income growth reflects strong 
double-digit increases across Cash Management, Retail 
Deposits and Wealth Management partly offset by lower 
Mortgage income and a loss in Treasury Markets. The  
profit share from Bohai reduced by $65 million. The lower 
credit impairment charge reflects in part a lower level of 
impairments booked in the year relating to the China 
commercial real estate sector.

Africa & Middle East (‘AME’) profits increased 90 per cent  
as income increased 26 per cent with strong growth in Cash 
Management and Retail Deposits income partly offset by a 
loss in Treasury Markets following de-risking actions in certain 
markets. Expenses grew 6 per cent while credit impairment 
charges were a net release of $91 million, a $210 million 
reduction, reflecting a non-repeat of the prior year’s  
sovereign-related impairments and releases relating to 
historic Corporate provisions.

Europe & Americas recorded a loss of $330 million as income 
reduced by 40 per cent, reflecting the increased cost of 
hedges within Treasury whilst strong growth in Transaction 
Banking income was partly offset by lower Financial Markets 
income. Expenses increased 12 per cent reflecting the impact 
of inflation and higher investment spend. There was a  
$59 million reduction in credit impairment releases.

Central & other items (region) recorded a loss of $43 million 
compared to a $597 million loss in the prior year. This 
improvement is mainly due to higher returns paid to Treasury 
on the equity provided to the regions in a rising interest rate 
environment while expenses increased by 8 per cent.

38

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Financial Officer’s reviewAdjusted net interest income and margin

Adjusted net interest income2

Average interest-earning assets 

Average interest-bearing liabilities

Gross yield (%)3
Rate paid (%)3
Net yield (%)3
Net interest margin (%)3,4

2023 
$million

9,547

572,520

540,350

4.76

3.27

1.49

1.67

2022 
$million

7,976

565,370

525,351

2.70

1.38

1.32

1.41

Change¹
%

20

1

3

206

189

17

26

1   Variance is better/(worse) other than assets and liabilities which is increase/(decrease)

2   Adjusted net interest income is reported net interest income less financial markets trading book funding costs and financial guarantee fees on interest- 

earning assets

3   Change is the basis points (bps) difference between the two periods rather than the percentage change

4   Adjusted net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets, annualised

Adjusted net interest income increased 20 per cent driven by an 18 per cent increase in the net interest margin, which averaged 
167 basis points in the year, 26 basis points year-on-year uplift benefiting from a rapid increase in policy interest rates across 
many of our markets slightly offset by an adverse change in asset mix. The net interest margin was also depressed by loss 
making hedges within Treasury and an accounting asymmetry from Treasury’s business as usual management of FX positions 
within its portfolio.

•  Average interest-earning assets grew 1 per cent, or 2 per cent excluding the impact of currency translation and risk-weighted 
asset optimisation actions, reflecting an increase in cash and balances at central banks partly offset by lower customer loan 
balances. Gross yields increased 206 basis points compared with the average in the prior year

•  Average interest-bearing liabilities increased 3 per cent, or 4 per cent excluding the impact of currency translation, reflecting 
an increase in customer accounts while the rate paid on liabilities increased 189 basis points compared with the average in 
the prior year

Credit risk summary

Income Statement (Underlying view)

Total credit impairment charge/(release)3

 Of which stage 1 and 23
 Of which stage 33

2023 
$million

20222
$million

Change1
%

528

138

390

836

407

429

(37)

(66)

(9)

1   Variance is increase/(decrease) comparing current reporting period to prior reporting period

2   Underlying credit impairment has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME and (ii) Aviation Finance. No change to reported  

credit impairment 

3   Reconciliation from underlying to reported can be found on page 46

39

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportBalance sheet

Gross loans and advances to customers2

Of which stage 1 

Of which stage 2

Of which stage 3

Expected credit loss provisions

Of which stage 1 

Of which stage 2

Of which stage 3

Net loans and advances to customers

Of which stage 1 

Of which stage 2

Of which stage 3

Cover ratio of stage 3 before/after collateral (%)3

Credit grade 12 accounts ($million)

Early alerts ($million)
Investment grade corporate exposures (%)3

2023 
$million

292,145

273,692

11,225

7,228

(5,170)

(430)

(420)

(4,320)

286,975

273,262

10,805

2,908

2022 
$million

316,107

295,219

13,043

7,845

(5,460)

(559)

(444)

(4,457)

310,647

294,660

12,599

3,388

Change1
%

(8)

(7)

(14)

(8)

(5)

(23)

(5)

(3)

(8)

(7)

(14)

(14)

60 / 76

57 / 76

3 / 0

2,155

5,512

73

1,574

4,967

76

37

11

(3)

1   Variance is increase/(decrease) comparing current reporting period to prior reporting period

2   Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending held at amortised cost of $13,996 million at 31 December 2023, $10,267 million  

at 30 September 2023, $10,950 million at 30 June 2023 and $24,498 million at 31 December 2022

3   Change is the percentage points difference between the two points rather than the percentage change

Credit quality remained resilient, reflected in lower year-on-
year credit impairment charges and an improvement in a 
number of underlying credit metrics. The Group continues to 
actively manage the credit portfolio whilst remaining alert to 
a volatile and challenging external environment including 
increased geopolitical tensions which has led to idiosyncratic 
stress in a select number of markets and industry sectors. 

Credit impairment was a $528 million charge, down 37 per 
cent year-on-year, representing a loan loss rate of 17 basis 
points. There was a $282 million impairment charge relating  
to the China commercial real estate sector, including a  
$32 million decrease in the management overlay which  
now totals $141 million. The decrease in the management 
overlay reflects repayments and loans moving into stage 3. 
The Group has provided $1.2 billion in total, in relation to  
China commercial real estate sector primarily over the last 
three years. There was a net release of $45 million relating  
to sovereign downgrades. Excluding the China commercial 
real estate portfolio and sovereign-related exposures, there 
was a net release relating to Corporate exposures, primarily 
historical provisions. CPBB charge of $354 million reflects  
an uptick in delinquency trends across the year and the  
$85 million charge in Ventures is primarily from portfolio 
growth and increased bankruptcy related write-offs in Mox 
where credit criteria have now been adjusted to reduce the 
current elevated delinquency rate.

Gross stage 3 loans and advances to customers of $7.2 billion 
were 8 per cent lower year-on-year as repayments, client 
upgrades and write-offs more than offset new inflows. 
Credit-impaired loans represented 2.5 per cent of gross  
loans and advances, flat on the prior year.

The stage 3 cover ratio before collateral of 60 per cent 
increased by 3 percentage points, while the cover ratio post 
collateral at 76 per cent was flat on the prior year, with the 
cover ratio before collateral increasing due to an increase in 
stage 3 provisions in relation to the China commercial real 
estate sector and a reduction in gross stage 3 balances.

Credit grade 12 balances have increased by 37 per cent to  
$2.2 billion substantially from a change in instrument on an 
existing sovereign exposure with no increase in risk. Excluding 
this temporary inflow, credit grade 12 balances declined  
24 per cent reflecting both improvements into stronger credit 
grades and downgrades to stage 3. Early Alert accounts of 
$5.5 billion have increased by 11 per cent, reflecting new  
inflows relating to a select number of clients including 
sovereign-related exposures. The Group is continuing to 
carefully monitor its exposures in vulnerable sectors and  
select markets, given the unusual stresses caused by the 
currently challenging macro-economic environment.

The proportion of investment grade corporate exposures  
fell by 3 percentage points to 73 per cent, mainly due to a 
reduction in repurchase agreement balances across various 
central clearing counterparties.

40

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Financial Officer’s reviewRestructuring, goodwill impairment and other items

2023

Goodwill  
and other 
impairment2
$million

DVA 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

Operating income

Operating expenses

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and 
joint ventures

Total

362

(415)

20

(28)

47

(14)

–

–

–

(850)

–

(850)

17

–

–

–

–

17

20221

Goodwill  
and other 
impairment2
$million

Restructuring 
$million

494

(504)

–

(78)

(11)

(99)

–

–

–

(322)

–

(322)

Other  
items3
$million

262

–

–

–

–

262

DVA 
$million

42

Other  
items 
$million

20

–

–

–

–

42

–

–

–

–

20

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(‘Bohai’)

3.   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

The Group’s reported performance is adjusted for profits or 
losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment 
transactions driven by strategic intent, other infrequent and/
or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in 
the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the 
period and items which management and investors would 
ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying 
performance period-by period. 

In 2022 the Group announced the exit of seven markets in the 
AME region and will focus solely on the CCIB segment in two 
more markets. In 2023, the Group completed the sale of its 
Jordan business, closed its Lebanon representative office  
and signed agreements for sale of the remaining exit markets. 
Additionally, the Group sold its global Aviation Finance  
leasing business to Aircraft Leasing Company (‘AviLease’) for 
proceeds of approximately $3.6 billion including $0.7 billion 
consideration and $2.9 billion repayment of net-intra-group 
financing, giving rise to a gain on disposal of $309 million.  
The $1 billion Aviation loan businesses was sold separately, 
giving rise to a loss on disposal of $47 million. Both of these 
transactions are recorded in Other items. As a result of these 
disposals, effective 1 January 2023, the Group has not included 
the exit markets and the Aviation Finance business within the 
Group’s underlying operating profit before taxation but 
reported them within restructuring.

The Group has also classified movements in the debit 
valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) out of its underlying operating 
profit before taxation and into Other items. To aid 
comparisons with prior periods the Group has removed  
the exit markets, Aviation Finance business and DVA from  
its underlying operating profit before taxation for 2022.

Restructuring loss of $14 million reflects the impact of actions 
to transform the organisation to improve productivity, 
primarily additional redundancy charges, technology 
simplification and optimising the Group’s property footprint. 
This was partly offset by the profits from the AME exit markets 
and Aviation Finance business before the completion of their 
exit from the Group.

Other impairment of $850 million is in relation to a further 
reduction in the carrying value of the Group’s investment  
in its associate Bohai, to align to a lower value-in-use 
computation following banking industry challenges and 
property market uncertainties in Mainland China, that may 
impact Bohai’s future profitability. The carrying value of the 
Group’s investment in Bohai has reduced to $0.7 billion from 
$1.5 billion.

Movements in DVA were a positive $17 million driven by the 
widening of the Group’s asset swap spreads on derivative 
liability exposures. The portfolio subject to DVA did not 
change materially during the year.

41

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportBalance sheet and liquidity

Assets

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Other assets

Total assets

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Other liabilities

Total liabilities

Equity

Total equity and liabilities

Advances-to-deposits ratio (%)²

Liquidity coverage ratio (%)

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

Increase/
(Decrease)1
$million

Increase/
(Decrease)1
%

44,977

286,975

490,892

822,844

28,030

469,418

275,043

772,491

50,353

822,844

53.3%

145%

39,519

310,647

469,756

819,922

28,789

461,677

279,440

769,906

50,016

819,922

57.4%

147%

5,458

(23,672)

21,136

2,922

(759)

7,741

(4,397)

2,585

337

2,922

14

(8)

4

–

(3)

2

(2)

–

1

–

1   Variance is increase/(decrease)comparing current reporting period to prior reporting periods

2   The Group now excludes $20,710 million held with central banks (30.09.23: $21,241 million, 30.06.23: $24,749 million, 31.12.22: $20,798 million) that has been confirmed 

as repayable at the point of stress.

The Group’s balance sheet remains strong, liquid and  
well diversified. 

•  Loans and advances to customers decreased 8 per cent,  
or $24 billion to $287 billion as at 31 December 2023 but 
declined 1 per cent on an underlying basis. The underlying 
reduction excludes the impact of $12 billion decrease in 
Treasury and securities backed loans held to collect,  
$7 billion reduction from risk-weighted asset optimisation 
actions undertaken by CCIB and a $1 billion reduction from 
currency translation 

•  Customer accounts increased $8 billion to $469 billion 

and up 2 per cent excluding the $2 billion impact of currency 
translation. Retail Time Deposits increased $18 billion and 
Cash Management balances increased $11 billion partly 
offset by a $18 billion decrease in Corporate Term Deposits 

•  Other assets increased 4 per cent, or $21 billion from  

31 December 2022 with a $41 billion increase in financial 
assets held at fair value through profit or loss, primarily 

Risk-weighted assets

By risk type

Credit risk

Operational risk

Market risk

Total RWAs

reverse repurchase agreements and debt securities and 
other eligible bills. Cash and balances at central banks 
increased $12 billion. This was partly offset by a $13 billion 
reduction in derivative balances and a $8 billion reduction  
in investment securities fair valued through other 
comprehensive income 

•  Other liabilities decreased 2 per cent, or $4 billion from  

31 December 2022 with a $14 billion decrease in derivative 
balances partly offset by a $10 billion increase in repurchase 
agreements

The advances-to-deposits ratio decreased to 53.3 per cent 
from 57.4 per cent at 31 December 2022 reflecting the 
reduction in loans and advances to customers. The liquidity 
coverage ratio decreased 2 percentage points to 145 per cent 
as at 31 December 2023 after increasing in the first half of the 
year as the banking industry as a whole navigated turbulent 
external market conditions and remains well above the 
minimum regulatory requirement of 100 per cent.

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

Change1
$million

Change1
%

191,423

27,861

24,867

244,151

196,855

27,177

20,679

244,711

(5,432)

684

4,188

(560)

(3)

3

20

–

1   Variance is increase/(decrease) comparing current reporting period to prior reporting periods

Total risk-weighted assets (‘RWA’) of $244.2 billion were 
broadly flat in comparison to 31 December 2022.

•  Credit risk RWA decreased by $5.4 billion to $191.4 billion. 
There was a $10.3 billion reduction from optimisation 
actions, relating to the CCIB low-returning portfolio, a  
$2.1 billion reduction from other RWA efficiency actions,  
$2.7 billion reduction from currency translation, and a  
$1.1 billion reduction from model and methodology  
changes. The impairment of Bohai further reduced  
RWAs by $2.1 billion and the sale of the Aviation Finance 

business by a further $1.6 billion. This was partly offset  
by a $11.8 billion increase from asset mix and $2.7 billion 
increase relating to adverse credit migration 

•  Operational risk RWA increased $0.7 billion primarily due to 
an increase in average income as measured over a rolling 
three-year time horizon, with higher 2022 income replacing 
lower 2019 income

•  Market risk RWA increased by $4.2 billion to $24.9 billion 

reflecting an increase in traded risk positions and  
market volatility

42

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Financial Officer’s reviewCapital base and ratios

CET1 capital

Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1)

Tier 1 capital 

Tier 2 capital 

Total capital
CET1 capital ratio end point (%)2
Total capital ratio transitional (%)2
Leverage ratio (%)2

2023 
$million

34,314

5,492

39,806

11,935

51,741

14.1

21.2

4.7

2022 
$million

34,157

6,484

40,641

12,510

53,151

14.0

21.7

4.8

Change1
$million

Change1
%

–

(15)

(2)

(5)

(3)

157

(992)

(835)

(575)

(1,410)

0.1

(0.5)

(0.1)

1   Variance is increase/(decrease) comparing current reporting period to prior reporting periods

2   Change is percentage points difference between two points rather than percentage change

The Group’s CET1 ratio of 14.1 per cent was 10 basis points 
higher than the ratio as at 31 December 2022. The Group  
was able to fund $2.7 billion of capital returns to ordinary 
shareholders from underlying profits. The CET1 ratio remains 
3.5 percentage points above the Group’s latest regulatory 
minimum of 10.5 per cent and above the top of the  
13-14 per cent target range.

As well as the 169 basis points of CET1 accretion from 
underlying profits, the Group’s CET1 ratio decreased  
34 basis points from a net $5.9 billion increase in risk-weighted 
assets as the Group exercised tight control over capital 
consumption. A further 22 basis points uplift was the result of 
an increase in Other Comprehensive Income from  
fair value gains on debt instruments as long-term interest 
rates began to fall in the latter half of the year. The sale of the 
Group’s Aviation Finance business increased the CET1 ratio by 
20 basis points.

Ordinary shareholder distributions reduced the CET1 ratio  
by approximately 111 basis points. The Group spent $2 billion 
purchasing 230 million ordinary shares of $0.50 each during 
the year, representing a volume-weighted average price per 
share of £7.06. These shares were subsequently cancelled, 
reducing the total issued share capital by 7.9 per cent and the 
CET1 ratio by 82 basis points. The Board has recommended  
a final dividend of 21 cents per share resulting in a total 2023 
ordinary dividend of 27 cents per share or $728 million, 
reducing the CET1 ratio by approximately 30 basis points. 
Payments due to AT1 and preference shareholders cost 
approximately 17 basis points.

The Board has announced a share buyback for up to a 
maximum consideration of $1 billion to further reduce the 
number of ordinary shares in issue by cancelling the 
repurchased shares. The terms of the buyback will be 
published, and the programme will start shortly and is 
expected to reduce the Group’s CET1 ratio in the first quarter 
of 2024 by approximately 40 basis points.

The $850 million impairment of Bohai also resulted in a RWA 
reduction of $2.1 billion, the net effect of which resulted in a 
reduction of the CET1 ratio by 23 basis points. 

The Group’s leverage ratio of 4.7 per cent is 6 basis points 
lower than at 31 December 2022. This is primarily driven by  
a decrease in Tier 1 capital of $0.8 billion as CET1 capital 
increased by $0.2 billion and was more than offset by the 
redemption of $1.0 billion Additional Tier 1 securities. The 
reduction in Tier 1 capital was broadly offset by a $7.2 billion 
reduction in leverage exposures. The Group’s leverage ratio 
remains significantly above its minimum requirement of  
3.7 per cent.

Outlook
We have updated our guidance for 2024 and have provided 
additional guidance for 2025 and 2026 as follows: 

•  Income:

–  Operating income to increase 5-7 per cent for 2024 to 
2026 and around the top of 5-7 per cent range in 2024 

–  Net interest income for 2024 of $10 billion to $10.25 billion, 

at constant currency 

•  Expenses:

–  Operating expenses to be below $12 billion in 2026, at 

constant currency 

–  Expense saves of around $1.5 billion and cost to achieve  

of no more than $1.5 billion from 2024 to 2026 

–  Positive income-to-cost jaws, excluding UK bank levy,  
at constant currency in each year from 2024 to 2026

•  Assets and RWA:

–  Low single-digit percentage growth in loans and 

advances to customers and RWA each year from 2024  
to 2026 (pre-Basel 3.1 day-1 impact)

–  Basel 3.1 day-1 impact, pending clarification of  
rules, expected to add no more than 5 per cent 
incremental RWA

•  Continue to expect the loan loss rate to normalise towards 
the historical through-the-cycle 30 to 35 basis points range

•  Capital:

–  Continue to operate dynamically within the full  

13-14 per cent CET1 target range 

–  Plan to return at least $5 billion to shareholders 

cumulative 2024 to 2026

–  Continue to increase full-year dividend per share  

over time

•  RoTE increasing steadily from 10%, targeting 12% in 2026 

and to progress thereafter

Diego De Giorgi
Group Chief Financial Officer

23 February 2024

43

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Risk 
Officer’s review

ªProactively 
managing our 
risks whilst 
keeping our 
focus on the 
execution of 
the Group’s 
strategyº

44

Managing Risk
2023 presented challenges across many of our markets, with 
sustained high inflation levels from 2022 continuing to put 
pressure on the central banks to dampen rising prices through 
increases to interest rates. Increased levels of volatility were 
seen in early 2023 as several bank failures prompted fears of  
a global contagion. Despite having no material exposures to 
the failed banks, the Group took proactive steps to further 
strengthen our liquidity position and monitor for any signs of 
second order impacts. 2023 also saw a fundamental shift in 
global power dynamics, including with the BRICS expansion. 
Sovereign risks persisted across emerging markets in the 
Africa and Middle East region. In Asia, despite slower than 
expected economic growth in China, we saw positive signs of 
growth in the second half of the year. We continued to keep 
our focus on the challenges in the China real estate sector and 
any contagion risks. The Group has limited direct exposure in 
Ukraine and to the countries in the Middle East which are 
currently most impacted by conflict. However, we remained 
cognisant of the volatility and the potential second order 
market impacts, including those from elevated oil and 
commodity prices or supply chains disruption, which we 
continue to actively monitor through stress testing and 
portfolio reviews. 

As we enter 2024, we stay vigilant and continue to review our 
exposure and limits across our portfolios to identify vulnerable 
industries and clients for closer monitoring. 

Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB)
Our CCIB credit portfolio remained resilient with overall  
good asset quality, as evidenced by our largely investment 
grade corporate portfolio (31 December 2023: 73 per cent, 
31 December 2022: 76 per cent). We actively tracked 
geopolitical risks to enable us to act should the need 
materialise. In consideration of the macroeconomic 
challenges, additional reviews were conducted throughout 
2023 across US regional Banks, Non-Bank Financial Institutions 
(NBFI), Leveraged Lending books, Global Commercial Real 
Estate (CRE) portfolio and select geographies. We closely 
monitored vulnerable sectors and identified clients that  
may face difficulties on account of increased interest rates, 
foreign exchange movements, commodity volatility or 
increased prices of essential goods. In China, the property 
market recovery remained slower than expected amidst 
government support measures and we continued to  
monitor our developers and sponsors portfolios through 
dedicated reviews. 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Risk Officer’s reviewThe Risk function remains actively engaged in providing 
independent review and challenge to internal and regulatory 
stress tests and recovery and resolution capabilities.

Further details on Risk Management for our Principal Risk Types  
can be found in page 314

Further details on Climate Risk can be found in page 298

Risk Performance Summary 
Asset quality is resilient. The percentage of investment- 
grade corporate net exposure remained high at 73 per cent 
(31 December 2022: 76 per cent). Exposure to our top 20 
corporate clients as a percentage of Tier 1 capital decreased 
to 62 per cent (31 December 2022: 65 per cent), mainly driven 
by reduction in Transaction Banking exposures. However, the 
Group remained vigilant of persistent challenging conditions 
in some markets and sectors. In 2023, we saw a $0.5 billion 
increase in Early Alerts exposure (31 December 2023:  
$5.5 billion, 31 December 2022: $5.0 billion), driven by inflows 
relating to a select number of clients including sovereign-
related exposures, partially offset by transfers to Purely 
Precautionary, regularisations, exposure reductions and 
outflows to Credit grades 12-14. Credit grade 12 balances 
increased to $2.2 billion (31 December 2022: $1.6 billion)  
due to sovereign and client downgrades, partially offset  
by outflows to non-performing loans. 

Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) 
The CPBB credit portfolio remained alert to the risks of the 
uncertain economic outlook but continued to demonstrate 
resilience. An increase in delinquency rates (Stage 2 provisions 
as at 31 December 2023: $139 million, 31 December 2022:  
$118 million) highlights the emerging pressure on customers’ 
debt servicing capacity, as our customers continue to adapt to 
the prolonged higher interest rate environment. We continued 
to monitor potential secondary impacts of local challenges 
arising from heightened country risks across Bangladesh, 
Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, amongst 
others. There was no material impact on the CPBB portfolio 
due to the war in Ukraine and the conflict in the Middle East. 
For both our secured and unsecured consumer credit 
portfolios, we continued to monitor customer affordability 
across our key markets and dynamically adjusted origination 
criteria, portfolio management and collections strategies,  
as appropriate. We were mindful of the higher credit risk 
associated with increased lending to the mass market 
segment through our digital partnerships and digital  
banks and have tailored our lending criteria and portfolio 
management approach to the unique risks and customer 
behaviours observed in these segments.

Treasury Risk
Our liquidity and capital risks are managed to ensure a strong 
and resilient balance sheet that supports sustainable growth. 
We continued to enhance our Treasury Risk framework to 
incorporate the lessons from recent market events as well  
as horizon risks. Liquidity remained resilient across the Group 
and major legal entities. Group liquidity coverage ratio (LCR)  
is 145.4 per cent as at December 2023 (31 December 2022:  
147 per cent) with a surplus to both Risk Appetite and 
regulatory requirements. Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio 
was 14.1 per cent as at December 2023 (31 December  
2022: 14.0 per cent) while Leverage ratio was 4.7 per cent  
(31 December 2022: 4.8 per cent). In March 2023, we saw sharp 
moves in funding markets and customer behaviours triggering 
several bank failures in the US and Switzerland. This resulted in 
a heightened focus on Treasury risks including capital, liquidity, 
and interest rate risk on the banking book, with problems 
most acute in the US market and reverberating globally.  
We maintained a resilient liquidity position throughout the 
period and continued to focus on managing risks even as 
those event risks receded.

45

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportKey indicators

Group total business1

Stage 1 loans ($ billion)

Stage 2 loans ($ billion)

Stage 3 loans, credit-impaired ($ billion)

Stage 3 cover ratio

Stage 3 cover ratio (including collateral)

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Investment grade corporate net exposures as a percentage of total corporate net exposures

Loans and advances maturing in one year or less as a percentage of total loans and advances 
to customers3

Early Alert portfolio net exposures ($ billion)

Credit grade 12 balances ($ billion)
Aggregate top 20 corporate net exposures as a percentage of Tier 1 capital2

Collateralisation of sub-investment grade net exposures maturing in more than one year

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

2023

292.1

273.7

11.2

7.2

60%

76%

73%

68%

5.5

2.2

62%

41%

2022

316.1

295.2

13.0

7.9

57%

76%

76%

68%

5.0

1.6

65%

53%

Loan-to-value ratio of Consumer, Private & Business Banking mortgages

47.2%

44.7%

1   These numbers represent total gross loans and advances to customers

2   Excludes reverse repurchase agreements

3   The 2022 figure has been restated from 65 per cent to 68 per cent

The Group’s credit impairment was a net charge of $508 million (31 December 2022: $836 million), a decrease of $328 million. 
2022 included overlays for sovereign downgrades and China commercial real estate, which was partly offset by a full release  
of COVID-19 overlays. Stage 3 was a charge of $369 million (31 December 2022: $430 million), and the reduction was driven by 
CCIB releases and lower impairment charges for our China commercial real estate clients. This reduction was offset by higher 
bankruptcy related write-offs in CPBB across Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea, and portfolio growth in digital partners.

Credit impairment

Ongoing business portfolio

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Credit impairment charge/(release)

Restructuring business portfolio

Others

Credit impairment charge/(release)

Total credit impairment charge/(release)

2023

20221

Stage 1 & 2  
$million

Stage 3  
$million

Total  
$million

Stage 1 & 2  
$million

Stage 3  
$million

Total  
$million

11

129

42

(44)

138

-

1

1

139

112

225

43

10

390

-

(21)

(21)

369

123

354

85

(34)

528

-

(20)

(20)

508

148

151

13

95

407

-

(1)

(1)

406

277

111

3

38

429

-

1

1

425

262

16

133

836

-

-

-

430

836

1  Underlying credit impairment has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME and (ii) Aviation Finance. No change in reported 

credit impairment

Further details of the risk performance for 2023 are set out in the full Risk review section (pages 232 to 343).

46

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Risk Officer’s reviewAn update on our risk management approach
Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) outlines how we manage risk across the Group, as well as at branch  
and subsidiary level1. It gives us the structure to manage existing risks effectively in line with our Group Risk Appetite, as well  
as allowing for holistic risk identification. The ERMF also sets out the roles and responsibilities and the minimum governance 
requirements for the management of Principal Risks. 

In revisions made in the ERMF in 2023, effective 1 January 2024, the concepts of Integrated Risk Types (IRTs) and IRT Owner  
roles were discontinued. Oversight on existing IRTs, i.e. Climate Risk, Digital Asset and Third Party Risk, is achieved through the 
Risk Type Frameworks (RTFs) and dedicated policies. The subject matter experts, as the policy owners for these risks, provide 
overall governance and ensure a holistic view of how risks are monitored and managed across the Principal Risk Types (PRTs).

Principal Risk Types
PRTs are risks inherent in our strategy and business model. These are formally defined in our ERMF, which provides a structure  
for monitoring and controlling these risks through the Risk Appetite Statement. We will not compromise compliance with our 
Risk Appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns. 

The table below provides an overview of the Group’s PRTs and their corresponding risk appetite statements. 

Risk Types

Credit Risk

Traded Risk

Treasury Risk

Operational and Technology Risk

Financial Crime Risk

Compliance Risk

Risk Appetite Statement

The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversification across 
products, geographies, client segments and industry sectors.

The Group should control its financial markets and activities to ensure that market and 
counterparty credit risk losses do not cause material damage to the Group’s franchise.

The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity and funding to support its operations,  
and an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings or value from movements  
in interest rates impacting banking book items does not cause material damage to the Group’s 
franchise. In addition, the Group should ensure its Pension plans are adequately funded. 

The Group aims to control operational and technology risks to ensure that operational losses 
(financial or reputational), including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause 
material damage to the Group’s franchise.

The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to Financial Crime, 
recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.

The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to regulatory non-
compliance; recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.

Information and Cyber Security Risk The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank 

material harm, business disruption, financial loss or reputational damage – recognising that 
whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.

Reputational and Sustainability Risk The Group aims to protect the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring 

Model Risk

that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed with the appropriate level of 
management and governance oversight. This includes a potential failure to uphold responsible 
business conduct in striving to do no significant environmental and social harm.

The Group has no appetite for material adverse implications arising from misuse of models  
or errors in the development or implementation of models; whilst accepting some model 
uncertainty.

In addition to the PRTs, the Group has defined the following Risk Appetite statement for Climate Risk: “The Group aims to 
measure and manage financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change, and reduce emissions related to our own 
activities and those related to the financing of clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.”

1  The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework and system of internal control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to 

Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.

Further details on our Risk Management Approach can be found on page 314.

47

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportTopical and  
Emerging Risks (TERs)

Emerging Risks refer to unpredictable and uncontrollable 
outcomes from certain events which may have the potential 
to adversely impact our business. Topical Risks refer to themes 
that may have emerged but are still evolving rapidly. 

As part of our continuous risk identification process, we have 
updated the Group’s TERs from those disclosed in the 2022 
Annual Report and 2023 Half-Year Report; these remain 
applicable, with nuances in their evolution noted where 
pertinent. Below is a summary of the TERs, and the mitigating 
actions we are taking based on our current knowledge and 
assumptions. This reflects the latest internal assessment as 
performed by senior management. 

The TER list is not exhaustive and there may be additional 
risks which could have an adverse effect on the Group. There 
are some horizon risks that, although not highly likely at 
present, could evolve into a threat in the future and we are 
therefore monitoring them. These include future pandemics 
and the world’s preparedness for them, and other potential 
cross-border conflicts. Our mitigation approach for these  
risks may not eliminate them but demonstrates the Group’s 
awareness and attempt to reduce or manage the risks. As 
certain risks develop and materialise over time, management 
will take appropriate steps to mitigate them based on their 
materiality on the Group.

Macroeconomic and geopolitical considerations 
There is interconnectedness between risks due to the 
importance of US Dollar financing conditions for global 
markets, the global or concentrated nature of key supply 
chains for energy, food, semi-conductors and rare metals,  
and the direct influence of geopolitics on geoeconomics. 

The Group is exposed to these risks directly through 
investments, infrastructure and staff, and also indirectly 
through its clients. Whilst the main impacts are financial, 
other ramifications may exist such as reputational, 
compliance or operational considerations. 

Expanding array of global tensions and new geopolitical 
order
Global power dynamics have shifted, with different political 
and economic alliances beginning to create a multipolar 
power system. This has been accelerated by the war in 
Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East. Whilst the Group has 
limited direct exposure to Russia, Ukraine or Israel, it may be 
impacted by second order effects on its clients and markets 
for agricultural commodities, oil or gas. 

The positioning of ‘middle powers’ is complex and evolving, 
and could tip the geopolitical scales. The negotiating power 
of exporters of energy and other natural resources has 
expanded and can shape global markets, as they can use 
global divisions to raise their own profile. One such example  
is the envisaged expansion of BRICS to seek a counterweight 
to Western power axes. 

48

US-China tensions remain, with protectionist measures 
imposed by both sides. Tariffs, embargos, sanctions, new 
taxes such as that on carbon, and restrictions on technology 
exports and investments, are being used to achieve goals 
beyond just economic. Further economic or political actions 
could escalate distrust and accelerate the decoupling of trade 
links, leading to increasingly inefficient production and 
inflation pressures. 

Despite attempts to become more pragmatic, a number of 
potential flashpoints remain. A push by China to increase  
RMB trade and establish RMB as a secondary global reserve 
currency presents new business opportunities but also 
potential disruption to the balance of power. 

With many elections due across the world in the next twelve 
months, there is uncertainty over the political direction of 
domestic and foreign policy. There is a risk of short-term 
political expediency taking precedence over long-term 
strategic decision making. The malicious use of AI-enabled 
disinformation could also cause disruption and undermine 
trust in the political process. 

There is an ongoing threat of terrorism, with unpredictability 
exacerbated by the wider range of ideologies at play.  
Cyber warfare by state related actors could also be used  
to disrupt infrastructure or institutions in rival countries. 

A more complex and less integrated global political and 
economic landscape has the potential to challenge cross 
border business models, but also provides new business 
opportunities.

Persistent high inflation and interest rates 
Although rate cuts have been signalled by the Federal 
Reserve, global rates could remain elevated for longer. 
Structurally higher spending and continued supply disruptions 
increase the probability of inflation remaining sticky. During 
2023, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World  
Trade Organisation lowered their initial forecasts for trade 
growth and increased that of inflation in 2024, suggesting 
that several economies will walk a fine line between recession 
and stagflation.

Concern for the credit environment spans both commercial 
and retail lending, with price inflation and the cliff effects of 
energy, mortgage and debt re-pricing ultimately leading to 
higher defaults. This is visible in bond markets with yields 
widening markedly and prone to high volatility.

Drives to de-risk supply chains combined with no obvious 
resolution to ongoing conflicts continue to disrupt supply 
chains. This complicates efforts to combat inflation as  
supply constrained markets dent the effectiveness of 
monetary policy. 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Risk Officer’s reviewSome sectors are particularly sensitive to high rates, notably 
commercial real estate, non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) 
and leveraged finance due to their reliance on the availability 
of cheap financing. Bank failures in Q1 2023 highlighted 
challenges in managing liquidity, credit, refinancing and 
market risks. They also raised questions of competence and 
confidence in the finance industry. 

The growing need for minerals and rare earth metals to power 
green energy technologies could increase the geopolitical 
standing of the main refiners, such as China, Indonesia and 
some African nations. However, there are also environmental 
and social costs to rapidly increasing extraction. A desire to 
avoid dependence may slow down the move by some nations 
towards the transition. 

How these risks are mitigated/next steps 
•  We remain vigilant in monitoring risk and assessing impacts 

from geopolitical and macroeconomic risks to portfolio 
concentrations. 

•  We conduct thematic stress tests and portfolio reviews at 
the Group, country, and business level, with regular reviews 
on vulnerable sectors, and undertake any necessary 
mitigating actions. 

•  We maintain a diversified portfolio across products and 

geographies, with specific risk appetite metrics to monitor 
concentrations. 

•  Increased scrutiny is applied when onboarding clients and 

in ensuring compliance with sanctions. 

•  Collateral and credit insurance are used to manage 

concentrations.

•  We track the participation of our footprint countries in the 
G20’s Common Framework Agreement and Debt Service 
Suspension Initiative for Debt Treatments and the 
associated exposure.

•  Our NBFI exposure is closely monitored in terms of both 

limits, products and counterparties. 

Regulatory considerations

Changing regulatory environment
Given notable bank failures in 2023 (and the response of 
resolution authorities to those failures), the regulatory 
framework for banks remains subject to continued change  
in addition to the implementation of Basel 3.1 in various 
jurisdictions. Additionally, the differing pace and scale of 
regulatory adoption between jurisdictions, along with 
increasing extraterritorial reach and prescriptiveness, can 
make it challenging for multinational groups to manage  
their business. Implementation timelines are a focus.

The scale of upcoming regulatory change in 2024 and 2025  
is significant with major regime changes in capital and 
operational resilience due to take effect. 

How these risks are mitigated/next steps 
•  We actively monitor regulatory developments, including 

those related to sustainable finance and ESG, and  
respond to consultations either bilaterally or through 
well-established industry bodies. 

Economic slowdown in China 
Whilst China’s exit from COVID restrictions has had an overall 
positive impact, it has failed to deliver a sustained boost to the 
global economy as the country contends with strain in several 
sectors such as real estate. There has also been a change in 
the corporate operating environment, with reduced clarity on 
the economic outlook. 

Given China’s importance to global trade a slowdown would 
have wider implications across the supply chain, especially for 
its trading partners, as well as to countries which rely on it for 
investment, such as those in Africa. However, opportunities 
arise from the diversification of intra-Asia trade and other 
global trade routes, and growth acceleration in South Asia, 
especially India.

Sovereign risk 
Credit fundamentals have been eroding across both 
emerging and advanced economies due to persistently high 
interest rates, food and energy prices. Emerging markets will 
also be affected by weakness in local currencies versus the  
US Dollar and the resultant cost of refinancing existing debt, 
or availability of hard currency liquidity. Issues and challenges 
have already been observed across several of the Group’s 
footprint markets, including the recent default of Ghana, 
political instability in Pakistan, high inflation in Turkey, 
economic turmoil in Sri Lanka, and coups in Africa.

For some countries there is a heightened risk of failure to 
manage social demands, which might culminate in increased 
political vulnerability. Furthermore, food security exacerbated 
by the influences of armed conflict and climate change,  
and energy security challenges have the potential to drive 
social unrest.

Debt moratoria and refinancing initiatives are complicated  
by larger number of financiers, with much financing done  
on a bilateral basis outside of the Paris Club. Whilst the  
Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable has made some  
progress on coordinating approaches between the Paris  
Club and other lenders their interests do not always match. 
This can lead to delays in negotiations on debt resolutions  
for developing nations. 

Supply chain issues and material shortages 
Demand and supply imbalances in global supply chains  
are increasingly becoming structural in nature and affect a 
wide range of commodities including food, energy, minerals 
and raw materials, plus targeted restrictions on certain 
industry sectors.

There is growing political awareness around the need for key 
component and resource security at national level. Countries 
are enacting rules to “de-risk” by reducing reliance on rivals or 
concentrated suppliers (for example semiconductors) and 
look to either re-industrialise or make use of near-shoring and 
friend-shoring production. 

49

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportESG considerations

ESG stakeholder expectations 
Organisations across the corporate and financial sectors are 
setting ambitious sustainability goals and net zero targets 
with many embedding them in their business models. This has 
prompted increased attention from various stakeholders in 
ensuring that net zero targets are being met with credible 
action plans. Stakeholder scrutiny around greenwashing  
risk relating to ESG focused financial products, as well as 
companies’ commitments, transpires in the various regulatory 
developments and early enforcement actions taken by several 
key regulators.

Fragmentation in the pace and scale of adoption of ESG 
regulations around the world remains, particularly around 
taxonomies and disclosure requirements, which may lead to 
unintended consequences including misallocation of capital, 
increased implementation costs and litigation risks.

The Group’s net zero aspirations may be impacted by 
governments or corporates scaling back their sustainability 
targets, especially as economic conditions remain 
challenging, and budgets are constrained. There have been 
examples in developed nations, such as the UK revisiting its 
electric vehicle transition timeline. A slower transition from key 
clients may also weigh reputational pressure on the Group’s 
roadmap. 

Higher frequencies of extreme weather-related events such  
as wildfires, floods and famines may lead to physical climate 
risk and the cost of managing it becoming a heavier burden 
on global economies. This will be particularly impactful to 
developing markets. Alongside climate change, biodiversity 
loss, pollution, and depletion of key resources, such as water, 
pose incremental risks to food and health systems, energy 
security and contribute to the disruption of supply chains. 

Human rights concerns are increasingly in focus, with the 
scope expanding beyond direct abuses to cover other areas 
such as technological advancement and supply chains. 

How these risks are mitigated/next steps 
•  We update our environmental and social standards for 
providing financial services to clients every two years,  
with a new version scheduled for 2024.

•  We focus on embedding our values through our Position 
Statements for sensitive sectors and a list of prohibited 
activities 

•  We integrate the management of greenwashing risks  

into our Reputational and Sustainability Risk Framework 
and policies 

•  ‘Green’, ‘sustainable’ and ‘transition’ labels for products  

and transactions reflect the criteria set out in the Group’s 
Sustainable Finance frameworks, which are regularly 
reviewed. We obtain external verification on the Group’s 
Sustainable Finance asset pool.

•  We assess our clients and suppliers against various 

international human rights principles, as well as through  
our social safeguards and supplier charter. 

Modern slavery statement:  
https://www.sc.com/modernslavery

Human Rights Position Statement:  
https://www.sc.com/humanrights

•  Detailed portfolio reviews and stress tests are conducted  
to test resilience to climate-related risks and enhance 
modelling capabilities to understand the financial risks  
and opportunities from climate change. 

•  Work is underway to embed Climate Risk considerations 
across all relevant PRTs. This includes client-level Climate 
Risk assessments, including setting adequate mitigants  
or controls as part of decision making and portfolio 
management activities.

Technological considerations

Data and digital 
The Group’s digital footprint will expand as more services  
and products are digitised and made more accessible.  
Scale in operations and interactions with digital systems will 
further reduce the tolerance for errors and outages. The risk of 
data breaches is amplified by highly organised actors, with 
threats such as ‘Ransomware as a Service’ and affordable, 
sophisticated AI systems helping to facilitate attacks on 
organisations and individuals.

Data regulation continues to be fluid and fragmented. 
Geopolitical tensions have accelerated the implementation  
of data sovereignty laws, including data localisation 
requirements and cross-border access restrictions. These 
regulations often have an extraterritorial reach which could 
increase operating costs significantly, and also impact 
cross-border business models. Stakeholder expectations on 
data management have also increased, particularly relating 
to quality, integrity, record keeping, privacy, sovereignty, the 
ethical use of data and application of AI. 

The sophistication and adoption of AI solutions are growing 
exponentially and will increase exposure to existing risks such 
as model, fraud, financial crime, compliance and Information 
and Cyber Security (ICS) risks. In response, regulation is 
accelerating, particularly around the ethical application  
of AI in decision-making, necessitating robust governance 
measures. The Group needs to ensure that it develops 
sufficient in-house subject matter expertise. 

New business structures, channels and competition 
Failure to harness new technologies and new business  
models would place banks at a competitive disadvantage. 
The continued exploration of partnerships, alliances, digital 
assets, generative AI and nascent technologies, such as 
quantum computing, provides both opportunities and unique 
challenges. This is increasingly important as digital assets  
and distributed ledger technology become progressively 
prevalent and interconnected with the financial ecosystem. 
Supply chains are becoming more complex, interconnected 
and digital. Highly extended enterprises expand opportunities 
available for malicious actors, with risk cascading further 
down supply chains beyond just direct and third party risks. 

These innovations require specialist in-house expertise, new 
operating models and adapting risk frameworks to perform 
robust risk assessment and management of new threats. 
There is also growing regulatory attention in many of these 
areas. Balancing resilience and agility is essential given  
the global nature of new technologies alongside the 
maintenance of existing systems. It is imperative to establish 
clear ownership, frameworks, and oversight of the use of 
emerging technologies. 

50

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportGroup Chief Risk Officer’s reviewDemographic trends 
Divergent demographic trends across developed and 
emerging markets create contrasting challenges. Developed 
markets’ state budgets could be strained by ageing and 
shrinking populations, whilst political stances reduce the 
ability to fill skills gaps through immigration. Conversely 
emerging markets are experiencing fast-growing, younger 
workforces. Whilst it is an opportunity to develop talent, 
population growth will put pressure on key resources such as 
food, water, education and health, as well as government 
budgets. 

Population displacement, whether as a result of climate 
events, lack of key resources, political issues or war, may 
increase the fragility of societal structures in vulnerable 
centres. Large scale movement could cause social unrest,  
as well as propagate disease transmission and accelerate  
the spread of future pandemics. 

How these risks are mitigated/next steps 
•  Our culture and EVP work aims to address the emerging 

expectations of the diverse talent we seek. The Brand and 
Culture Dashboard monitors our diversity and inclusion, 
colleagues’ perceptions of our EVP, and whether we are 
living our Valued Behaviours. Management teams discuss 
many of these metrics (including employee survey 
responses) to identify actions. 

•  We are undertaking a multi-year journey of developing 
future-skills amongst our colleagues by focusing on 
continuous learning, to balance appropriately between 
‘building’ and ‘inducting’ skills into the Group. 

•  Our internal Talent Marketplace provides colleagues with 
opportunities to learn through experience by signing up  
for cross-functional (or even cross-geography) projects. 

•  Employees in 44 markets are on agreed flexible working 
arrangements. We continue to enhance support and 
resources to People Leaders and colleagues to help balance 
productivity, collaboration and wellbeing. 

•  Our Stands continue to be operationalised through our 
strategy, and help address the talent pool’s increased 
expectations of us being purpose-led. 

Sadia Ricke
Group Chief Risk Officer

23 February 2024

How these risks are mitigated/next steps 
•  We monitor emerging trends, opportunities and 

developments in technology as well as emerging business 
models that may have implications for the banking sector.

•  We invest in our capabilities, to better prepare and protect 

ourselves against possible disruption and new risks. 

•  We track the evolving regulatory landscape affecting key 
areas such as data management, digital assets and AI, 
including country-specific requirements, and actively 
collaborate with regulators to support important initiatives. 

•  We have established enhanced governance for novel areas 
through the Digital Asset Risk Committee and Responsible 
AI Council, which considers emerging regulatory guidance. 

•  We manage data risks through our Compliance Risk Type 
Framework and information security risks through our ICS 
Risk Type Framework. 

•  We have developed a Group Data Strategy, to strengthen 

ownership of related data risks. 

•  We maintain a dedicated Data Compliance Policy with 

globally applicable standards. These standards undergo 
regular review to ensure alignment with evolving 
regulations and industry best practice. 

•  We maintain programmes to enhance our data risk 
management capabilities and controls, including 
compliance with BCBS239 requirements on effective risk 
data aggregation, with progress tracked at executive level 
risk governance committees 

•  The Group has implemented a ‘defence-in-depth’ ICS 
control environment strategy to protect, detect and 
respond to known and emerging ICS threats. 

•  New risks arising from partnerships, alliances, digital assets 
and generative technologies are identified through the  
New Initiatives Risk Assessment and Third Party Risk 
Management Policy and Standards. 

Demographic considerations 

Talent pools of the future 
The expectations of the workforce, especially skilled workers, 
continue to evolve. The COVID pandemic accelerated 
changes on how people work, connect and collaborate,  
with expectations on hybrid working now a given. The focus  
is increasingly on ‘what’ work people do and ‘how’ they  
get to deliver it, which are becoming differentiators in  
the war for future talents. There is greater desire to seek 
meaning and personal fulfilment at work that is aligned  
to individual purpose. 

These trends are even more distinct among Millennials and 
Generation Z who make up an increasing proportion of  
the global talent pool, and as digital natives possess the 
attributes and skills we seek to pursue our strategy. 

To sustainably attract, grow and retain talent, we must 
continue to invest in and further strengthen our Employee 
Value Proposition (EVP) and our brand promise, here for  
good, through both firm-wide interventions as well as 
targeted action. 

51

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report

Stakeholders and 
Sustainability overview

54  

Stakeholders

66   Our commitment to sustainability

68  

 Sustainability Aspirations

70  

 Sustainability Strategic Pillars

76   Managing Climate Risk

[[The Women’s 
International 
Network 
continues  
to grow]] 

SC Women’s International Network  
(SC WIN) went from strength to 
strength in 2023, launching in  
Malaysia in June, Kenya in July, 
Singapore in September, and  
Hong Kong in October. 

SC WIN aims to provide female 
entrepreneurs with tailored financial 
solutions, business education and 
opportunities to connect with like-
minded entrepreneurs so they can 
successfully grow their businesses.  
SC WIN launched in India in 2022  
and is set to launch in further markets 
in 2024.

Read more at sc.com/SCWin

52

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Strategic reportS
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

53

 
Stakeholders

As an international bank 
operating in 52 markets, 
stakeholder engagement 
is crucial in ensuring we 
understand local, regional  
and global perspectives  
and trends which inform  
how we do business.

Our stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and governments

Investors

Suppliers

Society

Employees

54

This section forms our Section 172 disclosure, 
describing how the directors considered the 
matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the 
Companies Act 2006. It also forms the directors’ 
statement required under section 414CZA of  
the Act. 

See the following pages for:

•  How we engage stakeholders to understand their interests. 

See pages 55 to 64

•  How we engage employees and respond to their interests. 

See pages 60 to 64

•  How we respond to stakeholder interests through 

sustainable and responsible business. See pages 54 to 64

Detailed information about how the Board engages directly 
with stakeholders and shareholders can be found in the 
Director’s report on pages 134 to 229. 

Examples of a selection of the Board’s principal decisions are 
included throughout this section. This section also forms our 
key non-financial disclosures in relation to sections 414CA  
and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. Our Non-financial 
information statement can be found at the end of this section 
on page 79.

Listening and responding to stakeholder priorities and 
concerns is critical to achieving our Purpose and delivering  
on our brand promise, here for good. We strive to maintain 
open and constructive relationships with a wide range of 
stakeholders including regulators, lawmakers, clients, 
investors, civil society, and community groups.

In 2023, we made improvements to some of our feedback 
processes, so relationship managers could address client 
needs as they emerged. Our engagement took many forms, 
including one-to-one sessions using online channels and calls, 
virtual roundtables, written responses, and targeted surveys. 
These conversations, and the issues that underpin them, help 
inform our business strategy and support us to operate as a 
responsible and sustainable business.

Stakeholder feedback, where appropriate, is communicated 
internally to senior management through the relevant forums 
and governing committees such as the Sustainability Forum, 
and to the Board’s Culture and Sustainability Committee 
(CSC) which oversees the Group’s approach to its main 
relationships with stakeholders.

We communicate progress regularly with external 
stakeholders through channels such as sc.com, established 
social media platforms and this report. More detailed 
information on material sustainability topics can be found  
in our Sustainability review on pages 90 to 133.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersClients

How we create value
We want to deliver easy, everyday banking solutions to our 
clients in a simple and cost-effective way with a great 
customer experience. We enable individuals to grow and 
protect their wealth; we help businesses trade, transact,  
invest and expand; and we help a variety of financial 
institutions, including banks, public sector and development 
organisations, with their banking needs.

How we serve and engage
Our presence in high-growth markets – and ongoing roll out  
of digital platforms – helps connect our clients to the global 
engines of trade and innovation. As part of our aim to reach 
net zero carbon emissions by 2050, our transition finance 
team have been working closely with our clients in hard-to-
abate sectors on their own transitions. This is in addition to our 
plan to mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance between 
2021 and 2030.

Across the bank, we have processes and controls to mitigate 
greenwashing risks, and to support transparency we publish 
the details of what constitutes our sustainable products and 
investments universe externally.

We work closely with third-party Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) data providers to support the development 
of product ideas, and due diligence is conducted by our 
in-house team on our high conviction suite of sustainable 
funds.

Our push for a best-in-class client experience is underpinned 
by innovative products and digital straight-through services. 
This includes building capability to protect our clients against 
evolving risks in the ecosystem, like fraud and cyber security, 
and comes with education and increased client 
communication.

To act in the best interests of our clients, we use our insights 
gathered from our data alongside robust policies, procedures 
and the Group’s risk appetite to design and offer products  
and services that meet client needs, regulatory requirements 
and Group performance targets, while contributing to a 
sustainable and resilient environment.

Fees and charges are disclosed to clients in line with 
regulatory requirements and industry best practice and, 
where available, benchmarked against competitors. For 
Personal and Business Banking products, agreed interest 
rates, fees and other charges as billed to clients are monitored 
and assessed locally, with global oversight.

Triggers for outlier fees and charges are defined and subject 
to annual review. Complaints are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis and are one of the factors that are taken into account 
prior to amendments to annual interest, fees and charges.

We also assess our product portfolio for new risks to ensure 
they remain appropriate for client needs and aligned to 
emerging regulation. These quantitative and qualitative 
assessments, including Periodic Product Reviews, are intended 
to provide a complete view of whether to continue, enhance, 
grow or retire products.

Training is provided to frontline staff across our branches, 
contact centres and digital channels to identify and support 
vulnerable clients, and we have also implemented an 
educational training programme for those clients who require 
assistance in navigating online and mobile channels.

Throughout 2023, we maintained our sharp focus on 
improving the client experience across the Bank. We  
engaged with clients to show them the opportunities trade 
corridors could bring and how using our network could help 
them flourish.

Consumer, Private & Business Banking
In Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB), 2023 saw 
significant enhancements in digital wealth with the delivery of 
around 20 new capabilities across our markets. This includes 
client DIY Wealth Lending for Funds in Hong Kong and the 
UAE and MyInsure in India where relationship managers can 
leverage a digital tool to perform comprehensive insurance 
needs analysis and portfolio reviews for clients.

Our focus on partnerships continues to show results with  
the growth of our existing partnerships business in China, 
Vietnam, Indonesia, and Singapore, and we have expanded 
the partnership business to Malaysia. In 2023, the Bank 
launched partnerships with Ctrip in China, SeaMoney in 
Indonesia, and Atome in Singapore and Malaysia. These  
new and existing partnerships have incrementally added  
2.6 million active clients, growth to 1.7 billion in balances, and  
a total of 7.5 billion of new disbursements with impressive 
revenue growth in 2023.

Additionally, we made significant progress in our advisory 
business with the launch of SC Wealth Select in 14 markets. 
SC Wealth Select aims to bring a portfolio approach to client 
conversations and is supported by our digital advisory tool 
MyWealth Advisor. Across CPBB, 8,000 colleagues have 
completed the SC Wealth Select e-learning training and  
930 frontline colleagues have completed or are undertaking 
the Standard Chartered INSEAD Wealth Academy Advisory 
programme.

Importantly, we leverage our cross-border scale by using the 
same technology and open architecture product platform in 
different markets to offer competitive products and solutions 
globally. Examples of this include our series of Signature CIO 
Funds which is now available in 12 markets, with more to come 
in 2024, and Wealth Saver, an innovative savings product, now 
available in three markets.

55

Strategic reportStandard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Using artificial intelligence (AI) to serve 
CCIB clients

In 2023, we deployed artificial intelligence (AI) and other 
cutting-edge technology to improve how we serve our 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking clients. 
This included: 

•  client and frontline analytics that gave insights for 
better working capital decisions, FX hedging, more 
efficient liquidity deployment and cross-selling 
recommendations

•  data science in the use of in-house proprietary  

ESG models

•  the use of a cloud-based machine learning platform to 
automate manual processes and improve efficiency.

We continued our work with open banking APIs to 
support sector solutions for fintechs, shipping, retail, 
insurance and healthcare.

Their interests
•  Differentiated product and service offering

•  Digitally enabled and positive experience

•  Sustainable finance

•  Access to international markets.

Stakeholders  
continued

Clients continued

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking 
In 2023, Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB) 
strengthened its annual feedback process by capturing how 
clients feel about what we offer – including advice, customer 
service and digital channels. CCIB also focused on building  
a consistent digital experience and accelerated delivery 
through Cash, Trade, Financial Markets and Data Solutions.

Refining our processes through continuous improvement has 
enabled us to achieve benefits in revenue and cost savings by 
creating capacity and reducing client waiting times. We are 
transforming our bank-wide processes by taking a client-
focused, data-driven digital bank approach that will enable 
us to serve the needs of our clients better and faster, and 
reduce the amount of friction and complexity in our network.

We have set in place processes and guidelines specific to our 
client businesses for us to better understand and promptly 
address issues.

We implemented self-serve digital tools and capabilities  
such as chatbot, our mobile banking app, application 
programming interface (API) connectivity and data analytics. 
These have reduced operational costs and enhanced the 
overall client experience. Agile ways of working accelerated 
our decision-making processes and change delivery to create 
great experiences and make it easier for our clients to bank 
with us.

We continue to engage in partnerships that help us offer 
enhanced services to customers. Collaborations with Linklogis 
and Taulia, which is part of SAP, aid clients with supply chain 
financing through blockchain and dynamic discounting.  
Our work with the Partior platform allows us to deliver the 
speed, efficiency and visibility of domestic settlement systems 
to cross-border payments and settlements networks to 
absolve significant wholesale cross border payment frictions 
and deliver instant, 24/7 settlement of digital assets on  
the blockchain. 

Our work with digital trade transaction portal Trade Track-It 
integrates DHL’s tracking system and Lloyd’s List Intelligence 
vessel tracking system through API, to offer clients end-to-end 
visibility of their trade transaction status globally.

Across both CCIB and CPBB, throughout 2024, we will continue 
to listen and respond to stakeholder priorities and concerns, 
addressing feedback as it emerges, strengthen our digital 
transformation and innovation capabilities, and support our 
clients as they transition to net zero.

56

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersRegulators and governments

Investors

How we create value
We engage with public authorities to play our part in 
supporting the effective functioning of the financial system 
and the broader economy.

How we create value
We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term sustainable 
value for our investors.

How we serve and engage
We actively engage with governments, regulators and 
policymakers at a global, regional and national level to share 
insights and support the development of best practice, and 
adoption of consistent approaches, across our markets.

In 2023, we engaged with regulators, government officials and 
trade associations on a broad range of topics that included 
international trade, sustainability, data, cyber security, digital 
adoption, and innovation. We also engaged with officials on 
the financial services regulatory environment, in particular  
on prudential, financial markets, conduct and financial  
crime frameworks.

Our Group Public and Regulatory Affairs team supports most 
engagements while Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance, 
Risk, Legal and Finance identify and analyse relevant policies, 
legislation and regulation.

This work is overseen by various governance forums within  
the Bank, which comprise senior executives representing 
business and control functions to support alignment between 
advocacy and business strategies.

For more details on our engagement with regulators and  
governments, as well as our industry and membership  
associations please see sc.com/politicalengagement

Their interests
•  Strong capital base and liquidity position appropriate to  

a global systemically important bank (G-SIB)

•  Robust standards for conduct and financial crime

•  Healthy economies, trade flows and competitive markets

•  Sustainable Finance and net zero transition 

•  Digital innovation in financial services

•  Operational resilience

•  Customer protection

•  Financial stability

How we serve and engage
We rely on capital from debt and equity investors to  
execute our business model. Whether they have short- or 
long-term investment horizons, we provide our investors  
with information about progress against our strategic and 
financial frameworks.

Through our footprint and the execution of our sustainability 
agenda, we provide our investors with exposure to 
opportunities in emerging markets. We believe that our 
integrated approach to ESG issues, as well as a strong risk  
and compliance culture, are key differentiators.

The Group delivered a strong set of results in 2023 and 
achieved its financial objective of a double-digit return on 
tangible equity (RoTE) for the year. We set out five actions  
in 2022 designed to accelerate delivery of this RoTE target. 
The strong execution of these actions over the last two years, 
where we either achieved our targets ahead of plan or they 
are well on-track, supported us to reach that milestone in 
2023. We will now build on this success, taking action to deliver 
sustainably higher returns with a focus on driving income 
growth and improving operational leverage, to deliver a RoTE 
of 12 per cent in 2026

Regular and transparent engagement with our investors,  
and the wider market, helps us understand investors’ needs 
and tailor our public information accordingly. In addition to 
direct engagement from our Investor Relations team, we 
communicate through quarterly, half-year and full-year 
results, conferences, roadshows, investor days and  
media releases.

We continued to expand our use of virtual meetings during 
the year 2023, coupled with a growing number of face-to-face 
interactions. We hosted two capital market days, focusing on 
our Asia region and the Sustainability opportunity in May and 
November respectively.

Key investor feedback, recommendations and requests are 
considered by the Board, whose members keep abreast of 
current topics of interest. Standard Chartered PLC’s Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in May was open to shareholders  
to attend either in person or electronically where they were 
provided a platform to view a live video feed of the meeting. 
All participants were provided with the opportunity to submit 
their votes and ask the Board questions.

Similarly, the Group Chairman, alongside some members of 
the Board, hosted a hybrid stewardship event for institutional 
investors in November which provided a platform for 
shareholders to receive an update on a number of topics, 
including sustainability, net zero and governance matters.  
The event included an open question-and-answer session 
across a range of key issues.

57

Strategic reportStandard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Stakeholders  
continued

Investors continued

Suppliers

We continue to respond to growing interest from a wide 
range of stakeholders on ESG matters, including investors.  
We sought shareholder endorsement for our net zero 
pathway at the 2022 AGM, intended as a means by which  
we will measure progress, engage and gather views. We  
also work with sustainability analysts and participate in 
sustainability indices that benchmark our performance, 
including the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate 
Change survey and Workforce Disclosure Initiative.

Regular engagement with different shareholder groups 
ensures that we act fairly between them. Our principal 
engagement event with our retail shareholders is our AGM 
and in order to hear from as wide a group as possible we 
encourage maximum participation by way of attendance  
in person and via a live web portal. Further details of our  
2023 AGM  are on page 159.

In 2024, we will continue to engage with investors on progress 
against our strategic priorities and actions, as well as our 
financial framework as we progress towards delivering 
sustainably higher returns.

Their interests
•  Safe, strong and sustainable financial performance

•  Facilitation of sustainable finance to meet the United 

Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals

•  Progress on ESG matters, including advancing our  

net zero agenda

How we create value 
We are dedicated to engaging with suppliers who offer 
value-adding goods and services across our network, and  
we work closely with them to support global environmental 
and social standards. Our suppliers are expected to be  
ethical, respect human rights, diversity and inclusion,  
and the environment to support our colleagues, clients,  
and communities. 

How we serve and engage 

We must effectively manage, monitor, and mitigate risks in 
our supply chain. We do this through our Third-Party Risk 
Management Policy. This, in conjunction with the Principal Risk 
Type Policies and Standards, set out the Group’s minimum 
control requirements for the identification, mitigation and 
management of risks arising from the use of suppliers.

Our Supplier Charter sets out our principles in relation  
to ethics, human rights, diversity and inclusion, and 
environmental performance. All newly onboarded suppliers 
are expected to agree with these principles. We seek to 
reinforce this through the terms of our standard contract 
templates, where possible, and we further encourage 
alignment by sending an annual letter to all active suppliers. 
This includes guidance regarding our stance on ethics and 
conduct, sustainability aspirations, payment processes and 
other relevant principles such as Anti-Bribery and Corruption. 
Our Charter covers all geographies and categories of 
suppliers, and we plan to refresh the Charter in 2024.

Supporting our suppliers to achieve net zero 
Our supply chain is critical to achieving the Group’s 
sustainability aspirations, and we continue to make good 
progress. We encourage our suppliers to set science-based 
emissions reduction targets and by 2028 we plan to direct  
70 per cent of our total expenditure to suppliers who have set 
or committed to setting science-based emission reduction 
targets. In 2023, we held group sessions with our suppliers to 
support them reduce their emissions, discuss progress and 
next steps.

Supporting a diverse and inclusive supply chain 
We recognise the value of supply chain diversity to our 
business and society. In 2023, we continued to integrate 
supplier diversity into our business strategy and make efforts 
to include diverse suppliers in sourcing activities and improve 
spending levels with diverse suppliers as appropriate. To do 
this we have continued to collaborate with non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs), business incubators and others to help 
build and develop our diverse and talented supplier pool.  
In 2023, this included joining member-buyer events, local 
procurement networking activities and best practice sharing 
events with partners like WEConnect International – a global 
network supporting women-owned businesses to connect 
with larger companies. 

58

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersWe have continued to build capacity with our own colleagues 
through online training on supplier diversity and inclusion. 
Highlighting our commitment, we have been awarded  
the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply Asia 
Excellence in Procurement Award for outstanding Diversity 
and Inclusion practices in procurement teams and Best 
Initiative to Build a Diverse Supplier Base. In 2023, 
approximately 40 per cent of our newly onboarded suppliers 
were diverse* including, for example, KASHow. KASHow is a 
micro-owned and predominately women-led business, which 
managed the logistics and planning of Standard Chartered 
Hong Kong’s 25th marathon in 2023. In addition, KASHow was 
supportive of our sustainability objectives by using recycled 
materials for the marathon event logistics and the building of 
the carnival event booth. 

*For Standard Chartered, diverse suppliers are defined as: 

•  Small enterprise (10–49 employees + turnover  

<USD10 million) 

•  Micro enterprise (<10 employees + turnover <USD2 million) 

•  Medium enterprise (50–249 employees + turnover  

<USD50 million) 

•  Women owned (51 per cent or more owned by Women 
(South Africa 30 per cent owned by women as per local 
government regulations)) 

•  Ethnic minority owned (51 per cent owned by ethnic 

minorities) 

•  Veteran Owned (51 per cent or more owned by veterans) 

•  Disabled owned (51 per cent or more owned by differently 

abled people) 

•  LGBT+ owned (51 per cent owned by LGBT+ (not possible  

in some countries due to local legal regulations)) 

•  Social enterprises (NGOs and charities) 

Their interests: 
•  Open, transparent and consistent tendering process 

•  Accurate and on-time payments 

•  Willingness to adopt supplier-driven innovations 

•  Obtain guidance on implementation of Sustainability 

matters 

Society

How we create value
We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible 
company, working with local partners to promote social and 
economic development.

How we serve and engage
We engage with a wide range of civil society, international 
and local NGOs, from those focused on environmental and 
public policy issues to partners delivering our community 
programmes. To shape our strategy, we aim for constructive 
dialogue that helps us to understand alternative perspectives 
and ensure that our approach to doing business is 
understood. This includes working with NGOs that  
approach us about a specific client, transaction or policy.

In 2023, climate change, our net zero pathway, human rights 
and nature continued to underpin many of our conversations. 
We primarily received NGO feedback via our public inbox  
and responded to queries in line with our standards. For 
complex issues such as climate change, we held bilateral 
virtual meetings with NGOs to exchange perspectives in 
greater depth.

In 2023, together with the Standard Chartered Foundation,  
we continued to engage with NGOs, charities and other 
organisations to empower the next generation to learn, earn 
and grow through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered,  
our global community initiative to tackle inequality by 
promoting greater economic inclusion. We provided 
education, employability and entrepreneurship support to 
more than one million young people, with 62 per cent of those 
engaged being women.

To close the gender gap and promote access to finance,  
we piloted financing facilities to support women-led 
microbusinesses with green and social ambitions. At the UN 
Climate Change Conference, COP 28, we held a Futuremakers 
Youth Panel in Dubai, and online in Nairobi to generate 
insights on scaling tech solutions for a green and inclusive 
economy. In 2024, we will conduct a study on our social return 
on investment to assess the impact of Futuremakers.

By offering three days paid volunteering leave, we instilled  
a strong culture of volunteering where 61 per cent of our 
colleagues contributed over 76,000 days giving back to the 
community. In 2024, we will increase our skills-based activities 
leveraging our colleagues’ skills to deepen our impact, with a 
target of 75,000 skills-based hours across our footprint.

Their interests
•  Climate change and decarbonisation

•  Nature

•  Human rights

•  Financial inclusion

•  Economic empowerment

•  Gender equity

•  Community impact.

59

Strategic reportStandard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Stakeholders  
continued

Employees

How we create value 
We recognise that our workforce is key to driving our 
performance and productivity and that the diversity of our 
people, cultures and network sets us apart. To lead the way  
in addressing the evolving needs of our clients and advances 
in technology, we are developing a workforce that is future-
ready, and are co-creating with our employees to build an 
inclusive, innovative and client-centric culture that drives 
ambition, action and accountability. 

How we serve and engage 
By engaging employees and fostering a positive experience 
for them, we can better serve our clients and deliver on our 
Purpose. A culture of inclusion and ambition enables us to 
unlock innovation, make better decisions, deliver our business 
strategy, live our valued behaviours and embody our brand 
promise. We proactively assess and manage people-related 
risks, such as, capacity, capability and culture, as part of our 
Group Risk Management Framework. 

Our People Strategy, which was approved by the Board, stays 
relevant and future-focused, with external events having 
accelerated many of the future of work trends which continue 
to inform our approach.

Their interests 
Translating our here for good brand promise and Purpose  
of driving commerce and prosperity through our unique 
diversity into our colleagues’ day-to-day experience is critical 
to us remaining an employer of choice across our footprint. 
The research we have on our Employee Value Proposition 
(EVP) tells us that our existing and potential employees want 
to: have interesting and impactful jobs; innovate within a 
diverse set of markets and for a spectrum of clients; cultivate a 
brand that sustainably drives commerce and offers enriching 
careers and development; and be supported by great  
people leaders. They want these elements to be anchored  
in competitive rewards and a positive work–life balance.  
The employment proposition is a key input to our People 
Strategy which supports the delivery of our business strategy. 

Listening to employees 
Frequent feedback from employee surveys helps us identify 
and close gaps between colleagues’ expectations and their 
experience. In addition to our annual survey, colleague 
sentiment is captured more frequently, through a rolling 
culture survey and through surveys at key moments for our 
employees, such as when they join us, when they leave, and 
when they return to work after parental leave. In addition to 
leveraging inputs from employee surveys, the Board and 
Management Team also engage with and listen to the views 
of colleagues through interactive sessions. More information 
on the Board’s engagement with the workforce can be found 
on page 161 in the Directors’ report. 

In 2023, our annual My Voice survey was conducted in May 
and June: 87 per cent of our employees (69,935) and 58 per 
cent of eligible agency workers (2,203) participated in the 
survey. Key measures of employee satisfaction have continued 
to improve year-on-year, with an 8.3 point increase in our 
employee Net Promoter Score (NPS) (which measures 
whether employees would recommend working for us) as  
well as a 3 percentage point increase in our employee 
engagement index. Over 87 per cent say that the Group 
meets or exceeds their expectations. More colleagues are 
saying that we are simplifying the client experience, that  
we are collaborating better to deliver results, that decision-
making is becoming easier and our processes are becoming 
more efficient. It is also encouraging to see that 97 per cent of 
employees feel committed to doing what is required to help 
the Group succeed, and 90 per cent feel proud about working 
for the Group. The consistent increase in scores indicates that 
we are continuing to improve as a place to work. 

This is also underscored by the ‘Great Place to Work’ 
certifications that we have received across multiple markets, 
including in India, Vietnam, Bahrain, Poland, the UK and the 
US. Our Glassdoor rating (out of five) has increased from 3.7 in 
2019 to 3.9 in 2023, and 77 per cent would recommend working 
with us to friends. We also continue to be recognised as an 
employer of choice and details of our accolades can be found 
on page 522 of the Report and on sc.com/awards. 

All of this is indicative of our progress in further strengthening 
our EVP to attract, retain and grow the skills and talent that 
are critical to delivering our strategy and outcomes for clients.

Strengthening our culture of high performance 
As the Group transforms to achieve our strategic ambitions, 
we continue to embed our refreshed approach to  
managing, recognising and rewarding performance.  
We are strengthening a culture of ambition, action and 
accountability by increasing the frequency of performance 
and development conversations and emphasising the 
importance of two-way feedback. We are placing greater 
focus on recognising outperformance that is driven by 
collaboration and innovation, and are encouraging more 
aspiration during goal-setting and flexibility in reward 
decisions (supported by the removal of formulaic performance 
decisions starting 2022). 

Behavioural changes are visible. Colleagues are telling us that 
they are having more regular performance check-ins with their 
leaders – with over two-thirds doing so at least every quarter. 
In 2023, almost 250,000 pieces of feedback were exchanged 
among colleagues (which is close to 1.4 times the amount of 
feedback exchanged in 2021, before our refreshed approach 
was launched across the Group). We know that recognition is 
also an important enabler of high performance, and we have 
launched a digital platform in January 2024 to encourage 
democratised, peer-to-peer recognition for all colleagues. 

60

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersEmployees continued

The wellbeing of our colleagues is critical to sustainable 
high-performance, and supporting their health, safety, and 
resilience continues to be a key priority. In 2023, levels of high 
work-related stress felt by employees continued to drop. 
Employees felt more supported with their mental, physical, 
social and financial wellbeing needs, and their satisfaction 
with work–life balance continued to increase. Globally, 
colleagues are provided with access to wide-ranging support 
and tools to manage their wellbeing, including several 
progressive benefits, a mental health app, an employee 
assistance programme, wellbeing toolkits, and a network of 
trained mental health first aiders. We continue to tackle the 
drivers of work-related stress, which includes inserting 
wellbeing skills-building into learning interventions. 

We have been embedding the flexible working model that we 
initiated in 2021, combining flexibility in working patterns and 
locations, to enhance both the productivity and experience of 
our workforce. Over 52,000 employees in 44 markets are now 
on agreed flexi-working arrangements, with the majority 
having signed up to work from the office for two to three days 
a week. Our model consciously balances client needs and 
business priorities with individual choice, allowing us to be 
inclusive of the diverse needs of our workforce. Colleagues 
continue to adopt ways of working that balance the benefits 
of remote working with face-to-face interactions. Toolkits  
and guidance are being provided to people leaders and 
individuals to help navigate flexible working. These include 
support on organising team and individual work to enhance 
productivity and wellbeing; on leading in key moments such 
as onboarding new team members, returning from parental 
leave and during performance conversations; and on 
strengthening connections in flexible work environments.  
We also continue to re-imagine our physical workspaces with 
the relevant infrastructure and technology to provide hubs  
for teamwork, collaboration and learning. As a result of these 
ongoing interventions, employees who are working flexibly 
express greater satisfaction with overall employee experience 
and work–life balance in comparison to employees working 
fully remotely or fully in the office. Also, over 80 per cent of 
colleagues expressed in the 2023 My Voice survey that flexible 
working has had a positive impact on their ability to get work 
done and to collaborate, as well as their sense of belonging 
and social connection with others. 

Read more about our approach to flexible working at  
sc.com/flexibleworking

Building leadership capabilities
Exceptional performance needs exceptional leadership, and it 
is encouraging to see that manager NPS continues to increase 
to 37.9 points in 2023 (up 4.8 points year-on-year). Engaging, 
developing, and measuring our people leaders continues to 
be a critical enabler of our performance and culture. Our 
Leadership Agreement sets out clear expectations from  
our leaders to Aspire, Inspire and Execute. It also forms the 
foundation of a modernised leadership development 
curriculum through which one-third of our people leaders are 
being covered each year to help them build new skills and 
habits across different leadership stages – including skills on 
coaching, performance management in business-specific 
contexts, leading for transformation, and leading through 
ambiguity. While more than 4,700 leaders learned through 
face-to-face leadership programmes during the year, 
leadership skill-building was also made accessible to  
all colleagues to build the capability deeper into the 
organisation. Almost 17,000 employees signed up to our 
60-day Leadership Health journey of regular micro-learning 
activities; over 26,000 accessed the monthly Leadership 
Insights newsletter and over 8,500 tuned into leadership 
sessions during our annual Global Learning Week. 

In 2023, 84 per cent of our people leaders received feedback 
through our ‘always on’ feedback tool available to all 
colleagues, as well as through the structured 360-degree 
feedback tool that is available to mid-to-senior people 
leaders. Leaders are also provided a consolidated view  
of the environment they are creating for their teams,  
and feedback on their leadership skills, as part of their 
Leadership Dashboard. The dashboard has been designed  
to bring transparency to performance and development 
conversations, and to highlight the value we place  
on leadership.

Read our Leadership Agreement at sc.com/leadershipagreement

Developing skills of future strategic value and 
enabling careers
To keep pace with technological innovation, evolving 
customer expectations and the changing world of work,  
we are adopting a ‘skills-led’ approach – accelerating the 
development of future skills among our workforce and 
bringing in greater agility to how skills are deployed to areas 
of opportunity across the Group. We are helping employees 
build the skills needed for high performance today, to reskill 
and upskill for tomorrow, and to be global citizens who 
understand the changing nature of the world in which we 
operate. This includes helping them strengthen a combination 
of human and technical skills, as well as building a culture of 
continuous learning that empowers them to grow and follow 
their aspirations. Since 2020, the average hours invested  
by employees in personal development has increased by  
23.9 per cent to 26.8 hours in 2023. 

61

Strategic reportStandard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Stakeholders  
continued

Employees continued

Learning in classrooms is balanced with learning through our 
online learning platform diSCover, which is also accessible  
via a mobile app. Over 70,000 colleagues actively used the 
platform in 2023 and 30,000 colleagues have used one or 
more of our Future Skills Academies which include the Data & 
Analytics, Digital, Cyber, Client Advisory, Sustainable Finance 
and Leadership Academies. Employees are also building and 
practicing new skills on the job by signing up for projects (often 
cross-functional and cross-location) through our AI-enabled 
internal Talent Marketplace platform. Since its launch in 2020, 
over 28,000 employees have registered on the platform, with 
over 2,000 of them being assigned to projects. Deploying their 
skills at speed across our network has resulted in unlocking 
over $6.2 million in terms of productivity. By combining such 
project opportunities with purposeful internal talent moves, 
we continue to enhance the career experience of colleagues. 
The Marketplace also acts as a platform to connect 
employees to mentors across the Group.

The 2023 My Voice scores indicate that our efforts are in the 
right direction, as employee satisfaction with development 
and growth opportunities increased compared to previous 
years, and highlight that this is an area we must continue to 
focus on.

We continue to expand targeted learning journeys to upskill 
colleagues towards critical ‘future’ roles where our strategic 
workforce planning analysis has predicted an increasing  
need for talent, including universal banker, data translator, 
cloud security engineer, product owner/scrum master and 
cyber security analyst roles. At the same time, we have  
been strengthening and scaling the proposition to support 
colleagues in building systemic skills, in areas such as 
sustainability, innovation, data, digital and leadership, which 
an increasing population of the workforce is anticipated to 
need to keep pace with the changes happening in the sector. 

Embedding a focus on skills across the  
employee lifecycle

In our CCIB business, we have been embedding a focus  
on skills across the employee lifecycle in the way we  
hire, identify, develop and deploy talent. We have 
updated part of our skills library to develop 35 skills-based 
role profiles and job descriptions for the highest impact 
roles that will help enhance our client proposition and 
deliver on our business strategy. In 2024, we will further 
enable a democratised career and development 
experience for colleagues in CCIB through our internal 
Talent Marketplace, which will allow them to better 
understand and develop the skills needed to excel in  
their existing role as well as to grow and move to their 
aspired roles. It will also enable leaders and recruiters  
to rapidly identify, access and deploy skills at scale in a 
cost-efficient manner.

62

We are also further embedding a focus on skills across our 
talent management processes. Our refreshed approach to 
identifying the future potential of our workforce focuses  
on their ability against a range of skills, along with their 
aspiration to put these skills into action by taking on complex 
responsibilities (in turn moving away from the traditional 
emphasis on past performance being a primary indicator  
of future potential). Through this approach we are placing 
strong emphasis on learning agility to identify the talent that 
we want to accelerate as well as deploy in areas of highest 
impact for clients and the business. 

Creating an inclusive workplace 
We believe that inclusion is what enables our diverse talent to 
truly deliver impact and drive business success. Through our 
annual My Voice survey and supplemented by qualitative 
feedback gathered, we aim to better understand the lived 
experiences of our colleagues, and then act to make targeted 
and meaningful changes to further drive inclusion and 
enhance their experience. 

Our progress in this space is reflected in the 83.2 per cent  
of employees who shared positive sentiments around our 
culture of inclusion in the 2023 survey, consistent as last year. 
This has been enabled by continued efforts towards 
increasing awareness around diversity and inclusion 
principles, unconscious bias and micro-behaviours as well  
as by emphasising the importance of creating an inclusive 
environment – aspects that are covered in the ‘When we’re all 
included’ learning programme which has been completed  
by more than 34,000 colleagues by the end of 2023. Further, 
the ‘Respect at Work’ e-learning programme that helps 
understand what constitutes harassment, bullying, 
discrimination and victimisation, is now mandatory for  
all employees.

We aim to further strengthen our inclusive culture, where  
all our people feel that their identity is understood 
and recognised for its uniqueness and anyone with the 
capability to excel can do so. Employees are provided, where 
legally permissible, with the ability to share their identity data 
through our internal employee portal. We are focused on 
initiatives that encourage and increase self-declaration 
(including socio-economic status in the UK), so that we can 
further improve colleague experience by introducing policies 
and interventions that are representative of the needs of our 
diverse workforce.

Our continued partnership with Purple Tuesday is one of  
the many initiatives through which we are creating a work 
environment where colleagues are encouraged to bring their 
whole selves to work. The partnership is helping increase the 
visibility of role models and careers for those with disabilities 
across more than 50 markets. It is also helping to drive an 
ongoing conversation, to build awareness and break down 
myths and stereotypes when engaging with clients and 
colleagues with disabilities. The SC-Out Pride Leadership 
Summit this year saw Employee Resource Group leads, allies 
and advocates come together from across 14 markets to 
define our approach for further building a respectful, 
supportive, and safe work environment for our LGBT+ 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersEmployees continued

Female representation

Board

Female

38%

(2022: 43%)

Female

5

Male

8

Senior leadership  
(Managing directors and band 4)

Female

32.5%

(2022: 32.1%)

Female

1,474

Male

3,050

Undisclosed

17

Management Team and their direct reports

2023
2022

2023
2022

Female

36.1%

(2022: 32.8%)

Female

48

Male

85

All employees

Female

44.8%

(2022: 45.3%)

Female

38,051

Male

46,004

Undisclosed

952

2023
2022

2023
2022

As we work towards achieving our 2025 UK and US ethnicity 
senior leadership aspirations, we will also be updating these 
targets to extend to 2027. At the same time, we are focused on 
nurturing local talent in markets across Asia, Africa and the 
Middle East.

Leadership commitment is core to our approach on D&I.  
Our Global D&I Council is chaired by our CEO, CCIB and  
Europe & Americas and comprises of enterprise-wide leaders 
representing various business, functions and geographies 
from across the Group. The Council is responsible for our 
overall D&I strategy, direction setting, and overseeing  
the implementation of sustainable and measurable 
improvements. In 2023, as a result of our listening exercises 
and data insights, we also established a Black and African 
Talent Steering Committee and Working Group, and 
appointed Group Management Team and Global D&I Council 
sponsors to advocate for leadership action in focus areas 
identified, such as career progression and the international 
mobility experience.

Read more about our approach towards strengthening diversity and 
inclusion at sc.com/diversityfairpayreport

colleagues. We also recognise six key dates1 across the year 
and use these as focal points to facilitate open dialogue on 
inclusion internally and externally. Through these global 
campaigns we engage and strengthen relationships with 
clients and external stakeholders, collectively raising 
awareness, promoting best practices and committing to  
take practical steps to advance the overall Diversity and 
Inclusion (D&I) agenda in our communities.

Our gender diversity continues to grow, with more women 
leaders moving up to senior roles. Women currently represent 
38 per cent of the Board, 14 of our CEOs are women, and 
representation of women in senior leadership roles increased 
to 32.5 per cent at the end of 2023. We are committed to 
continuous improvement in this area and aspire to have  
35 per cent representation of women at a senior level by 2025. 
We remain focused on building a workforce that is truly 
representative of our client base and footprint. As of 2023,  
31 per cent of our Board identifies as being from a minority 
ethnic background, above our aspiration of 30 per cent. 
Further, 26.3 per cent of our Global Management Team  
and their direct reports identify as Black, Asian or minority 
ethnic. In the UK, Black representation in senior leadership is 
2.5 per cent and Black, Asian and minority ethnic in senior 
leadership is 27.8 per cent. In the US, Black/African American 
representation in senior leadership is 4 per cent and Hispanic/
Latinx in senior leadership is 10.1 per cent. We continue to 
develop strategic partnerships and experiment with 
programmes to widen our talent pools (such as the Spring 
Insights Programme in 2023 that provided a multi-day 
immersive experience to Black, African American, Hispanic 
and Latinx students in New York and London to learn about 
our CCIB business, and access internship opportunities). 

1 

International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, International Day of Persons with Disabilities, International Men’s Day, International 
Women’s Day, and World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development, World Mental Health Day.

63

Strategic reportStandard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Stakeholders  
continued

Employees continued

Enhancing experience and inclusion through 
progressive, purpose-led benefits

Taking an intersectional approach to diversity, inclusion 
and wellbeing, we have continued to introduce 
progressive, purpose-led benefits. Going beyond our 
minimum standard for maternity leave, all colleagues, 
irrespective of gender, relationship status, or how a child 
comes to permanently join their family, are now eligible 
for a minimum of 20 weeks of paid parental leave. We are 
also expanding medical benefits to make comprehensive 
coverage accessible for menopause-related treatments 
to all colleagues and their partners, including access  
to specialised medical practitioners and prescription.  
This is in addition to the existing support for managing 
menopause symptoms through flexible working options, 
paid leave for treatment, workspace adjustments and 
access to menopause counselling. We believe that such 
benefits continue to be critical levellers for gender 
equality, encouraging women’s participation in the 
workforce and LGBT+ inclusion, aligning to our Lifting 
Participation Stand. 

Equal pay – gender and ethnicity pay gaps 
To better understand the strengths and gaps of the 
organisation and develop action plans to enable the potential 
of our truly diverse and inclusive workforce, we have been 
analysing and publishing our gender pay gap statistics for our 
five hub locations (UK, US, Hong Kong, Singapore, and UAE) 
since 2017. The gender pay gap is calculated based on the 
approach by the UK government and compares the average 
pay of men and women without accounting for some of the 
key factors which influence pay, including different roles, skills, 
seniority and market pay rates.

Compared with last year, our mean hourly and bonus pay 
gaps have decreased in most markets, particularly in the UK 
and the US. While this shows continuous improvement since 
our first disclosure, they remain at a level that signifies there 
are proportionally more male than female colleagues in senior 
roles and/or roles with higher market rates of pay.

To complement the legislative approach in the UK, we also 
calculate an adjusted pay gap, which compares women and 
men at the same hierarchy level and in the same business 
area. Mirroring previous years, the narrow margins for the 
adjusted pay gap analysis indicate that our female and male 
colleagues in the same business areas and at the same levels 
of seniority are paid similarly. 

In addition to the gender pay gap analysis, we are publishing 
our ethnicity pay disclosure for the UK and the US for the 
second year, and this year we have expanded the disclosure 
to include hourly and bonus pay gaps for each ethnic group. 
The results indicate that there are proportionally more  
White and fewer Black, and in the case of the US, also fewer 
Hispanic, colleagues in senior roles and/or roles with higher 
market rates of pay. While our adjusted ethnicity pay gaps 
indicate that colleagues with different ethnicity backgrounds 
are paid similarly in the same business areas and at the  
same levels of seniority, there is still more work to be done  
to promote representation of different ethnic groups within 
the organisation.

Equal pay is a key commitment in our Fair Pay Charter and we 
carry out checks during hiring, promotion and year-end review 
in all markets to challenge potential bias and ensure there is 
equal pay for equal work. 

Read more about our gender and ethnicity pay gap analysis at sc.com/
diversityfairpayreport

2023 Gender pay gap

Mean hourly pay gap1
Mean bonus pay gap2

UK

Hong Kong

Singapore

22%

44%

21%

35%

29%

40%

UAE

30%

56%

US

21%

36%

1   The hourly pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male hourly pay, expressed as a percentage of the male amount

2   The Bonus pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to 5 April, 

expressed as a percentage of the male amount.

2023 UK ethnicity pay gap1

Asian

Black

Multi-racial

Other

2023 US ethnicity pay gap1

Asian

Hispanic

Black

Dual or Multi

Mean Pay Gap 

Hourly pay2

Bonus pay3

13%

25%

6%

14%

26%

48%

14%

22%

Mean Pay Gap 

Hourly pay2

Bonus pay3

14%

27%

28%

0%

28%

51%

51%

-36%

1.  Analysis based on 77 per cent of our UK workforce that shared with us their ethnicity background, and 100 per cent of our US workforce

2.  The hourly pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean minority ethnic group and White hourly pay, expressed as a percentage of the  

White amount

3.  The bonus pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean minority ethnic group and White bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to 

5 April, expressed as a percentage of the White amount.

64

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStakeholdersS
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

[[Tackling food insecurity 
with micro-loans]] 

In 2023, through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered -  
our flagship community initiative dedicated to helping the  
next generation learn, earn, and grow – we helped young 
entrepreneurs by providing micro loans and business 
acceleration programmes. Funded by the Standard Chartered 
Foundation, we partnered with Youth Business International 
and its member Somo in Kenya, to help Ivy (pictured) kickstart 
her now thriving mushroom farming business, tackling food 
insecurity in her area.

Read more at sc.com/IvyKenya

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

65

 
Our commitment to sustainability 

We are committed to the sustainable economic and social development 
of our footprint markets, helping people to thrive long-term. 

With a long-standing presence in parts of the world where 
sustainable finance can have a significant impact, we 
facilitate the movement of capital to where it is needed most. 
We apply our knowledge across our market footprint and  
the innovative mindset of our teams to create financial 
solutions that help to address challenges and support 
sustainable growth. 

The work we do to accelerate the transition to net zero,  
lift participation in the economy and reset globalisation  
is fundamental to our business. 

These three areas of focus are known as our Stands and 
inform our overall strategy, including our approach to 
sustainable finance, our advocacy efforts on behalf of our 
markets and engagement with our employees and society. 

Further details can be found in Our Stands on page 26 

Embedding sustainability across our business is a strategic 
priority for the Group. To accelerate our Sustainability agenda, 
the Group’s inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)  
was appointed in 2022. Since then, our dedicated CSO 
organisation – which houses our Sustainable Finance, 
Sustainability Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives 
and Environmental and Social Risk Management teams – acts 
as a centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution of 
the Group-wide sustainability strategy and the achievement 
of our net zero roadmap. 

We focus on delivering both our long-term sustainability goals 
– our Sustainability Aspirations – as well as our short-term 
targets and immediate priorities – our Sustainability 
Strategic Pillars. 

Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024 Group 
scorecard and 2024–26 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) with 
performance measures that align with our Sustainability 
Aspirations and Sustainability Strategic Pillars.

Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration  
report on pages 182 to 216 

Independent Limited Assurance

Disclaimer

Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed to provide 
independent limited assurance over certain data points  
within this Annual Report, indicated with a caret symbol (^).  
The assurance engagement was planned and performed 
in accordance with the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020), Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information (ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)). This 
independent assurance report is separate from EY’s audit 
report on the financial statements and is available at  
sc.com/sustainabilityhub. This report includes further 
detail on the scope, respective responsibilities, work 
performed, limitations and conclusions.

We obtained independent limited assurance on the 
Group’s Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(excluding fugitive emissions) by Global Documentation 
Ltd. We also obtained reasonable assurance on the 
Group’s Scope 3 emissions associated with business  
travel (air travel) from Eco–Act. These verifications were 
conducted in accordance with the ISO 14064-3 Greenhouse 
gases standard.

66

We report on Sustainability and Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual 
Report, in particular in the following sections: (i) Strategic 
report, Sustainability overview on pages 66 to 79; (ii) 
Sustainability review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk review  
on pages 298 to 313; and (iv) in the Supplementary 
sustainability information section on pages 504 to 516. 

In this ‘Sustainability overview’, we set out our approach 
and progress relating to sustainability and its content is 
subject to the statements included in: (i) the ‘Forward-
looking statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of 
preparation and caution regarding data limitations’ 
section provided under ‘Important notices’ at pages 519 
and 520. Additional information can be accessed  
through our suite of supporting sustainability reports  
and disclosures via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewS
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
c
r
e
p
o
r
t

Our footprint – with its access to capital markets and 
operations in regions most vulnerable to climate change 
– means that Standard Chartered sits at the intersection 
between capital providers and those who need it most. For 
many of our markets and clients, getting to net zero will be a 
long and complex task. Their transition must be on a just basis 
to address environmental challenges without sacrificing their 
economic growth and social development ambitions. 

Delivering a just transition brings significant opportunity for 
innovation and growth. To leverage this, we created a series  
of thematic innovation hubs in 2023, covering: Adaptation 
Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and Nature 
Positive Solutions. Each hub is helping to advance emerging 
thematic areas of sustainability that are nascent, but offer  
the potential for scale, and are where the Group has a core 
competency. The themes covered by the hubs are particularly 
relevant to our clients across our footprint markets and serve 
to support innovation at the forefront of sustainability. 

Furthermore in 2023, we expanded our work on social 
sustainability, with a dedicated investment to bring the 
breadth of our Sustainable Finance offering together with  
our commitment to the people and communities we serve. 

A word from our Chief Sustainability Officer, 
Marisa Drew

In 2022, the CSO organisation was established within 
Standard Chartered to build on the Group’s long-standing 
sustainability agenda. Since its creation, we have made 
substantial progress, by continuing to embed sustainability 
across the organisation and strengthening our support  
for clients on their transition journeys. The longer-term vision 
and areas of focus expressed by our Stands and our 
Sustainability Aspirations have helped shape our near- 
term execution priorities defined by our Sustainability 
Strategic Pillars.

We have also welcomed new team members including 
experts in blended finance, sustainable and transition finance, 
climate risk, nature and carbon accounting, building up our 
people power to allow us to effectively leverage the CSO 
organisation across the Group, as we look to deliver on  
our strategy.

Our Sustainable Finance franchise has generated over  
$720 million^, or over six per cent of our total Corporate, 
Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) income in 2023, 
a year-on-year growth rate of 42 per cent. Following on from 
this performance and building on the momentum in our 
business, our focus turns to our stated ambition to deliver at 
least $1 billion in sustainable finance income in 2025. To do 
that, we are hard at work investing in people, systems and 
infrastructure to build further capability and capacity. This 
enables our teams across the Group to support our clients’ 
transition and sustainable growth plans by deploying lending, 
This section provides an overview of the Group’s approach to sustainability and details on 
cash, trade, corporate financing and advisory services, and 
how we manage climate risk. A more detailed Sustainability Review section, including our 
providing capital to advance the next wave of sustainability 
broader risk view, is available from page [XX] to [XX] for further information.
and technological solutions.

As I reflect on my first full year at the bank, it is clear that our 
sustainability ambition has the unwavering commitment of 
the Group’s Board of Directors and the Management Team, 
backed by an extraordinary level of enthusiasm and 
engagement. Looking ahead to 2024, my priority is on driving 
our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars: scaling up Sustainable 
Finance; further embedding sustainability across the Group; 
delivering on our net zero roadmap; and leveraging our 
innovation hubs to drive ecosystem development and  
future income.

Sustainability overview content map 

Introduction and overview

Commitment  
and approach to 
sustainability

Sustainability  
Aspirations:  
our long-term goals

Sustainability  
Strategic Pillars:  
our short-term  
targets and  
immediate priorities

Managing Climate Risk

Non-financial and sustainability information statement 

Page 66

Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance by 2030

Page 68

Aspiration 2:  Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions 

targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition

Page 68

Aspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem

Page 68

Aspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities

Page 68

Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income

Page 70

Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation

Page 71

Pillar 3:  Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero 

roadmap

Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs

Page 73

Page 75

Page 76

Page 79

Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

67

Strategic report 
 
Sustainability Aspirations:  
our long-term goals

Since 2016, the Group’s approach to sustainability has been underpinned by a suite 
of Sustainability Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our 
Sustainability Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by 
key performance indicators. Together, these reflect our commitment to sustainable 
social and economic development.

Sustainability Aspiration

Progress to date

Aspiration 1:  
Mobilise $300 billion 
of Sustainable 
Finance1,2

Across our markets, many clients are at the early phase  
of evaluating the risks and opportunities associated with their 
transition to a low-carbon economy. We leverage a full suite of 
Sustainable Finance solutions – including loans, bonds, trade 
finance and carbon trading – to support their transition. 

These are underpinned by our Sustainable Finance frameworks 
that outline how we apply the ‘green’, ‘sustainable’ or 
‘transition’ labels across products and transactions. We also 
work with retail and wealth clients to mobilise diverse sources 
of capital in support of social and environmental outcomes.

$87.2bn^

cumulative mobilisation of 
Sustainable Finance from 
January 2021 to September 2023 
against our commitment to 
mobilise $300 billion by 2030

Aspiration 2:  
Operationalise our 
interim 2030 financed 
emissions targets to 
meet our 2050 net 
zero ambition

We aim to reach net zero in our financed emissions by 2050.  
To date, the Group has set and disclosed science-based 
interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 11 high-emitting 
sectors, in line with guidance from the Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA). 

We are working across our businesses and functions, and 
alongside our clients to deliver these targets, notwithstanding 
the challenges presented by a material portion of our markets 
not having a commitment to achieve net zero by 2050.

11 out of 12

of the NZBA high-emitting  
sectors covered by 2030 
science-based financed 
emissions targets

Aspiration 3:  
Enhance and  
deepen the 
sustainability 
ecosystem

We are utilising our experience and networks to actively 
contribute in a leadership position to global partnerships and 
initiatives that enhance the sustainability ecosystem.

These range from those that support the mobilisation and 
scaling of sustainable finance, to furthering the development of 
the voluntary carbon markets and fostering innovative solutions 
in the arena of conservation finance, through to supporting the 
advancement of social topics underpinning the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). 

Leadership roles  
in key global  
partnerships and 
initiatives

including GFANZ, GISD, NZBA  
as further detailed on page 96

Aspiration 4:  
Drive social impact 
with our clients and 
communities

We seek to partner with our clients and communities to 
mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion as well  
as entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers initiative.

Our Employee Volunteering programme encourages 
employees to volunteer and organise activities, such as 
fundraising, that align to the Group’s community strategy  
or respond to local issues. 

61%

of the Group’s employees 
participated in employee 
volunteering activities in our 
communities in 2023

1   Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of 
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations 
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives 
(known as sustainability-linked finance). 

2  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

68

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewKey initiatives and partnerships

Throughout 2023, senior leaders across Standard Chartered were involved in the leadership of 
several collaborative initiatives including, but not limited to, those listed in the table below.

Global Investors for 
Sustainable Development 
(GISD) Alliance 

Our Group Chairman co-chairs the United Nations’ GISD Alliance, which has set 
ambitious objectives to scale up long-term finance and investment in sustainable 
development.

Glasgow Financial 
Alliance for Net Zero 
(GFANZ)

We are active participants of the GFANZ Principals Group, an ambitious 
programme to generate the commitment, investment and alignment 
needed to drive forward the transition to net zero. Our Group CEO co-chairs 
the GFANZ working group on Capital Mobilisation to Emerging Markets and 
Developing Economies.

Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA) 

Our Group Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance chairs the  
NZBA – the industry-led, UN-convened and sector-specific alliance for banks 
under GFANZ.

World Economic Forum’s 
Alliance of CEO Climate 
Leaders

Our Group CEO and CSO are part of the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of 
CEO Climate Leaders. This is a CEO-led community committed to raising bold 
climate ambition and accelerating the net zero transition by setting science-
based targets, disclosing emissions and catalysing decarbonisation and 
partnerships across global value chains.

United Nations 
Principles for 
Responsible Banking 
(PRB) Adaptation 
Finance working group

Our Head of Sustainable Finance Solutions co-chairs the PRB Adaptation 
Finance working group, which developed a comprehensive framework and 
practical guidance for banks to set credible adaptation finance targets.

Integrity Council for the 
Voluntary Carbon Markets 
(ICVCM)

Our Head of Carbon Markets Development serves on the board of the ICVCM, 
which is focused on developing high-quality carbon markets. Our Group CEO 
sits on the Distinguished Advisory Group of the ICVCM, which is involved in the 
development of carbon markets around the world.

Center for Climate-
Aligned Finance 
(CCAF)

We formally joined CCAF, which was established by Rocky Mountain Institute, 
in 2023. Standard Chartered participates in CCAF working groups for the 
Aviation and Aluminium industries. The Group is a signatory to both the 
Poseidon Principles, a global framework for assessing and disclosing the 
climate alignment of financial institutions’ shipping portfolios and the 
Sustainable STEEL Principles, which helps banks to measure and disclose the 
alignment of steel lending portfolios with 1.5 degree Celsius climate targets. 

Ocean Risk and 
Resilience Action 
Alliance (ORRAA)

In 2023, the Group became a member of ORRAA. Our Head of Nature serves  
on the Ocean Investment Protocol Steering Committee convened by the UN 
Global Compact Ocean Stewardship Coalition.

69

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-
term targets and immediate priorities

Our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars represent our near-term strategic focus. Each member of the Group Management Team 
is responsible for strategically driving climate and sustainability considerations within their region, business segment or function 
in line with the Group’s net zero roadmap. Selected sustainability-related measures are incorporated into Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) awards granted to senior executives and the Group scorecard, which contains financial and strategic measures and 
is applicable for the majority of our employees.

Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income1

We are building a scalable Sustainable Finance franchise, supporting our clients on their transition journeys by developing 
customised solutions that speak to their needs and ambitions. Our Sustainable Finance franchise generated over $720 million^ 
between January and December 2023 against our longer-term target of at least $1 billion annual income by 2025. 

Sustainable Finance income1

Product ($m)

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working Capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Macro Trading

Credit Markets 

Financing & Securities Services

Lending & Portfolio Management

2023

188

96

92

393

76

306

11

139

720^

2022

80

60

20

326

54

268

4

102

508

YoY

135%

60%

360%

21%

41%

14%

175%

36%

42%

1  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Our position in the market 
As a UK-headquartered international bank, we work to deploy capital across our global markets. As can be seen in our 2023 
Sustainable Finance Impact Report, we have raised $8.4 billion^ of sustainable liabilities in developed markets, while 85 per cent 
of our $17.6 billion^ Sustainable Finance asset base is located in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We continued to expand and 
develop our product suite as set out in our Green and Sustainable Finance Product Framework. In total, we had 42 product 
variants across CCIB and CPBB segments, with selected products included in the table below.

CCIB

CPBB

Transaction  
Banking

Sustainable Trade Finance
Sustainable Current  
and Savings Accounts 

Financial Markets / 
Lending & Portfolio 
Management

Green/Social/
Sustainability Bonds
Sustainability-linked Bonds
ESG Derivatives
Carbon Trading
Sustainable Repos
ESG Structured 
Investments
Green and Social Loans
Sustainability-linked Loans
ESG Advisory
Sustainable Deposits

Personal & Business 
Banking 

Wealth  
Management

Sustainable Investments

Sustainable Deposits
Sustainable Current and 
Savings Accounts
Green Mortgages
Green Retrofit Loans
ESG Structured 
Investments

Group  
Treasury

Standard 
Chartered PLC 
Sustainability 
Bonds

For more information on the Group’s progress on its Sustainable Finance commitments see pages 99 to 101 

Our Sustainable Finance Frameworks
•  Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework governs  

all activities we as an organisation view as ‘green’ or 
‘social’. It is publicly available and was co-authored by 
Morningstar Sustainalytics.

•  Our Sustainability Bond Framework provides the basis for 
the issuance of Green, Social and Sustainability bonds, 
drawing on the activities that we view as green or social. 

70

•  Informed by the International Energy Agency (IEA) Net 

Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE), we outline the assets and 
activities that qualify for the ‘transition’ label under our 
Transition Finance Framework.

For more, see page 123 or visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewPillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation

The CSO organisation aims to act as a catalyst for change 
and centre of excellence. We foster collaboration internally  
to embed sustainability across our business operations  
and functions. We collaborate externally with clients and 
other stakeholders who are aligned with our mission to  
drive change. 

We aim to create a self-reinforcing cycle, which is built on 
established processes, clear frameworks, engagement with 
our clients and collaboration across risk and business teams. 
We support our clients to deliver on their decarbonisation 
plans, deploying financing and advisory services to provide 
capital alongside the next wave of sustainability and 
technological solutions, in which our clients are investing. 

Our transition strategy also builds on the Group’s financing 
experience by supporting the early adopters of these services 
in the US and Europe and leveraging this knowledge in  
our core markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.  
Our aim is to work with our clients to support their transition 
and decarbonisation journeys and where clients evidence 
transition, help to accelerate progress.

1.  
Client-level  
risk analysis

2.  
Portfolio  
steering

3.  
Sustainable and 
transition finance 
opportunities

1. Client-level risk analysis

2. Portfolio steering

Environmental, social and climate 
risk assessments are integrated into 
credit decision-making processes for 
existing and new-to-bank clients1

Portfolio-level emissions are 
calculated to set and monitor 
financed emissions baselines and 
sectoral 2030 targets

3. Sustainable and transition  
finance opportunities

Products, financing and  
advisory services are deployed to 
support clients transitioning their 
businesses and seeking to achieve 
their sustainability goals

•  We maintain a suite of public 

•  Client-level emission intensities  

•  The Group’s ESG and Transition 

Position Statements that outline 
the Group’s environmental and 
social expectations for providing 
financial services to clients.2 

•  Relationship Managers carry out 
client and/or transaction level 
Environmental and Social Risk 
Assessments before we provide 
financial services.3

•  Through client-level Climate Risk 
Assessments (CRAs), we assess  
the potential financial risks from 
climate change using quantitative 
and qualitative information and 
assign a Climate Risk grading.4 

•  As part of the CRA process, a 
Credible Transition Plan (CTP) 
score is assigned for each client  
in high-emitting sectors.4

•  Our Prohibited Activities list  

details the activities that we will 
not finance.5

are modelled in accordance with 
internationally accepted carbon 
accounting principles using the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting 
Financials (PCAF) methodology.

•  Science-based sectoral interim 
2030 targets are set for high-
emitting sectors in line with the 
Group’s roadmap towards net zero 
financed emissions by 2050.6

•  Industry or client coverage leads 
are appointed as responsible 
owners of sectoral net zero targets.

•  Divergence from the portfolio-level 
emission pathway is monitored 
and reviewed quarterly along with 
our exposure to clients associated 
with high Climate Risk.7

Finance advisory teams prioritise 
engagements with clients 
associated with high Climate Risk 
with weak or no transition plans 
and/or insufficient disclosures to 
recommend enhancements.

•  Sustainability considerations are 
incorporated into account plans 
and engagement strategies with 
an aim to identify and prioritise 
clients that are divergent from 
portfolio-level emission pathways 
or associated with high 
Environmental and Social Risk.

•  We endeavour to support and 

guide our clients to a low-carbon 
pathway by utilising our full suite  
of Sustainable Finance solutions.

•  We continue to increase our 
financing of low-carbon 
technologies and infrastructure, 
including project financing in the 
developing world where power 
grid modernisation is critical.

1  Refers to applicable banking clients, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework.
2  Read more about our Position Statements at sc.com/positionstatements.
3  For further information, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework.
4  Read more about our CRA process in the Risk review section of this Annual 

report on pages 298-313.

5  Read more about our list of Prohibited Activities at  

sc.com/prohibitedactivities.

6  Read more about our sectoral 2030 net zero targets in this Annual Report  

7 

on page 74.
In 2023, this commenced for Oil & Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium and 
Automotive Manufacturers sectors with the rest of the sectoral reviews  
to be added from 2024. 

71

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportStrategic report

Sustainability overview

Our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financing activity by 2050 and in our own  
operations by 2025. We made progress in setting interim 2030 targets for the most  
carbon-intensive and highest-emitting sectors in the Group’s portfolio. 

To help us remain on track, we have set short- and medium-term objectives and quantifiable targets 
to manage and report on our progress on an annual basis.

2021

Launched our roadmap to net zero  
by 2050, including interim targets and  
a supporting methodology

Announced plans to mobilise  
$300 billion in Sustainable Finance by 2030

Published our inaugural Transition Finance Framework

•

•

•

2023

Announced our enhanced Oil and Gas absolute 
financed emissions target

•

Updated our Power and Steel sector baselines and 
targets moving from a revenue-based intensity metric to 
a production-based intensity metric

Developed financed emissions baselines and set interim 
2030 targets for four additional sectors: Cement, 
Aluminium, Residential Mortgages, Commercial Real 
Estate, bringing the total number of science-based 
targets set for high-emitting sectors to eleven

Financed emissions baselines and sectoral progress 
against targets, where indicated, assured for the first 
time by Ernst & Young 

Calculated the Group’s facilitated emissions baseline 
from debt capital markets following the final PCAF 
guidance (published in December 2023) under both the 
33 per cent and 100 per cent weighting factors

•

•

•

•

Updated the Group’s net zero methodological  
•
white paper, first published in 2021

2030

We will have substantially reduced our 
exposure to the Thermal Coal Mining sector in 
line with our Position Statements

Aim to meet the Group’s financed emissions 
interim targets set for high-emitting sectors

•

•

2022

•  Developed financed emissions baselines and  
interim 2030 targets for the Aviation, Shipping  
and Automotive Manufacturers sectors

•  Joined Partnership for Carbon Accounting 

Financials (PCAF)

2024

•  We will develop an interim 2030 financed emissions 

target for the Agriculture sector, planned to be 
communicated in our 2024 Annual Report, which will 
be published in Q1 2025

•  Aim to set targets for facilitated emissions

2025

•  Aim to be net zero in our own operations

2032

•  Targeted end date for legacy direct Thermal 

Coal Mining financing globally

2050

Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions

72

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

 
 
Pillar 3: Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero roadmap

We aim to reach net zero emissions in our financed emissions by 
2050 and in our own operations by 2025. Since 2018 we have been 
working on aligning our direct and indirect emissions to the Paris 
Agreement’s goal of well below two degrees Celsius of global 
warming by the end of the century. We focus on three areas 
to reduce emissions: our operations, our supply chain and 
financed emissions associated with our clients. The majority 
of our GHG emissions are linked to our lending activities, known  

as financed emissions. Therefore, we have prioritised our 
measurement and decarbonisation efforts in the highest-emitting 
and most carbon-intensive sectors of our portfolio, and where 
working with our clients can have the greatest impact. Due to  
our footprint – with many emerging markets reliant on carbon-
intensive industries – our financed emissions may increase  
before they decrease but our approach is to remain aligned  
to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius pathway by 2050.

High-emitting and carbon-intensive sectors with interim 2030 targets

Agriculture

Thermal  
Coal Mining

Commercial 
Real Estate

Steel

Included in analysis 

 2021 

 2022 

 2023 

 2024 

Residential 
Mortgages

Aluminium

2030 financed 
emissions targets

Oil and Gas

Power

Cement

Automotive 
Manufacturers

Aviation

Shipping

Financed emissions

A brief summary of the movements in the 11 high-emitting sectors is 
as follows:

Aluminium sector emissions have trended down as the power 
supply into the smelters has become less carbon-intensive and the 
Group has funded clients with less emission intensive operations. 

The physical intensity of the Automotive manufacturers’ sector 
(CO2 per km distance travelled) decreased slightly due to the  
Group having a larger exposure to zero tailpipe Electric Vehicle 
manufacturing within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers 
portfolio.

The physical intensity of the Cement sector has remained relatively 
consistent year-on-year. This will be a hard-to-abate sector in the 
medium-term until lower carbon energy sources are utilised, 
especially in emerging markets where we are actively engaging 
with our clients on their decarbonisation plans and strategies. 

In the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, building intensities have 
fallen due to investment in regions with lower emissions power 
supplies and certain markets’ power suppliers decarbonising.  
We continue to work with technology providers on solutions for 
individual building emissions measurement and management.

Absolute Oil and Gas emissions remained relatively stable 
year-on-year and are significantly lower versus the baseline year. 
We continued to pursue overall portfolio decarbonisation, pivoting 
exposure to counterparties and technologies that are less 
carbon-intensive.

The Power sector’s intensity decreased as some of our contractual 
obligations to coal-fired power plants ended. We also actively 
pursued lower emissions technologies, including new gas power 
plants, and expanded our renewables financing. 

The emissions intensity of the Residential Mortgage portfolio has 
remained consistent year-on-year and will decrease over time in 
line with electricity grid decarbonisation.

The Shipping sector’s alignment delta has worsened due to the 
impact from the container sector, which enjoyed very strong profits 
in 2022, encouraging owners to sail faster, leading to higher 
emissions. Looking ahead, tightening environmental regulations 
and mechanisms from both the International Maritime 
Organization (IMO) and European Union (EU) are expected to  
lead to better alignment between shipowners’ behaviours and  
the Group’s 2030 targets.

The Steel sector is hard-to-abate and requires significant capital  
to decarbonise. Decarbonisation is reliant on the shift from  
blast to electric arc furnaces and many of our emerging markets 
are at early stages of their transition journeys. While the emissions 
intensity of our steel portfolio remained relatively unchanged 
year-on-year, we are actively working with our clients in this sector 
to support their transition.

Our Thermal Coal Mining exposure is decreasing in line with our 
coal revenue thresholds as detailed in our Position Statements  
and related contractual commitments. No new Thermal Coal 
Mining use of proceeds loans have been provided in line with our 
Position Statements.

The Group completed the sale of its global Aviation finance 
leasing business and the majority of its aviation lending book in 
August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this 
business would create in our emissions profile, the progress  
against this target has been paused for year-end 2023. This will  
be re-assessed based on the size and materiality of the remaining 
portfolio in 2024.

73

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSetting science-based targets

The Group set interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 
11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors with Agriculture being the 
12th planned for 2024. 

We follow the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidance 
on sectors for target-setting, further expanding the 
Transport sector into Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation 
and Shipping. 

We set four sectoral targets and updated three targets in 
2023. All targets have been informed by what the Group 
considers pre-eminent scientific forward-looking scenario 
providers. This includes the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) for energy sectors, the Mission Possible Partnership 
(MPP) for metals, International Maritime Organization 
(IMO) for shipping and Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor 
(CRREM) for the residential real estate sector. 

For our Scope 3 financed emissions, we set science-based 
targets accounting for differing states of transition 
readiness across our markets. Due to our footprint – with 
many emerging markets reliant on carbon-intensive 
industries – our financed emissions may increase before 
they decrease. The upper end of our 2030 target may 
represent low-overshoot scenarios. However, our approach 
is to remain aligned to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius 
scientific pathway by 2050. Given our science-based 
approach, we will strive to update our targets both as the 
scientific community updates their reference scenarios and 
as data availability improves. 

In 2023, the Group:

•  Strengthened our Oil and Gas emissions metric from 
a revenue-based intensity to an absolute financed 
emissions target and trajectory. This places an emissions 
budget on the sector and requires a reduction of 29 per 
cent by 2030 when calculated from a 2020 baseline, 
aligned with the IEA’s NZE trajectory. Our approach 
ensures we maintain a direct link to absolute GHG 
emissions in the Oil and Gas sector and allows us to 
directly assess our progress with the IEA NZE scenario 
that we have set our target against. By moving away 
from a revenue-based intensity metric, we remove an 
element of financial volatility and complexity from 
our calculations that could restrict transparency and 
accountability in measuring and disclosing our financed 
GHG emissions. Oil and Gas is the second sector for which 
the Group set an absolute financed emission target, 
in addition to our target for Thermal Coal Mining.

•  Updated our Power and Steel sector targets from a 

revenue-based intensity metric to a production-based 
intensity metric (i.e., emissions intensity per unit of 
production). The progression from an economic-based 
intensity to a production/physical-based intensity reduces 
the financial volatility in the calculation and improves the 
connection to clients’ actual GHG emissions by linking 
directly to units of production, or a physical activity. 

We published the second edition of the Group’s ‘Net zero 
methodological white paper – The journey continues’, which 
sets out the methodology, assumptions and scientific 
pathways for each high-emitting sector and is available  
via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

2030 

20223

Emissions 
approach2

Scientific 
reference 
scenario

2030 Target

2030 Target 
reduction  
% from 
baseline

Absolute 
emissions 
(MtCO2e)

Production/ 
Physical intensity

20213

Absolute 
emissions 
(MtCO2e)

Production/  
Physical intensity

Cumulative 
% change 
from 
baseline

Sector1

CCIB

 Aluminium

Production 
intensity

MPP

 Automotive 
Manufacturers

Physical 
intensity

Cement

Production 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE

IEA NZE 

6.1 tCO2e/t 
Aluminium

66–100 
gCO2/V.km

0.52  
tCO2/t  
Cement

Maintain

44–63%

22%

 Commercial  
Real Estate

Physical 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE

19–39  
kgCO2e/sq.m

47–74%

–

–

–

–

4.59^ tCO2e/t 
Aluminium

165^  
gCO2/V.km

0.66^ 
tCO2/t Cement

62^ 
kgCO2e/sq.m

–

–

–

–

5.62^ tCO2e/t 
Aluminium

178^ 
gCO2/V.km

0.67^ tCO2/t 
Cement

73^ 
kgCO2e/sq.m

Oil and Gas

Absolute 
emissions

IEA NZE

9.3 MtCO2e

29%

10.3^

–

10.2^

–

Power

Shipping

Production 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE

0.17–0.28  
tCO2/MWh

46–67%

Physical 
intensity

IMO 2023

0% delta

0% delta

0% delta

0% delta

Steel

Production 
intensity

MPP

1.4–1.6 tCO2/t  
Steel

22–32%

–

–

–

0.47^  
tCO2/MWh

+6.4%^ delta

+11.8%^ delta

+16%^ delta

1.97^  
tCO2/t Steel

–

–

–

0.52^ tCO2/MWh -10%

+2.6%^ delta

+7.3%^ delta

+4.5%

+10%^ delta

2.06^ 
tCO2/t Steel

Thermal  
Coal Mining

Absolute 
emissions

CPBB

IEA NZE

0.5 MtCO2e

85%

1.6^

–

2.3^

–

Residential 
Mortgages

Physical 
intensity

CRREM

29–32
kgCO2e/Sq.m

15–32% 

–

37.7^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

–

37.6^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

0%

1   Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub. 
2   For further detailed information on sectoral financed emissions and progress against targets, refer to pages 110-111.
3  Due to third-party data sets that feed into our calculations, the Group’s reported financed emissions figures have a one-year lag. The Group reports on 2022  

and 2021 data in this 2023 Annual Report.

74

w

-18%

-7%

-1%

-15%

-21%

-4%

-52%

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewPillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs 

Announced in 2023, the four thematic innovation hubs – Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and 
Nature Positive Solutions – focus on emerging sustainability themes that are nascent but ripe for scale, aligned to 
areas where the Group has a core competency, and are particularly suited to clients in our footprint markets. 

Each hub is transversal, run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims to identify opportunities for future 
returns outside of our core range of traditional products and services. By being deliberate in demonstrating leadership 
to advance the ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group will be well-positioned to take advantage of 
the significant and differentiated revenue potential that will result from maturation of these themes in the future. 

1. Adaptation Finance
There is an urgent global need to unlock and scale public 
and private climate adaptation finance to build shared 
societal resilience, especially across our footprint markets, 
where adaptation represents both a risk and an opportunity 
for clients and communities.

Acknowledging our geographical footprint and the 
multiplier effect of investment in adaptation – where every 
dollar spent on adaptation this decade could generate up to 
$12 of economic benefit – it is our ambition to act decisively 
and mobilise others on adaptation. 

In 2023, we closed the Group’s first Adaptation Finance 
transaction – an adaptation letter of credit with a 
parametric insurance provider for the renewable  
energy sector. 

We also collaborated with KPMG and the United Nations 
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) to develop the 
market’s first Guide to Adaptation and Resilience Finance 
(GARF), which was announced at COP28 and is due to be 
published in early 2024.

For more see our Adaptation Economy report via 
sc.com/adaptation-economy or page 118 

2. Blended Finance
The Independent High-Level Expert Group on Climate 
Finance estimate that by 2030 there will be a $2.5–3 trillion 
per year financing gap between current baselines and what 
is required to deliver the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) in emerging markets and developing countries other 
than China. Blended finance – using concessional public 
funds to mobilise much larger volumes of private capital 
– can help to close this gap. We work to bring together 
public and private expertise across the Group to help 
commercialise blended finance.

In 2023, we worked through international fora and industry 
groups (e.g., GFANZ) to leverage the Group’s expertise 
and support – alongside other international banks – 
blended finance projects and programmes, including the 
development of frameworks for early coal retirement, and 
hosted both the Vietnamese and Indonesian governments 
as they launched their Just Energy Transition Partnership 
(JETP) events at COP28. 

For more on Blended Finance see page 118 

3. Carbon Markets 
A high-integrity carbon market, combined with corporate 
commitments to cut emissions and high standards of 
reporting can accelerate the global progress towards net 
zero by 2050. 

Standard Chartered has been at the forefront of several 
initiatives that are working to ensure that high-integrity, 
scalable carbon markets develop. We offer trading, advisory, 
financing and risk management services to our clients 
around the world. 

The use of high-quality carbon credits can play a part in a 
multi-faceted and urgent approach to decarbonisation, as 
it enables climate action in sectors and geographies that 
remain severely underfunded today. 

Carbon credits can be complementary to a credible 
corporate net zero transition plan and help bridge the gap 
between the emissions reductions that can be implemented 
now, and the longer lead time for technological solutions 
that are yet to scale. 

In 2023, we were involved in some of the largest carbon 
market transactions, including the Regional Voluntary 
Carbon Market Company (RVCMC) and Climate Impact X 
(CIX) auctions, and established primary supply partnerships 
with clients in Kenya, Brazil, China and Vietnam.

For more on Carbon Markets see page 119 

4. Nature Positive Solutions
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is moderately 
or highly dependent upon nature. Despite its importance, 
biodiversity is rapidly declining. Having applied international 
environmental and social standards in our financing for more 
than 20 years, our presence in markets with some of the 
richest biodiversity in the world positions us to engage with 
a range of stakeholders. We are guided by our commercial 
ambition to increasingly shift financial flows toward nature-
positive outcomes and thereby contribute to the halting and 
reversing of biodiversity loss. 

Nature is also a critical lever for climate change mitigation 
and adaptation and the hub collaborates with the Carbon 
Markets and Adaptation Finance hubs to explore natural 
climate solutions and ecosystem-based adaptation 
opportunities. 

In 2023, we conducted an initial impact and dependency 
assessment to identify our exposure to potentially material 
sectors in our CCIB segment. In January 2024, we joined a 
cohort of early adopters of the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) framework, preparing to 
publish our first TNFD-aligned disclosures in early 2026.

For more on Nature Positive Solutions see page 119 

75

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportManaging Climate Risk

The Group is exposed to Climate Risk through our clients, our own operations,  
our suppliers and from the industries and markets we operate in.

Climate Risk taxonomy

Description

Climate Risk

Sub-Risk Types

Physical Risk

The potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising from climate  
change and society’s response to it.

Risks arising from increasing severity and frequency of climate- and weather-related events, which  
can damage property and other infrastructure, disrupt supply chains, and impact food production.  
It may also reduce asset valuations, leading to lower profitability for companies. Indirect effects on the 
macroeconomic environment, such as lower output and productivity, may exacerbate these direct impacts.

Acute

Specific event-driven weather events, including increased severity of extreme weather events,  
such as cyclones, hurricanes, floods, or wildfires.

Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as changing precipitation patterns, sea-level rise,  

and longer-term drought.

Transition Risk

Risk arising from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy, which will require significant  
structural changes to the economy. These changes will prompt a reassessment of a wide range of asset 
values, a change in energy prices, and a fall in income and creditworthiness of some borrowers.  
In turn, this entails credit losses for lenders and market losses for investors.

The Group’s Board is responsible for the long-term success of 
the Group and its supporting committees consider climate-
and sustainability-related risks and opportunities when 
reviewing and guiding strategic decisions. Board-level 
oversight is exercised through the Board Risk Committee 
(BRC), and regular Climate Risk updates are provided to the 
Board and BRC. At an executive level, the Group Risk 
Committee has appointed the Climate Risk Management 
Committee (CRMC), consisting of senior representatives  
from business, risk, and other functions such as audit, which 
oversees the implementation of our Climate Risk workplan 
and progress made by the Group in meeting regulatory 
requirements. The CRMC meets at least six times a year to 
monitor the Group’s Climate Risk profile, review, challenge and 
provide input on climate-related disclosures and stress tests 
and provide oversight on the development and results of 
climate models. We have also strengthened country and 
regional governance oversight for the Climate Risk profile 
across our key markets in 2023 by cascading relevant Risk 
Appetite metrics, supported by management information.

For more information on the Group’s governance approach for 
climate-related risks and opportunities see pages 120 to 123 

Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement is approved annually by 
the Board and supported by Board and Group Management 
Team (MT) metrics across impacted risk types. The metrics 
are approved by the Group Risk Committee (for MT-level 
metrics) and the Board (for Board-level metrics) annually  
and any breaches are reported to the Group Risk Committee 
and the Board Risk Committee.

Group Climate Risk Appetite Statement

“The Group aims to measure and manage 
financial and non-financial risks arising  
from climate change, and reduce the 
emissions related to our own activities and 
those related to the financing of clients in 
alignment with the Paris Agreement.”

We are continuously expanding the scope and coverage of our risk appetite metrics for enhanced risk identification and 
management. As such, new metrics such as divergence from the Group’s interim 2030 targets across key sectors and a stress 
loan impairment metric built on short-term scenario outcomes will be monitored in 2024.

Risk type

Metrics reported

Credit Risk –  
CPBB

Concentration of retail mortgage exposure with loan-to-value exceeding 80 per cent and with high  
gross physical flood risk across seven of the Group’s key markets.

Credit Risk –  
CCIB

Exposure concentration to clients with high transition risk and low transition readiness.

Traded Risk

Climate scenarios incorporated within Traded Risk stress scenarios inventory.

Country Risk

Concentration of Gross Country Risk exposure to countries exposed to extreme transition and physical risks.

Enterprise-wide

Sectors that are divergent from the Group’s interim 2030 targets, starting with Power, Oil and Gas, Automotive 
Manufacturing and Steel sectors.

76

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewOur approach 
We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk types and are embedding Climate Risk 
considerations into relevant frameworks and processes. Risk Framework Owners for the relevant Principal Risk Types are 
responsible for embedding such requirements within their Risk Type Frameworks, policies, standards, as well as risk appetite 
statements and metrics as appropriate and ensuring compliance to the minimum requirements defined by the Climate Risk 
Policy. In 2023, we have continued to build on embedding Climate Risk into existing risk-management processes, focusing on  
a ‘Business as Usual’ state to identifying, assessing, and monitoring across risk types. 

Risk type

Description

Credit Risk –  
CCIB

Credit Risk –  
CPBB

We assess Climate Risk vulnerabilities and readiness levels for ~85–90 per cent of the CCIB corporate 
portfolio for subsequent consideration within our credit decisioning process. Linkages to Credit 
Underwriting Principles have been finalised for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Shipping, Commercial Real Estate, 
and Mining including Steel and Aluminium), including improved climate-related analysis, portfolio-level 
caps and additional data gathering measures. A key focus area in 2024 and beyond remains to further 
embed Climate Risk and net zero targets into business and credit decisions.

As of September 2023, we assessed physical risk for 79 per cent and transition risk for 54 per cent of our 
CPBB portfolios. During 2023, the physical risk profile across products and markets has remained stable, 
with slight variations in exposure to high flood risk due to enhancements in Munich Re’s flood risk model. For 
key markets of the Group’s residential mortgage portfolio such as Korea and Taiwan, where homeowners’ 
insurance coverage does not cover damages from acute physical risk, we have established zoning policies 
and corresponding risk mitigation and trigger monitoring. Our analysis of the impact from transition risk  
on our residential mortgage portfolio, estimated by quantifying the robustness of borrowers’ repayment 
capability across our key residential mortgage markets, shows that transition risk levels appear to be low.

Operational  
and Technology Risk

The focus for Operational and Technology Risk has been to assess physical risks for our properties and data 
centres, as well as third parties.

Country Risk

Traded Risk

Our assessment of Physical and Transition Risk Sovereign Rankings serves as an input into the annual 
sovereign reviews and quarterly early warning indicators. Country limit benchmark computations also 
consider climate factors.

We continue to assess the market impacts from Climate Risk, including an assessment of transition effects 
from climate change policies and two physical risk scenarios as part of the global Traded Risk scenarios 
inventory. These flow into existing Traded Risk Board-level Risk Appetite (RA) metrics. 

Treasury Risk

Concentration of top CCIB corporate liability providers associated with high transition risk and low levels of 
mitigation are being monitored, leveraging our client-level Climate Risk Assessments.

Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk

Climate Risk Assessments are considered as part of Reputational and Sustainability reviews for clients and 
transactions in high-emitting sectors.

Model Risk

Work is also underway to build in-house first generation transition risk models for our Corporates and 
Sovereigns portfolios which have been used to estimate climate adjusted Expected Credit Loss and stress 
testing use cases. These models will continue to be evolved over 2024 to further help our risk assessment 
and portfolio management capabilities.

For more information on how the Group embeds Climate Risk considerations within the business and across Principal Risk Types see pages 127-129 

77

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportScenario analysis 
In 2023, significant progress was made to enhance our climate 
scenario design and analysis capabilities. We assessed the 
resilience of 95 per cent of CCIB Exposure at Default across 
three external scenarios based on Version 3 of the Network for 
Greening the Financial System (NGFS). These were Net Zero 
2050, Delayed Transition and Current Policies and three 
internal scenarios. The internal scenarios include a Base Case 
linked to current sovereign commitments to meet their net 
zero targets, and two short term ‘tail risk scenarios’ to assess 
Transition Risk from a green trade war and Physical Risk from 
population migration linked to climate change. The tail 
scenarios also include second order impacts such as food 
price inflation and displacement leading to decreased 
productivity. The severity of the scenarios is aligned to the 
annual cyclical scenario and driven by GDP shocks in our  
key markets. 

Across the NGFS scenarios, the impact on incremental 
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) as of 2050 for the overall CCIB 
portfolio is highest in the Net Zero 2050 scenario, followed by 
Delayed Transition and Current Policies, primarily driven by 
impact on our corporate clients. Sectors such as Oil and Gas, 
Construction, Transportation and Utilities are most impacted, 
primarily due to the rise in carbon prices in the scenarios and 
to some extent, by the consequent macroeconomic changes. 
For internal scenarios, the impacts of GDP and second order 
risks in the short-term impacts corporate clients across 
Transportation, Automobiles, Construction, and Commercial 
Real Estate sectors. The highest impact in the short-term 
(2030) is seen in the tail transition risk scenario. 

Results from the scenario analysis are consistent with the  
hot spots identified with our net zero strategy across high-
emitting sectors. At a client level, outputs from scenario 
analysis inform our Climate Risk Assessments, while at a 
portfolio level we have put in place Risk Appetite metrics to 
measure stressed losses under the Base Case and Net Zero 
2050 scenarios.

Key limitations include: (i) benign impact from physical risk  
due to nascent methodologies for transforming the level of 
physical risk into business disruption, which is compounded by 
lack of client-level asset locations; (ii) assuming static balance 
sheets; and (iii) client business models remaining unchanged. 

It’s also pertinent to note that while the results do not factor  
in the potential impact from management actions from our 
net zero strategy, outputs were reviewed by an expert panel 
comprising first line and second line representatives, followed 
by a discussion at the Climate Risk Management Committee 
and subsequent update to the Board Risk Committee. 

For more information on the Group’s approach to scenario analysis, 
please refer to pages 309 to 313 

Qualitative review of climate risks and opportunities in 
annual business strategy and financial planning
In 2023, Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal 
annual corporate strategy and financial planning process.  
In addition, we developed management scenarios with an 
aim to strengthen business strategy and financial planning  
to support the Group’s net zero roadmap.

We use both qualitative and quantitative aspects focusing  
on revenue reliance from clients in high-emitting sectors  
and/or locations in regions most exposed to physical risk, 
considering adequacy of mitigation plans. The results are 
then independently reviewed by regional and client-segment 
Chief Risk Officers (CROs) and the ESG and Reputational Risk 
team. Climate Risk impact is also included in the Risk review of 
our Corporate Plan, which is considered by the Board as part 
of their approval of the overall Corporate Plan. The 2024 
Corporate Plan includes an increase in loan impairment due 
to the impact from Climate Risk.

In most cases, the physical and transition risks identified were 
assessed to be well controlled in the short term. We are 
starting to work with our clients in high-emitting sectors by 
prioritising sustainable finance products to decarbonise their 
business models and help enable their transition journeys. 
We also continue to proactively work with clients in sectors 
with lower carbon intensity and emissions such as clean 
technology to support the growth of these industries. Our 
Sustainable and Transition Finance product suite and our 
dedicated Sustainable Finance, Transition Acceleration and 
ESG Advisory teams, are a robust response to transition risks 
in the short term, strengthening our resilience towards a 
two degrees Celsius or lower transition scenario. However, 
longer-term transition risks were highlighted, particularly for 
the Africa and Middle East region, given its dependency on 
fossil fuels; and longer-term physical risks were deemed to be 
most relevant for the Asia region.

Regulatory landscape
Key financial regulators across our footprint have proposed or 
set supervisory expectations on climate and environmental 
risk management. Those expectations are broadly aligned 
with the Basel Committee principles for the management of 
climate-related financial risks, but local implementations vary. 

We have been and are actively engaging with industry bodies 
and regulators to drive consistency in policymaking across our 
markets. A process has been established for tracking various 
Climate Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations 
set by both financial and non-financial service regulators  
at Group, regional and country level, with roles and 
responsibilities set out in the Group’s Climate Risk Policy. 
Regulatory requirements or enhancements are recorded 
through workplans across various country and regional teams.

78

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability overviewNon-financial and sustainability information statement

This table sets out where shareholders and stakeholders can find information about key non-financial matters in this report, in 
compliance with the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. 
Further disclosures are available via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Reporting requirement 

Where to find more information in this report about our policies  
and impact including risks, due diligence processes and outcomes

Description of 
business model

Principal Risks  
and uncertainties

Environmental 
matters

Business model

Our strategy

Risk overview

Risk review and Capital review

Our operations

Our suppliers

Employees

Employees

Our clients – Reducing our financed emissions

Employee policies and engagement

Health, safety and wellbeing

Human rights

Suppliers

Respecting human rights

Social matters

Society

Drive social impact through our clients and communities

Anti-corruption  
and bribery

Code of conduct and ethics

Fighting financial crime

Political donations

Non-financial  
KPIs

Supplementary people information

Supplementary sustainability information

2023 Sustainability Aspirations

See the Sustainability Review section from pages 92 to 133 for further information and details 

Page

20

24

230

230

106

107

108

60

222

224

58

133

59

97

130

131

218

498

504

508

Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 

In line with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can confirm that 
we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures in this Annual Report. 
Our TCFD disclosures also meet the new climate-related financial disclosure requirements contained in section 414CB of the 
Companies Act 2006. We have also taken into account the implementation guidance included in the TCFD 2021 Annex. 

Section

TCFD recommendation

Governance

a) The Board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

b) Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

Strategy

a) Climate-related risks and opportunities the Group has identified over the short, medium and long term

b)

c)

Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Group’s businesses,  
strategy and financial planning

Resilience of the Group’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,  
including a two degrees Celsius or lower scenario

Risk 
Management

a) Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

b) Our processes for managing climate-related risks

c)

a)

Metrics 
and Targets

How the Group’s processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related  
risks are integrated into the Group’s overall risk management

The metrics used by the Group to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy 
and risk management processes

b) Disclosures on Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and related risks

c)

The targets used by the Group to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and our  
performance against targets

Page

120

120

309

78

309

298

298

127

66

105

25

For a more detailed TCFD Summary and Alignment Index referencing relevant disclosures see pages 511 to 516 

79

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportUnderlying versus reported results 
reconciliations

Reconciliations between underlying and reported results are set out in the tables below:

Operating income by client segment

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items²

Reported operating income

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

11,218

291

17

262

11,788

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

9,608

436

42

–

7,106

45

–

–

7,151

Consumer  
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

5,969

47

–

–

Reported operating income

10,086

6,016

2023

Ventures 
$million

156

–

–

–

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

(1,102)

26

–

–

Total 
$million

17,378

362

17

262

156

(1,076)

18,019

2022¹

Ventures 
$million

Central & other 
items (segment) 
$million

29

–

–

–

29

156

11

–

20

187

Total 
$million

15,762

494

42

20

16,318

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2  Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

Operating income by region

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items²

Asia 
$million

12,429

203

(16)

35

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,806

110

26

(18)

Reported operating income

12,651

2,924

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items

Asia 
$million

10,912

304

20

20

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,460

140

8

–

2023

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,397

35

7

263

1,702

20221

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,303

35

14

–

Reported operating income

11,256

2,608

2,352

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

746

14

–

(18)

742

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

87

15

–

–

102

Total 
$million

17,378

362

17

262

18,019

Total 
$million

15,762

494

42

20

16,318

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

80

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportUnderlying versus reported resultsNet interest income and Non NII

2023

20221

Adjustment  
for Financial 
Markets 
funding costs 
and financial 
guarantee fees 
on interest 
earning assets 
$million

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

Adjustment  
for Financial 
Markets 
funding costs 
and financial 
guarantee fees 
on interest 
earning assets 
$million

Reported 
$million

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

Net interest income1,2
Non NII1,2

Total income

9,557

7,821

17,378

(10)

651

641

(1,778)

1,778

–

7,769

10,250

18,019

7,967

7,795

15,762

9

547

556

(383)

383

–

Reported 
$million

7,593

8,725

16,318

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance 

2.   To be consistent with how we the compute Net Interest Margin, we have changed our definition of Underlying Net Interest Income (NII) and Underlying Non NII. 
The adjustments made to NIM, including Interest expense relating to funding our trading book, will now be shown against Underlying Non NII to be updated as 
rather than Underlying NII. There is no impact on total income 

Profit before taxation (PBT)

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

2023

Net gain on 
businesses 
disposed of3
$million

Goodwill  
and other 
Impairment2
$million

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before 
impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Profit/(loss) before taxation

17,378

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

362

(415)

(53)

20

(28)

47

(14)

262

–

262

–

–

–

262

20221

–

–

–

–

(850)

–

(850)

DVA 
$million

17

–

17

–

–

–

17

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

Net gain on 
businesses 
disposed of 
$million

Goodwill  
and other 
Impairment2
$million

DVA 
$million

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before 
impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Profit/(loss) before taxation

15,762

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

494

(504)

(10)

–

(78)

(11)

(99)

20

–

–

–

–

–

20

–

–

–

–

(322)

–

(322)

42

–

42

–

–

–

42

Reported  
$million

18,019

(11,551)

6,468

(508)

(1,008)

141

5,093

Reported  
$million

16,318

(10,913)

5,405

(836)

(439)

156

4,286

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3   Net gain on businesses disposed of includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business 

and a loss of $47 million in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

81

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportProfit before taxation (PBT) by client segment

Operating income

External

Inter-segment

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment2

DVA

Other items³

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

Operating income

External

Inter-segment

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment2

DVA

Other items

2023

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

11,218

8,543

2,675

(5,627)

5,591

(123)

(32)

–

5,436

32

–

17

262

5,747

7,106

3,902

3,204

(4,261)

2,845

(354)

(4)

–

2,487

(60)

–

–

–

156

157

(1)

(429)

(273)

(85)

(26)

(24)

(408)

(4)

–

–

–

(1,102)

4,776

(5,878)

(819)

(1,921)

34

(68)

118

(1,837)

18

(850)

–

–

2,427

(412)

(2,669)

2022¹

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer  
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

9,608

8,462

1,146

(5,193)

4,415

(425)

–

–

3,990

14

–

42

–

5,969

4,942

1,027

(4,104)

1,865

(262)

(10)

–

1,593

(56)

–

–

–

29

29

–

(336)

(307)

(16)

(24)

(16)

(363)

(1)

–

–

–

156

2,329

(2,173)

(776)

(620)

(133)

(5)

183

(575)

(56)

(322)

–

20

Total 
$million

17,378

17,378

–

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

(14)

(850)

17

262

5,093

Total 
$million

15,762

15,762

–

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

(99)

(322)

42

20

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

4,046

1,537

(364)

(933)

4,286

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3  Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

82

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportUnderlying versus reported resultsProfit before taxation (PBT) by region

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment2

DVA

Other items³

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment2

DVA

Other items

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

Asia 
$million

12,429

(7,096)

5,333

(644)

(63)

114

4,740

(97)

(850)

(16)

35

3,812

Asia 
$million

10,912

(6,675)

4,237

(790)

(10)

179

3,616

(46)

(308)

20

20

3,302

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,806

(1,571)

2023

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,397

(1,733)

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

746

(736)

1,235

91

(15)

–

1,311

(2)

–

26

(18)

1,317

(336)

19

(13)

–

(330)

32

–

7

263

(28)

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,460

(1,551)

20221

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,303

(1,548)

909

(119)

2

–

792

21

–

8

–

821

755

78

1

–

834

(13)

–

14

–

835

10

6

(39)

(20)

(43)

53

–

–

(18)

(8)

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

87

(635)

(548)

(5)

(32)

(12)

(597)

(61)

(14)

–

–

Total 
$million

17,378

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

(14)

(850)

17

262

5,093

Total 
$million

15,762

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

(99)

(322)

42

20

(672)

4,286

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in 

relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

83

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportReturn on tangible equity (RoTE)

Average parent company Shareholders’ Equity2

Less Average preference share capital and share premium

Less Average intangible assets

Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Tangible Equity

Profit for the period attributable to equity holders

Non-controlling interests

Dividend payable on preference shares and AT1 classified as equity

Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders

Items normalised:

Restructuring
Goodwill & other impairment3

Net gains on sale of businesses⁴

Ventures FVOCI unrealised gains/(losses) net of tax

DVA

Tax on normalised items

Underlying profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders

Underlying Return on Tangible Equity

Reported Return on Tangible Equity

2023 
$million

43,549

(1,494)

(5,957)

36,098

3,462

7

(452)

3,017

14

850

(262)

69

(17)

(21)

3,650

10.1%

8.4%

2022¹
$million

44,237

(1,494)

(5,557)

37,186

2,902

46

(401)

2,547

99

322

(20)

(36)

(42)

(3)

2,867

7.7%

6.8%

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Excludes other equity instruments including AT1s 

3.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

4 

Includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in relation to  
a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans 

Underlying RoTE

Provision for regulatory matters

Restructuring

Of which: Income

Of which: Expenses

Of which: Credit impairment

Of which: Other impairment

Of which: Profit from associates and joint ventures

Net gain on businesses disposed/held for sale²

Goodwill and other impairment¹

Ventures FVOCI Unrealised gains/(losses) net of Taxes

DVA

Tax on normalised items

Reported RoTE

19.5

–

1.4

(1.3)

0.1

(0.1)

–

1.3

–

–

0.1

(0.4)

20.6

Corporate, 
Commercial& 
Institutional 
Banking 
%

Consumer 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
%

2023

Ventures 
%

nm³

–

–

nm³

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

25.3

–

0.6

(1.4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.2

24.7

nm³

nm³

Central &  
other  Items 
(Segment) 
%

(27.0)

–

0.3

(0.6)

0.1

(0.2)

0.6

–

(11.1)

–

–

1.1

(36.8)

Total 
%

10.1

–

1.0

(1.1)

0.1

(0.1)

0.1

0.7

(2.3)

(0.2)

–

0.1

8.4

1.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

2.   Includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in relation to  

a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

3.   Not meaningful

4.  Segmental RoTE is the ratio of the current year’s underlying profit to the average tangible equity. Average Tangible Equity has been derived based on average 

RWA

84

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportUnderlying versus reported resultsUnderlying RoTE

Provision for regulatory matters

Restructuring

Of which: Income

Of which: Expenses

Of which: Credit impairment

Of which: Other impairment

Of which: Profit from associates and joint ventures

Net loss on businesses disposed/held for sale
Goodwill and other impairment2

Ventures FVOCI Unrealised gains/(losses) net of Taxes

DVA

Tax on normalised items

Reported RoTE

Corporate, 
Commercial& 
Institutional 
Banking 
%

Consumer  
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
%

13.4

–

1.9

(1.6)

–

(0.2)

–

–

–

–

0.2

(0.1)

13.6

15.8

–

0.6

(1.4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.2

15.2

2022¹

Ventures 
%

nm³

–

–

nm³

–

–

–

nm³

–

–

–

nm³

nm³

Central &  
other Items 
(Segment) 
%

(14.2)

–

0.1

(0.5)

–

(0.3)

(0.1)

0.3

(4.5)

–

–

–

(19.2)

Total 
%

7.7

–

1.3

(1.4)

–

(0.2)

–

0.1

(0.9)

0.1

0.1

–

6.8

1.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3.   Not meaningful

4.  Segmental RoTE is the ratio of the current year’s underlying profit to the average tangible equity. Average Tangible Equity has been derived based on average 

RWA

Net charge-off ratio

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Total exposure

1.  Prior year has been restated

2023

2022

Credit 
impairment 
(charge)/  
release for the  
year/ period 
$million

42

(262)

(386)

(606)

Net average 
exposure 
$million

320,649

11,674

3,117

335,440

Net  
Charge-off  
Ratio 
%

(0.01)%

2.24%

12.38%

0.18%

Credit 
impairment 
(charge)/  
release for the  
year/ period 
$million

5

(325)

(423)

(743)

Net average 
exposure¹ 
$million

Net  
Charge-off  
Ratio¹ 
%

321,099

(0.00)%

13,162

3,074

337,335

2.47%

13.76%

0.22%

Earnings per ordinary share (EPS)

Profit for the year attributable to  
ordinary shareholders

Basic – Weighted average number of shares 
(millions)

Basic earnings per ordinary share (cents)

Profit for the year attributable to  
ordinary shareholders

Basic – Weighted average number of shares 
(millions)

Basic earnings per ordinary share (cents)

Underlying 
$ million

Restructuring 
$ million

DVA 
$ million

2023

Net gain  
on sale of 
businesses¹
$ million

Goodwill 
and other 
impairment²
$ million

Tax on 
normalised 
items 
$ million

Reported 
$ million

3,581

(14)

17

262

(850)

21

3,017

2,778

128.9

2,778

108.6

Underlying 
$ million

Restructuring 
$ million

DVA 
$ million

20223

Net loss  
on sale of 
businesses 
$ million

Goodwill 
impairment2
$ million

Tax on 
normalised 
items 
$ million

Reported 
$ million

2,903

(99)

42

20

(322)

3

2,547

2,966

97.9

2,966

85.9

1.   Includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in relation to a 

sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3.   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

85

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportAlternative performance measures

Alternative performance measures

An alternative performance measure is a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or 
cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in the applicable financial reporting framework. The following 
are key alternative performance measures used by the Group to assess financial performance and financial position.

Measure

Definition

Advances-to-deposits/ 
customer advances-to-deposits 
(ADR) ratio

The ratio of total loans and advances to customers relative to total customer accounts, excluding 
approved balances held with central banks, confirmed as repayable at the point of stress. A low 
advances-to-deposits ratio demonstrates that customer accounts exceed customer loans resulting 
from emphasis placed on generating a high level of stable funding from customers.

Average interest earning 
balance

Constant currency basis

Daily average of the interest earning assets and interest bearing liablities balances excluding the 
daily average cash collateral balances in other assets and other liabilities that are related to the 
Financial Markets trading book

A performance measure on a constant currency basis is presented such that comparative periods 
are adjusted for the current year’s functional currency rate. The following balances are presented on 
a constant currency basis when described as such:
• Operating income
• Operating expenses
• Profit before tax
• RWAs or risk-weighted assets

Cost-to-income ratio

The proportion of total operating expenses to total operating income.

Cover ratio

The ratio of impairment provisions for each stage to the gross loan exposure for each stage.

Cover ratio after collateral/cover 
ratio including collateral

The ratio of impairment provisions for stage 3 loans and realisable value of collateral held against 
these non-performing loan exposures to the gross loan exposure of stage 3 loans.

Gross yield

Reported interest income divided by average interest earning assets.

Income return on risk weighted 
assets (IRoRWA)

Jaws

Annualised Income excluding Debit Valuation Adjustment as a percentage of Average RWA

The difference between the rates of change in revenue and operating expenses. Positive jaws occurs 
when the percentage change in revenue is higher than, or less negative than, the corresponding rate 
for operating expenses.

Loan loss rate

Total credit impairment for loans and advances to customers over average loans and advances to 
customers.

Net charge-off ratio

The ratio of net credit impairment charge or release to average outstanding net loans and advances.

Net tangible asset value  
per share

Ratio of net tangible assets (total tangible assets less total liabilities) to the number of ordinary 
shares outstanding at the end of a reporting period.

Net yield

Gross yield on average assets less rate paid on average liabilities

NIM or Net interest margin

Reported net interest income adjusted for interest expense incurred on amortised cost liabilities used 
to fund the Financial Markets business and financial guarantee fees on interest earning assets, 
divided by average interest-earning assets excluding financial assets measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.

RAR per FTE or Risk adjusted 
revenue per full-time equivalent

Risk adjusted revenue (RAR) is defined as underlying operating income less underlying impairment 
over the past 12 months. RAR is then divided by the 12 month rolling average full-time equivalent 
(FTE) to determine RAR per FTE.

Rate paid

RoE or Return on equity

RoTE or Return on ordinary 
shareholders’ tangible equity

Reported interest expense adjusted for interest expense incurred on amortised cost liabilities used to 
fund financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss, divided by average interest 
bearing liabilities.

The ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders plus fair value 
movements through other comprehensive income relating to the Ventures segment to the weighted 
average ordinary shareholders’ equity for the reporting period.

The ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders to the average 
tangible equity, being ordinary shareholders’ equity less the average intangible assets for the 
reporting period. Where a target RoTE is stated, this is based on profit and equity expectations for 
future periods.

TSR or Total shareholder return The total return of the Group’s equity (share price growth and dividends) to investors.

86

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportMeasure

Definition

Underlying net interest income Reported net interest income normalised to an underlying basis adjusted for interest expense 
incurred on amortised cost liabilities used to fund the Financial Markets business and financial 
guarantee fees on interest earning assets.

Underlying/Normalised 

Non NII

Underlying Non NII

Underlying RoTE

A performance measure is described as underlying/normalised if the reported result has been 
adjusted for restructuring and other items representing profits or losses of a capital nature; DVA; 
amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent, excluding amounts 
consequent to Ventures transactions, as these are considered part of the Group’s ordinary course of 
business; and other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in  
the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period, and items which management 
and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing performance period-by-period. 
Restructuring includes impacts to profit or loss from businesses that have been disclosed as no longer 
part of the Group’s ongoing business, redundancy costs, costs of closure or relocation of business 
locations, impairments of assets and other costs which are not related to the Group’s ongoing 
business. Restructuring in this context is not the same as a restructuring provision as defined in IAS 37.
A reconciliation between underlying/normalised and reported performance is contained in Note 2 to 
the financial statements. The following balances and measures are presented on an underlying basis 
when described as such:
• Operating income
• Operating expense
• Profit before tax
• Earnings per share (basic and diluted)
• Cost-to-income ratio
• Jaws
• RoTE or return on tangible equity

Reported Non NII is a sum of net fees and commission, net trading income and other  
operating income

Reported Non NII normalised to an underlying basis adjusted for interest expense incurred on 
amortised cost liabilities used to fund the Financial Markets business and financial guarantee  
fees on interest earning assets. In prior periods Underlying Non NII was described as underlying  
other income.

The ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders plus fair value 
on OCI equity movement relating to Ventures segment to the weighted average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity for the reporting period.

87

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportViability statement

Viability statement

The directors are required to issue a viability statement 
regarding the Group, explaining their assessment of the 
prospects of the Group over an appropriate period of time 
and state whether they have reasonable expectation that  
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due.

The directors are to also disclose the period of time for which 
they have made the assessment and the reason they consider 
that period to be appropriate.

In considering the viability of the Group, the directors have 
assessed the key factors including, but not limited to; 
inflationary pressures, spikes in oil prices, market volatility, 
economic recession, and geopolitical events likely to affect  
the Group’s business model and strategic plan, future 
performance, capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity taking 
into account the emerging risks as well as the principal risks. 

The viability assessment has been made over a period of 
three years, which the directors consider appropriate as it  
is within both the Group’s strategic planning horizon and,  
the basis upon which its regulatory capital stress tests are 
undertaken and is representative of the continuous level of 
regulatory change affecting the financial services industry. 
The directors will continue to monitor and consider the 
appropriateness of this period.

The directors have reviewed the corporate plan, the output  
of the Group’s formalised process of budgeting and strategic 
planning. For the 2024 Corporate Plan, the forward-looking 
cash flows and balances includes the anticipated impact of 
global interest rates on revenues and inflationary pressure on 
costs . The Corporate Plan is evaluated and approved each 
year by the Board with confirmation from the Group Chief  
Risk Officer that the Plan is aligned with the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework and within Group Risk Appetite 
Statement and considers the Group’s future projections of 
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and resources, 
liquidity ratios and other key financial and regulatory ratios 
over the period. The Corporate Plan details the Group’s key 
performance measures, of forecast profit, CET 1 capital ratio 
forecast, return on tangible equity forecasts, cost to income 
ratio forecasts and cash investment projections. The Board 
has reviewed the ongoing performance management  
process of the Group by comparing the reported results  
to the budgets and corporate plan.

The Group performs enterprise-wide stress tests using a  
range of bespoke hypothetical scenarios that explore the 
resilience of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and 
business model.

To assess the Group’s balance sheet vulnerabilities and capital 
and liquidity adequacy, severe but plausible macro-financial 
scenarios explore shocks that trigger one or more of:

•  Global slowdowns including recessions in China, Asian and 
Western economies that can be acute or more protracted, 
resulting in severe declines in property prices

•  Sharp falls in world trade volumes and disruption to global 

supply chains, including the severe worsening of trade 
tensions and rise of protectionism.

•  Inflationary pressures in the global economy including 

volatility in commodity prices

•  Significant rises in interest rates and depreciation in 
emerging market currencies, resulting in heightened 
sovereign risk

•  Financial market volatility, including significant moves in 
asset prices driven by a combination of macroeconomic 
and geopolitical events 

This year, the primary focus has been on:

•  The effect of high interest rates and persistent inflation, 
including spikes in the oil price, combined with severe 
market volatility and severe economic downturns in China 
and other economies. 

•  The impact of intensifying geopolitical tensions on 

economic and financial activity in our footprint markets 
including an assessment of both financial and  
operational risks. 

•  Testing liquidity resilience of the Group in case it  

experiences a very severe stress informed by different, 
actual stress events observed for e.g. Silicon Valley Bank  
or by Credit Suisse

In 2023, the Group undertook a number of Climate Risk stress 
tests, including those mandated by the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority, Central Bank UAE and internal management 
scenario analysis. We expanded our portfolio coverage to 
assess the resilience of 95 per cent of CCIB Exposure at Default 
across three external scenarios based on Version 3 of the 
Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and three 
internal management scenarios. The three internal scenarios 
refer to one bespoke base case and a physical and a 
transition tail risk scenario.

The loan impairment (LI) intensity which measures the level  
of gross expected credit losses (ECL) against the exposure  
at default (EAD) enables us to assess the relative size of  
our exposure subject to potential losses from climate risks. 
LI intensity is not currently material.

Overall, we believe that the level of potential credit losses can 
be mitigated by continuing to take necessary actions which 
the Group is already doing across sectors, engaging with our 
clients on this topic and support them in enhancing their 
climate transition plans. The impact of sea level rises under 
various Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios was 
used to explore the Physical Risk impact on the Consumer, 
Private and Business Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage 
portfolio. In 2023, Climate Risk was also considered as part  
of our formal annual corporate strategy and financial 
planning process.

88

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportFor further details of information relevant to the directors, 
assessment can be found in the following sections of the 
annual report and accounts:

•  The Group’s Business model (pages 20 to 23) and Strategy 

(pages 24 and 25)

•  The Group’s current position and prospects including factors 
likely to affect future results and development, together 
with a description of financial and funding positions are 
described in the client segment reviews and regional 
reviews (pages 28 to 33)

•  An update on the key risk themes of the Group is discussed 

in the Group Chief Risk Officer’s review, found in the 
Strategic Report (pages 44 to 51)

•  The BRC section of the Director’s report (pages 168 to 173)

•  The Group’s Topical and Emerging Risks, sets out the key 

external factors that could impact the Group in the coming 
year (pages 48 to 51).

•  The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework 

details how the Group identifies, manages and governs  
risk (pages 314 to 319)

•  The Group’s Risk profile provides an analysis of our risk 
exposures across all major risk types (page 320 to 337)

•  The capital position of the Group, regulatory development 

and the approach to management and allocation of 
capital are set out in the Capital review (pages 338 to 343)

Having considered all the factors outlined above, the directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment up 
to 31 December 2026.

Our Strategic report from pages 01 to 89 has been reviewed 
and approved by the Board.

Our Strategic report from pages 01 to 89 has been 
reviewed and approved by the Board.

Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive

23 February 2024

Under this range of scenarios, the results of these stress  
tests demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital and 
liquidity to continue as a going concern and meet regulatory 
minimum capital and liquidity requirements.

To assess the Group’s business model vulnerabilities, extreme 
and unlikely scenarios are explored that, by design, result in 
the Group’s business model no longer being viable these 
scenarios have included for the Group escalation of 
geopolitical tensions which results in reciprocal target 
sanctions and the bifurcation of financial system between  
the West and East , impacting key industries including 
technology, telecommunications and financial institutions.  
Insights from these reverse stress tests can inform strategy,  
risk management and capital and liquidity planning.

Further information on stress testing is provided in the  
Risk management approach section (page 314).

The directors further considered the Group’s Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), which considers the 
Group’s liquidity position, its framework and whether sufficient 
liquidity resources are being maintained to meet liabilities as 
they fall due. Funding and liquidity was considered in the 
context of the risk appetite metrics, including the ADR and 
LCR ratios.

The Board Risk Committee (BRC) exercises oversight on  
behalf of the Board of the key risks of the Group and reviews 
the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework, including reviewing the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management systems, key controls and considering the 
implications of material regulatory change proposals, and 
reviewing reports on principal risks, including Climate Risk,  
to the Group’s business.

The BRC receives regular reports reports on the Group’s key 
risks, as well as updates on the macroeconomic environment, 
geo-political outlook, market developments, and relevant 
regulatory updates. In 2023, the BRC had deeper discussion 
covering: CCIB Risk deep dives with particular focus on  
change management and regulatory programmes; the  
CPBB portfolio, particularly credit cards, personal loans, 
partnerships, Financial Crime and ICS risks; the Group’s 
approach to Liquidity and Funding Risk management; 
Country risk including Sovereign risk; credit portfolio 
management activities risk and progress made in balance 
sheet optimisation; Reputational and Sustainability Risk 
including the Group’s approach to Environmental, Social  
and Governance Risk;, Climate Risk particularly climate risk 
integration and scenario analysis;, Safety and Security Risk;, 
Credit Risk review particularly large exposures, resources and 
scope of climate risk assessment and stress testing; and  Chief 
Risk Officer treasury report, including risk observations and 
recommendations around the current balance sheet; SC 
Ventures Risk and governance. The BRC also held a joint 
horizon scanning session with the Audit Committee on the 
forward looking geo-political agenda and emerging risks.

Based on the information received, the directors’ considered 
the principal uncertainties as well as the principal risks in their 
assessment of the Group’ viability, how these impact the risk 
profile, performance and viability of the Group and any 
specific mitigating or remedial actions necessary.

89

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Strategic reportSustainability review

Sustainability review

92 

94 

99 

120 

 Sustainability review

 Sustainability Aspirations

 Sustainability Strategic Pillars

 Climate and sustainability-related 
governance

125 

 Managing Environmental and Social Risk

126 

 Managing Climate Risk

130 

 Integrity, conduct and ethics

[[Supporting 
financial 
institutions  
with sustainable 
trade loans]] 

In September, we launched a 
sustainable trade loan offering for 
financial institutions. The loans can  
be used for renewable energy sector 
projects such as the installation of  
wind turbines, purchase of solar panels, 
and sale of renewable energy battery 
storage systems. The offering builds  
on our sustainable trade finance 
proposition, announced in 2021, 
designed to help companies 
implement more sustainable  
practices across their ecosystems and 
build more resilient supply chains.

Read more at sc.com/sustainabletrade

90

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

S
u
s
t
a
n
a
b

i

i
l
i
t
y
r
e
v

i

e
w

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

91

 
Sustainability review

Sustainability review

This section provides information on the Group’s approach to sustainability, 
related governance structures, how we manage environmental, 
social, and climate risk, and progress in 2023. Further information is 
available in the Risk review section from pages 298 to 313 and in the 
Supplementary sustainability information section from pages 504 to 516. 

Sustainability Review content map 

Driving a sustainable future

Our approach to sustainability reporting

Page 67

Page 93

Approach to  
sustainability

Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance by 2030

Page 94

Sustainability  
Aspirations:  
our long-term goals

Aspiration 2:  Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions 

targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition

Aspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem

Page 95

Page 96

Aspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities

Page 97

Sustainability 
Strategic Pillars:  
our short-term  
targets and  
immediate priorities

Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income

Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation

Pillar 3:  Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero 

roadmap

Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs

Climate- and sustainability-related governance

Managing environmental and social risk

Managing climate risk

Integrity, conduct and ethics 

Page 99

Page 102

Page 105

Page 118

Page 120

Page 125

Page 126

Page 130

Disclaimer

Independent Limited Assurance

We report on sustainability and Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual Report, in 
particular in the following sections: (i) Sustainability overview 
in the Strategic report, Sustainability overview on pages 66  
to 79; (ii) Sustainability review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk 
review and Capital review on pages 298 to 313; and (iv) in the 
Supplementary Sustainability Information section on pages 
504 to 516. 

In this ‘Sustainability review’ chapter, we set out our approach 
and progress relating to sustainability and its content is 
subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward-looking 
statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of preparation and 
caution regarding data limitations’ section provided under 
‘Important notices’ on pages 519 and 520. Additional 
information can be accessed through our suite of supporting 
sustainability reports and disclosures via our website  
www.sc.com.

To access the Group’s suite of sustainability-related reports and 
disclosures please visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed to provide 
independent limited assurance over certain data points 
within this Annual Report, indicated with a caret symbol (^) in 
this report. The assurance engagement was planned and 
performed in accordance with the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020), Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information (ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)). This 
independent assurance report is separate from EY’s audit 
report on the financial statements and is available at 
sc.com/sustainabilityhub. This report includes further detail 
on the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, 
limitations and conclusions.

We obtained independent limited assurance on the Group’s 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (excluding 
fugitive emissions) by Global Documentation Ltd. We also 
obtained reasonable assurance on the Group’s Scope 3 
emissions associated with business travel (air travel) from 
Eco-Act. These verifications were conducted in accordance 
with the ISO 14064-3 Greenhouse gases standard.

92

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Our suite of sustainability-related reports and disclosures

Report or disclosure

Description

Diversity, Equality and 
Inclusion Impact Report

Includes gender and ethnicity pay gap assessment and the actions we have taken to support a culture  
of inclusion.

Equator Principles  
Reporting

As a member since 2003, we report on how we apply the principles to ensure that the projects we finance  
and advise on are developed in a manner that is socially responsible and reflect sound environmental 
management practices.

ESG Data Pack

The ESG and sustainability data disclosed within this Annual Report is provided in a spreadsheet format.

ESG Reporting Index

Alignment table referencing our disclosures using voluntary sustainability reporting frameworks: SASB 
Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics. 

Modern Slavery  
Statement

This report sets out the steps we have taken to assess and manage the risk of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in our operations and supply chain.

Net zero methodological 
white paper – The journey 
continues

Describes the Group’s approach to net zero laying out the methodologies we have used to calculate our 
financed and facilitated emissions and setting our interim 2030 targets at sector level.

Position Statements and 
Prohibited Activities

We use our cross-sector and sector-specific Position Statements and Prohibited Activities list to assess whether 
to provide financial services to clients. 

PRB Reporting and Self-
assessment 

The Group’s disclosures on actions undertaken related to the six principles as defined by the United Nations 
Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB).

Sustainable Finance  
Impact Report

Sustainable Finance 
Frameworks

We present the impact of our Sustainable Finance assets on a portfolio basis.

Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework and Sustainability Bond Framework outline our definition of 
green, sustainable finance. Our Transition Finance Framework sets out the acitivites and entities that we 
consider eligible for transition finance. 

TCFD Summary and 
Alignment Index

A summary and alignment index referencing the Group’s relevant disclosures against the Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework can be found on pages 511 to 516. 

Driving a sustainable future
With a long-standing presence in parts of the world where 
sustainable finance can have a significant impact, we 
facilitate the movement of capital to where it is needed  
most. We apply our knowledge across our market footprint 
and the innovative mindset of our teams to create financial 
solutions that help to address challenges and support 
sustainable growth. 

The work we do to accelerate the transition to net zero, lift 
participation in the economy and reset globalisation is 
fundamental to our business. These three areas of focus are 
known as our Stands and inform our overall strategy, including 
our approach to sustainability, our advocacy efforts on behalf 
of our markets and engagement with our employees and 
society. 

Our Stands are described in more detail on 
page 26 of this Annual Report

Our approach to sustainability
Embedding sustainability across our business is a strategic 
priority for the Group. To accelerate our sustainability agenda, 
the Group’s inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)  
was appointed in 2022. Since then, our dedicated CSO 
organisation – which houses our Sustainable Finance, 
Sustainability Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives 
and Environmental and Social Risk Management teams –  
acts as a centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution 
of the Group-wide sustainability strategy, including the 
achievement of our net zero roadmap. 

We focus on delivering both our long-term sustainability goals 
– our Sustainability Aspirations – as well as our short-term 
targets and immediate priorities – our Sustainability 
Strategic Pillars.

Our approach to sustainability reporting
The Group includes Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) and sustainability information in this Annual Report, 
providing investors and stakeholders with an understanding 
of the implications of relevant sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities, and progress against our objectives. In line  
with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we confirm that we have 
made disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations 
and recommended disclosures throughout this Annual Report. 
For our TCFD content table please refer to page 79 and for our 
TCFD Summary and Alignment Index see pages 511 to 516. 

In preparing this report we have given consideration to 
(but do not align in full with) the guidance provided by the 
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) in 2023: 
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, noting that IFRS S2, although largely based 
on TCFD, requires a more granular level of disclosure. IFRS S1 
and S2 are voluntary standards and compliance is not yet 
required in the Group’s listing locations.

Materiality is considered to be the threshold of significance 
for reporting sustainability-related risks and opportunities 
for users of financial statements: investors and wider 
stakeholders. We consider guidance provided by the IFRS 
Foundation, which focuses on meeting the sustainability  
data and information needs of our investors. Determining 
materiality for sustainability-related risks and opportunities 
should consider both quantitative and qualitative aspects 
related to sustainable social and economic development. 

Our approach to sustainability reporting will continue to 
evolve subject to regulatory and voluntary standards across 
our listing locations and footprint markets. Our disclosures are 
guided by international standards, frameworks and principles 
to the extent relevant to our business. We publish an ESG 
Reporting Index against the disclosures captured in the GRI 
Universal and select Topic Standards, relevant metrics from 
sector-specific SASB Standards and WEF’s Stakeholder 
Capitalism Metrics.

93

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSustainability Aspirations: 
our long-term goals

The Group’s approach to sustainability is underpinned by our Stands and shaped  
by our Sustainability Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our 
Sustainability Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by  
key performance indicators. Together, these reflect our commitment to our brand 
promise, here for good, in support of sustainable social and economic development.

Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance

Across our markets, many clients are at the early phase of evaluating the risks and opportunities associated with their transition 
to a low-carbon economy. We leverage a full suite of Sustainable Finance solutions – including loans, bonds, trade finance and 
carbon trading – to support their transition. These are underpinned by our Sustainable Finance frameworks that outline how we 
apply the ‘green’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘transition’ labels across products and transactions. We also work with corporate, retail and 
wealth clients to mobilise diverse sources of capital in support of social outcomes. 

We have mobilised $87.2 billion^ of Sustainable Finance from January 2021 through to September 2023 against our commitment 
to mobilise $300 billion by 2030. We made strong progress against this target in the year and we anticipate that our future 
progress will not be linear as our markets mature further, providing opportunities for us to support our clients in their transition. 

Sustainable Finance Mobilised1

Product

Use of Proceeds2,3
Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs)3,4
Transition Finance3,5
SME Lending3,6
Microfinance3,6
Green Mortgages3,7
Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A)/Advisory8

Green and Social Bonds facilitated9
Total Sustainable Finance Mobilised11

Of the above

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB)

Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB)

Total Sustainable Finance Mobilised11

Oct 2022 –  
Sep 2023
$m

Jan 2021 –  
Sep 2022¹0
$m

Jan 2021 –  
Sep 2023
$m
Cumulative 
Progress

7,678

8,319

418

1,014

774

538

1,432

9,617

29,790

28,238

1,552

29,790

11,849

19,781

344

1,839

1,166

4,284

4,354

13,806

57,423

51,300

6,123

57,423

19,527

28,100

762

2,853

1,940

4,822

5,786

23,423

87,213^

79,538

7,675

87,213^

1  Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of 
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations 
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives 
(known as sustainability-linked finance).

2  Amounts include transactions with restricted use of the proceeds of the financing that align to our Green and Sustainable Product Framework.
3  Lending transactions are measured as per the loan commitment/underwritten amount provided to the counterparty. 
4  SLLs refer to any type of loan instrument for which the economic characteristics can vary depending on whether the counterparty achieves ambitious, material 
and quantifiable predetermined sustainability performance targets (SPTs). The counterparties’ sustainability performance is measured by applying predefined 
SPTs to predefined KPIs. The use of proceeds in relation to an SLL is not a determinant in its categorisation and, in most instances, SLLs will be used for general 
corporate purposes. SLLs are not issued in line with the Group’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework. 

5  Amount includes any financial service provided to clients to support them to align their business and/or operations with a 1.5-degree trajectory issued in line with 

our Transition finance framework.

6  SME and Microfinance lending which is the provision of finance to Development Assistance Committee (DAC) lower- and middle- lower income countries as  
per the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The inclusion of business banking is linked to the ‘Access to Finance’ sub-theme  
within the Group’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework incorporating employment generation, and programmes designed to prevent and/or alleviate 
unemployment, including through the potential effect of small and medium enterprise (SME) financing and micro-finance. 

7  Green Mortgages are loans from Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB) where the underlying property meets a specific energy rating. Value mobilised in 

2021 includes mortgages originated before 2021 but identified as Green in 2021.

8  M&A/Advisory represents where the Group is the financial advisor to the transaction. The amount attributed to M&A/Advisory mobilisation is proportional and 

represents the total deal size divided by the number of financial advisors on the deal.

9  Capital market bonds are measured by the proportional bookrunner share of facilitated activities as determined by third-party league table rankings based on 

the level of services provided.

10 During 2023 additional deals that meet the definition of the Group’s Green and Sustainable product framework were identified and approved as sustainable 

resulting in a restatement to cumulative mobilisation in the prior year. Use of proceed transactions have increased from $9,820mn to $11,849mn, Transition Finance 
transactions have increased from $144mn to $344mn and Mergers and Acquisitions have increased from $3,184mn to $4,354mn, Sustainability Linked Loans have 
increased from $13,745mn to $19,781mn and Green Mortgages have increased from $3,500mn to $4,354mn.

11  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

94

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSector

CCIB

Aluminium

Aspiration 2: Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition

The Paris Agreement recognises that the world needs to reach 
net zero carbon emissions by 2050 to mitigate the worst 
effects of climate change and ensure a habitable planet for 
the next generation. This will require efforts from a wide range 
of stakeholders, governments and the private sector to 
accelerate the just transition to a low-carbon, nature positive 
and climate-resilient economy. We aim to reach net zero in our 
financed emissions by 2050 and in our operations by 2025. 

To date, the Group has set and disclosed science-based 
interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 11 high-emitting 
sectors, in line with guidance from the Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA). We are working across our businesses and 
functions, and alongside our clients to deliver these targets, 
notwithstanding the challenges presented by a material 
portion of our markets not having a commitment to achieve 
net zero by 2050.

Emissions 
approach

Scientific 
reference 
scenario

Drivers of sectoral
decarbonisation 

Our approach in 20237

Production 
intensity

MPP¹

Decarbonisation of the power supply into the 
aluminium smelter.

Automotive 
Manufacturers

Physical 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE2,3,4

Change in powertrain from internal 
combustion engines (ICE) to electric vehicles 
(EVs) for light commercial vehicle 
manufacturers.

Cement

Production 
intensity

IEA NZE2,4 Removal of coal in the cement manufacturing 

process and utilising lower-carbon energy 
sources.

Commercial  
Real Estate

Physical 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE2,3,4

Lower-carbon electricity supply and retrofitting 
buildings to improve energy efficiency.

We have set a production intensity baseline using 
CO2e per tonne of aluminium produced. The 2023 
portfolio progress (based on the 2022 year-end 
balance sheet) was subsequently calculated.

The industry has changed the assumptions for 
calculating tailpipe emissions and adopted a test 
procedure that better reflects real-world driving 
conditions. We have therefore adjusted the 2021 
baseline and subsequent progress accordingly.

We have set a production intensity baseline using 
CO2 per tonne of cement produced. The 2023 
portfolio progress was subsequently calculated.

We have set a physical intensity baseline using 
CO2e per square metre. The 2023 progress of 
portfolio was subsequently calculated.

Oil and Gas

Absolute 
emissions

IEA NZE2,4 Reducing emissions associated with Oil and 

Gas production and supporting our clients on 
their transition towards lower-emission 
intensive energy sources and renewable energy 
portfolios.

We have re-baselined during the year from a 
revenue intensity to an absolute emission basis. 
The 2023 portfolio progress was subsequently 
calculated.

Power

Production 
intensity

IEA APS/ 
NZE2,3,4

Supporting our clients on their transition away 
from high-emitting fuels in favour of lower-
emitting fuels and a transition to renewable 
energy sources.

We have re-baselined during the year from a 
revenue to a production intensity using CO2 per 
megawatt hour produced. The 2023 portfolio 
progress was subsequently calculated.

Shipping

Physical 
intensity

IMO 20235 Financing modern best-in-class vessels 

equipped with latest design and energy 
efficiency measures. Use of alternative fuels 
and operational efficiency measures such as 
slow steaming and weather routing services 
can enhance decarbonisation.

Steel

Production 
intensity

MPP1

Improving steel plant efficiency and replacing 
coal furnaces with electric arc furnaces.

Thermal  
Coal Mining

Absolute 
emissions

IEA NZE2,4

Exposure is decreasing in line with contractual 
commitments. 

Aviation

Physical 
intensity

MPP1

The Group completed the sale of its global 
aviation finance leasing business and the 
majority of its aviation lending book in  
August 2023.

Following revisions to the IMO decarbonisation 
strategy, Poseidon Principles have added two 
additional GHG strategy scenarios: the minimum 
and striving trajectories. We have recalculated 
our portfolio alignment deltas to the released 
trajectories.

We have set a production intensity baseline using 
CO2 per tonne of steel produced. The 2023 
portfolio progress was subsequently calculated.

No new Thermal Coal Mining use of proceeds 
loan have been provided in line with our Position 
Statements.

Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this 
business would create in our emissions profile for 
this sector, the progress against this target has 
been paused for year-end 2023. This will be 
re-assessed based on the size and materiality 
of the remaining portfolio in 2024.

CPBB

Residential 
Mortgages

Physical 
intensity

CRREM6

Lower carbon electricity supply and 
retrofitting buildings to improve energy 
efficiency.

We have set physical intensity baseline using 
CO2e per square metre. The 2023 portfolio 
progress was subsequently calculated.

1  MPP – Mission Possible Partnership – Industrial decarbonisation forward-

6  CRREM – Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor – European Union backed 

2 

looking pathway provider most prominent in the metals industry.
IEA – International Energy Agency – Pre-eminent forward-looking pathway 
provider for energy sectors. 

3  APS – Announced Policies Scenario – a 1.7 degree Celsius low overshoot 

scenario.

4  NZE – Net Zero Emissions – a 1.5 degree Celsius aligned scenario.
5 

IMO – International Maritime Organization – Global shipping regulator.

foundation to provide forward-looking pathways for the real estate sector.
7  For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white 

paper – The journey continues’ publication. Sectoral emissions are calculated 
in CO2 except where other GHGs are material which are noted as CO2e (this 
includes Oil and Gas, Thermal Coal Mining, Shipping, Aluminium, Commercial 
Real Estate and Residential Mortgages) 

95

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewAspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem

We are utilising our expertise and networks to actively contribute in a leadership position to global partnerships and initiatives 
that enhance and further develop the sustainability ecosystem. These range from those that support the mobilisation and 
scaling of Sustainable Finance, to furthering the development of voluntary carbon markets and fostering innovative solutions in 
the arena of conservation finance, through to supporting the advancement of social topics underpinning the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).

Key initiatives and partnerships

Throughout 2023, senior leaders across Standard Chartered were involved in the leadership of several collaborative 
initiatives including, but not limited to, those listed in the table below.

Global Investors for 
Sustainable Development 
(GISD) Alliance 

Glasgow Financial Alliance 
for Net Zero (GFANZ)

Our Group Chairman co-chairs the United Nations’ GISD Alliance, which has set ambitious 
objectives to scale up long-term finance and investment in sustainable development.

We are active participants of the GFANZ Principals Group, an ambitious programme to 
generate the commitment, investment and alignment needed to drive forward the 
transition to net zero. Our Group CEO co-chairs the GFANZ working group on Capital 
Mobilisation to Emerging Markets and Developing Economies.

Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA) 

Our Group Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance chairs the NZBA – the 
industry-led, UN-convened and sector-specific alliance for banks under GFANZ.

World Economic Forum 
(WEF) Alliance of CEO 
Climate Leaders

Our Group CEO and CSO are part of the WEF Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. This is a 
CEO-led community committed to raising bold climate ambition and accelerating the 
net zero transition by setting science-based targets, disclosing emissions and catalysing 
decarbonisation and partnerships across global value chains.

United Nations Principles 
for Responsible Banking 
(PRB) Adaptation Finance 
working group

Integrity Council for the 
Voluntary Carbon Markets 
(ICVCM)

Center for Climate- 
Aligned Finance (CCAF)

Our Head of Sustainable Finance Solutions co-chairs the PRB Adaptation Finance 
working group, which developed a comprehensive framework and practical guidance  
for banks to set credible adaptation finance targets.

Our Head of Carbon Markets Development serves on the board of ICVCM which is 
focused on developing high-quality carbon markets. Our Group CEO sits on the 
Distinguished Advisory Group of the ICVCM, which is involved in the development  
of carbon markets around the world.

We formally joined CCAF, which was established by Rocky Mountain Institute, in 2023. 
Standard Chartered participates in CCAF working groups for the Aviation and 
Aluminium industries. The Group is also a signatory to both the Poseidon Principles,  
a global framework for assessing and disclosing the climate alignment of financial 
institutions’ shipping portfolios and the Sustainable STEEL Principles, which helps  
banks to measure and disclose the alignment of steel lending portfolios with 1.5°C 
climate targets.

Ocean Risk and Resilience 
Action Alliance (ORRAA)

In 2023, the Group became a member of the ORRAA. Our Head of Nature serves on the 
Ocean Investment Protocol Steering Committee convened by the UN Global Compact 
Ocean Stewardship Coalition.

For further information on the Group’s external engagement related to our four thematic innovation hubs, 
Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and Nature Positive Solutions, refer to page 118

96

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewAspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities

We seek to partner with our clients and communities to mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion and 
entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers initiative. We aim to foster collaboration with local partners to support young 
people and economic development across our markets.

Futuremakers

Established in 2019, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered is our global youth economic empowerment initiative, which aims 
to help disadvantaged young people learn, earn and grow. 

In 2023, we contributed $14.6 million to Futuremakers, including donations from the Group and fundraising of $1.7 million from 
our employees and partners. With our international and local partners, in 2023 alone we reached more than one million 
young people through Futuremakers, including providing financial education to 159,190 unbanked or young people. 

We published the latest Futuremakers Impact Report to share progress and capture lessons learned through Futuremakers. 
In the past five years, we have reached more than 2.1 million young people, across 43 markets. We were able to exceed our 
initial $75 million fundraising target reaching $93.3 million by end of 2023.

Nearly 517,000 of the over 2.1 million young people reached participated in intensive Futuremakers activities. And of those:

More than

Over

More than

More than

More than

72,000

adolescent girls were 
supported to continue 
in secondary 
education

40,000

girls and young 
women showed 
increased confidence 
and self-esteem

39,000

young people secured 
employment

46,000

young people 
improved their 
business-related 
knowledge and skills

12,000 

jobs created by 
entrepreneurs that 
were supported by 
Futuremakers 
activities

Access to finance for female entrepreneurs 

Futuremakers’ women entrepreneurs programmes, known 
as Women in Tech and Women in Entrepreneurship in Asia, 
have expanded from 91 to 13 markets – adding South 
Africa, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan and Singapore – with a 
network of alumni established. 

Supporting young people with disabilities
Futuremakers partners with Sightsavers and Youth Business 
International, who worked with the African Disability Forum 
to develop a series of inclusion resources to build greater 
disability confidence for readers, and help partners 
understand how to include young people with disabilities  
in their Futuremakers programmes.

•  In Africa, the Middle East and the US, Futuremakers 

Women in Tech has partnered with Village Capital to 
provide financing for alumni. With a primary focus on 
women-led, impactful start-ups, this project provides 
dedicated financial support for micro-businesses that 
are addressing local and global challenges. So far, 107 
young women have signed up for the alumni network 
and expressed interest in financing. Five investments 
totalling $375,000 have been agreed, and at least 
another three investments are expected in early 2024. 

•  For female entrepreneurs in Kenya, at an earlier stage in 
establishing their sustainable, environmentally focused 
ventures, there is financial support from our innovative 
revolving loan fund with Youth Business International 
and Somo. As of end of September 2023, the fund has 
supported 60 low-income, high-potential entrepreneurs 
aged 18–35 from marginalised communities and 
contributed directly to the creation of 188 jobs.

•  At COP28, we held a Futuremakers Youth Panel as part of 
the Business Fights Poverty Climate Justice Summit. We 
heard first-hand from our Women in Tech alumni about 
their green and social ambitions, the problems they are 
tackling and some of the financing solutions that are 
needed to scale for a sustainable and inclusive future.

Futuremakers in 2024 and beyond
Based on our successes and learning since 2019, we have  
set out a seven-year strategy for Futuremakers to maximise 
impact with a consistent approach to measurement, 
evaluation and impact analysis.

Between 2024 and 2030 we aim to provide $120 million  
to Futuremakers with the ambition to create and sustain 
140,000 jobs, focusing on two target groups:

•  Helping 70,000 disadvantaged young women to gain 

skills and sustainable employment.

•  Supporting entrepreneurs to build thriving green and 

social micro-businesses and create 70,000 jobs.

All programmes target disability, gender and financial 
inclusion. During 2024 we plan to develop a methodology  
to measure the wider societal impacts of Futuremakers, 
which we will then apply to all future projects.

Read more about Futuremakers by Standard Chartered  
at sc.com/futuremakers

1  The nine original markets for Women in Tech as part of Futuremakers were US, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, UAE, Zambia, Bahrain, Pakistan, and Korea.

97

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewHealth and education 
In some of our footprint markets, we support projects, which 
provide basic health and education services as preconditions 
to economic empowerment. 

•  In Nepal and Bangladesh we support eye health and 

environmental projects. 

•  In India, we have supported eye health since 2003 and 
supported the screening of more than 2,700 villages to 
ensure they are free from avoidable-blindness. 

Since 2017, our WASHE (water, sanitation and hygiene 
education) programme has reached more than 880,000 
beneficiaries, including over 416,000 women. Tangible 
improvements include over 100 water ATMs installed and  
over 5,300 sanitation facilities constructed, creating 1.07 billion 
litres of annual freshwater capacity.

Gender
To unleash girls’ potential, Standard Chartered and later the 
Standard Chartered Foundation have supported 1,044,359 
girls and young women through Goal. We were able to 
exceed our target to reach one million girls through our global 
education programme by the end of 2023. Since its launch, 
Goal has become an internationally recognised global, sport 
and activity-based movement operating in more than 
20 markets, equipping adolescent girls with the confidence, 
knowledge and skills they need to be economic leaders in 
their families and communities. 

In 2023, we announced our sponsorship of the Women of  
the World Foundation as their Global Girls Champion. The 
programme of events concludes on International Women’s 
Day in March 2024 and aims to promote the power and 
potential of girls and non-binary young people in the UK  
and globally. 

Financial inclusion
In partnership with Primark, we worked with IDEO.org to 
design and test peer-led, financial health training for workers 
in factories in Vietnam. A successful pilot with approximately 
170 workers tested a model supporting individuals to identify 
and understand their money personality, how to set  
financial goals, save and invest, improve their budgeting  
and understand available social protections. During 2024,  
we intend to explore how to scale this model across our 
broader Futuremakers portfolio.

Employee volunteering

In 2023, 61% of colleagues gave back to their communities by contributing over 
76,000 days to support worthwhile causes. 

Our Employee Volunteering programme won several awards, including the 
prestigious Lord Mayor’s Dragon Award in the Inclusive Employment category, for 
our UK-based Futuremakers RISE (Reach, Inspire, Support, Empower) programme 
which focuses on employability and mentorship delivered in partnership with  
the East London Business Alliance. In China, Standard Chartered became the 
only international bank to be recognised in the Top 10 of China’s Employee 
Volunteering Enterprises in 2023. 

61%

of colleagues gave back to their 
communities through employee 
volunteering

98

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-
term targets and immediate priorities

Our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars represent our near-term strategic focus. Each member of the Group Management Team 
is responsible for strategically driving climate and sustainability considerations within their region, business segment or function 
in line with the Group’s net zero roadmap. Selected sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the 2024-26 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards granted to senior executives and within the 2024 Group scorecard, which contains 
financial and strategic measures and is applicable for the majority of our employees.

Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 182-216

Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income

We are building a scalable Sustainable Finance franchise, supporting our clients on their transition journeys by developing 
customised solutions that speak to their needs and ambitions. Our Sustainable Finance franchise generated over  
$720 million between January and December 2023 against our longer-term target of at least $1 billion annual income 
by 2025. This represents over 6 per cent of our total CCIB income in 2023, a year-on-year growth rate of 42 per cent.

Sustainable Finance income1

Product

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Macro Trading

Credit Markets

Financing & Securities Services

Lending & Portfolio Management

Total

2023
$m

188

96

92

393

76

306

11

139

720^

2022
$m

80

60

20

326

54

268

4

102

508

YOY
$m

135%

60%

360%

21%

41%

14%

175%

36%

42%

1  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

As a UK-headquartered international bank we work to deploy 
capital across our global markets. As can be seen on the 
following pages and in our 2023 Sustainable Finance Impact 
Report, we have raised $8.4 billion of sustainable liabilities in 
developed markets, while 85 per cent of our $17.6 billion 
sustainable finance asset base is located in Asia, Africa and 
the Middle East.

In 2023, we continued to expand and develop our Sustainable 
Finance product suite, with 42 product variants as set out in 
our Green and Sustainable Product Framework. Co-authored 
with Morningstar Sustainalytics – a leading ESG data, 
research and ratings firm – our framework is reviewed 
annually to ensure that it reflects the latest markets trends 
and industry standards. 

Our pureplay clients are also key in advancing our progress  
to achieving our Sustainable Finance goals. These are 
companies that generate at least 90 per cent of their 
revenues from activities outlined in our Green and Sustainable 
Product Framework. Their significance lies in their ability to 
deliver credible and robust impact, driven by the inherent 
green and socially sustainable nature of their business models 
and operations. 

Read more in our Sustainable Finance Impact Report 
at sc.com/sfimpactreport

Sustainable Finance assets and Sustainability-
Linked assets
Our Sustainable Finance income includes net income 
generated from our green, social and sustainable lending 
activity, as well as from clients recognised as green, social  
or sustainable pureplays. 

Our Sustainable Finance assets reflect the assets on our 
balance sheet generated as a result of this green, social and 
sustainable lending activity, and it is against these assets 
which we raise sustainable liabilities. 

The Group’s Sustainable Finance asset base increased by 
31 per cent to $17.6 billion between September 2022 and 
September 2023. The majority of our Sustainable Finance 
asset base ($13.6 billion of the $17.6 billion) is made up of 
lending to green projects such as renewable energy projects, 
green commercial real estate and funding for the 
development of rail projects.

Our social finance assets make up the remaining $3.5 billion  
of our total Sustainable Finance asset pool and encompasses 
categories such as healthcare, education and access to 
finance in low income countries.

99

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGreen finance assets1,2

Theme

Clean Transportation

Electric vehicles (EVs)

EV battery manufacturers

Manufacturing of specialised component parts of EVs

Rail

Climate Change Adaptation

Energy Efficiency

LED lighting

Modernisation of broadband network

Green Buildings

Green buildings

Mortgage portfolio HK

Mortgage portfolio TW/SG

Pollution Prevention and Control

Portfolio of Green Projects

Renewable Energy

Grid expansion

Hybrid wind & solar

Hydropower

Manufacture of components for renewable energy technology

Solar

Waste to energy

Wind

Energy storage

Green hydrogen

Mixed renewables

Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management

Sep 2023
$m

Sep 2022
$m

SDGs

901

197

372

112

220

4

482

7

475

8,742

5,066

3,657

19

14

351

3,100

102

38

32

457

940

166

1,178

68

9

110

–

942

94

307

–

541

–

–

–

–

7,014

3,216

3,785

13

102

–

2,227

59

154

25

379

785

111

714

–

–

–

10

Multiple

Total Green Assets

13,594

10,295

Portfolio of green and social projects³

473

–

Multiple

1   Amounts included in the table are as of September 2023 and September 2022 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at  

sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2023 and 2022 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report.

2   Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
3   The underlying assets could potentially span across various categories, including renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater management, access to 
essential services and food security. These assets, while included in the overall totals, remain unidentified in terms of specific green and social classification until 
allocation reports are received.

100

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
Social finance assets1,2

Access to water

COVID-19

Access to essential services

Education infrastructure – universities

Healthcare infrastructure – hospitals

Provision of supporting healthcare-related products and services

Road infrastructure

Access to finance

SME lending

Microfinance

Affordable basic infrastructure

Sewage treatment

Telecommunications/Internet connectivity

Food security

Total Social Assets

Total Green and Social Finance Assets

Sustainability-Linked assets1,2

Total Sustainability-Linked loans

Total Sustainability-Linked assets

Total Green and Social finance and Sustainability-Linked assets1,2,3

CCIB

CPBB

Sustainable liabilities1,2

Theme

Total bond issuances

Total sustainable term deposits

Total sustainable accounts

Total sustainable retail current and savings accounts and deposits

Total Sustainable Liabilities

Sep 2023
$m

Sep 2022
$m

SDGs

72

–

145

6

131

8

46

3,062

2,506

555

198

1

197

22

42

39

105

–

101

4

57

2,930

2,589

341

–

–

–

–

3,545

17,612^

3,173

13,468

Sep 2023
$m

4,805

4,805

Sep 2023
$m

17,103

5,314

Sep 2022
$m

3,422

3,422

Sep 2022
$m

10,505

6,385

Sep 2023
$m

Sep 2022
$m

2,353

4,554

1,027

513

8,447^

2,083

3,154

335

217

5,789

1  Amounts included in the table are as of September 2023 and September 2022 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at  

sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2023 and 2022 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report.

2  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
3  Our Sustainable Liabilities are referenced against our Sustainable Assets held in aggregate by SCB Group. The features of our Sustainable Liabilities products are 

clearly signposted in product documentation to clients as ‘sustainable’.

See sc.com/sfimpactreport for more highlights on our Green and Social Finance assets in 2023.

CPBB sustainable investing momentum
Sustainable investing (SI) assets under management (AUM) increased 25 per cent year-on-year to $13.3 billion in 2023, driven  
by an expansion of the SI universe and focused client engagement. This figure includes Mutual Funds, Exchange Traded Funds, 
Bonds, Equities, and Structured Products. We will look to disclose against advised sustainable AUM in future periods. For further 
information on our Sustainable Investments universe, refer to sc.com/sustainable-investing.

101

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation

The CSO organisation aims to act as a catalyst for change 
and a centre of excellence. We foster collaboration internally 
to embed sustainability across our business operations and 
functions. We collaborate externally with clients and other 
stakeholders who are aligned with our mission to drive 
change. This is achieved by:

•  People – Rolling out an expanding curriculum of 

sustainability- and climate-related training across the 
Group.

•  Processes – Integrating our 2030 sectoral net zero targets 

into our credit risk appetite and capital allocation processes, 
allowing us to track, monitor and continually assess 
progress against our targets. 

•  Technology – Investing to build a robust single-source data 

architecture to facilitate engagement with our clients, 
including automated or semi-automated tools that will 
support decision-making and analysis of the expected 
impact of a transaction on the Group’s financed emissions.

We aim to create a self-reinforcing cycle, which is built on 
established processes, clear frameworks, engagement with 
our clients and collaboration across risk and business teams. 
We support our clients to deliver on their decarbonisation 
plans, deploying financing and advisory services to provide 
capital alongside the next wave of sustainability and 
technological solutions in which our clients are investing.  

1. Client-level Risk analysis

2. Portfolio Steering

Environmental, social and climate 
risk assessments are integrated into 
credit decision-making processes for 
existing and new-to-bank clients1 

Portfolio-level emissions are 
calculated to set and monitor 
financed emissions baselines and 
sectoral 2030 targets 

•  We maintain a suite of public  

Position Statements that outline the 
Group’s environmental and social 
expectations for providing financial 
services to clients.²

•  Relationship Managers carry out 
client and/or transaction level 
Environmental and Social Risk 
Assessments before we provide 
financial services.3

•  Through client-level Climate Risk 

Assessments (CRAs), we assess the 
potential financial risks from climate 
change using quantitative and 
qualitative information and assign  
a Climate Risk grading.4 

•  As part of the CRA process, a Credible 

Transition Plan (CTP) score is 
assigned for each client in high-
emitting sectors.4

•  Our Prohibited Activities list details 

the activities that we will not finance.5

•  Client-level emission intensities are 

modelled in accordance with 
internationally accepted carbon 
accounting principles using the  
PCAF methodology.

•  Science-based sectoral interim 2030 
targets are set for high-emitting 
sectors in line with the Group’s 
roadmap towards net zero financed 
emissions by 2050.6

• 

Industry or client coverage leads are 
appointed as responsible owners of 
sectoral net zero targets.

•  Divergence from portfolio-level 

emission pathway is monitored and 
reviewed quarterly along with our 
exposure to clients associated with 
high Climate Risk.7

Our transition strategy also builds on the Group’s financing 
experience by supporting the early adopters of these services 
in the US and Europe, and leveraging this knowledge in our 
core markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Our aim 
is to work with our clients to support their transition and 
decarbonisation journeys and where clients evidence 
transition, help to accelerate progress. 

1.  
Client-level  
risk analysis

2.  
Portfolio  
Steering

3.  
Sustainable and 
transition finance 
opportunities

3. Sustainable and transition  
finance opportunities

Products, financing and advisory 
services are deployed to support 
clients transitioning their businesses 
and seeking to achieve their 
sustainability goals
•  The Group’s ESG and Transition 

Finance advisory teams prioritise 
engagements with clients associated 
with high Climate Risk with weak  
or no transition plans and/or 
insufficient disclosures to 
recommend enhancements.

•  Sustainability considerations are 

incorporated into account plans and 
engagement strategies with an aim 
to identify and prioritise clients that 
are divergent from portfolio-level 
emission pathways or associated 
with high Environmental and  
Social Risk.

•  We endeavour to support and  

guide our clients to a low-carbon 
pathway by utilising our full suite  
of Sustainable Finance solutions.

•  We continue to increase our 

financing of low-carbon technologies 
and infrastructure including project 
financing in the developing world 
where power grid modernisation  
is critical.

1  Refers to applicable banking clients, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework.
2  Read more about our Position Statements at sc.com/positionstatements.
3  For further information, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework.
4  Read more about our CRA process in the Risk review section of this Annual 

Report on pages 298-305.

5  Read more about our list of Prohibited Activities at 

sc.com/prohibitedactivities.

6  Read more about our sectoral interim 2030 targets in this Annual Report on 

7 

page 74.
In 2023, this commenced for the Oil and Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium and 
Automotive Manufacturers sectors, with the rest of the sectoral reviews to be 
added from 2024.

102

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewEducation and training

We continued to build the Group-wide sustainability-related 
education and training programme. The overarching 
objective of our upskilling programme is to establish 
foundational knowledge on sustainability across the Group, 
while tailoring in-depth, capability-based curricula to cater  
to the needs of practitioners and sustaining the momentum  
in continuous learning in line with industry best practices. 

•  Bespoke training has been provided to clusters of 

practitioners across all lines of defence, ranging from CCIB, 
CPBB, Risk, CFCC and Audit on a broad range of topics:  
from how physical and transition risks may manifest, to 
specialised topics around how climate stress tests are 
conducted and how we embed Climate Risk into Credit  
Risk processes. 

This objective is achieved by the continued development of 
our in-house sustainability curricula and partnerships with 
leading academic institutions, including Imperial College 
London and Kite Climate School, to ensure that we benefit 
from cutting-edge expertise in sustainability and remain at 
the forefront of industry development. A tiered curriculum  
has been rolled out leveraging both in-house and external 
expertise via this two-pronged approach.

•  Given the role that the Board plays in sustainability 

governance, the Group Board and subsidiary Boards 
received training on climate scenarios, with a focus on 
regulatory expectations, key features of industry-level 
climate scenarios, in-house base and tail risk scenarios  
and key second-order impacts from climate change. 

•  At a foundational level, we encourage all employees across 
our global footprint to improve their understanding on how 
we embed sustainability into our business, operations and 
communities, and how they can actively play their part in 
this journey. 4,870 colleagues completed this programme in 
2023, a total of 20,436 colleagues since the launch in 2022.

•  To further embed sustainability and continuous learning 

into the Group’s day-to-day operations, 48 ad-hoc training 
courses were also held throughout the year that reached 
3,369 employees, covering specific learning needs and 
topics, including the Group’s progress related to sectoral  
net zero target setting, sector-specific voluntary carbon 
markets and Sustainable Finance products and related 
governance. 

•  In addition, 154 country and regional CEOs and Heads of 
Business joined targeted training covering the energy 
transition and related financing opportunities, clean 
technology, and sustainability-related risks and regulation. 

In 2024, we plan to further refine the programmes to target 
specific roles in the Group and further build knowledge and 
expertise in Sustainable Finance and Environmental and 
Social Risk Management.

103

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSustainability review

Our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financing activity by 2050 and in our own  
operations by 2025. We made progress in setting interim 2030 targets for the most  
carbon-intensive and highest-emitting sectors in the Group’s portfolio. 

To help us remain on track, we have set short- and medium-term objectives and quantifiable targets 
to manage and report on our progress on an annual basis.

2021

Launched our roadmap to net zero  
by 2050, including interim targets and  
a supporting methodology

Announced plans to mobilise  
$300 billion in Sustainable Finance by 2030

Published our inaugural  Transition Finance Framework

•

•

•

2023

Announced our enhanced Oil and Gas absolute 
financed emissions target

•

Updated our Power and Steel sector baselines and 
targets moving from a revenue-based intensity metric to 
a production-based intensity metric

Developed financed emissions baselines and set interim 
2030 targets for four additional sectors: Cement, 
Aluminium, Residential Mortgages, Commercial Real 
Estate, bringing the total number of science-based 
targets set for high-emitting sectors to eleven

•

•

•
Financed emissions baselines and sectoral progress 
against targets, where indicated, assured for the  
first time by Ernst & Young 

Calculated the Group’s facilitated emissions baseline 
from debt capital markets following the final PCAF 
guidance (published in December 2023) under both the 
33 per cent and 100 per cent weighting factor

•

Updated the Group’s net zero methodological  
•
white paper, first published in 2021

2030

We will have substantially reduced our 
exposure to the Thermal Coal Mining sector  
in line with our Position Statements

Aim to meet the Group’s financed emissions 
interim targets set for high-emitting sectors

•

•

2022

•  Developed financed emissions baselines and  
2030 targets for the Aviation, Shipping and 
Automotive Manufacturers sectors

•  Joined Partnership for Carbon Accounting 

Financials (PCAF)

2024

•  We will develop an interim 2030 financed emissions 

target for the Agriculture sector, planned to be 
communicated in our 2024 Annual Report, which will 
be published in Q1 2025

•  Aim to set targets for facilitated emissions

2025

•  Aim to be net zero in our own operations

2032

•  Targeted end date for legacy direct Thermal 

Coal Mining financing globally

2050

Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions

104
104

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 
 
Pillar 3: Deliver on our annual milestones set forth in our net zero roadmap

Our emission sources

We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our own operations by 2025. Since 2018 we 
have been working to align our direct and indirect emissions to the Paris Agreement’s goal of well below two degrees Celsius of 
global warming by the end of the century. We focus on three areas to reduce emissions: our operations, our supply chain, and 
financed emissions associated with our clients.

To access the Group’s updated ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication, visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub

42.5

MtCO2e

Operational emissions: 0.1% (0.03 MtCO2e)
Scope 1 and 2

Emissions from the combustion of fuels in owned or controlled 
sources e.g. boilers, generators and vehicles, refrigeration and 
air conditioning equipment and the purchase of electricity

Generators and 
fossil fuel burners

Fugitive  
emissions

Purchase of 
electricity

Value chain emissions: 1.2% (0.5 MtCO2e)
Scope 3 Categories 1–14

Emissions from our upstream and downstream  
supply and value chain

Purchased goods 
and services

Capital  
goods

Upstream 
transportation 
and distribution

Waste 
generated in 
operations

Business  
travel

Employee 
commuting

Down and 
upstream 
leased assets

Investments: 98.7% (41.94 MtCO2e)
Scope 3 Category 15

Emissions from transacting with our clients

Financed emissions

Scopes of GHG emissions 

Scope 1 emissions¹

Scope 2 emissions2

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions3

Scope 3 emissions:

Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services (other)

Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services (data centres)5

Category 2: Capital goods 

Category 4: Upstream 
transportation and 
distribution

2023⁴ 
(tCO2e)

 8,488

26,246

34,734

2022
(tCO2e)

2,071 

47,363 

49,434 

2021
(tCO2e)

2,902 

82,761 

85,663 

 286,304 

380,732 

330,224 

4,431

 42,707

7,060 

34,496 

43,132 

47,217 

 24,125

20,300 

20,949 

Category 5: Waste generated 
in operations6

520

747

Category 6: Business travel 
(air travel)

Category 6: Business travel 
(miscellaneous other than  
air travel) 

Category 7: Employee 
commuting 

Category 13: Downstream 
leased assets (real estate)

 60,279

39,107 

3,654 

 8,918

2,654 

4,994 

71,228

61,917 

7,898

8,594 

Category 15: Investments7,8 

41,944,000  49,512,000  45,200,000 

Total Scope 3 emissions

42,450,410 50,067,607  45,650,190 

Total emissions 

42,485,144

50,117,041  45,735,853 

1  As we aim to improve our emissions measurement and reporting year-on-
year, we have included fugitive emissions in our Scope 1 figures for the first 
time in 2023: 5,266 tCO2e. Prior year data was not available for fugitive 
emissions. For more information on the methodology and assumptions used 
to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting 
Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

2  Scope 2 indirect emissions include indirect emissions from purchased 

electricity measured under the market-based approach as set out in the  
GHG protocol.

3  Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions calculations for the most recent reporting year 
were independently assured by Global Documentation Ltd., the assurance 
scope excluded fugitive emissions. Market-based emissions have decreased 
from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the 
purchase of additional energy attribution certificates by the Group.

4  The reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September. This 
only differs for Category 1: Purchased Goods (other); Category 2: Capital 
goods; Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution; Category 6: 
Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel) and Category 15: 
Investments where a period of 1 January to 31 December is used. Emissions 
data for these categories is also on a one-year lag with emissions reported in 
2023 based on 2022 emissions data.

5  Purchased goods and services (data centres) have been restated from 

706tCO2e to 7,060tCO2e due to an error in converting the unit of emissions.
6  Waste emissions have been restated from 498tCO2e to 747tCO2e due to an 

out of date emissions factor being used in prior year.

7  Category 15: Investments only includes financed emissions and are measured 

on a one-year lag, with emissions reported in 2023 being based on 2022 
emissions and financial data. Financed emissions are included on page 110. 
A facilitated emissions baseline was measured for the first time during the 
year. Refer to page 112 for more details. 

8  2022 absolute emissions have been restated from 58.5MtCO2e to 

49.5MtCO2e. This is due to (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as 
improved data has resulted in individual ship-level fair values being obtained; 
(ii) pausing of aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s 
aviation leasing and lending business; (iii) decreases in Automotive 
Manufacturers’ emissions due to changes in the industry emissions reporting 
methodology referenced earlier on page 95; (iv) decreases in emissions from 
the ‘Others’ sector where improved data has been obtained to calculate 
emissions; and (v) the sectoral baselining of emissions reporting for Cement 
and Commercial Real Estate as separate high-emitting sectors.

105

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
Waste
In 2023, we reduced our overall waste by 37 per cent and 
achieved 52 per cent avoidance of landfill (up from  
31 per cent). We were able to achieve this by:

•  commencing the externally verified True Zero Waste (TZW) 
programme and seeing the first results in India and Poland, 
both achieving TZW Platinum certification;

•  self-certifying 313 buildings across our portfolio being  
free of single-use plastic in 2023. We aim to continue  
this programme and promote more sustainable waste 
management practices; and

•  minimising electronic waste by prolonging the lifespan  
of our technology assets through partnerships with  
third parties. 

Water
We retained a water efficiency metric of less than 0.5 kilolitre 
per square metre in 2023 despite an increase in the proportion 
of our employees returning to the office. While water 
availability is a growing challenge in many of our markets,  
we did not face any issues sourcing potable water in 2023.  
We continue to take a responsible approach to managing 
water use across the Group. 

For detailed environmental performance data see 
page 505 or our ESG data pack at sc.com/esg-data-pack

Read the principles and methodology for measuring our environment 
data at sc.com/environmentcriteria

Read the independent assurance statement related to Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions at sc.com/environmentalassurance

Our operations

Our approach to managing our environmental footprint
The Group’s Property function is responsible for driving 
efficiency in terms of our space and energy use. In line with the 
Group’s operational net zero target, we set year-on-year 
improvement targets for our footprint markets. 

Our goals and targets
•  We aim to achieve net zero in our operations by 2025. We 

have measured and reduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions since 2008 and have been targeting a 90 per cent 
reduction in these emissions since 2018. 

•  The Group joined RE100 in 2022, a global corporate 

renewable energy initiative bringing together businesses 
that are committed to 100 per cent renewable electricity.

•  In terms of waste, we aim to achieve 90 per cent avoidance 

of landfill by 2030. 

Operational emissions 
We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30 per cent to 
34,734 tonnes during 2023. Our measured real estate 
decreased by 7 per cent during this time. 66 per cent of 
electricity came from renewable sources across our portfolio. 
We were able to achieve this by:

•  continuing to optimise our office and branch network by 

retiring unused or inefficient space and creating a working 
environment that matches office- and hybrid-working 
patterns of our workforce;

•  having a rolling asset replacement strategy for major  

plant and lighting in our offices. The Group installs LED  
and circadian lighting, and energy efficient materials 
throughout all new projects;

•  launching a large-scale initiative in 2023 to simplify our 
technology estate, decommissioning underutilised or 
inefficient systems and their servers;

•  actively seeking to increase the proportion of our electricity 
usage that comes from renewable sources. These can take 
the form of power purchase agreements, clean energy 
contracts, on-site solar installations and renewable energy 
certificates; and

•  purchasing and retiring carbon credits for our residual 

operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions.

106

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSupplier engagement
Emissions data reporting among our suppliers remains 
limited. Therefore, we continue to use a hybrid methodology 
for emissions calculations using supplier-specific spend and 
sector average emissions data. In 2023, we:

•  continued our outreach to suppliers to collect emissions 

data directly from them, thereby improving the accuracy  
of our Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other 
than air travel) emissions calculations and reporting;

•  began measuring our spending with suppliers who have set 
a science-based emissions reduction target or committed 
to setting one in the future. In 2023, we held working 
sessions with our suppliers to discuss progress against their 
plans and further opportunities for emissions reduction; and

•  joined forces with our key logistics partner DHL to co-invest 
in sustainable aviation fuel for all consignments globally 
through DHL’s GoGreen Plus programme, which is an 
example of how we work with suppliers to support the 
Group’s emission reductions goals.

Supplier Charter
Through our Supplier Charter, we expect our suppliers to 
support and promote environmental protection, and to 
comply with local environmental laws and regulations. 
We expect our suppliers to promote the development and 
distribution of environmentally-friendly technologies and 
manage environmental concerns in their own supply chains.

Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter

For further information on how we engage with suppliers see pages 58 
and 59 and for supplier spend data see page 507

Our suppliers

Our approach to managing impacts in our upstream 
value chain
The Supply Chain Management team within our Group 
Chief Financial Officer function provides procurement 
services internally to drive sustainability, risk mitigation and 
commercial advantages in third-party engagements. In line 
with the Group’s sustainability agenda, we set long-term 
targets to decrease emissions associated with our supply 
chain and increase spend with diverse suppliers across  
our footprint.

With 11,563 suppliers, we recognise our contribution to climate 
impacts through the goods and services we procure. Severe 
weather events could result in material disruptions to our 
supply chain that may potentially impact our ability to serve 
our clients. As such, we are working to gather site locations for 
our material suppliers to assess their physical risk exposures, 
such that suitable continuity plans can be developed.

Our goals and targets
•  We targeted a 28 per cent reduction in our emissions 
associated with air travel from our 2019 baseline of  
94,000 tCO2e by the end of 2023 and managed to exceed 
this target. 

•  We aim to increase the breadth of our climate-related 

engagement with our suppliers. By 2028 we plan to direct  
70 per cent of our total spending to suppliers who have  
set or committed to setting science-based emission 
reduction targets.

Supply chain-related emissions
•  Overall, our emissions associated with the products,  
services and equipment that we purchase and those 
related to business travel – Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 
(miscellaneous other than air travel) – have shown an 
estimated 17 per cent year-on-year reduction.

•  We have reduced our air travel emissions from our 2019 

baseline of 94,000 to 60,279 tCO2e. Due to increased travel 
post COVID-19 we have seen an increase in our emissions 
associated with air travel in 2023. Nonetheless, the  
Group was able to exceed our target and managed to 
reduce these emissions by 36 per cent from our baseline.  
To ensure a downward trajectory from our baseline, we  
are implementing demand and control measures including 
upgrading how we monitor our travel volumes. To help 
influence behaviours, we implemented a process to charge 
the price of carbon credits to departmental expense 
budgets, while also emphasising the need to reduce 
emissions and avoid any non-essential business trips. 

•  We aim to engage and work with technology partners that 
are committed to reducing their emissions in line with their 
science-based targets. 

•  Carbon credits were purchased and retired by the Group  
for select categories of our value chain emissions. In 2023, 
these included emissions associated with air travel and 
outsourced on-premise data centres.

107

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewThe Steel sector is hard-to-abate and requires significant 
capital to decarbonise. Decarbonisation is reliant on the shift 
from blast to electric arc furnaces and many of our emerging 
markets are at early stages of their transition journeys. While 
the emissions intensity of our steel book remained relatively 
unchanged year-on-year, we are actively working with our 
clients in this sector to support their transition.

Our Thermal Coal Mining exposure is decreasing in line 
with our coal revenue thresholds as detailed in our Position 
Statements and related contractual commitments.  
No new Thermal Coal Mining use of proceeds loans have 
been provided in line with our Position Statements.

The Group completed the sale of its global Aviation finance 
leasing business and the majority of its aviation lending book 
in August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of 
this business would create in our emissions profile, the progress 
against this target has been paused for year–end 2023.  
This will be re-assessed based on the size and materiality  
of the remaining portfolio in 2024.

For further information, please refer to the Group’s ‘Net zero 
methodological white paper – The journey continues’ via  
sc.com/sustainabilityhub

Our clients – Reducing our financed emissions

The majority of our GHG emissions are linked to our lending 
activities, known as financed emissions. Therefore, we have 
prioritised our efforts in the highest-emitting and most 
carbon-intensive sectors of our portfolio, and where working 
with our clients can have the greatest impact. 

A brief summary of the movements in the eleven high-
emitting sectors is as follows:

Aluminium sector emissions have trended down as the  
power supply into the smelters has become less carbon-
intensive and the Group has funded clients with less emission 
intensive operations. 

The physical intensity of the Automotive Manufacturers 
sector decreased slightly due to the Group having a larger 
exposure to zero tailpipe Electric Vehicle manufacturing  
within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers portfolio.

The physical intensity of the Cement sector has remained 
relatively consistent year-on-year. This will be a hard-to-abate 
sector in the medium-term until cleaner energy sources are 
utilised, especially in emerging markets. 

In the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, building intensities 
have fallen due to investment in regions with lower emissions 
power supplies and certain markets’ power suppliers 
decarbonising. We continue to work with technology 
providers on solutions for individual building emissions 
measurement and management.

Absolute Oil and Gas emissions remained relatively 
stable year-on-year and are significantly lower versus the 
baseline year. We continued to pursue overall portfolio 
decarbonisation, pivoting exposure to counterparties and 
technologies that are less carbon-intensive.

The Power sector’s intensity decreased as some of our 
contractual obligations to coal-fired power plants have 
ended. We also actively pursued lower emissions technologies 
including new gas power plants, and expanded our 
renewables financing.

The emissions intensity of the Residential Mortgages sector 
has remained consistent year-on-year and will decrease over 
time in line with electricity grid decarbonisation.

The Shipping sector’s alignment delta has worsened due 
to the impact from the container sector, which enjoyed very 
strong profits in 2022, encouraging owners to sail faster, 
leading to higher emissions. Looking ahead, tightening 
environmental regulations and mechanisms from both 
the IMO and EU are expected to lead to better alignment 
between shipowners’ behaviours and the Group’s  
2030 targets.

108

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSectors included in financed emissions calculations

Agriculture

Thermal  
Coal Mining

Commercial 
Real Estate

Steel

Included in analysis 

 2021 

 2022 

 2023 

 2024 

Residential 
Mortgages

Aluminium

2030 financed 
emissions targets

Oil and Gas

Power

Cement

Automotive 
Manufacturers

Aviation

Shipping

Setting science-based targets

The Group set interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 
11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors with Agriculture being the 
12th planned for 2024. 

We follow the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidance 
on sectors for target-setting, further expanding the 
Transport sector into Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation 
and Shipping. 

We set four sectoral targets and updated three targets in 
2023. All targets have been informed by what the Group 
considers pre-eminent scientific forward-looking scenario 
providers. This includes the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) for energy sectors, the Mission Possible Partnership 
(MPP) for metals, International Maritime Organization 
(IMO) for shipping and Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor 
(CRREM) for the residential real estate sector. 

For our Scope 3 Financed Emissions, we set science-based 
targets accounting for differing states of transition 
readiness across our markets. Due to our footprint – with 
many emerging markets reliant on carbon-intensive 
industries – our financed emissions may increase before 
they decrease. The upper end of our 2030 target may 
represent low-overshoot scenarios. However, our approach 
is to remain aligned to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius 
scientific pathway by 2050. Given our science-based 
approach, we will strive to update our targets both as the 
scientific community updates their reference scenarios and 
as data availability improves. 

In 2023, the Group:

•  Strengthened our Oil and Gas emissions metric from  
a revenue-based intensity to an absolute financed 
emissions target and trajectory. This places an emissions 
budget on the sector and requires a reduction of 29 per 
cent by 2030 when calculated from a 2020 baseline, 
aligned with the IEA’s NZE trajectory. Our approach 
ensures we maintain a direct link to absolute GHG 
emissions in the Oil and Gas sector and allows us to 
directly assess our progress with the IEA NZE scenario 
that we have set our target against. By moving away 
from a revenue-based intensity we remove an element of 
financial volatility and complexity from our calculations 
that could restrict transparency and accountability in 
measuring and disclosing our financed GHG emissions. 
Oil and Gas is the second sector for which the Group set 
an absolute financed emission target, in addition to our 
target for Thermal Coal Mining.

•  Updated our Power and Steel sector targets from a 

revenue-based intensity metric to a production-based 
intensity metric (i.e., emission intensity per unit of 
production). The progression from an economic-based 
intensity to a production/physical-based intensity reduces 
the financial volatility in the calculation and improves the 
connection to clients’ actual GHG emissions by linking 
directly to units of production, or a physical activity. 

We published the second edition of the Group’s ‘Net zero 
methodological white paper – The journey continues’, which 
sets out the methodology, assumptions and scientific 
pathways for each high-emitting sector and is available  
via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

109

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewDetailed progress against our sectoral financed emissions targets12,13,16

20221

20211

2022 
Exposure in 
scope ($bn)

Target

Absolute 
emissions 
(MtCO2e)

Physical 
intensity

Absolute 
emissions9 
(MtCO2e)

Physical 
intensity

Baseline
year

% change 
cumulative  
to baseline

Year 
target set

Sector

CCIB

Aluminium2,4

Automotive 
Manufacturers3

Cement4

Commercial  
Real Estate4

0.2

2.8

0.9

4.8

Oil and Gas5, 14

6.8

6.1 t CO2e/
tonne 
Aluminium 
(–)

66–100 
gCO2/Vkm 
(44-63%)

0.52 tCO2/
tonne Cement 
(22%)

19–39 kgCO2e/
Sq.m 
(47-74%)

9.3 MtCO2e 
(29%)

0.3

2.8

3.5

0.1

0.6

3.3

2.4

4.59^ tCO2e/
tonne 
Aluminium

165^ 
gCO2/Vkm

0.66^ 
tCO2/tonne 
Cement

62^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

0.1

5.62^ 
tCO2e/ tonne 
Aluminium

178^ 
gCO2/Vkm

0.67^ 
tCO2/tonne 
Cement

73^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

2021

-18%

2023

2021

-7%

2022

2021

-1%

2023

2021

-15%

2023

10.3^

nm11

10.2^

nm11

2020

-21%

2023

Others2,6

59.3

nm10

12.6

nm10

19.6

nm10

2021

Power5

Shipping7

Steel5

5.3

4.1

1.3

Thermal Coal Mining15 0.04

CPBB

Residential  
Mortgages4,8

Total CCIB and CPBB

85.5

74.3

74.3

159.8

0.17–0.28 
tCO2/MWh 
(46-67%)

0% delta 
0% delta 
0% delta

1.4–1.6 tCO2/
tonne Steel 
(22-32%)

0.5 MtCO2e 
(85%)

29–32 
kgCO2e/Sq.m 
(15-23%)

41.9

0.04

0.04

41.9

5.9

2.8

2.0

6.6

2.5

1.9

0.47^ 
tCO2/MWh

+6.4%^ delta 
+11.8%^ delta 
+16% ^ delta

1.97^ 
tCO2/ 
tonne Steel

2021

-10%

2023

2021

2022

+4.5%

2021

-4%

2023

0.52^ 
tCO2/MWh

+2.6%^ delta 
+7.3%^ delta 
+10% ^ delta

2.06^ 
tCO2/tonne 
Steel

1.6^

nm11

2.3^

nm11

2020

-52%

2021

49.5

37.7^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

0.04

37.6^ 
kgCO2e/Sq.m

2021

0%

2023

1  Due to third-party data sets that feed into our calculations, the Group’s 

reported financed emissions figures have a one-year lag. The Group reports  
on 2022 and 2021 data in this 2023 Annual Report.

2  During the year a sector-specific deep dive was performed on Aluminium as 

the majority of the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector reported in the prior year 
was lending to Aluminium clients. Due to this the sector has been 
disaggregated from the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector we reported in the 
prior year. The remainder of the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector has been 
included in the ‘Others’ category. 

3  Automotive Manufacturers has been re-baselined during the year. This was 
due to an update in methodology from the industry’s progress in adopting a 
test procedure that better reflects driving conditions in the real world.

4  Cement, Commercial Real Estate, Residential Mortgages and Aluminium are 

new sectors reported for the first time this reporting cycle. Two reporting cycles 
have been calculated and disclosed including a baseline and current year 
progression value.

5  During the year the Group has re-baselined the Oil and Gas sector from a 

revenue intensity to  an absolute emissions metric, additionally the absolute 
baseline was revised from 13.7 to 13.1 due to a methodology refinement. Power 
and Steel have been re-baselined from a revenue intensity to a production 
intensity metric.

6  Others includes miscellaneous non-specific high-emitting sectors not included 

in a sector deep dive.

7  Following revisions to the IMO decarbonisation strategy, Poseidon Principles 
have replaced the initial TtW (tank to wake) delta with two additional GHG 
strategy scenarios. The Group has disclosed the alignment deltas for the  
IMO existing strategy, IMO revised minimum and the IMO striving scenarios 
above in that order. The Group’s baseline has been set as the IMO revised 
minimum strategy.

110

0.04

49.59

8  The Group has set its Residential Mortgage target range at the most ambitious 
end of the public commitments made by governments and power companies 
in the countries where we operate and has been benchmarked to the CRREM 
scientific pathway.

9  2021 Absolute emissions have been restated from 58.5MtCO2e to 49.5MtCO2e. 
This is due to: (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as improved data  
has resulted in individual ship-level fair values being obtained; (ii) pausing of 
aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s aviation leasing and 
lending business; (iii) decreases in Automotive Manufacturers’ emissions due to 
changes in the industry emissions reporting methodology referenced earlier; 
(iv) decreases in emissions from the ‘Others’ sector where improved data  
has been obtained to calculate emissions; and (v) the sectoral baselining of 
emissions reporting for the Cement and Commercial Real Estate as separate 
high-emitting sectors.

10  Value is not required as the Group has not set a target for the ‘Others’ sector.
11  Value is not required as the Group has set an absolute emissions target and 
therefore the production intensity of the portfolio has not been measured.

12  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited 

assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

13  Emissions are calculated in CO2 except where other GHGs are material which 
are noted as CO2e (this includes Oil and Gas, Coal, Aluminium, CRE, Shipping 
and Residential Mortgages).

14  Of the cumulative movement of -21%, there was a 1% increase in emissions 

between 2021 and 2022.

15  Of the cumulative movement of -52%, there was a 30% decrease in emissions 

between 2021 and 2022.

16  For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white 
paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewOur approach to measuring financed emissions

Emissions 
approach

Scenario

Value chain

Scope of 
emissions4

2022
PCAF 
score

2021
PCAF
score

In scope 
exposure 
coverage

Production 
intensity

Physical 
intensity

MPP STS

Aluminium producers

IEA APS and NZE

Automotive manufacturers

Production 
intensity

IEA NZE

Clinker and 
cement manufacturing

Physical 
intensity

Absolute 
emissions

Absolute 
emissions

IEA APS and NZE

Real estate leasing

IEA NZE

Upstream, midstream and 
downstream

IEA NZE

Other sectors

Production 
intensity

IEA APS and NZE

Electricity Generation & 
Distribution

Physical 
intensity

IMO existing, IMO 
rev. min. IMO striving

Shipping lessors and 
companies

MPP TM

Steel producers

IEA NZE

Thermal coal

1, 2

1,2

3

1, 2

1, 2

1,2 

3

1,2 

1, 2

1, 3

1, 2

1,2 

3

2.4

2.2¹

52

2.3

2.2

2.4¹

52

2.9

100%

100%

100%

4

4

99%

3.21

3.22

3.3

3.21

3.52

3.3

97%

86%

3.3

3.2

100%

1

1

99%

3.8

3.71

32

3.7

3.81

32

98%

100%

Sector

CCIB3

Aluminium

Automotive 
Manufacturers

Cement

Commercial  
Real Estate

Oil and Gas

Others

Power

Shipping

Steel

Thermal Coal Mining

CPBB

Residential  
Mortgages

Production 
intensity

Absolute 
emissions

Physical 
intensity

CRREM

Residential households

1, 2

4.4

4.4

100%

Sector emissions for material Scope 3 high-emitting sectors

Sector

Automotive Manufacturers

Oil and Gas

Thermal Coal Mining

2022

2021

Scope 1,2

Scope 3

Scope 1,2

Scope 3

0.1

1.7

0.1

2.7

8.6

1.5

0.1

1.3

0.1

3.2

8.9

2.2

1  PCAF score for Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
2  PCAF score for Scope 3 emissions.
3 
4  For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

In scope coverage remained consistent from 2021 to 2022 improving from 87% to 90% on CCIB financing.

111

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewFacilitated emissions

During 2022, Standard Chartered joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to support the  
development of a methodology to measure facilitated emissions associated with the arranging of capital markets issuances. 
PCAF recognises that capital market facilitation is essential for the climate transition. Therefore, this year we are expanding our 
reporting to cover facilitated emissions associated with our debt capital markets services. In line with PCAF recommendations, 
we are reporting our facilitated emissions separately from financed emissions due to the inherent difference in the underlying 
nature of these activities. The Group is reporting its baseline facilitated emissions under the 33% weighting factor in line with 
PCAF guidance, noting that facilitated emissions relate to the provision of a service and not financing. PCAF recognises that 
facilitated emissions are distinct from financed emissions given that capital market transactions are rarely held on a financial 
institution’s balance sheet and typically a financial institution’s association with the transaction is temporary.  However, the 
Group is also disclosing facilitated emissions using a 100% weighting factor to reflect the maximum potential GHG emissions 
that theoretically could be associated with capital market activities.

Scope of emissions1,2

Scope 1 and 2 

Scope 3 
Total3

2021

33% 
weighting factor4
 MtCO2e
1.5

100% 
weighting factor4
MtCO2e
4.5

1.2

2.7^

3.7

8.2^

PCAF Score  Emissions in scope5

3.1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are covered for all sectors

Scope 3 emissions are included for Oil and Gas, Thermal Coal 
Mining and Automotive Manufacturing

5.0

1  Our 2021 emissions are calculated using 2021 debt capital markets data from Dealogic and 2021 emissions data from S&P Trucost.
2  Nearly 90% of emissions are based on reported emissions data from S&P Trucost. For the remaining we utilise proxy calculations based on economic activities.
3  Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub. 
4  Following the release of the final Facilitated Emissions guidance by PCAF in December 2023 the Group has measured its Facilitated Emissions baseline for 2021. 

2022 and 2023 Facilitated Emissions will be published in the 2024 Annual Report.

5   For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub

112

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewAluminium 

Automotive Manufacturers 

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

0.2

6.1tCO2e/tonne 
Aluminium (Maintain at 
1.5°C scientific pathway)

-18%

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

2.8

66–100g CO2/V.km 
(44–63% reduction)

-7%

Sector background

The production of aluminium is emissions-intensive and is 
responsible for roughly 2%1 of global CO2e emissions per 
year. The sector is heavily reliant on electricity from the 
local grid with over 60% of the sector’s CO2e emissions 
occurring from the electricity consumed during smelting.

Sector background

The automotive industry is a significant contributor to 
climate change through annual exhaust emissions, 
accounting for 8%1 of global CO2 emissions. Transitioning 
from internal combustion engines (ICE) to electric  
vehicles (EVs) is crucial to reach net-zero by 2050 through 
decreasing the demand of Oil and Gas products.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

5.62

4.59

Baseline

Portfolio progress
MPP STS

)

i

i

l

m
u
n
m
u
A
e
n
n
o
T
/
e
2
O
C
t
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

0
2021

6.1

)

m
k
v
/
2

O
C
g
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

255
240
225
210
195
180
165
150
135
120
105
90
75
60
45
30
15

178

165

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA APS
IEA NZE

100

-44% to -63%

66

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

Progress in the year

During the year, the Group measured the Aluminium 
portfolio baseline using a production intensity (tCO2e/
tonne Aluminium). A baseline of 5.62tCO2e/tonne 
Aluminium has been measured with 2021 as the baseline 
year. This baseline is below the Mission Possible Partnership 
Aluminium Sector Transition Strategy (MPP STS) pathway 
2030 target of 6.1tCO2e/tonne Aluminium, as the Group’s 
current exposure is to clients with lower emissions-intensive 
energy sources. 

Nonetheless, we have issued facilities which have not yet 
been drawn to counterparties with less efficient smelters 
and therefore the Group’s target is to maintain below the 
MPP STS 1.5°C pathway. Note that our MPP STS pathway 
has been adjusted downwards to include recycled 
aluminium production. 

When calculating our emissions, we measure the 
aluminium producer’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This is in  
line with the ‘Fixed System Boundary’ set out by the SAFF 
(Sustainable Aluminium Finance Framework).

During the year the physical intensity of the portfolio 
decreased by 18% from 5.62tCO2e/tonne Aluminium to 
4.59tCO2e/tonne Aluminium. This was due to year-on-year 
decreases in exposure to some of the Group’s higher-
intensity primary aluminium producing clients.

During the year the Group re-baselined the emissions 
intensity reported for the 2021 baseline year from 
160gCO2/V.km to 178gCO2/V.km. This was due to the 
industry’s progress in adopting a test procedure that better 
reflects driving conditions in the real world. This change in 
assumption was completed by the Transition Pathway 
Initiative (TPI) through a Worldwide Harmonised Light 
Duty Driving Test Procedure, which has been globally 
adopted as the standard against which all global 
manufacturers are evaluated. 

The Group’s target aligns with two scenarios of the IEA, 
the IEA NZE and the IEA APS.

When measuring the sector emissions, the boundary 
covers Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) of  
newly manufactured light duty vehicles. The Group 
includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (excluding well-to-tank 
emissions) in our financed emissions calculation. For Scope 
3 we include the lifetime tailpipe emissions of the vehicles 
produced during the reporting cycle and a factor derived 
from supply chain emissions of the OEM.

The Group’s sector intensity for 2022 is 165gCO2/V.km, a 7% 
decrease from 178gCO2/V.km. This emission decrease is 
due to a larger exposure to zero tailpipe EV manufacturing 
within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers portfolio.

  On track 

  Transition alignment required

1  Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2  Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.

113

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cement 

Commercial Real Estate 

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

0.9

0.52 tCO2/tonne Cement 
(22% reduction)

-1%

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

4.8

interim target

19–39 kgCO2/Sq.m 
(47–74% reduction)

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

-15%

Sector background

Sector background

Cement contributes to approximately 7%1 of total GHG 
emissions on a global scale. The primary source of carbon 
dioxide emitted is due to the chemical reaction that takes 
place between limestone and heat throughout the 
manufacturing procedure. 

The building sector currently contributes 8%1 of the global 
energy-related emissions in 2022 per the IEA WEO 2023. 
Key drivers of the emissions in the portfolio include the  
size and type of the building as well as the energy source 
powering the building. 

By increasing energy efficiency and utilising alternative 
fuels in the limestone heating process, the industry can 
reduce its carbon emissions.

Insulation and ventilation, building energy management, 
electrification and cleaner electricity will be key drivers of 
decarbonisation in the portfolio.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

)
t
c
u
d
o
r
p
s
u
o
i
t
i
t
n
e
m
e
C
e
n
n
o
T
/
2
O
C
t
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

0.75

0.70

0.67

0.66

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA NZE

0.65

0.60

0.55

0.50

0.45

0.40

0.35

0.30

-22%

0.52

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

)
a
e
r
a
r
o
o
ﬂ
m
q
s
/
2
O
C
g
k
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

73

80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2021

62

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA APS
IEA NZE

39

-47% to -74%

19

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

Progress in the year

During the year the Group measured our Commercial Real 
Estate (CRE) portfolio’s 2021 balance sheet baseline and 
2022 progress of GHG emissions. The Group has also set a 
target to reduce emissions in the portfolio by 47% to 74% by 
2030 using the IEA APS and NZE scenarios to set the target. 

The emissions measured cover CRE assets being leased to 
earn rental returns and include the Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
from these buildings. A physical intensity of kgCO2e/m² is 
the metric used to measure the portfolio’s progress to net 
zero. This is calculated by summing the portfolio’s Scope 1 
and 2 emissions and dividing this by the floor area of  
the portfolio.

Our portfolio intensity moved from 73kgCO2e/Sq.m to 
62kgCO2e/Sq.m, a reduction of 15% year-on-year. This was 
primarily due to our CRE regions’ power supplies starting  
to decarbonise and macroeconomic changes resulting  
in geographical shifting of the portfolio from the east to 
the west, and less carbon-intensive energy supplies.  
We continue to work with technology providers on 
solutions for individual building carbon emissions 
measurement and management.

During the year the Group measured its 2021 balance sheet 
baseline and current year emissions progress in addition to 
setting a target. Our target range has been set using the 
IEA NZE pathway.

When calculating our portfolio emissions, the midstream 
processes are measured, including heating of limestone 
and combustion of the fuels used in the cement kiln and 
other plant processes. 

In setting our emissions baseline and target, we have 
measured our cement sector portfolio emissions with a 
production-based emissions intensity metric of tonnes CO2 
per tonne of cementitious material (tCO2/tonne Cement). 
Our selection of a production-based emissions intensity 
metric for the cement industry is motivated by the need to 
balance the rising demand for cementitious materials in 
emerging economies with the pressing requirement to 
decarbonise the cementitious material production process. 

The portfolio emissions have remained static during the 
year with new clients having carbon intensities that are 
consistent with our portfolio. We have started to work  
with cement counterparties on their transition plans and 
commitments where their decarbonisation ambition does 
not match our own.

  On track 

  Transition alignment required

1  Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2  Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.

114

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oil and Gas 

Power

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

6.8

9.3 MtCO2e 
(29% reduction)

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

-21%

5.3

0.17–0.28 tCO2/MWh 
(46–67% reduction)

-10%

Sector background

Sector background

The Oil and Gas industry’s production emissions and 
consumption emissions account for approximately 15%1 
and 36%2 of global energy-related emissions respectively. 
As such, the decarbonisation of the Oil and Gas sector is 
crucial for achieving global net zero carbon emissions. 

Power generation is a material source of CO2 emissions 
globally, through the Scope 1 burning of fossil fuels. It is also 
a leading sector in the transition to net zero emissions 
through the rapid increase of renewables such as solar 
and wind. 

The transition requires the development of new technologies 
such as abating emissions at source through deployment of 
carbon capture and (underground) storage technologies, 
and the evolution of Oil and Gas companies to energy 
companies through investment in renewables. 

Decarbonising the portfolio will require scaling renewable 
lending or funding of lower-emission plants fuelled by 
cleaner energy sources.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20303

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 20303

0.55

0.52

0.50

)
e
2
O
C
t
M

(
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E
d
e
c
n
a
n
F
e
t
u
o
s
b
A

l

i

16

14

13.1

12

10

8

6

4

2

0
2020

-29%

9.3

10.3

10.2

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA NZE

0.47

0.45

0.40

0.35

0.30

0.25

)
h
W
M
/
2
O
C
t
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA APS
IEA NZE

0.28

-46% to -67%

0.17

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

Progress in the year

During the year, the Group replaced its existing revenue 
intensity target with an absolute Oil and Gas target,  
which now requires a 29% reduction in absolute financed 
emissions by 2030 against our 2020 balance sheet 
baseline. This effectively sets a carbon budget for the Oil 
and Gas team which can only be achieved through Oil and 
Gas companies decarbonising or via the Group’s exposure 
to this sector decreasing.

The emissions measured in our reporting include upstream 
(exploration, extraction and production), midstream 
(transportation and storage) and downstream (refinement 
and gas station operation) activities. An absolute emissions 
metric is used to manage the portfolio, recognising the 
importance of phasing out oil and gas through the 
transition but also recognising the importance of gas 
in the transition period.

Oil and Gas absolute emissions have remained relatively 
consistent year-on-year from 10.2MtCO2e as reported on 
the 2021 balance sheet to 10.3MtCO2e in 2022. This has 
been a result of greater exposure in scope offset by a 
decrease of production intensity of certain clients, in line 
with our expectations of reductions.

  On track 

  Transition alignment required

IEA: The Oil and Gas Industry in Net Zero Transition.

1 
2  Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
3  Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.

During the year the Group has measured its 2021 balance 
sheet baseline emission intensity and its 2022 progress 
towards the 2030 target. The Group’s target range was  
set using an IEA APS and NZE reference scenario range, 
recognising the importance of decarbonising the power 
sector but also reflecting our positioning as an emerging 
markets bank and our commitment to a just energy 
transition.

In setting our emissions baseline and target, we have 
measured our Power portfolio emissions with an intensity 
metric (tCO2/MWh). We primarily measure the Scope 1 
emissions associated with the generation of power through 
combustion of fossil fuels or biomass when calculating  
our emissions.

From 2021 to 2022 the portfolios emissions intensity  
moved from 0.52tCO2/MWh to 0.47tCO2/MWh, a 
reduction of 10%. This was caused by a shift in the  
portfolio mix with more lending to lower-emitting gas 
generation and renewables.

115

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
Shipping 

Steel 

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

4.1

0% delta

+4.5%

Sector background

International shipping plays an essential role in the 
facilitation of world trade as the most cost-effective and 
energy-efficient mode of cargo transport. It contributed  
2%1 of global emissions per the IEA WEO 2023. 

With oil-based fuels historically meeting over 99% of 
shipping energy needs, transition to low emission fuels  
will be key in decarbonising the sector. The Group is a 
signatory of the Poseidon Principles, which determines  
the decarbonisation principles to follow when providing 
shipping finance.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

1.3

1.4–1.6 tCO2/tonne Steel 
(22–32% reduction)

-4%

Sector background

The steel industry is the largest source of industrial CO2 
emissions and accounts for roughly 7%1 of global CO2 
emissions. This is largely due to the sector’s reliance on 
metallurgical coal as the primary fuel source.

Technological solutions to decarbonise this sector will 
include scrap-based electric arc furnaces, natural gas or 
hydrogen-based direct reduction plants with electric arc 
furnaces (all with clean power supplies) and the potential 
for CCUS.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

)
l
e
e
t
s
e
d
u
r
c
e
n
n
o
t
/
2

O
C
t
(
y
t
i
s
n
e
t
n

i
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E

2.15
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.55
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.35
1.30

2.06

1.97

Baseline

Portfolio progress
MPP TM regional
MPP TM

1.6

-22% to -32%

1.4

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

During the year the Group updated its original revenue-
based intensity baseline to a production-based intensity 
metric with a baseline year of 2021. We also measured our 
progress during the year. 

We have set a target of 1.4–1.6tCO2/tonne Steel by 2030 
using a production intensity metric, recognising the  
urgent need to decarbonise the steel production process, 
while balancing the growing demand of steel in  
emerging economies. 

When calculating our emissions, we measure the 
steelmaker’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This is in line with  
the ‘Fixed System Boundary’ as set out by the Sustainable 
Steel Principles (SSP).

From 2021 to 2022 the physical intensity of the portfolio 
moved from 2.06tCO2/tonne Steel to 1.97tCO2/tonne Steel, 
a decrease of 4%. This was due to a year-on-year decrease 
to the Group’s higher-emitting clients and improvements in 
the energy performance of some clients in Asia.

30%

25%

20%

15%

11.8%

5%

7.3%

0%

-5%

-10%

-20%

-25%

SCB 2021 baseline

Portfolio progress
IMO revised minimum alignment delta

-11.8%

)

%
y
r
o
t
c
e
a
r
t

j

O
M

i

I
t
s
n
a
g
a
(
a
t
l
e
d
t
n
e
m
n
g

i
l

A

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

In 2022, the Group set a target to achieve a 0% alignment 
delta for its shipping portfolio by 2030. This alignment delta 
is measured using the Poseidon Principles framework based 
on a 50% CO2 reduction pathway by 2050 using 2008 as a 
baseline. A positive alignment score means that the portfolio 
is misaligned (above the decarbonisation trajectory), 
whereas a negative or zero score means that the portfolio is 
aligned. In 2023, Poseidon Principles added two additional 
pathways: the revised minimum (the Group’s base case) and 
striving trajectory. These new scenarios are more stringent 
and are net zero by 2050. 

During the year, the Group’s revised minimum alignment 
delta increased from 7.3% to 11.8%, placing the Group in the 
top quarter on an efficiency basis of Poseidon Principle 
signatories, which collectively represents 70% of global 
shipping finance exposure. This increase of 4.5% in 
alignment delta is primarily due to new vessels financed, 
which were delivered late in the year and therefore were 
very inefficient, as they travelled very short distances in the 
start-up phase. These vessels are expected to improve their 
efficiency once annualised. Secondly, container shipping 
operators saw strong demand and profitability in 2022, 
which encouraged faster and more fuel-inefficient journeys.  
Next year, the Group will further observe the impact of the 
Carbon Intensity Indicator measurement of ships’ efficiency 
which has come into effect in 2023, and incentivises 
shipowners to optimise their emissions impact. 

  On track 

  Transition alignment required

1  Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2  Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.

116

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential Mortgages 

Thermal Coal Mining

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

74.3

29–32 kgCO2e/Sq.m 
(15–23% reduction)

0%

Balance in 
scope ($bn)

2030 
interim target

0.04

0.5 MtCO2e 
(85% reduction)

Cumulative 
performance 
versus baseline

-52%

Sector background

Sector background

)
a
e
r
a
r
o
o
ﬂ
m
q
s
/
2
O
C
g
k
(
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

15

10

m
E
d
e
c
n
a
n
F
e
t
u
o
s
b
0A

5

l

i

The key drivers of the emissions in the residential mortgages 
portfolio include the size and energy efficiency, and the 
energy source powering the residential floor area.

Insulation and ventilation, building energy management, 
electrification and cleaner electricity will be key drivers of 
decarbonisation in the portfolio.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302

37.7

37.6

40

35

30

25

20

-23%

-15%

32

29

Baseline
2030 target (lower bound)
2030 target (upper bound)

CRREM

2021

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

During the year the Group measured its 2021 balance sheet 
baseline and 2022 progress of GHG emissions from the four 
main residential mortgage portfolios, namely Hong Kong, 
South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, accounting for 
approximately 89% of the Group’s exposure. Emissions 
measured in our baseline and annual progress include  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the residential properties the 
Group lends against. A physical intensity of kgCO2e/Sq.m  
is the metric used to measure the portfolio’s progress. 

Standard Chartered, as a UK headquartered Group with a 
large footprint in Asia, is one of the first banks to set a target 
on its mortgage portfolio across multiple countries. While we 
have set a single group-level target, the very nature of the 
residential real estate market means all decarbonisation 
actions will take place at the local level. Achieving our target 
is dependent on actions by local governments and power 
companies decarbonising power generation. The target 
range has been set at the more ambitious end of the public 
commitments made by governments and power companies 
in the countries where the Group operates. These targets 
have been benchmarked to, and currently sit above, the 
global CRREM pathway to 2030. We will review this over 
time based on changes to country commitments and 
ambition. The Group has set a target of 29–32kgCO2e/Sq.m 
being a 15% to 23% reduction by 2030 of the baseline 
portfolio intensity of 37.6kgCO2e/Sq.m. The portfolio intensity 
remained consistent and will decrease over time through  
the decarbonisation of the national grids in our markets.

  On track 

  Transition alignment required

1  Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2   Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.

The coal sector is the largest energy source for electricity 
generation globally as well as being the largest single 
source of carbon emissions, contributing 42%1 of total CO2e 
missions when combusted. 

Although global emissions related to coal have increased 
in 2022 due to the ongoing energy crisis, coal is expected, 
and is required to be phased out over the transition 
towards net zero.

Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 20302

3.5

3.3

3.0

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

2.3

1.6

0.5

Baseline

Portfolio progress
IEA NZE

-85%

0.5

)
e
2
O
C
M

(
s
n
o
i
s
s
i

m
E
d
e
c
n
a
n
F
e
t
u
o
s
b
A

l

i

0
2020

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

2030 Year

Progress in the year

The Group has set a target of reducing our absolute 
baseline emissions by 85% by 2030. This target, in addition 
to our Position Statements, which places ever increasing 
limits on financial services the Group can provide to 
coal-reliant clients, recognises there is limited opportunity 
to reduce carbon intensities associated with the Coal 
sector and sets a decreasing carbon budget on this sector. 

During the year we calculated our progress up to 2022 
towards our absolute target against our 2020 balance 
sheet baseline. This includes thermal coal upstream 
(exploration and extraction), midstream (transportation) 
and downstream (refinement) when measuring our 
absolute emissions. 

The absolute emissions of the portfolio from 2021 to 2022 
decreased from 2.3MtCO2e to 1.6MtCO2e a decrease of 
30%. This was due to the portfolio being run down subject 
to contractual commitments with no new use of proceeds 
financing having been provided. 

117

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs 

Announced in 2023, the four thematic innovation hubs – 
Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance1, Carbon Markets 
and Nature Positive Solutions – focus on emerging themes 
of sustainability aligned to areas where the Group has 
a core competency and are particularly suited to our 
clients in our footprint markets.  Each hub is transversal, 
run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims 
to identify opportunities for future returns outside of our 

core range of traditional products and services. By being 
deliberate in demonstrating leadership to advance the 
ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group 
will be well positioned to take advantage of the significant 
and differentiated revenue potential that will result from 
maturation of these thematic areas in the future.

For further information on collaborative initiatives the Group 
participates in, refer to page 96

1. Adaptation Finance
The world is experiencing impacts from changes  
in average temperature, seasonal shifting, an 
increasing frequency and intensity of extreme 
weather events, and slow onset events. 

A significant proportion of our Group’s footprint 
markets are coastal, which means that adaptation 
represents both a risk and an opportunity for us and 
our clients.

There is an urgent global need to unlock and scale 
public and private climate adaptation finance  
to build shared societal resilience. This need is 
applicable to all nations but is particularly acute  
in emerging and developing economies. 

Acknowledging our geographical footprint and the 
multiplier effect of investment in adaptation – where 
every dollar spent on adaptation this decade could 
generate up to $12 of economic benefit (sc.com/
adaptation-economy) – it is our ambition to act 
decisively and mobilise others on adaptation.

In 2023:
•  Closed the Group’s first Adaptation 
Finance transaction; an adaptation 
letter of credit with a parametric 
insurance provider for the renewable 
energy sector.

•  Reviewed our Group’s portfolio to 

analyse data on past transactions 
related to adaptation.

•  Used data collected from our Climate 

Risk Assessments to design an 
‘adaptation readiness’ test at the  
client level.

•  Collaborated externally with KPMG and 
the United Nations Office for Disaster 
Risk Reduction (UNDRR) to develop the 
market’s first Guide to Adaptation and 
Resilience Finance (GARF), which was 
announced at COP28 and published in 
early 2024.

2. Blended Finance1
The Independent High-Level Expert Group on 
Climate Finance estimate that by 2030 there will be a 
$2.5–3 trillion per year financing gap between current 
baselines and what is required to deliver the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in emerging 
markets and developing countries other than China. 

Such sums cannot be delivered through public 
financing alone. They require the international 
private sector to step up, including in markets 
historically considered as too risky for high levels of 
investment. Blended finance – using concessional 
public funds to mobilise much larger volumes of 
private capital – can help to close this gap. The  
Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs) are  
an example of such blended finance.

Our hub brings together public and private expertise 
across the Group, including one of the architects  
of the South Africa and Vietnam JETPs, to help 
commercialise blended finance. Some of the 
objectives of the JETPs – e.g., financing the early 
retirement of coal-fired power plants – will require 
truly innovative approaches and collaboration.

In 2023:
•  Worked through international fora and 

industry groups (e.g., GFANZ) to leverage 
the Group’s expertise and support – 
alongside other international banks – 
blended finance projects and 
programmes, including the development 
of frameworks for early coal retirement.

•  Hosted both the Vietnamese and 
Indonesian governments as they 
launched their JETP events at COP28.

•  Standard Chartered became one of the 
founding partners of the Bangladesh 
Climate and Development Partnership, 
which aims to use blended finance to 
help Bangladesh adapt to climate 
change.

“The Adaptation Hub has 
drawn on our diverse 
experience from across the 
Group. Our first Adaptation 
Finance deal provided a test 
case to scaling our efforts 
internally and demonstrate 
how private sector finance can 
be deployed into Adaptation. 
The new Guide for Adaptation 
and Resilience Finance (GARF) 
is centred around bankable 
opportunities and we hope it 
will unlock significant private 
sector capital flow towards 
adaptation in emerging 
markets.”

Alex Kennedy 
Head of Sustainable Finance 
Solutions

“Where money goes today 
shapes tomorrow’s world’ was 
the theory of change for the 
COP26 organisers. While the 
scale of the challenge remains 
significant – the Vietnam and 
Indonesian JETPs alone each 
require over $100bn of private 
finance – the opportunities 
also remain clear. Blended 
Finance offers us in Standard 
Chartered the chance to make 
use of donor financing to help 
the markets that we call home 
accelerate their journeys 
towards net zero.”

John Murton 
Senior Sustainability Advisor 

1  The hub developed an internal working definition in order to differentiate and build upon the Group’s already long-established blended finance reputation 

in Export Credit Agency financing. We use ‘Blended Finance’ here to refer to the strategic use of catalytic public (and/or philanthropic) capital and 
regulatory reform to increase private sector investment that supports the SDGs. This can happen at a programme level or at a project level and may  
involve the creation and use of innovative financing instruments and structures to overcome barriers to investment.

118

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review3. Carbon Markets 
A high-integrity carbon market, combined with 
corporate commitments to cut emissions and high 
standards of reporting, can accelerate the global 
progress towards net zero by 2050. The use of 
high-quality carbon credits can play a part  
in a multi-faceted and urgent approach to 
decarbonisation, as it enables climate action in 
sectors and geographies that remain severely 
underfunded today. 

In 2023:
• 

Involved in some of the largest carbon 
market transactions, including the 
Regional Voluntary Carbon Market 
Company and Climate Impact X (CIX) 
auctions.

•  Established primary supply partnerships 
with clients in Kenya, Brazil, China and 
Vietnam.

Carbon credits can be complementary to a credible 
corporate net zero transition plan and help bridge 
the gap between the emissions reductions that can 
be implemented now, and the longer lead time for 
technological solutions that are yet to scale.

•  Educated policymakers, clients and 

colleagues on the benefits of a liquid 
carbon market to bring funding to 
people and projects that likely would  
not receive it otherwise.

Standard Chartered has been at the forefront of 
several initiatives that are working to ensure that a 
high integrity, scalable market develops. We offer 
trading, advisory, financing and risk management 
services to our clients around the world. 

4. Nature Positive Solutions
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is 
moderately or highly dependent upon nature. 
Despite its importance, biodiversity is rapidly 
declining. 

Having applied international environmental and 
social standards in our financing for more than 
20 years, our presence in markets with some of  
the richest biodiversity in the world positions us to 
engage with a range of stakeholders. We are guided 
by our commercial ambition to increasingly shift 
financial flows toward nature positive outcomes  
and thereby contribute to the halting and reversing 
of biodiversity loss. Nature is also a critical lever for 
climate change mitigation and adaptation and  
the hub collaborates with the Carbon Markets  
and Adaptation Finance hubs to explore  
natural climate solutions and ecosystem-based 
adaptation opportunities.

•  Participated in several industry initiatives 
that support development of the global 
carbon market: the International 
Emissions Trading Association (IETA),  
the Integrity Council for the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets (ICVCM), the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative 
(VCMI) and the Africa Carbon Markets 
Initiative (ACMI).

In 2023:
•  Conducted initial impact and 

dependency assessment to identify our 
exposure to potentially material sectors 
in our CCIB segment.

•  Partnered externally with organisations 
such as the Ocean Risk and Resilience 
Action Alliance (ORRAA) and were 
invited to participate in the UN Global 
Compact Ocean Investment Protocol 
Steering Committee.

•  Welcomed the publication of the 

Taskforce for Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) guidance and 
recommendations as we see the value  
in transparency and comparability  
when reporting on nature-related 
dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities. 

• 

In January 2024, the Group joined a 
cohort of early adopters of the TNFD 
framework preparing to publish our first 
TNFD-aligned disclosures in early 2026.

“For many years, we have 
faced a huge challenge and a 
degree of scepticism, to build 
the framework for a global 
carbon market. With the 
arrival of the ICVCM’s Core 
Carbon Principles and the 
development of end-to-end 
carbon market announced  
at COP28, that framework 
now exists. We have all the 
component parts of a vibrant 
market. We need to make it 
work in practice and make 
sure it grows big enough  
to make a meaningful 
contribution to global  
net zero.”

Chris Leeds 
Head of Carbon Markets 
Development 

“The Kunming-Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework 
signed by 196 nations puts the 
global economy on a policy 
trajectory that is needed to 
bend the curve on biodiversity 
loss. Now is the opportunity for 
collective action to halt and 
reverse biodiversity loss to 
allow species and ecosystems 
to recover.”

Oliver Withers 
Head of Nature 

119

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewClimate- and sustainability-related 
governance

Sustainability-related risks, opportunities and organisational 
implications are overseen by the Group’s Board, Management 
Team and multiple supporting sub-committees.

Board oversight of climate- and sustainability-
related risks and opportunities

The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the 
Group and its supporting committees consider climate-and 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities when reviewing 
and guiding strategic decisions. Throughout 2023, Board 
activities have included reviewing and guiding strategic 
decisions on our approach to reach net zero financed 
emissions by 2050. Since 2019, the Board has approved a 
Climate Risk Appetite Statement annually to reflect our aim  
to measure and manage the financial and non-financial risks 
arising from climate change and to reduce emissions related 
to the Group’s own activities, including those associated  
with providing financial services to clients, in line with the  
Paris Agreement. 

Management-level governance

Each member of the Group Management Team is responsible 
for strategically driving climate considerations within their 
geography, business segment or function in line with our net 
zero roadmap. 

The responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks 
from climate change sits with the Group Chief Risk Officer 
(GCRO) as the appropriate Senior Management Function 
(SMF) under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR). The GCRO is 
supported by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management, 
who has day-to-day oversight and responsibility for the 
Group’s second line of defence against Climate Risk.

The structure of the Group’s Board and Management Team can be 
found on pages 137 to 144

Supporting governance

The oversight and management of climate and sustainability-
related risks and opportunities are an integral part of our 
business management, involving several executive 
committees. These committees operate under their terms of 
reference, delineating responsibilities, decision-making 
process, authority and the escalation route for any material 
issues. Additionally, a number of teams across our business, 
risk and functional areas are either dedicated to, or spend a 
proportion of their time, working on climate and sustainability-
related activities. We are also expanding governance and  
risk management at the regional, country and segment  
levels to better identify and manage climate-related risks  
and opportunities.

Structural overview of Standard Chartered PLC’s climate- and sustainability-related governance

Board oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Standard Chartered PLC Board

Board Risk Committee (BRC)

Audit Committee (AC)

Culture and Sustainability  
Committee (CSC)

Management-level governance

Group Management Team

Group Risk 
Committee  
(GRC)

Group 
Responsibility  
and Reputational 
Risk Committee 
(GRRRC)

Sustainability Executive Committee 
(Sustainability ExCo)

Supporting governance

Executive committees

Climate Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(CRMC)

Sustainable  
Finance  
Governance 
Committee (SFGC)

Sustainability Operating Steering 
Committee (SOSC)

120

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance committees and steering groups 

Several committees and steering groups support the Group’s Board and Management Team on the management and 
monitoring of climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities and associated impacts on our business and for  
our key stakeholders. 

Climate- and sustainability-related governance

Governance body

Chair

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

Standard 
Chartered PLC 
Board

Group 
Chairman

Annual update on 
Sustainability

•  Oversight of the Group’s 
sustainability strategy

Climate Risk 
updates delivered 
quarterly through 
the Group CRO 
report

•  Received an update on the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, including 
progress made against key 
performance indicators and  
public commitments

•  Received quarterly Climate Risk 

updates through the GCRO reports

•  Approved Climate Risk Appetite 
Statement and Board-level Risk 
Appetite (RA) metrics

•  The Board received training on 

climate risk scenarios

•  Provide oversight of the Group’s key 

•  Reviewed, discussed and 

Board Risk 
Committee 
(BRC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Climate Risk 
updates are 
provided to BRC in 
Group CRO reports 
six times a year

risks on behalf of the Board and is the 
primary risk committee at Board level 
that oversees Climate Risk

•  Consider the Group’s Risk Appetite 

and make recommendations to the 
Board on the Climate Risk Appetite 
Statement 

•  Assess risk types (including Climate 
Risk) and the effectiveness of risk 
management frameworks and 
policies

•  Provide oversight and challenge the 
design and execution of climate-
related Group-wide enterprise stress 
tests mandated by a regulator

•  Responsible for oversight of the 
Group’s quantitative reporting 
metrics and controls over  
those metrics

Audit Committee 
(AC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Culture and 
Sustainability 
Committee 
(CSC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Updated annually in 
the fourth quarter 
and more frequently 
if any material 
disclosures are 
made outside  
of the Group’s  
Annual Report

Three times in 2023

•  Review the Group’s overall 

sustainability strategy and monitor 
its execution

•  Monitor the development and 
implementation of the Group’s  
public commitment to net zero 
financed emissions by 2050

Group Risk 
Committee 
(GRC)

Group Chief 
Risk Officer 
(CRO)

Climate Risk 
updates were 
provided to GRC in 
Group CRO report  
10 times during 2023

•  Ensure the effective management  
of Climate Risk in support of the 
Group’s strategy

•  Review Risk Appetite (RA) and 

approve Management Team-level 
RA metrics and thresholds for 
Principal Risk Types and integrated 
risks, including Climate Risk

challenged:

(i)  the Group’s progress on 

embedding climate risk in line 
with the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) Supervisory 
Statement (SS 3/19)

(ii)  the results of the Group’s first 

bespoke short-term base case 
and tail risk scenarios and 
development of the Group’s 
internal modelling capabilities, 
and

(iii)  key focus areas for 2024

•  Reviewed Climate Risk Information 

Report quarterly

•  Monitored adherence to RA metrics 

•  Reviewed changes to the climate 
and carbon emissions-related 
quantitative disclosures to be 
reported in this Annual Report,  
and the key controls around those 
quantitative disclosures

•  Received an update on the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, including 
risk, regulatory and governance 
matters, public commitments,  
and Position Statements

•  Reviewed progress on the Group’s 

net zero roadmap

•  Oversaw the update and 

consolidation of the Group’s 
Sustainability Aspirations

•  Reviewed and discussed the  

Group’s Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) rating scores 
against prioritised frameworks

•  Received an update on Climate  
Risk embedding and the Climate 
Risk profile as part of the Risk 
Information Report

•  Approved the Management 

Team-level Climate RA metrics and 
monitored adherence to these

121

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance body

Chair

Group 
Responsibility 
and 
Reputational 
Risk Committee 
(GRRRC)

Group Head, 
Conduct, 
Financial 
Crime and 
Compliance

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

Monthly

•  Oversee and approve Position 

Reviewed:

Statements including sector-specific 
and cross-sector statements 
including Climate Risk

•  Oversee climate-driven Reputational 

and Sustainability Risk Appetite 

•  Oversee changes to Climate Risk 

decision frameworks

•  Exposure to clients that do  
not comply with enhanced 
environmental and social criteria

•  Transactions where Position 

Statement criteria are not fully met

•  Transactions with high or very high 
Reputational Risk with climate 
change factors and decisions on 
whether to decline transactions  
or not

•  The process for net zero portfolio 

steering and governance, including:

(i)  evaluating clients’ transition 

plans,

(ii)  refreshed financed emissions 

data for clients in sectors where 
the Group has set net zero 
targets and 

(iii)  ongoing approach to net zero 

portfolio management

•  Updates for cross-sector and 

sector-specific Position Statements

Sustainability 
Executive 
Committee 
(Sustainability 
ExCo)

Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer (CSO)

At least eight times 
a year

•  Hold ultimate decision-making 

Reviewed and approved:

authority over all material 
Sustainability initiatives as delegated 
by the Group Management Team

•  Direct actions as necessary for  

areas of improvement to ensure  
the effective implementation of 
Sustainability initiatives

•  New or updated net zero sector 

targets for Aluminium, Steel, Power, 
Cement, Residential Mortgages 
and Commercial Real Estate

•  Consolidation of the Group’s 
Sustainability Aspirations

•  Review findings and escalations from 
delegated committees (including  
but not limited to the Sustainability 
Operating Steering Committee)

Discussed:

•  The Group’s approach to 

integrating nature-related risk  
into the business model

•  Oversees the net zero programme

•  The Group’s ESG ratings and  

priority disclosures

Climate Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(CRMC)

Global Head, 
Enterprise Risk 
Management

Six times in 2023

•  Oversee development and 

Drove delivery of:

implementation of the Climate  
Risk framework, including relevant 
regulatory requirements

•  Oversee all aspects of risk 

management practices for climate-
related financial and non-financial 
risks, including leadership and 
oversight in developing and 
effectively implementing the 
Group’s Climate Risk management 
framework

•  Provide structured governance 

around engagement with relevant 
Principal Risk Types impacted by or 
linked to Climate Risk

•  Provide challenge and recommend 

Climate Risk-related Enterprise Stress 
Test results

•  Review, challenge and provide  

input on external disclosures such  
as Climate Risk-related financial 
disclosures, including those set out 
by the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 

•  Monitor and manage the Climate 

Risk and net zero profile of the Group 
within Risk Appetite

•  Climate-related Group-wide  

stress testing and management 
scenario analysis

•  Progress associated with 

integrating Climate Risk across  
all impacted risk types

•  Climate Risk-related external 
disclosures, including those 
discussed in this report

•  Climate Risk research with  
Imperial College London

•  Regulatory feedback and 

supervision

•  Climate-related management 
information and Risk Appetite 
metrics

•  Approach to delivering training  

and upskilling staff on Climate Risk 
across the Group

•  Oversight on the development, 
ownership, as well as the results  
of Climate Risk models in scope

122

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance body

Chair

Sustainable 
Finance 
Governance 
Committee 
(SFGC)

Global Head 
of Sustainable 
Finance (SF)

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

At least six times 
a year

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

•  Provide leadership, governance and 
oversight in delivering the Group’s  
SF offerings

•  Review and endorse SF products

•  Guide the Group in identifying 

opportunities in SF and managing 
the greenwashing risks relating to SF 

Reviewed and approved:

•  SF products including sustainable 
cash products, sustainable trade 
finance products and SF retail  
loan products

•  Green and sustainable finance 

transactions including transactions 
with climate-related key 
performance indicators

•  The Group’s approach to launching 
sustainable and climate products

•  The Group’s Green and Sustainable 

Product Framework (GSPF), 
encompassing a range of climate 
finance activities

•  The Group’s Transition Finance 

Framework outlining our approach 
to defining transition activities

•  The Group’s approach to pureplay 
clients which align to the Group’s 
GSPF

•  Tracked delivery of net zero  

sectoral target setting against  
our commitments

•  Enforced accountability and 

fostered collaboration across the 
Group to implement the Group’s  
net zero plan requirements and 
advance the digitalisation of 
Sustainable Finance data and 
reporting 

•  Provided updates on advancement 
within the Group’s innovation hubs

Sustainability 
Operating 
Steering 
Committee 
(SOSC)

Head 
Strategic 
Initiatives, 
Sustainable 
Finance

Monthly

•  Central forum where all strategic 
priorities related to sustainability  
are consolidated, prioritised and 
agreed upon 

•  Oversee and monitor milestones  
and deliverables of sustainability 
initiatives

•  Ensure sustainability investment 

budget is centrally prioritised and 
allocated to Business and Function’s 
Quarterly Performance Reviews

•  Be a forum for escalation and 

decision-making 

Governance of our Sustainable Finance frameworks

We have Product Programme Guidance documents which 
underpin each Sustainable Finance product that we offer, 
signed off by a delegate of the Sustainable Finance 
Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of  
the product construct by the SFGC. 

The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable Finance 
products and derives its authority from the Group 
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC). The 
SFGC is our foremost committee on managing greenwashing 
risk in Sustainable Finance product design and labelling.

•  Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework sets out 
our approach to mitigating greenwashing risk across our 
product suite and defines the themes and activities that  
we consider eligible for green and social financing. The 
Framework is informed by international market guidelines 
and standards on green and sustainable finance, among 
others, the Climate Bonds Standard, EU Taxonomy for 
sustainable activities and the Green Loan Principles. 
Co-authored with Morningstar Sustainalytics, our 
Framework is reviewed annually to ensure it remains in line 
with the latest industry standards. For more infromation, 
please visit sc.com/gspf.

•  Our Sustainability Bond Framework governs our 

sustainable debt products, providing transparency and 
guidance on the use of proceeds and the impact of the 
green, social and sustainability bonds and notes issued by 
the Group. It has received a Second Party Opinion from 
Morningstar Sustainalytics, which confirms our Framework  
is credible, impactful and aligns with industry guidelines.  
For more infromation, please visit sc.com/sustainability-
bond-framework.

•  We have outlined our approach to defining Transition 
Finance in our Transition Finance Framework. This 
Framework is informed by the 2023 IEA NZE 2050 scenario 
and is reviewed annually to ensure it is in line with the  
latest available science and industry standards.  
For more information, please visit sc.com/transition-
finance-framework.

123

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewIncentive structure

Our sustainability-related goals and targets are reflected  
in the measures that determine employee incentives and 
variable remuneration. Variable remuneration is based  
on measurable performance criteria linked to the Group’s 
strategy and overseen by the Remuneration Committee. 

Annual incentive
Annual incentives are based on the assessment of the Group 
scorecard which contains financial and strategic measures 
and is operated for the majority of our employees. 

Sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the 
2024 Group scorecard related to: 

•  Growing Sustainable Finance income in our CCIB segment

•  Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in line  
with our risk appetite and based on our interim 2030 
sectoral targets

•  Meeting key milestones for building client and transaction-
related, and central data infrastructure for delivering on  
our net zero ambition 

•  Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our 

operational net zero by 2025 target

Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have the 
ability to influence the long-term performance of the Group. 
Members of the Group Management Team are eligible for 
LTIP awards, which may also be granted to other employees  
in the Group. 

Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024–26 LTIP 
through the following performance measures:

•  Accelerating zero: Progress towards our 2030 Sustainable 

Finance mobilisation target in each of the three 
performance years

•  Lifting participation: Year-on-year growth in financing 

activity with female and/or small and medium enterprise 
(SME) clients and other underserved populations 

•  Delivering on our Sustainability Aspiration to further 

develop the global sustainability ecosystem by actively 
contributing to global partnerships, initiatives and cross-
sector collaborations

Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 195 to 204

Key individuals or teams with climate-related objectives which impact variable remuneration

In addition to the Group scorecard and LTIP performance measures, dedicated climate and sustainability-related objectives 
apply across functional and regional scorecards including the Risk function, and individual objectives add a further link between 
sustainability outcomes and reward. 

Individual or team

Objectives/performance linkage

Group 
Management 
Team (MT)

Group Chief Risk 
Officer (CRO)

Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer (CSO)

Global Head of 
Supply Chain 
Management

Global Head, 
Property

All employees

Members of the Group MT are eligible for an annual incentive based on the outcome of our Group scorecard 
and an LTIP award which both include sustainability-related measures. Further details can be found on 
pages 200 to 203 of this Annual Report.

The Group CRO is responsible and accountable for Climate Risk under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime. This includes responsibility for overseeing the delivery of the Climate Risk 
workplan covering Climate Risk governance, Climate Risk assessment, Climate Risk scenario analysis and stress 
testing, and Climate Risk disclosure. 

The CSO helps drive the Group’s sustainability agenda and brings together its Sustainable Finance, Sustainability 
Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives and Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) teams. 
Performance measures for the CSO include progress against the delivery of net zero roadmap and Sustainable 
Finance targets.

The Global Head of Supply Chain Management is responsible for ensuring and overseeing the delivery of supply 
chain emissions and climate related objectives and plans in partnership with contract owners across the Bank. 
This includes baselining our supply chain emissions related to products and services, supply chain emissions 
disclosures, and the implementation of plans to reduce supply chain-related emissions and managing climate 
risks in partnership with our suppliers.

The Global Head, Property is responsible for delivering on our aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our own 
operations by 2025.

Selected sustainability-related targets are incorporated into our annual Group scorecard which determines 
annual incentives for the majority of our employees.

124

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewManaging Environmental 
and Social Risk

We seek to proactively manage Environmental and Social 
(E&S) Risks and impacts arising from the Group’s client 
relationships and transactions. 

For over 20 years, our cross-sector Environmental and Social 
Risk Management (ESRM) Framework has helped us apply 
international standards and best practices across all our 
markets. In the frontline, our ESRM team within the Chief 
Sustainability Officer (CSO) organisation oversees the 
management of E&S Risks associated with our client 
relationships. 

For further information please refer to our ESRM Framework 
at sc.com/esriskframework 

Our approach is embedded directly into our credit approval 
process and supports us to work with our stakeholders to 
identify, manage, mitigate and monitor the potential impacts 
that stem from our financing decisions.

Our Position Statements, approved by the Group 
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC), 
outline the cross-sector and sector-specific criteria we apply 
to assess whether to provide financial services to our clients.

We use these statements – which draw on International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, the 
Equator Principles (EP) and global best practice – to assess 
E&S risk related to our financing. 

Position Statements

Cross-sector Position Statements

Climate Change

Human Rights

Nature

Sector-specific Position Statements

Agribusiness

Infrastructure  
and Transport

Chemicals and  
Manufacturing

Extractive Industries

Power Generation

Thermal Coal

Prohibited Activities

We reviewed 1,341 clients and 708 transactions that presented 
potential for elevated E&S risk in 2023. If we find a material 
E&S issue, we take steps to proactively engage the client to 
mitigate identified risks and impacts, and support and guide 
our clients to improve their E&S performance over time. 
However, for clients who do not meet our Position Statement 
criteria, we may look to withdraw financial services and  
exit the relationship if we cannot work with them to align  
over time.

In 2023, we completed the review and update of our  
cross-sector Climate Change and sector-specific Position 
Statements covering all sensitive sectors, with the 
requirements to take effect in 2024. We also commenced the 
review of our cross-sector Human Rights Position Statement. 

During the year, we evolved our approach to nature risk 
assessment. This included a loan book analysis to identify 
impacts and dependencies from nature-related risks at sector, 
country and financial services levels. The Group’s cross-sector 
Nature Position Statement provides a consolidated view of 
our approach to managing Nature Risk across our business, 
operations and supply chain. 

Read more about our Position Statements 
at sc.com/positionstatements

Our list of Prohibited Activities can be found 
at sc.com/prohibitedactivities

Our reporting against the Equator Principles can be found 
on page 504 or at sc.com/equatorprinciples

125

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewManaging Climate Risk

We have designed an approach that begins to embed Climate Risk with impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs) within our central 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework based around two principles:

1.  Treat Climate Risk like a traditional risk type. Climate Risk 

may lead to financial losses and non-financial detriments, 
much like Credit Risk, and should be managed as such to 
limit the Group’s exposure to these detriments. This means 
embedding Climate Risk considerations into existing risk 
identification and management processes, governance, 
reporting, scenario analysis, strategy, and financial planning.

2.  Recognise and build for where Climate Risk is different. 
Climate Risk is likely to crystallise over much longer time 
horizons and is inherently difficult to quantify. Its unique 
features and a need for granular forward-looking 
measurements require the use and development of  
new tools and methodologies to quantify and analyse  
the implications.

Our climate toolkit – Processes for identifying and assessing Climate Risks

We have invested in a number of toolkits and partnerships to quantitatively measure climate-related physical and transition 
risks and we have conducted scenario analysis across a range of plausible scenarios in 2023. We continue to engage with our 
clients to understand their climate adaptation, mitigation and transition plans. In 2024 and beyond, we aim to reduce reliance 
on third-party models with the development of our internal carbon elasticity and IFRS 9 expected credit loss models including 
climate-related impacts. 

Toolkits and 
Partnerships

In-house 
Climate Risk 
Questionnaires

Munich Re

Description

Client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) to assess and gather information on client mitigation and 
adaptation plans. The information gathered through these CRQs form part of the Client-level Climate Risk 
Assessments (CRAs).

Physical Risk assessment tool built on extensive re-insurance experience to obtain location-based hazard and risk 
scores under current day for acute weather events (e.g., storms, floods, or wildfire) and longer-term time horizons 
(2050, 2100) for Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5, and for chronic risks such 
as sea level rise.

Baringa Partners

Scenario expansion models and expertise used to design bespoke short-term scenario narratives and build 
scenarios for management stress tests and implement them within the Aladdin Climate transition risk models.

BlackRock

S&P Global

Aladdin Climate transition risk models are used to translate the impact of transition and Physical Risk scenario 
variables on company financials and probabilities of default, and obtain temperature alignment results to assess 
a temperature score to indicate client- and portfolio-level global warming potential up to 2030.1

Asset locations, energy mixes and client-level emissions i.e., absolute emissions (tonnes of CO2e) and emissions 
intensities by revenue (tonnes of CO2e/$ million) for Scope 1 and 2 and, where available, for Scope 3 emissions.

Imperial College 
London

Academic expertise leveraged to advance our understanding of climate science, upskill our employees and 
senior management, and progress independent research on climate risks with a focus on emerging markets. 

1  The inclusion of the Aladdin Climate analytics, based on models from BlackRock, contained in this report should not be construed as a characterisation 

regarding the materiality or financial impact of that information. The Aladdin Climate analytics include non-financial metrics that are subject to measurement 
uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The Aladdin Climate analytics are not fixed and 
are likely to change and evolve over time. The Aladdin Climate analytics rely on comparatively new analysis and there is limited peer review or comparable data 
available. BlackRock does not guarantee and shall not be responsible for the content, accuracy, timeliness, non-infringement, or completeness of Aladdin Climate 
analytics contained herein, or have any liability resulting from the use of the Aladdin Climate analytics in this report, or any actions taken in reliance on any 
information herein.

Limitations with existing tools and data 

We recognise that there are limitations when assessing 
Climate Risk, given approaches to quantifying Climate Risk 
are nascent and data availability and coverage across our 
clients continue to present challenges. This is particularly true 
in emerging markets where Climate Risk-related disclosure 
and preparedness can be less advanced. We have seen 
limitations in coverage, granularity of information at client 
group and entity level and timeliness of data leading to the 
use of proxies such as regional and/or sector averages and 
sovereign heatmaps. Most tool outputs do not factor in 

existing adaptation measures, governmental policies to 
protect and build for changing climate, and structural 
adaptation e.g., age and quality of construction or flood 
defences and dams protecting the property. Over time, 
sovereigns and policymakers are also expected to drive 
market trends such as investment in adaptation plans, 
technological advancements, innovative risk transfer and 
mitigation approaches to combat the potential impacts  
of climate change. Such assumptions are not factored into  
our analysis. 

126

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewWe have seen an improvement in data coverage since the 
creation of our Climate Analyst team in the first line of 
defence and Relationship Managers engaging clients to close 
data gaps. Additionally, we are in the process of setting up a 
centralised data store which will capture all sustainability-
related data for our clients, including monitoring of the data 
quality, and reduce the usage of proxies over time. We 
recognise that data coverage will keep pace with client 
disclosures and reporting, which is likely to be aligned with 
timelines on sovereign requirements and commitments. This 
places some reliance on proxy information, and we will refine 
our evaluations and methodologies progressively as the 
availability and quality of data improves. 

The data we have captured through various sources has 
helped us develop our client-level climate-risk assessments for 
both existing and new clients, improve our internal climate 
modelling capabilities and strengthen the risk measurement 
and monitoring of our portfolios. 

Integrating climate-related risks into overall risk management, client segments and own operations

We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs). Risk Framework Owners 
for the impacted PRT are an integral component of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) and responsible for 
embedding Climate Risk requirements within their respective risk types. In 2023, we have continued to build Climate Risk into 
existing risk management frameworks and processes. The areas where we have made progress to embed Climate Risk 
considerations within the first line of defence and across PRTs are listed in the following table. 

Impacted Risk Type

Credit Risk – CCIB

Disruption to clients’ business 
models due to physical or 
transition risk impacting their 
profitability and thereby 
affecting their capacity to 
repay debt, or the capital  
and collateral required to  
back the loan.

Next steps

•  Enhance portfolio 

Page

300

management and oversight 
on clients exposed to 
climate-related risks within 
the credit decisioning 
processes.

•  Enhance quality and 

streamlining underlying 
client-level assessments 
across financial and 
non-financial impacts from 
ESG risks including climate 
and net zero. 

•  Upskill all impacted client 

relationship staff including 
credit officers with a net zero 
certification.

•  Build Physical Risk grading 

capabilities.

Key updates in 2023

•  Completed ~4,100 Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs) 
accounting for ~85-90 per cent of our corporate 
portfolio limits. 

•  Established linkages to Credit Underwriting Principles 
for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Shipping, Commercial 
Real Estate (CRE) and Mining), spanning climate-
related analysis, portfolio-level caps and additional 
data gathering measures.

•  Designed Version 3 of the Climate Risk Questionnaire 
with sector-specific nuances and covering questions 
related to net zero and Credible Transition Plans 
(CTPs).

•  Established a Net Zero Climate Risk Working Forum 
to discuss account plans and risk decisions on high 
Climate Risk and net zero divergent clients.

• 

Initiated work on building our approach to assess 
physical and transition risk to underlying collateral 
specifically for CRE and Shipping portfolios.

•  Assessed the impact of climate risks for 

approximately 95 per cent of our CCIB portfolio  
under different climate scenarios. 

•  The first-generation transition risk models. for 

Corporates (priority sectors including Oil & Gas, 
Mining, Steel and Power, and a generic Carbon 
Elasticity Model), Sovereign, as well as the 
Temperature Alignment models for Automotive 
Manufacturers, Oil and Gas, Steel, and sector 
agnostic models have been developed.

Credit Risk – CPBB

Physical risks, such as rising sea 
levels and severe flood events, 
could adversely impact 
repayment ability through 
damages to properties or loss 
of insurance cover, leading to 
potential increases in credit 
losses or due to changes in the 
economic environment as the 
economy transitions towards 
lower emissions.

  Physical Risk 

  Transition Risk

•  We now assess physical risk for 79 per cent and 
transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB credit 
portfolio as of September 2023.

•  Expand our scenario analysis 
capabilities for CPBB across 
physical and transition risks. 

298

•  We have quantified the transition risk for our top 

•  Continue to refine the 

consumer mortgage markets using energy bills data, 
where available and proxies based on financed 
emissions, while utilising actual energy performance 
certificate data for the markets where this 
information is available (currently only Jersey).

•  Worked with Imperial College London to enhance the 
Retail Mortgages physical risk approach (through 
Property Price Index haircut), for usage in stress 
testing exercises.

transition risk approach to 
enable factoring in the 
impact from transition risk  
on underlying collateral.

127

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewKey updates in 2023

Next steps

•  Physical risk scenarios impacting our sites and 

causing disruption to services are assessed for loss 
estimates. 

•  New sites onboarded within the Group are assessed 

for physical risk vulnerabilities.

•  Third-party continuity plans have been enhanced to 

include climate risk related disruptions.

•  Gather site locations for our 
material vendors to assess 
their physical risk exposures, 
such that suitable continuity 
plans can be developed.

Page

308

•  Enhance our methodology 

306

for the assessment of 
sovereign physical risks to 
limit reliance on static data 
sources from external 
research and expand 
coverage to include  
nature/biodiversity risks.

•  Our methodology for Physical and Transition Risk 
Sovereign Rankings serves as an input into the  
annual sovereign reviews and quarterly early  
warning indicators.

•  We have developed Climate Risk report cards for 

approximately ~30 sovereigns covering 75% of GCR 
exposure across our footprint, which provide a 
detailed breakdown of the Physical and Transition 
Risk scores, along with key takeaways and historic 
climate disaster statistics.

•  We have built an in-house Sovereign climate model 
that forecasts Sovereign credit grades across the 
various NGFS scenarios.

•  Country limit benchmark computations consider 

climate factors.

•  Additional due diligence is conducted to support 

• 

client or transaction level assessments for (i) clients 
covered by the Group’s net zero targets for high-
carbon sectors (Oil & Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium, 
Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation & CRE) (ii) 
clients with a coal nexus as well as (iii) those assessed 
as high climate risk.

•  Governance standards and new controls rolled  

out to mitigate the greenwashing risk throughout  
the lifecycle of Sustainable Finance products. The 
controls aim to ensure accurate Sustainable Finance 
labelling and ongoing monitoring of clients, products, 
and transactions, and are continuously reviewed and 
tested for control effectiveness, bearing in mind the 
changing regulatory landscape and innovation in 
Sustainable Finance.

•  Established key management information to track 
divergence of net zero pathways from group-level 
sector targets to aid the monitoring of the impact of 
climate risk on various portfolios.

•  The Traded Risk stress testing framework covers 
market impacts from Climate Risk, including an 
assessment of transition effects from climate change 
policies and two physical risk scenarios as part of the 
global Traded Risk scenarios inventory. These flow 
into existing Traded Risk Appetite metrics. 

Increase in the pace and 
variety of Regulations 
around Sustainability with a 
focus on greenwashing will 
be a key priority for 2024.

305

•  Ensure framework and 
controls consider new 
regulations and the controls 
are embedded in an 
effective manner.

•  Extend the tail scenario 

308

narratives developed for the 
CCIB portfolio to develop 
transition risk scenarios  
for the trading book and 
implement enhancements 
related to Market Risk 
factors and shorter-term 
shocks.

Impacted Risk Type

Operational and 
Technology Risk 

Impact of acute or chronic 
physical risks may disrupt our 
own properties, data centers 
and third parties leading  
to business disruptions. 
Furthermore, increased  
costs may arise through 
implementation of practices 
such as renewable energy 
sources and waste reduction  
to reduce emissions.

Country Risk

Both Physical and Transition 
risks can have a direct impact 
on a sovereign’s economic 
strength and increase their  
cost of borrowing, directly 
impacting overall 
creditworthiness.

Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk

Potential for stakeholders to 
view the Group negatively due 
to actual or perceived actions 
or inactions in response to  
our stated climate, ESG and  
net zero commitments. 
Increasing expectations from 
governments, regulators, 
NGOs, investors, and 
individuals heightens 
reputational risks.

Traded Risk

Acute physical risk events or a 
disruptive transition can cause 
sudden changes in the fair 
value of assets driven by 
commodity price changes. 
Additional impact may  
result due to trigger sales, 
sudden and negative price 
adjustments where these  
risks are not yet incorporated 
into prices.

  Physical Risk 

  Transition Risk

128

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewImpacted Risk Type

Key updates in 2023

Next steps

Treasury Risk

Impact on client business 
models and their overall 
financial stability from 
transition to a low-carbon 
economy can impact capital 
adequacy and/or liquidity 
levels needed to ensure 
financial stability during 
periods of stress.

Model Risk

Model Risk may exist from 
inappropriate design / 
specification / development / 
governance of a model relative 
to the intended business 
objectives and/or ineffective 
model remediation in response 
to issues identified by model 
validation.

  Physical Risk 

  Transition Risk

•  Progressed towards a more quantitative approach as 
we continue to consider capital requirements as part 
of the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).

•  Review risk pockets within 
high Climate Risk and net 
zero divergent sectors as 
part of the ICAAP.

•  Commenced monitoring of climate risk-related 

•  Advance our capabilities to 

vulnerabilities and readiness of our top corporate 
liquidity providers, leveraging our client-level climate 
risk assessments.

assess Climate Risk as part of 
the Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ILAAP).

•  The first-generation of internal models have been 
developed and are in various stages of model 
governance.

•  Target to enhance physical 
risk modelling capabilities, 
advancing sector models to 
factor in sector-specific 
nuances and building carbon 
elasticity models for Shipping 
and Automobile.

• 

Implementation of models 
within the Group’s 
infrastructure.

Page

309

309

Investing in Climate Risk research

Since the launch of our four-year partnership with Imperial College London in 2020, the Group has sponsored a series of  
public research projects. As part of our ongoing academic partnership, we supported new climate research on the range of 
opportunities that exist for private investors in nature-related investments and cross-sectoral implications of electrification  
of transport in India. In 2023 we have cooperated with Imperial College London on three specific projects:

1. Asset haircuts
For our key residential mortgage markets, we have 
collaborated with our academic partner to develop an 
internal model for revaluating property valuations under 
different climate scenarios using the forward-looking risk 
indices from Munich Re. These revaluations are then used to 
inform haircuts on the property prices and arrive at climate 
adjusted Expected Credit Loss values for the mortgage book.

2. Country Risk 
The cooperation involves the construction of a methodology 
used to project sovereign ratings along selected NGFS climate 
scenarios for 40 target countries. The model develops a term 
structure of sovereign Probability of Defaults (PDs) along  
each climate scenario and associated projected ratings and 
compares it with a term structure of sovereign PDs and ratings 
in a counterfactual (non-climate change) scenario.

3. Cross-sectoral implications of transport electrification  
in India
Exploring the potential impact of introducing a legislative 
requirement for the switch to electric vehicles (EVs), including, 
but not limited to supply chain management, the strain  
on existing power supply (as some regions are already 
experiencing regular blackouts), and the need for expansion 
of the power grid to support the connection of the required 
number of chargers. The research has been completed and 
preparations for the publication have been made.

129

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewIntegrity, conduct and ethics

We aim to live our valued behaviours,  
which are ‘Never settle’, ‘Better together’  
and ‘Do the right thing’ through our actions, 
decisions and interactions day-to-day with 
colleagues and clients. 

Good conduct is critical to delivering positive outcomes for  
our clients, markets and stakeholders. It is fundamental to 
achieving our brand promise, here for good. Conduct Risk  
may arise anywhere in the Group at any time. The Group 
therefore expects all employees to be responsible for 
managing Conduct Risk given it is a transversal risk, which 
means it impacts every aspect of the Group’s operations. 

Our Conduct Risk management approach has been 
strengthened since 2022 through several initiatives,  
including launching the new Group Conduct Risk 
Management Standard, which sets minimum standards for 
the management of Conduct Risk across our operations.  
The Group employs a risk-based, three lines of defence 
approach to Conduct Risk management, where oversight, 
governance and controls applied are proportionate to our 
assessment of the risk. We set target Conduct Outcomes that 
the Group aspires to deliver for clients, external stakeholders, 
employees, and the environment.

Code of Conduct and Ethics

The Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code) remains the 
primary tool through which we communicate our conduct 
expectations. In October 2023, we launched the refreshed 
Code to improve alignment with our Stands, strengthen the 
link between ethics, culture, conduct, and the Group’s strategy. 
The Code is intended to be more than a guidance document: 
rather, it is a code to live by, designed to guide colleagues 
through how to live our valued behaviours on a day-to-day 
basis, whatever their business, function, region, or role. We 
have made the Code more user friendly, interactive and 
accessible to all colleagues. The Code also includes more 
content on ethical leadership, the way we use personal data, 
having a culture of inclusion and feeling safe to speak up. 

Download our Code of Conduct and Ethics at 
sc.com/codeofconductandethics and visit sc.com/speakingup  
to find more about how our Speaking Up programme works

To reinforce our shared commitment to the highest 
possible standards of conduct, each year we ask our 
colleagues to reconsider what the Code means to them 
through a refresher e-learning, and to reaffirm their 
commitment. In 2023, 99.8 per cent of our colleagues 
completed the mandatory training and affirmation. 
Colleagues who are overdue without a valid reason are 
subject to a 25 per cent reduction in their annual variable 
compensation for the year they failed to attest.

99.8%

of employees affirmed recommitment to our Code annually

130

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSpeaking Up

Our Speaking Up programme provides a safe, independent 
and confidential way to report concerns. It helps build and 
maintain a strong ethical culture, with integrity, trust, and 
transparency. The early disclosure of concerns reduces the 
risk of financial and reputational loss caused by misconduct. 
We encourage colleagues, contractors, clients, suppliers and 
members of the public to use our Speaking Up programme 
without fear of retaliation. When a concern is raised, our 
Shared Investigative Services team will determine whether the 
matter is a Speaking Up disclosure or if it is an out-of-scope 
disclosure. Examples of Speaking Up concerns may include 
breaches of regulatory requirements or breaches of Group 
policy or standards. Out-of-scope disclosures will be referred 
to the appropriate internal teams. If a matter is considered a 
Speaking Up Disclosure, relevant Shared Investigative Services 
and/or Employee Relations colleagues will conduct fact-
finding into the matter, with any follow-up action taken as 
required following the fact-finding process. 

Throughout 2023, we hosted a series of awareness campaigns 
to ensure that our colleagues understand the importance 
of upholding our conduct standards and know how, and 
when, to Speak Up. To recognise Whistleblowers’ Day on 
23 June, the Global Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and 
Compliance issued a Group-wide communication underlining 
the importance of Speaking Up. A World Whistleblowers’ Day 
panel discussion was held, covering Speaking Up and ESG 
(Environmental, Social and Governance) topics, with Group 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Whistleblowing 
Champion Phil Rivett as a panellist. 

Fighting financial crime

Access to the financial system helps transform lives around 
the world, helping to reduce poverty and spur economic 
development. But the financial system is also used by those 
involved in some of today’s most damaging crimes – from 
human trafficking to terrorism, corruption and the drug 
trade. Our ambition is to help tackle these crimes by making 
the financial system a hostile environment for criminals and 
terrorists. We have no appetite for breaches in laws and 
regulations related to financial crime.

Our Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) team 
sets our financial crime risk management framework. We 
seek to protect our clients and communities against money 
laundering (AML), terrorist financing, sanctions, fraud and 
other risks, applying core controls such as client due-diligence, 
screening and monitoring, and strengthening our people’s 
understanding as to how to identify, manage and mitigate 
such risks. In addition, anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) 
controls aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties working  
on our behalf, from engaging in bribery or corruption. 

A particular focus of our financial crime investigatory teams 
is the use of data analytics to identify those clients and 
cases which generate the greatest financial crime risk. This 
has strengthened the second line of defence in support of 
colleagues in business lines and country teams across  
the Group.

To mitigate the risk of financial crime, particularly laundering 
the proceeds of corruption, in the lead-up to, during and 
after major political elections in footprint markets, the 
Group conducts enhanced monitoring designed to identify 
and investigate transactions of potential concern. In 2023, 
enhanced monitoring was conducted during major elections 
and times of political transition or conflict, for example in 
Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe.

This event was part of the wider Global Conduct Week from 
19 to 23 June, themed ‘Be the Change’, which encouraged 
colleagues to think about how their individual actions on 
a daily basis can aggregate to a much wider impact on 
outcomes for our clients, customers and other stakeholders. 
In addition, in October 2023, a Group-wide panel discussion 
was held to celebrate Global Ethics Day, with the theme ‘Ethics 
Empowered’. All campaigns included interactive messages 
from our senior leaders and live panel discussions designed to 
both set the tone from the top and nurture it from within.

The Speaking Up programme continues to be utilised 
across all countries, businesses and functions, and our  
2023 MyVoice survey found that 88 per cent of employees 
(no change from 2022) felt comfortable raising concerns 
through these channels. The Board reviews a Speaking Up 
report annually. For the period July 2022 to June 2023 a 
three per cent (34 cases) decrease was noted in the volume 
of total disclosures via Speaking Up channels compared 
with the previous period (i.e. July 2021 to June 2022). 

88%

of employees in our MyVoice survey felt comfortable raising 
concerns through Speaking Up channels

Visit our  Speaking Up programme’s website  https://secure.ethicspoint.
eu/domain/media/en/gui/108379/index.html

Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine on 24 February 
2022, the authorities of the European Union, United Kingdom, 
United States, and several other nations have imposed 
multiple rounds of sanctions against Russia by targeting a 
wide range of Russian entities (state-owned and private) and 
a large number of Russian elites, oligarchs, political leaders 
and officials. While the pace of change and the complexity of 
these sanctions against Russia are unprecedented and had 
the potential to create areas of uncertainty as to the scope of 
some of the regulatory prohibitions, we have sought to comply 
with these requirements fully and promptly. This work remains 
a significant area of focus for teams across the first and second 
line of defence.

We have invested significantly to ensure our employees 
are properly equipped to combat financial crime. In 2023, 
99.9 per cent of colleagues and governance body members 
completed financial crime mandatory e-learnings which 
cover topics such as ABC, AML including terrorist financing, 
sanctions, tax evasion and fraud topics (Asia: 99.9 per cent, 
AME: 99.8 per cent, EA: 99.8 per cent, Governance body 
members: 100 per cent). 

99.9%

of colleagues and governance members completed financial 
crime mandatory e-learnings

131

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewFighting financial crime continued

For those in high-risk roles and functions, we delivered 
additional training across all financial crime areas, including 
in-depth awareness on Russia sanctions, ABC training for 
targeted roles, training on tax evasion risks, trade AML, and 
money laundering risks concerned with money mules and 
shell companies. We also delivered new training modules 
on financial crime risks in fintech and digital assets. In 
addition, masterclasses and forums were held to deepen 
understanding. We shared our Supplier Charter, which sets 
out our principles and expectations, and provides guidance 
related to ABC, with 11,563 suppliers and third parties across 
48 markets.

This was supported by our Group-wide financial crime 
awareness campaign, ‘The Whole Story’, which aimed to 
raise employee awareness of the real-life impact of financial 
crime and highlight the work we are doing individually and 
collectively to build a robust risk culture and lead in the fight 
against financial crime. The Whole Story 2023 theme of ‘Let’s 
get #fightingfit’ focused on how we can reboot and recharge 
the fight against financial crime and play a part in driving the 
right outcomes for our clients, through the right conduct and 
culture, vigilance and risk management.

Collaborative initiatives
Our public-private partnerships are aimed at producing new 
insights about various criminal typologies and advances in 
how we collectively combat financial crime in an increasing 
number of jurisdictions, including Singapore, Hong Kong, 
South Africa, India, the UK and UAE. 

Throughout 2023, we also engaged with peers in contributing 
to the ongoing dialogue to advance effectiveness in 
combating financial crime through our active participation 
in several of the leading industry groups, including the 
Wolfsberg Group of global banks, Madison Group and  
UK Finance. 

We also participated in discussions and forums with many 
external thought leaders including participation with the 
World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption 
Initiative and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime,  
in addition to hosting events with clients designed to foster 
dialogue on the tackling of financial crime.

For more, visit sc.com/fightingfinancialcrime

Responsible lending and fair treatment of our customers in our CPBB segment

The Group’s Board of Directors provides oversight of the 
Group’s treatment of customers through its reporting and 
committee structures. The relevant governance forum or Risk 
Committee is required to challenge the business for any new 
or material product proposals prior to the commencement of 
the product approval process.

Escalations may be taken to the CPBB Risk Committee chaired 
by the CPBB Chief Risk Officer or the Group Risk Committee 
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, and ultimately to the 
Group’s Board and Board Risk Committee. Oversight and 
governance of Collections is performed by the CPBB Risk 
function with regular reviews of performance metrics and 
complaints-handling data. 

Complaints management
Formal avenues are established for CPBB customers to lodge 
complaints. A complaints-handling process has been put in 
place to enable the proper receipt, acknowledgement and 
independent and effective handling of complaints, which  
are to be resolved and notified to customers within a 
reasonable turnaround time without compromising the 
quality of the review. 

At the global level, key complaints insights, trends and  
root causes are provided to the CPBB Risk Committee every 
month. Examples of key metrics that are used to track and 
manage complaints across CPBB markets include: total 
number of complaints received in the month split by type 
and root cause, including sub-categories such as potential 
inappropriate sales, proven mis-selling or fraud, and 
percentage of complaints resolved within the pre- 
determined turnaround time.

Loan modifications
Where possible, practical support programmes may be 
offered to customers experiencing financial difficulty. Loan 
modification options that may be offered to our customers 
take into account the most recently available information 
on the customer’s income, expenditures and circumstances. 
Collections staff managing these arrangements are trained 
to discuss options thoroughly with customers in order that  
any restructured payments, if agreed, are kept affordable. 

Collections
Across the Group, while the approach may vary across 
markets in line with local regulations, programmes to assist 
retail banking borrowers in financial distress are handled by 
Collections teams. 

The expectation on the Bank’s Collections teams include 
meeting the following requirements:

•  Providing a fair and reasonable treatment regarding any 

late fees

•  Aligning calling and visitation hours to local regulations  

and practices 

•  Updating the financial status of customers on a timely basis 

in our systems to support fair treatment

•  Having all customer interactions with the Collections  

teams, complaints and feedback monitored and regularly 
reviewed

All Collections staff responsible for dealing with customers 
in financial distress are trained prior to commencement 
of collection activities, and in particular, are required to be 
familiar with the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. Where 
external collections agencies are utilised, these agencies 
undergo assessment and due diligence in accordance with 
Group sourcing standards and their staff must undertake the 
same training as the Group’s internal Collections teams. 

132

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewRespecting human rights

We strive to be a responsible company and respect human 
rights across our business. We recognise that the global 
nature of our business may expose us to the risk of modern 
slavery and human trafficking in our operations, supply chain 
and client relationships and we are committed to managing 
and mitigating these risks. Our Modern Slavery Statement 
details our approach and actions to manage modern slavery 
risks across our value chain.

Standard Chartered will not enter into relationships with 
suppliers involved in human trafficking, modern slavery, or 
forced labour. Suppliers that are identified as presenting 
higher risks of modern slavery are subject to enhanced due 
diligence. Our Supplier Charter sets out the principles for  
the behavioural standard that Standard Chartered expects 
from all its suppliers, and those within a supplier’s sphere of 
influence that assist them in performing their obligations to us.

Read our Modern Slavery Statement at sc.com/modernslavery

Read our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter

Due diligence is a central part of our approach in assessing 
and managing risks associated with the provision of financial 
services to our clients. We approach this due diligence in 
accordance with our Environmental and Social Risk 
Management (ESRM) and Financial Crime Compliance  
(FCC) frameworks.

Our Position Statement on Human Rights is a key part of our 
framework and was developed following engagement with a 
range of external stakeholders, including expert practitioners 
and civil society organisations. Like our cross-sector Position 
Statements, the Human Rights Position Statement applies to 
our clients, suppliers and employees and is regularly reviewed 
to ensure it addresses emerging risks and issues.

Read more about our ESRM Framework and Position Statements  
at sc.com/esriskframework or sc.com/positionstatements

Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles by which we seek 
to deliver fair and competitive remuneration to all employees. 
We use these principles to guide reward and performance 
decision-making globally, including how we set, structure  
and deliver remuneration. Further information on our 
alignment to the Fair Pay Charter can be found in our  
2023 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report available at 
sc.com/diversityfairpayreport.

133

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
Directors’ report

Directors’ report

136  Group Chairman’s governance overview

137   Board of Directors

142  Management Team

145   Corporate governance

182   Directors’ remuneration report

208  Additional remuneration disclosures

217  Other disclosures

229  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

[[Liverpool FC 
and Standard 
Chartered 
encourage girls 
to ‘Play On’]]   

In May, alongside our long-time  
partners Liverpool FC, we launched 
‘Play On’, our four-year campaign 
aimed at encouraging girls to play 
sport because of the transferable life 
skills it teaches off the pitch. As well as 
raising awareness that twice as many 
girls than boys drop out of sport by age 
14, the programme delivers physical 
support and training for female  
grassroots coaches in our key markets. 

The campaign also provides a digital 
repository where girls, teachers,  
coaches and parents can access  
useful resources.

Read more at sc.com/playon

134

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

135

 
Group Chairman’s governance overview

Group Chairman’s 
governance overview

Dr José Viñals  
Group Chairman

“ In times of uncertainty, a robust 
corporate governance framework 
is especially important.”

In my opening letter, I referred to the uncertainties in our markets 
caused by the multiple geopolitical and macroeconomic events 
affecting the year. These require our close attention given their ability 
to impact our various businesses in quite different ways. The Board 
has monitored these developments carefully and proactively, 
devoting agenda time at the Board and across our committees and 
also considering them at the Group’s International Advisory Council 
(IAC), which includes representatives from our Management Team. 

The Board also received a series of briefings from internal and 
external experts who provided valuable insights from their diplomatic, 
central banking, economic, regional and political vantage points to 
help us prepare for events which may occur in the future. In the same 
vein, the Board Risk Committee (BRC) and Audit Committee (AC) 
jointly held a Blue Sky Thinking session on forward-looking geopolitics 
and their impact on the work of those committees. The session was 
facilitated by Robert Zoellick, the Chair of our IAC.

In times of uncertainty, a robust corporate governance framework is 
especially important, and this report sets out how the Board and our 
committees work to ensure that risks are addressed, opportunities are 
taken, and the Group continues to deliver sustainable value. 

The Board was disappointed with the market reaction to the Group’s 
third-quarter results. We considered carefully the reasons for that with 
our advisers and also at our December Board meeting, from which we 
drew a number of lessons.

The Board’s priorities for 2023 were guided by our business objectives, 
the environment in which we operate and suggestions from last year’s 
externally facilitated Board evaluation. These were woven into 
agendas at the beginning of the year and reviewed regularly. 

In February 2023, the banking sector faced volatility caused by the 
collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank which was followed by that of 
Credit Suisse. The BRC monitored the situation carefully, receiving 
regular updates from management on our own financial position  
and actions to address issues arising in the markets. These were also 
shared with the Board which also received updates at meetings. 

Information and cybersecurity (ICS) risk was also a key area of focus 
for both the Board and the BRC in 2023. The BRC devoted significant 
time to reviewing and discussing ICS matters, including a new ICS Risk 
Appetite Statement that was also brought to the Board. The AC had 
a very busy year, reviewing internal controls and assurance around the 
Group’s activities. It paid close attention to the carrying value of loans 
and investments in certain industries, locations and subsidiaries, 
especially China.

136

The Remuneration Committee continues to work hard to implement 
the remuneration strategy approved in 2022. Our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which details the key activities of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2023, can be found on page 182.

In January, we appointed Linda Yueh as an independent Non-
Executive Director (INED). Linda then succeeded Jasmine Whitbread 
as chair of the Sustainability and Culture Committee (CSC) following 
Jasmine’s retirement from the Board in May. Jasmine has been an 
excellent contributor to the Board across her eight years and has led 
the CSC with distinction. We are also very sorry to see the departure  
of Andy Halford, who stepped down from his Group Chief Financial 
Officer (GCFO) role in January 2024, after a tenure of over nine years, 
marked by his very significant contributions to the Group.

We welcomed Diego De Giorgi to the Group in September 2023 as 
GCFO Designate, following a thorough external talent mapping and 
selection process overseen by the Governance and Nomination 
Committee (GNC). Following regulatory approval, Diego began his 
role in January 2024 following a thorough induction programme and 
handover from Andy. Further detail regarding the changes made to 
our Board appears in the GNC report starting on page 177. 

We have been following the proposals for UK Audit and Corporate 
Governance (ACG) reforms, both at Board level and across our 
committees. Following the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024, we are 
considering the changes in readiness for the application of the new 
UK Code in 2025, and additional internal control reporting provisions 
coming into force in the following year.

We travelled to a number of markets as a Board during 2023, with 
visits to Hong Kong, Jakarta and Seoul; in addition, onward market 
visits were made by a number of directors to obtain an on-the-ground 
perspective of the business, opportunities and challenges faced. In 
each market we visited as a Board, employee engagement sessions 
were held where directors met and listened to colleagues from across 
our footprint, either face-to-face or through hybrid mechanisms.  
We welcomed the opportunity to engage with so many of our valued 
colleagues, both long-standing employees and newer recruits. These 
market visits provided an opportunity to test enhancements made to 
the Board’s workforce engagement model, which facilitate more face-
to-face contact following our emergence from the COVID pandemic. 
Details of the changes to our workforce engagement model are set 
out in the CSC report on page 174. Apart from allowing us to connect 
with colleagues from across our footprint, overseas board visits also 
provide opportunities for the Board to strengthen the links with 
subsidiary boards. The Board is planning to visit several countries 
across our footprint in 2024. Further detail regarding Board 
engagement with stakeholders appears on page 157. 

Engagement with all stakeholders, including, of course, our investors is 
key to our decision-making. I hosted a stewardship event in November 
alongside the chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees to 
provide an update regarding the Group’s strategy, including with 
respect to sustainability, and on the work of our Board committees. 
Close engagement has continued between the Board and our 
subsidiary boards, through regular exchanges among the chairs, 
committee chairs and other INEDs.

The Corporate Plan is an important part of the Board’s agenda each 
year. In June, we held a deep and productive two-day strategy 
discussion, which considered any impact from the economic and 
political headwinds emerging in 2023. The session concluded with  
the Board’s firm belief that it remains the right strategy for the Group. 
Throughout the year, the Board considered a number of strategic 
opportunities for growth in the context of our Corporate Plan and  
Risk Appetite.

Finally, the Board remains confident for the Group’s future and is 
committed to our strategy and our purpose, and is laser focused on 
developing sustained and sustainable returns within our Risk Appetite.

Dr José Viñals  
Group Chairman

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of Directors

Committee key

Committee Chair shown in green

A

Ri

S

N

R

Audit Committee

Board Risk Committee

Culture and Sustainability Committee

Governance and Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Dr José Viñals (69) 
Group Chairman

Appointed October 2016 and Group 
Chairman in December 2016. José was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in April 2019.

Bill Winters (62) 
Group Chief Executive

Appointed June 2015. Bill was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in June 2015.

Experience José has substantial experience 
in the international regulatory arena and has 
exceptional understanding of the economic, 
financial and political dynamics of our 
markets and of global trade. He has a  
broad network of decision-makers in the 
jurisdictions in our footprint.

Career Until 2016, José was the Financial 
Counsellor and the Director of the Monetary 
and Capital Markets Department at the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and was 
responsible for the oversight and direction  
of the IMF’s monetary and financial sector 
work. He was the IMF’s chief spokesperson  
on financial matters, including global 
financial stability. During his tenure, José  
was a member of the Plenary and Steering 
Committee of the Financial Stability  
Board, playing a key role in the reform of 
international financial regulation. Prior to the 
IMF, José began his career as an economist 
and as a member of the faculty at Stanford 
University, before going to the Central Bank 
of Spain, where he was the Deputy Governor. 
He is a past President of the International 
Monetary Conference.

Experience Bill is a career banker with 
significant frontline global banking 
experience and a proven track record of 
leadership and financial success. He has 
extensive experience of working in emerging 
markets and a proven record in spotting and 
nurturing talent.

Career Bill began his career with JP Morgan, 
where he went on to become one of its top 
five executives and later Co-Chief Executive 
Officer at the investment bank from 2004 
until he stepped down in 2009. Bill was  
invited to be a committee member of the 
Independent Commission on Banking to 
recommend ways to improve competition 
and financial stability in banking. 
Subsequently, he served as an adviser to  
the Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards and was asked by the Court of the 
Bank of England to complete an independent 
review of the bank’s liquidity operations.

José has held many other board and advisory 
positions, including chair of Spain’s Deposit 
Guarantee Fund, chair of the International 
Relations Committee at the European 
Central Bank, member of the Economic and 
Financial Committee of the European Union, 
and chair of the Working Group on 
Institutional Investors at the Bank for 
International Settlements.

External appointments José is Co-Chair  
of the United Nations’ Alliance of Global 
Investors for Sustainable Development 
(GISD). He is a board member of the  
Institute of International Finance (IIF), a 
member of the board of directors of the 
Bretton Woods Committee, member of  
the Leadership Council of CityUK, and 
member of the Business Advisory Group  
to the Director General of the World Trade 
Organisation (WTO).

Committees  N

In 2011, Bill founded Renshaw Bay, an 
alternative asset management firm, where 
he was chairman and CEO. He stepped down 
on appointment to the Standard Chartered 
PLC Board. Bill was previously a non-executive 
director of Pension Insurance Corporation plc 
and RIT Capital Partners plc. He received a 
CBE in 2013. Bill is a director of Standard 
Chartered Holdings Limited.

External appointments Bill is an  
independent non-executive director of 
Novartis International AG, listed on SIX  
Swiss Exchange. He is also an Advisory  
Group Member of the Integrity Council for 
Voluntary Carbon Markets and a member  
of the Steering Committee of the UK 
Voluntary Carbon Markets Forum.

Bill leads the Management Team

As announced on 1 August 2022, Christine Hodgson retired from the Board on 31 January 2023. Jasmine Whitbread retired from the Board on 
3 May 2023.

As announced on 21 December 2023, Andy Halford stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer and from the Board on 2 January 2024,  
and therefore will not seek re-election at the 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM).

As announced on 16 February 2024, Gay Huey Evans will step down from the Board with effect from 29 February 2024. Carlson Tong’s departure 
from the Board will take place on 9 May 2024, ahead of the AGM. Diane Jurgens will join the Board as an INED, with effect on 1 March 2024.

137

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDiego De Giorgi (53)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Appointed January 2024. Diego was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2024.

Maria Ramos (65)
Senior Independent Director

Appointed January 2021. Maria was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2021. She was 
appointed as Senior Independent Director 
in September 2022.

Shirish Apte (71)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed May 2022. Shirish was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2023.

Experience Diego has more than three 
decades of experience in the global financial 
services sector, working with clients across 
the UK, Europe, the US, Asia, the Middle East 
and Africa. This has helped him build a strong 
understanding of the complexity of delivering 
across diverse markets.

Career Diego spent 18 years at Goldman 
Sachs, with leadership roles in the Equity 
Capital Markets Group and the Financial 
Institutions Group before becoming the Chief 
Operating Officer for the Global Investment 
Banking division. Following this, he moved  
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, where he 
spent six years, rising to Head of Global 
Investment Banking. He served as a 
non-executive director at UniCredit and a 
member of their Compensation Committee 
in 2020 and 2021. 

Experience Maria has extensive CEO, 
banking, commercial, financial, policy and 
international experience.

Career Based in South Africa, Maria served 
as chief executive officer of ABSA Group 
Limited (previously Barclays Africa Group),  
a diversified financial services group serving 
12 African markets, from 2009 to 2019. Before 
joining ABSA, Maria was the group chief 
executive of Transnet Ltd, the state-owned 
freight transport and logistics service 
provider, for five years. Prior to her CEO career, 
Maria served for seven years as director- 
general of South Africa’s National Treasury 
(formerly the Department of Finance), where 
she played a key role in transforming the 
National Treasury into one of the most 
effective and efficient state departments  

Experience Shirish has extensive corporate, 
investment banking, risk management, 
commercial and retail banking experience. 
He has a deep understanding of financial 
services, notably across the Asia Pacific, 
Middle East, Africa and Central and Eastern 
European regions.

Career Shirish spent over 30 years with 
Citigroup, where he focused on corporate 
and investment banking, and managed 
commercial and retail banking businesses at 
country and regional level. He has strong risk 
experience at country and regional level and 
was a Senior Credit Officer and a Senior 
Securities Officer at Citigroup. Shirish was 
Co-CEO for Citi’s Europe, Middle East and 
Africa business from 2008 to 2009, and 
Regional CEO Asia Pacific from 2009 to 2011. 

From 2021, Diego was the Co-Chief Executive 
of Pegasus Europe, Europe’s largest-ever 
Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC), 
which was focused on the financial services 
sector and was listed on Euronext 
Amsterdam.

External appointments Diego also sits  
on the Board of the MIB Trieste School  
of Management.

in the post-apartheid administration. Maria 
has served on a number of international 
boards, including Sanlam Ltd, Remgro Ltd, 
and SABMiller plc and more recently was a 
non-executive director of The Saudi British 
Bank and Public Investment Corporation 
Limited before stepping down in  
December 2020.

External appointments Maria is Chair of 
AngloGold Ashanti PLC and a non-executive 
director of Compagnie Financière Richemont 
SA. She is also a member of the Group of 
Thirty, sits on the International Advisory 
Board of the Blavatnik School of Government 
at Oxford University and on the Wits 
Foundation Board of Governors.

Committees  Ri   A   R   N  

He was Chairman of Asia Pacific Banking 
from 2012 until his retirement in 2014.

He was on the Executive and Operating 
Committees of Citigroup from 2008  
to 2014. From June 2014, he was an 
independent non-executive director at  
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia  
until stepping down in October 2022.

External appointments Shirish is an 
independent non-executive director at 
Singapore Life Pte Ltd, and an independent 
non-executive director of Keppel Corporation 
Limited, where he is a member of its Audit 
and Board Risk Committees.

Committees  R   A   Ri   N  

138

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of DirectorsPhil Rivett (68)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed May 2020. Phil was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered.

Dr Linda Yueh, CBE (52)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed January 2023. Linda was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2023.

David Conner (75)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed January 2016. 

Experience Phil has significant professional 
accountancy and audit experience, 
specifically focused in the financial 
services sector. He has a strong technical 
accounting knowledge and understanding 
of disclosure requirements. He has 
broad financial and business experience 
especially of the financial services sector.

Career Phil joined PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(PwC) as a graduate in 1976, becoming a 
Partner in 1986. He spent more than 30 years 
at PwC and was lead relationship Partner 
for several FTSE 100 companies, including a 
number of international banks and financial 
services institutions. He also has substantial 
international experience, having worked 
with banks across the Middle East and Asia, 

Experience Linda is a renowned economist 
and financial broadcaster with a diverse 
range of skills and experience across financial 
services, technology, not-for-profit and 
business-to-business service sectors.

Career Linda has held various academic roles 
and acted in various advisory roles after 
starting her career as a corporate lawyer at 
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.

Linda was Economics Editor at Bloomberg 
News from 2010 to 2012 and Chief Business 
Correspondent for the BBC between 2013 
and 2015. She was a Visiting Professor at LSE 
IDEAS at the London School of Economics 
and Political Science from 2019 to 2022 and 
served on the Independent Review Panel on 
Ring-Fencing and Proprietary Trading for  
HM Treasury. Linda held non-executive 
directorships with Scottish Mortgage 
Investment Trust Plc, London & Partners Ltd 
and JPMorgan Asia Growth & Income Plc.  

Experience David has significant global and 
corporate, investment and retail banking 
experience, strong risk management 
credentials and an in-depth knowledge  
of Asian markets.

Career David spent his career in the financial 
services industry, living and working across 
Asia for 37 years, for both Citibank and  
OCBC Bank. He joined Citibank in 1976 as a 
management trainee and went on to hold a 
number of Asia-based senior management 
roles, including Chief Executive Officer of 
Citibank India and managing director and 
marketing manager at Citibank Japan, 
before leaving Citibank in 2002. David joined 
OCBC Bank in Singapore as Chief Executive 
Officer and director in 2002. He implemented 

in particular China. He became Leader of 
PwC’s Financial Services Assurance practice 
in 2007 and was appointed Chairman 
of its Global Financial Services Group in 
2011. Phil has sat on a number of global 
financial services industry groups, producing 
guidelines for best practice in governance, 
financial reporting and risk management.

External appointments Phil is an 
independent non-executive director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee 
at Nationwide Building Society.

Committees  A   Ri   N  

She was Senior Independent Director of 
Fidelity China Special Situations Plc. Linda 
was awarded a CBE for Services to Economics 
in the New Year Honours List of 2023. Linda 
was a Trustee of the Coutts Foundation and 
Adviser to the UK Board of Trade.

External appointments Linda is a Fellow  
at St Edmund Hall, Oxford University and 
Adjunct Professor of Economics at London 
Business School. She currently serves as an 
independent non-executive director of 
Rentokil Initial Plc and Segro Plc. She is Chair 
of the Baillie Gifford The Schiehallion Fund 
Ltd, an investment company listed on the 
Specialist Fund Segment of the London Stock 
Exchange Main Market. Linda is Executive 
Chair of the Royal Commonwealth Society, 
and an Associate Fellow at Chatham House.

Committees  S   R   N  

a strategy of growth and led the bank 
through a period of significant turbulence. 
David stepped down as Chief Executive 
Officer in 2012 but remained as a non- 
executive director on the board of OCBC 
Bank, before leaving the group in 2014. He 
was previously a non-executive director of 
GasLog Ltd.

External appointments David is Chair of the 
Barnard Cancer Institute and an emeritus 
trustee of Washington University in St Louis.

Committees  A   Ri   R
David is also a member of the Combined 
US Operations Risk Committee of Standard 
Chartered Bank.

139

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportGay Huey Evans, CBE (69)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed April 2015. Gay was appointed 
to the Court of Standard Chartered Bank 
in April 2019.

Jackie Hunt (55)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed October 2022. Jackie was  
also appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in October 2022.

Robin Lawther, CBE (62)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed July 2022. Robin was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in December 2022.

investment banking and investment 
management. She was previously a 
non-executive director at Aviva plc, the 
London Stock Exchange Group plc and Itau 
BBA International Plc. In 2016, she received  
an OBE for services to financial services  
and diversity and a CBE for services to the 
economy and philanthropy in the Queen’s 
Birthday Honours 2021. Gay is a former Chair 
of the London Metal Exchange.

External appointments Gay is a non-
executive director of ConocoPhillips and  
S&P Global, and a non-executive member  
of the HM Treasury board. Gay also sits on 
the panel of senior advisers at Chatham 
House and the board of the Benjamin 
Franklin House.

Committees  Ri  

and Africa. She was Group Chief Financial 
Officer of Standard Life plc from 2010 to 
2013, where she helped transform the life 
insurer into a diverse savings, pensions and 
asset management business. Jackie was 
previously the Senior Independent Director 
of National Express Group PLC, a non- 
executive director of TheCityUK and the 
Deputy Chair of the FCA Practitioner Panel. 
She was also an independent non-executive 
director of Man Group PLC, Rothesay Life 
PLC and OneWeb Holdings Limited.

External appointments Jackie is an 
independent non-executive director 
of Willis Towers Watson plc.

Committees  A   S  

completing her term in May 2022. She 
received a CBE for services to finance 
and diversity in the Queen’s Birthday 
Honours 2020. From 2018 to 2023, she 
served as an independent non-executive 
director of Nordea Bank Abp.

External appointments Robin is 
an independent board member of 
Ashurst LLP and a member of the 
advisory board at Aon PLC.

Committees  Ri   S   R  

Experience Gay has extensive banking and 
financial services experience with significant 
commercial and UK regulatory and 
governance experience.

Career Gay spent over 40 years working 
within the financial services industry, the 
international capital markets and with the 
UK financial regulator. Gay spent seven years 
with the Financial Services Authority from 
1998 to 2005, where she was director of 
markets division, capital markets sector 
leader, with responsibility for establishing a 
market-facing division for the supervision of 
market infrastructure, oversight of market 
conduct and developing markets policy. From 
2005 to 2008, Gay held a number of roles at 
Citibank, including head of governance, Citi 
Alternative Investments, EMEA, before joining 
Barclays Capital where she was vice chair of 

Experience Jackie is a Chartered 
Accountant and has spent most of her 
career within financial services. She 
brings significant UK and international 
financial services experience, including 
asset management, insurance, regulatory 
and accounting knowledge.

Career Jackie has held a number of senior 
management positions in companies 
including Aviva, Hibernian Group, Norwich 
Union Insurance, PwC and RSA Insurance. 
From 2016, Jackie was a member of the 
Allianz SE management Board with executive 
responsibility for the asset management 
and US life insurance divisions, a position 
she held until 2021. Prior to that, Jackie 
was an executive director of Prudential 
plc and CEO of Prudential UK, Europe 

Experience Robin brings extensive 
international banking experience in 
global markets and financial institutions. 
In addition to a broad understanding of 
commercial banking, she has specialist 
knowledge in investment banking, mergers 
and acquisitions and capital raising.

Career Robin spent over 25 years at  
JP Morgan Chase in a number of senior 
executive positions. She has valuable 
executive and non-executive experience 
across global markets and has considerable 
understanding of regulatory and governance 
issues. From 2019 to 2021, she served as a  
non-executive director on the board of  
M&G plc. In January 2014, Robin joined 
Shareholder Executive, which later became 
UK Government Investments (UKGI), as 
a non-executive board member until 

140

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of DirectorsDavid Tang (69) 
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed June 2019. David was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in June 2019.

Carlson Tong (69) 
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed February 2019. 

Adrian de Souza (53)
Group Company Secretary

Appointed Adrian was appointed Group 
Company Secretary in May 2022.

and regional president of Advanced Micro 
Devices (AMD), Greater China, before joining 
NGP Capital (Nokia Growth Partners) in 
Beijing as managing director and partner in 
2013, a position he held until retiring in June 
2021. David was a non-executive director of 
Kingsoft Corporation, a leading Chinese 
software and internet services company 
listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

External appointments David joined Kaiyun 
Motors, an electric vehicle start-up based in 
China, in June 2021 as Chief Value Officer. 
David is also a non-executive director of 
JOYY Inc., the Chinese live streaming social 
media platform listed on the Nasdaq Stock 
Market. He is also an adviser to NGP Capital.

Committees  Ri   S  

connect schemes and the mutual recognition 
of funds between the mainland and Hong 
Kong. From 2017 until July 2020, Carlson was  
a non-executive director of the Hong Kong 
International Airport Authority. He was a 
member of the Hong Kong Human Resource 
Planning Commission from April 2020 until 
December 2022 and Chair of the Hong  
Kong University Grants Committee from 
January 2016 until he stepped down in 
December 2022.

External appointments Carlson is an 
independent non-executive director of  
MTR Corporation Limited, Chairman of its 
Audit & Risk Committee and a member of its 
Finance and Investment Committee. He sits 
on various Hong Kong SAR government 
bodies and is also an observer on behalf  
of the Hong Kong Government for Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited. He is a board 
member of Hong Kong Investment 
Corporation Limited and the Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange.

Committees  A   Ri

Securities Group PLC, where he was a 
member of the Group’s Executive Committee 
and Head of Legal at SABMiller PLC, Europe.

Experience David has a deep understanding 
and experience of emerging technologies in 
the context of some of our key markets, most 
notably mainland China.

Career David has more than 30 years of 
international and Chinese operational 
experience in the technology and venture 
capital industries, covering venture 
investments, sales, marketing, business 
development, research and development 
and manufacturing. From 1989 to 2004, 
David held a number of senior positions in 
Apple, Digital Equipment Corp and 3Com 
based in China and across the Asia Pacific 
region. From 2004 to 2010, David held various 
positions in Nokia, including corporate  
vice president, chairman of Nokia 
Telecommunications Ltd and vice chairman 
of Nokia (China) Investment Co. Ltd. He went 
on to become corporate senior vice president 

Experience Carlson has a deep 
understanding and knowledge of operating 
in the financial services and regulatory 
sectors in mainland China and Hong Kong.

Career Carlson joined KPMG UK in 1979, 
becoming an Audit Partner of the Hong Kong 
firm in 1989. He was elected Chairman of 
KPMG China and Hong Kong in 2007, before 
becoming Asia Pacific chairman and a 
member of the global board and global 
executive team in 2009. He spent over  
30 years at KPMG and was actively involved 
in the work of the securities and futures 
markets, serving as a member of the Main 
Board and Growth Enterprise Market Listing 
Committee of the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong from 2002 to 2008 (Chair from 2006  
to 2008). After retiring from KPMG in 2011,  
he was appointed a non-executive director  
of the Securities and Futures Commission, 
becoming its Chair in 2012 until he stepped 
down in October 2018. He oversaw a number 
of major policy initiatives during his term as 
the Chair, including the introduction of the 
Hong Kong and Shanghai/Shenzhen Stock 

Career Adrian qualified as a lawyer in 1997. 
Prior to joining Standard Chartered, he was 
General Counsel for Vivo Energy PLC, a 
FTSE-250 pan-African fuel retailer, where he 
was responsible for the Company Secretarial, 
Governance, Ethics, Compliance and Forensic 
Investigations functions, and was a member 
of the group’s Executive Committee.

After working in private practice at 
international law firms Hogan Lovells and 
Clifford Chance, Adrian served as General 
Counsel and Company Secretary at IQSA 
Group (a Goldman Sachs private equity 
business); Company Secretary at Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of the FTSE 100 company, Land 

Reasons why the contribution of each director standing for re-election is, and continues to be, important to Standard Chartered PLC’s long-term 
sustainable success will be included in the Notice of AGM 2024.

141

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement Team

Bill Winters (62) 
Group Chief Executive

Diego De Giorgi (53)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Head of Corporate and Investment Banking, 
Singapore. He has extensive experience in 
the areas of investment banking, corporate 
banking and transaction banking.

External appointments Simon is Chairman  
of the advisory board of the Lee Kong Chian 
School of Business.

External appointments None.

Prior to this, Judy spent 18 years at Citibank, 
where she held various leadership roles in its 
Consumer Banking business in Asia.

External appointments Judy was appointed 
to the board of CapitaLand Investment 
Limited as a Non-executive Independent 
Director in June 2021.

Simon joined the Group as CEO, Corporate & 
Institutional Banking in April 2016. He 
assumed additional responsibility for 
Commercial Banking in March 2018 and the 
Europe & Americas region in January 2021.

Career Simon was previously group 
managing director and chief executive of 
Global Commercial Banking at HSBC. He has 
extensive experience across our markets  
and client segments. Simon joined HSBC  
in 1989 and held a number of senior roles 
there, including deputy chairman and chief 
executive officer, Middle East and North 
Africa; chief executive officer, Korea; and 

Claire joined Standard Chartered as Group 
Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing 
in March 2021.

Career Claire is a seasoned communications 
expert who has led teams at global brands 
in a variety of sectors, in Europe and the US. 
She spent nearly eight years living and 
working in Silicon Valley, including for eBay/
PayPal and latterly as Chief Communications 
Officer at Intel. Throughout her career she 
has been a champion for creating positive 
global impact, including leading Global 
Corporate Responsibility at GlaxoSmithKline. 
Claire is Chair of the Standard Chartered 
Foundation.

Judy was appointed CEO, Consumer, Private 
& Business Banking on 1 January 2021 and has 
been a member of the Group Management 
Team since 2018.

Career Prior to her most recent appointment, 
Judy was Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia, 
a position she held from June 2018. Judy was 
the country CEO for Standard Chartered 
Singapore from 2015 to 2018. She joined 
Standard Chartered in December 2009 as 
the Global Head of Wealth Management 
and led the strategic advancement of the 
Bank’s wealth management business.

Simon Cooper (56)
CEO, Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking and Europe & 
Americas

Claire Dixon (51)
Group Head of Corporate Affairs, 
Brand & Marketing

Judy Hsu (60)
CEO, Consumer, Private  
& Business Banking

142

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement TeamMary Huen (56)
CEO, Hong Kong and Cluster CEO, 
Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau

Mary was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) for Hong Kong in March 2017, and took 
on an expanded role as Cluster CEO for Hong 
Kong, Taiwan and Macau in January 2021.

Career Mary has over 30 years of experience 
in business management and banking 
services. Prior to her current role, Mary was 
Regional Head of Retail Banking, Greater 
China & North Asia, and the Head of Retail 
Banking, Hong Kong. She is a board member 
of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited and the chairperson of the Board of 
Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited.

External appointments Mary is the vice 
chairperson of the Hong Kong Association  
of Banks, a member of the Banking Advisory 
Committee of the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority and the Aviation Development and 
Three-runway System Advisory Committee.

She is also a representative of Hong Kong, 
China to the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation (APEC) Business Advisory 
Council, and holds Board positions in the 
Hong Kong Tourism Board, the Hospital 
Authority, and the Community Chest of  
Hong Kong.

Benjamin Hung (59)
CEO, Asia

Tanuj Kapilashrami (46)
Group Head, Human Resources

Sunil Kaushal (58) 
CEO, Africa & Middle East

Ben was appointed CEO, Asia on 1 January 
2021. He is the Chairman of Standard 
Chartered Bank (China) Limited and 
Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) 
Limited.

of the Financial Services Development 
Council and a board member of the Hong 
Kong Airport Authority and the Hong Kong 
Hospital Authority. He was also a Council 
Member of the Hong Kong University.

Career Ben joined Standard Chartered in 
1992 and has held a number of senior 
management positions spanning corporate 
and retail banking. Prior to his current role, 
Ben was Regional CEO for Greater China & 
North Asia and CEO for the Bank’s Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management 
businesses globally. He is currently based in 
Hong Kong and has international banking 
experience in the United Kingdom and in 
Canada. Ben was previously chairman of the 
Hong Kong Association of Banks, a member 

Tanuj joined the Management Team as 
Group Head, Human Resources (HR) in 
November 2018.

Career Prior to joining the Group, Tanuj built 
her career at HSBC. She has worked across 
multiple HR disciplines in many of our 
footprint markets (Hong Kong, Singapore, 
Dubai, India and London). Tanuj joined the 
Bank in March 2017 as Group Head, Talent, 
Learning and Culture and took on additional 
responsibility as Global Head HR, Corporate, 
Commercial and Institutional Banking in 
May 2018. 

External appointments Ben is an 
independent non-executive director of the 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. 
He also sits on the Exchange Fund Advisory 
Committee and is a member of the General 
Committee of the Hong Kong General 
Chamber of Commerce. He is a strategic 
adviser at the International Consultative 
Conference on the Future Economic 
Development of Guangdong Province, China.

External appointments Tanuj is a non- 
executive director of Sainsbury’s PLC and  
a member of their Nomination and 
Remuneration committees. She is a member 
of the Asia House board of trustees, of  
which Standard Chartered is a founding 
stakeholder. Asia House is a London-based 
centre of expertise on trade, investment  
and public policy whose mission it is to  
drive political, economic and commercial 
engagement between Asia and Europe. 
Tanuj is also a board member of the UK 
Financial Services Skills Commission.

Sunil was appointed CEO, Africa & Middle 
East on 1 October 2015.

Career Prior to his current role, Sunil was 
regional CEO South Asia, responsible for 
Standard Chartered’s operations in South 
Asia (which included India, Bangladesh, Sri 
Lanka and Nepal). He has over 36 years of 
banking experience in diverse markets and 
has been with Standard Chartered for over 
26 years, holding senior roles across the 
Wholesale and Consumer Bank. Sunil has  
rich experience across the Group’s footprint, 
having served as the Head of Corporate 

Banking in UAE, Head of Originations and 
Client Coverage in Singapore, Global Head 
Small and Medium Enterprises and New 
Ventures in Singapore and Chief Executive 
Officer of Standard Chartered Bank  
(Taiwan) Ltd.

Before joining Standard Chartered in 1998, 
Sunil held various banking positions at a 
number of leading international financial 
institutions.

External appointments None.

143

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportRoel Louwhoff (58)
Chief Technology, Operations and 
Transformation Officer

Tracey McDermott, CBE (54) 
Group Head Conduct,  
Financial Crime and Compliance

Sandie Okoro, OBE (59)
Group General Counsel

Roel joined the Group in November 2021  
as Chief Digital, Technology & Innovation 
Officer, before becoming the Chief 
Transformation, Technology & Operations 
Officer from 1 April 2022. He spearheads the 
Bank’s Technology and Operations strategy 
and the development of its technology 
systems, business resilience framework and 
infrastructure which support its clients and 
employees globally and leads the innovation 
agenda of the Bank. Roel is also responsible 
for leading bank-wide transformation, which 
includes the digital transformation of the 
Bank into an agile, digital and future-focused 
organisation.

Career Prior to joining Standard Chartered, 
Roel was Chief Operations and 
Transformation Officer at ING Bank, where 

Tracey has been the Group Head Conduct, 
Financial Crime and Compliance since 
January 2019.

Career Tracey originally joined Standard 
Chartered as Group Head of Corporate, 
Public and Regulatory Affairs in March 2017, 
subsequently adding Brand and Marketing 
to her portfolio in December 2017 and 
Compliance in March 2018. Prior to joining the 
bank, Tracey served as Acting Chief Executive 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
from September 2015 to June 2016. She joined 
the then Financial Services Authority (FSA)  
in 2001 where she held a number of senior 
roles, including Director of Supervision and 
Authorisations, and Director of Enforcement 
and Financial Crime. Tracey also served as a 
Board Member of the FSA from April 2013, as 
a member of the Financial Policy Committee 
of the Bank of England, and as non-executive 

Sandie Okoro joined the Bank as Group 
General Counsel in April 2022. In the role,  
she leads the Bank’s Legal, Group Corporate 
Secretariat and Shared Investigative  
Services functions.

Career Sandie is a pre-eminent lawyer, having 
served as General Counsel and Senior Vice 
President, and Vice President for Compliance, 
at the World Bank Group. Prior to joining the 
World Bank, Sandie was General Counsel for 
HSBC Global Asset Management and Global 
General Counsel at Barings. Sandie is an 
Honorary Bencher of Middle Temple in the 
United Kingdom (2018) and was named  
one of the Upstanding 100 Leading Ethnic 
Minority Executives (2016), Top 20 Global 
General Counsel (2019) by the Financial Times, 
and was recognised as Britain’s 10th most 

he oversaw operations, technology and the 
broader transformation agenda. During his 
seven years in this role, Roel led the successful 
digital transformation of ING, seen by many 
as a trailblazer in digitising financial services. 
Before ING, Roel spent 10 years at British 
Telecom (BT), latterly as CEO of BT-Operate 
based in the UK. At BT, he redefined the 
technology and operational approach and 
led the BT communication side of the 2012 
Olympics before applying that learning in 
delivering turn-key digital and infrastructure 
solutions for major exhibition and sporting 
events.

External appointments None.

director of the Prudential Regulation 
Authority from September 2015 to June 2016. 
Prior to joining the FCA, Tracey worked as a 
lawyer in private practice, having spent time 
in law firms in the UK, USA and Brussels. In 
2016, Tracey received a CBE for her services  
to financial service consumers and markets. 
She is a trustee of the Standard Chartered 
Foundation.

External appointments Tracey chairs the  
Net Zero Banking Alliance, is a member of  
the International Regulatory Strategy Group 
Council and chairs the Conduct and Ethics 
Committee of the Fixed Income, Currencies 
and Commodities Markets Standards Board. 
She is also a non-executive director of 25x25 
Limited and a Member of the Management 
Board of Cambridge Endowment for 
Research in Finance.

influential person of African and African 
Caribbean heritage by Powerlist (2023).

Sandie received a lifetime achievement 
award from the UK Black Solicitors Network 
(2016), was named one of the Power 100 
Women by City A.M., 100 Women to Watch 
by Female FTSE Board and received an OBE 
for services to Diversity in International 
Finance in 2024.

External appointments Sandie was 
appointed inaugural Chair of the UK-based 
charity Women of the World Foundation in 
June 2021, she received an honorary lifetime 
Emeritus membership of the Law Societies’ 
Compact and Forum for Sustainable 
Development Goal 16 in June 2022, and  
she is a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare 
Company.

Sadia Ricke (53) 
Group Chief Risk Officer, 
director of Standard Chartered Bank

Sadia Ricke joined the Bank in February 2023.

Career Sadia has a broad range of financial 
and risk experience and a thorough 
understanding of our footprint markets.

She was appointed Group Country Head and 
Head of Coverage and Investment Banking 
for the UK in 2017. In 2019, Sadia became 
Deputy Chief Risk Officer and then Group 
Chief Risk Officer in January 2021.

She joined the Bank from Société Générale, 
where she started in 1994 in the Financial 
Institutions Credit department. She gained 
more than 13 years of structured finance 
experience in the Natural Resources and 
Energy Finance division where she was 
Co-Deputy Head, a position she held until 
2010. She then became Head of Credit Risk 
for SG CIB in Paris, before moving to Hong 
Kong to take on the role of Head of Global 
Finance for Asia Pacific in January 2015.  

External appointments Sadia became a 
member of the International Financial Risk 
Institute Foundation Board in February  
2023 and was appointed as Vice-Chair in 
March 2023.

144

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement TeamCorporate  
governance

This section provides an insight  
into key Board items and activities 
covered during the year, as well 
as the structure of the Board, its 
committees, and its meetings.

Governance 

Strategy 

External 
environment

Key areas of  
Board discussion 
and activities 
during 2023

Risk  
management

People, culture 
and values 

Financials and 
performance 

Shareholder  
and stakeholder 
engagement 

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Code compliance

The directors are pleased to confirm that the Company 
continued to comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018 (UK Code) and the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code contained in Appendix C1 of the Hong 
Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) for the whole of the year  
under review. 

We share insights into how governance operates within 
the Group and how we have applied the principles set 
out in the UK Code and HK Code in the pages that follow 
and in particular on page 217. Copies of the UK Code and 
the HK Code can be found at frc.org.uk and hkex.com.hk 
respectively.

The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct 
regarding directors’ securities transactions on terms no less 
exacting than required by Appendix C3 of the Hong Kong 
Listing Rules.

Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group 
confirms that all directors have complied with the required 
standards of the adopted code of conduct.

To the extent applicable, information required by  
paragraphs 13(2) (c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 of  
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is available in  
Other disclosures on pages 217 to 228

Our stakeholders, their interests: driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity

The Board is conscious of the need to create and maintain positive stakeholder relationships and spends significant time 
interacting with them to better understand their views, as well as the opportunities, challenges and the Group’s impact 
across our diverse markets. 

These relationships were considered extensively during Board and Committee meetings and in decision-making, and  
also in the individual and collective engagements that took place throughout the year. Examples of this can be found  
in the stakeholder engagement section on pages 157 to 161, within the feature sections on the following pages and on  
pages 54 to 64.

Clients 

Regulators and 
governments

Investors 

Suppliers 

Society 

Employees 

Read more  
on page 55

Read more  
on page 57

Read more  
on page 57

Read more  
on page 58

Read more  
on page 59

Read more  
on page 60

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

145

 
 Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023

 Strategy

•  Reviewed the Group’s strategy over two days at a Board and 
senior management offsite, discussing progress, possible 
enhancements and confirming that it remains appropriate

•  Reviewed and approved the 2024–2028 Corporate Plan 
as a basis for preparation of the 2024 budget, receiving 
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that  
the plan is aligned to the Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Statement

•  Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational 

performance of the business across client segments, product 
groups and regions, which included details of their priorities, 
progress, opportunities and response to current events.  
This included deep dives into the following areas:

–  Information and Cybersecurity

–  Private Banking

–  SC Ventures

–  Hong Kong, South Korea, and the ASEAN region

•  Received and discussed regular corporate development 

updates

•  Discussed and reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy

•  Discussed and reviewed the Group’s Transformation, 

Technology & Operations strategy

Spotlight
Spotlight
Driving transformation  
Liverpool Football Club 
with SC Ventures
sponsorship renewal
SC Ventures, the Group’s innovation, fintech investment and 
The Group announced a four-year extension to their main 
ventures arm, was set up in 2018 and now encompasses a 
sponsor agreement with Liverpool Football Club (LFC) and 
portfolio of 36 ventures across four themes: Digital Assets, 
LFC Women in July 2022. The Board discussed and reviewed 
Sustainability & Inclusion, Online Economy & Lifestyle and 
the proposed plans to renew the long-standing relationship 
SME & World Trade. In 2023, the Group completed the 
and fully supported continuing the partnership through 
restructuring and ringfencing of SC Ventures’ activities. 
to the end of the 2026/27 season, including increased 
Within the Group, SC Ventures is driving a culture of 
investment in LFC Women. LFC is a globally renowned 
innovation by scaling up intrapreneurship, fintech 
football club, with many followers across our markets in 
engagement, and collaborating with the bank’s clients. 
Asia, Africa and the Middle East.  
SC Ventures is continuing to build a sustainable ecosystem 
The Board recognised this as a unique and valuable 
of ventures and partners for the bank and accelerating 
opportunity to help deliver our narrative and Stands. 
transformation in banking. 
Continuing to invest in brand and business marketing where 
Given the size of the SC Ventures portfolio, the Board 
appropriate is an important part of the Group’s Corporate 
considered how best to articulate its value both to the 
Plan.
organisation and externally to investors. The Board 
scrutinised management’s plans in respect to SC Ventures’ 
current and future business model. The Group will focus on 
putting Ventures in a position where it would help transform 
the core bank. 

•  Received updates on the Group’s investment in its associate 
China Bohai Bank and on real estate investments in China

Stakeholders

•  Approved the sale of its global aviation finance leasing 

business 

•  Monitored the sales of its subsidiaries in Angola, Cameroon, 
The Gambia, and Sierra Leone, and its Consumer, Private & 
Business Banking (CPBB) business in Tanzania

Clients

Investors

Employees

 Risk management

•  Received and discussed briefings from management on 
ICS matters, approved a revised ICS Risk Appetite and 
completed training on the topic

•  Approved the Operational Resilience Self-assessment
•  Reviewed work on projects to replace and upgrade data 

centres in Asia

•  Discussed macroeconomic headwinds and tailwinds as both 

risks and opportunities for the Group

•  Reviewed and discussed risk reports from the Group Chief 

Risk Officer

•  Reviewed and approved the draft Group’s Resolvability 

Assessment, delegating the final approval to the Board Risk 
Committee

•  Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on 
the findings of their 2023 Periodic Summary Meeting Letter

•  Reviewed the FCA’s periodic Firm Evaluation Letter 
•  Assessed progress in continuing to strengthen the Group’s 

risk culture

•  Approved the Risk Appetite for 2024 which included a 

consideration of principal risks 

•  Approved the renewal of the Group’s insurance policies for 

2023/2024

•  Approved material changes to the Enterprise Risk 

Management Framework 

Spotlight
Spotlight
Blue Sky Thinking session 
Resolvability
facilitated by Robert Zoellick, 
Resolvability was a fundamental part of the Board’s 
a former President of the 
agenda for the year. They reviewed, challenged and 
approved enhancements to the updated Group’s 
World Bank and Chair of our 
Resolvability Assessment Report provided to the Bank 
of England in February 2022 and approved the Group’s 
International Advisory Council 
Resolvability disclosure published in June 2022. In July 2022, 
the Board attended a teach-in session of the Master 
Resolution Playbook. It also participated in a Resolution 
The Board Risk and Audit Committees jointly attended a 
simulation exercise with senior leaders and experts in 
Blue Sky Thinking session entitled the “Forward-Looking 
December 2022 to role play a hypothetical scenario that 
Geopolitical  Agenda”. Robert Zoellick led the session by 
could arise if Standard Chartered were to enter resolution. 
introducing three key meta-trends (technology innovation, 
demographics and the environment) and three key 
Further information can be found on page 173
constituents (consumers, workers and investors). Drawing 
upon analyses prepared by our Group Regulatory and 
Public Affairs team, committee members considered the 
interaction of meta-trends, key constituents and policy 
levers. Committee members then analysed how key policy 
and regulatory levers can be used in response to pressures 
created by the meta-trends and constituents. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and 
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees

146

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued

 Financials and performance

•  Monitored the Group’s financial performance

•  Approved the 2022 full year and 2023 half year results

•  Monitored and assessed the strength of the Group’s 

capital and liquidity positions

•  Considered the carrying value of the Group’s investments

•  Considered the Group’s approach to capital management 

and returns

•  Approved a 2022 final dividend and 2023 interim dividend

•  Approved two share buy-back programmes

•  Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, the 

Group’s major investment programmes in 2023

•  Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, investor 

relations matters

•  Approved the Group’s 2022 Country-by-Country Reporting 

disclosures

Spotlight
Dividend payments and  
share buy-backs

In 2023, the Board approved two dividend payments and two 
ordinary share buy-back programmes. As part of its decision-
making process, the Board noted the importance of approving 
distributions and other capital management activities within 
an appropriately prudent framework. Assurance was also 
sought from management regarding the protection of the 
Group’s capital position and its ability to execute planned 
investment activities for future growth. By November 2023, 
the two share buy-back programmes initiated during the year 
successfully completed approximately $2 billion in shareholder 
returns for 2023, complemented by a total dividend payment 
of $569 million. This progress brings us closer to our goal of 
achieving at least $5 billion in shareholder returns by 2024. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and 
governments

Investors

 People, culture and values

•  Approved the Group’s 2022 Modern Slavery Statement

•  Approved the Group’s refreshed Code of Conduct and Ethics

•  Discussed progress made against the Group’s people 

strategy and culture aspirations

•  Discussed aspects of the Group’s global employee 

engagement survey, My Voice

•  Received updates on the progression and evolution  

of the Management Team’s and senior management’s 
succession plans following a number of recent 
appointments

•  Discussed the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives

•  Reviewed the Board Diversity Policy

•  Approved changes to the Group’s operational  

resilience strategy

•  Reviewed an annual report update on the operation and 
effectiveness of the Group’s Speaking Up programme

Spotlight
Culture of Excellence

The Board considered the Group’s People Strategy and 
discussed the extent to which objectives could be 
introduced to better measure the transformation of the 
organisation. They discussed with management the 
Group’s culture aspiration, which is to encourage a culture of 
ambition, action and accountability, improve operational 
efficiency and drive client centricity through a culture of 
high performance and execution. The Board noted the 
importance of the People Strategy to the success of the 
transformation of the business, and ultimately the delivery 
of the Group’s strategic objectives.

Stakeholders

Clients

Employees

Society

 External environment

•  Received updates on the macroeconomic headwinds  
and tailwinds in the global economy, including an 
assessment of the impact on the key drivers of the  
Group’s financial performance

•  Received internal and external briefings and input  

across a range of subjects, including:

–  global market trends

–  the global macro impact of geopolitical uncertainties  

in the Middle East 

–  China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic 

–  Russia-Ukraine war

–  China/ US tensions

–  societal and business implications of global 

demographic trends

–  strategic insights into global markets, geopolitics and 

policy

–  regulatory developments and updates

Spotlight
Global market trends 

The Board invited a number of internal experts and guest 
speakers to attend Board dinners providing important and 
specialist insight and context to the Board discussion on a 
variety of matters. Geopolitical uncertainties and global 
market trends were among the topics which were covered 
this year.

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and  
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees 

147

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued

 Governance

•  Monitored developments and trends in corporate 

governance, focusing on changes proposed by the UK 
Government, FRC and Hong Kong Stock Exchange

•  Noted and/or approved changes to the membership of the 

Board’s committees, including the appointment of Linda Yueh 
as the new Committee Chair of the CSC

•  Received reports at each scheduled meeting from the Board 
committee chairs on key areas of focus for the committees 
and quarterly updates from Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited (SCBHK) and its Audit and Board Risk 
committees

•  Undertook training on directors’ duties and the governance 

landscape

•  Discussed and reviewed the independence, performance and 

annual re-election of the non-executive directors

•  Approved the re-appointment of the independent adviser to 

the Board on cyber security and cyber threats

•  Approved the replacement of the independent adviser to the 
Board on financial crime with an annual externally-facilitated 
session on financial crime risk

•  Authorised potential conflicts of interest relating to directors’ 

external appointments

•  Discussed the observations and themes arising from the 2023 
internal Board and committees’ effectiveness review ahead of 
approving the 2024 Action Plan

•  Reviewed, and where appropriate, approved updates to the 

Terms of Reference for each Board committee

•  Further developed meaningful linkages between the Board 

and its subsidiaries at chair, board and committee level

  Shareholder and  
stakeholder engagement

•  Engaged with investors, held meetings with brokers, discussed 

the views of institutional shareholders

•  Discussed and reviewed the approach to engaging investors 
and other relevant stakeholders ahead of the 2023 AGM 

•  Engaged with clients, shareholders and regulators
•  Engaged with colleagues around the business throughout  

the year

•  Hosting a stewardship event, with a focus on strategy, 

including sustainability

•  Received bi-annual updates from Investor Relations, including 
share price and valuation analysis, market engagement and 
ownership analysis and sell-side sentiment

Spotlight
Appointment of the Group 
Chief Financial Officer

In 2023, the GNC led the search process for a successor 
to Andy Halford as GCFO. The GNC oversaw a 
robust search and assessment process, conducted in 
conjunction with executive search firm Russell Reynolds, 
which resulted in some exceptionally talented internal 
and external candidates being interviewed and 
considered. Diego De Giorgi emerged as the preferred 
choice, and joined the Group as GCFO Designate in 
September 2023. He received a thorough induction 
and training programme, meeting colleagues 
and other stakeholders from around the Group’s 
footprint. Following regulatory approval, Diego’s 
appointment as GCFO took effect on 3 January 2024. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and  
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees 

Spotlight

Stewardship Event 

The Group Chairman welcomed external investors 
to our annual stewardship event in November 
2023, alongside the chairs of the Board Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. The event took a hybrid 
format and was attended by investors representing 
43 per cent of the Group’s shareholders by value. 
The Group Chairman provided an update regarding 
the Group’s strategy, including with respect to 
sustainability, and was supplemented by opening 
remarks from the Remuneration Committee Chair. The 
Audit Committee Chair also discussed key updates on 
the activities of the Audit and Board Risk Committees 
during the year. This was followed by a Q&A session.

Stakeholders

Investors

For a detailed overview of our strategy see pages 24 and 25

148

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceBoard and committee structure: decisions, responsibilities and delegation of authority

Standard Chartered PLC

Audit Committee

Board Risk Committee

Culture and Sustainability 
Committee

Governance and  
Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

The Board sets the Company’s purpose, values and strategy. Under the Board’s Terms 
of Reference, it is collectively responsible to shareholders for the governance, strategic 
direction and performance of the Company and the delivery of sustainable value within 
a framework of prudent and effective controls to which the Company’s culture is aligned. 
The Board is responsible for understanding the views and interests of key stakeholders and 
for considering those views and interests during Board discussions and decision-making. 
It is responsible for overseeing the Group’s conduct and affairs and for promoting its long-
term sustainable success. 

The Board discharges its responsibilities directly or, in order to ensure effective independent 
oversight and stewardship, delegates specified responsibilities to its committees. 

Detail of how the Board fulfilled its responsibilities in 2023, as well as key topics discussed 
and considered by the Board committees, can be found in this Directors’ report.

Biographies for each director are set out on pages 137 to 141

The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight and review of 
matters relating to financial reporting, the Group’s internal 
controls, including internal financial controls, and the work 
undertaken by the Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance, 
Group Internal Audit and the Group’s Statutory Auditor, Ernst & 
Young LLP (EY).

The Board Risk Committee is responsible for oversight and review 
of the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, the appropriateness  
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems and 
the principal risks, including Climate Risk, to the Group’s business. 
Furthermore, it considers the implications of material regulatory 
change proposals and due diligence on material acquisitions  
and disposals.

The Culture and Sustainability Committee is responsible for 
oversight and review of the Group’s culture and sustainability 
priorities.

The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible for 
oversight and review of Board and executive succession, overall 
Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues.

The Remuneration Committee is responsible for oversight and 
review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives.

Read more  
on page 162

Read more  
on page 168

Read more  
on page 174

Read more  
on page 177

Read more  
on page 182

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Group Chief 
Executive

The Board delegates authority for the operational management of the Group’s business  
to the Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters that are 
necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business. The Board 
holds the Group Chief Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.

Management Team

The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, regional CEOs, client segment CEOs, and our global function heads.  
It has responsibility for executing the strategy. Details of the Group’s Management Team 
can be found on pages 142 to 144.

Terms of Reference for the Board and each committee are in place to provide clarity over where responsibility for decision- 
making lies. These are reviewed annually against industry best practice and corporate governance provisions and guidance, 
including the PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Responsibilities (as amended).

With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee (where the Group Chairman is its Chair) all of the Board 
committees are composed of INEDs who bring a diversity of skills, experience and knowledge to the discussion.

Written Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

149

 
Our Board committees
The Board places significant reliance on its committees by 
delegating a broad range of responsibilities and issues to 
them. It therefore remains crucial that effective linkages are 
in place between the committees and the Board as a whole, 
not least as it is impracticable for all INEDs to be members of 
all of the committees. Mechanisms are in place to facilitate 
these linkages, including ensuring that there are no gaps 
or unnecessary duplications between the remit of each 
committee and overlapping membership between Board 
committees where necessary. Alongside interconnected 
committee membership, the Board regularly receives a  
written summary of each of the committee’s meetings,  
and verbal updates at the Board, where appropriate.

Further details on each committee, including their oversight 
and focus during 2023, can be found in the Board committee 
reports starting on page 162.

Our Board meetings
The Board is committed to maintaining a comprehensive 
schedule of meetings and a forward agenda to ensure its time 
is used most effectively and efficiently, and is supported by the 
Group Company Secretary to facilitate this. Flexibility in the 
programme is important and permits key items to be added 
to any agenda so that the Board can focus on evolving and 
important matters at the most appropriate time.

Performance against delivery of the agreed key financial 
priorities is reviewed at every scheduled meeting, with 
particular reference to the detailed Group management 
accounts. The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief 
Financial Officer comment on current trading, business 
performance, the market, colleagues, relevant stakeholders, 
and regulatory and external developments at each scheduled 
meeting, and present comparative data and client insight.

In addition, the Group Chief Risk Officer periodically attends 
meetings to update the Board on key risks.

The Group Chairman holds INED-only meetings ahead 
of each scheduled Board meeting, which provides the 
opportunity for discussion on key agenda items and other 
matters without the executive directors and management 
present.

Sir Iain Lobban and Paul Khoo, as independent advisers to the 
Board and its committees on cyber security and cyber threat 
management and financial crime respectively, attended a 
combination of Board and committee meetings to provide  
an independent and current view on the Group’s progress in 
this area. 

Board activities during 2023

January

February 

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

October

November  December

Key:

Scheduled meeting

Ad hoc meeting

Informal session

AGM

150

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance 
 
Board composition, roles and attendance in 2023

The Group Chairman is committed to 
ensuring optimal Board effectiveness.  
A key mechanism to drive this is the 
appropriate composition and balance  
of the Board.

The Board is composed of a majority of independent non-
executive directors who provide an independent perspective, 
constructive challenge, and monitor the performance and 
delivery of the strategy within the Risk Appetite and controls 
set by the Board.

Detail regarding Board diversity can be found within the Governance  
and Nomination Committee report on pages 177 to 181

Group Chairman

Executive directors

Group Chairman
José Viñals

Group Chief Executive 
Bill Winters

Group Chief Financial Officer 
Andy Halford

Responsibilities
Responsible for leading the Board, ensuring 
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role  
and developing the Group’s culture with  
the Group Chief Executive. Promotes high 
standards of integrity and governance 
across the Group and ensures effective 
communication and understanding 
between the Board, management, 
shareholders and wider stakeholders.

Responsibilities
Responsible for the management of 
all aspects of the Group’s businesses, 
developing the strategy in conjunction  
with the Group Chairman and the Board 
and leading its implementation.

Responsibilities
Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury, 
Strategy, Group Corporate Development, 
Group Investor Relations, Property and Supply 
Chain Management functions.

As announced on 21 December 2023, Diego 
De Giorgi succeeded Andy as Group Chief 
Financial Officer on 3 January 2024.

Attendance

Attendance

Attendance

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Independent non‑executive directors

Senior Independent Director 
Maria Ramos

Responsibilities
Provides a sounding board for the Group 
Chairman and discusses concerns that 
are unable to be resolved through the 
normal channels or where such contact 
would be inappropriate with shareholders 
and other stakeholders. Chairs the 
Governance and Nomination Committee 
when considering succession of the Group 
Chairman. Is available to shareholders 
if they have concerns that cannot be 
resolved or for which the normal channels 
would be inappropriate. Can be contacted 
via the Group Company Secretary at 
1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD.

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Attendance

Y

8/8

1/1

Attendance

AGM Scheduled Ad hoc

 David Conner

 Gay Huey Evans, CBE

 Phil Rivett

 David Tang

 Shirish Apte

 Robin Lawther, CBE

 Jackie Hunt

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

 Jasmine Whitbread

N/A

3/3

 Linda Yueh, CBE

 Carlson Tong

Y

Y

8/8

8/8

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

INEDs who 
stepped down in 
2023

Christine Hodgson 
and Jasmine 
Whitbread stepped 
down from the 
Board on 31 January 
2023 and 3 May 
2023 respectively.  
No Board meetings 
took place in 2023 
prior to Christine 
leaving the Board.

INEDs who 
joined in 2023

Linda Yueh joined 
the Board on 
1 January 2023.

Board committee roles and attendance 
can be found in the committee sections 
starting from page 162.

The biographies of each director are set 
out on pages 137 to 141

Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023. 
Further information can be found on page 139

The roles of the Group Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive are distinct from 
one another and are clearly defined in 
detailed role descriptions which can be 
viewed at sc.com/roledescriptions

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

151

 
Director induction
Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023. Her 
experience can be found in her biography on page 139. 
Along with Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, who 
were all appointed in 2022, the new directors were given a 
comprehensive induction programme, tailored to meet each 
director’s individual level of experience and expertise. 

Diego De Giorgi was appointed as Group Chief Financial 
Officer on 3 January 2024, following the retirement of 
Andy Halford on 2 January 2024. Diego received in-depth 
handovers from Andy, which included a period of shadowing 
from September 2023 to January 2024. As well as numerous 
tailored, individual training sessions, Diego also attended 
formal training sessions on topics including Directors’ Duties 
(on 20 September 2023), Climate Risk (on 28 September 2023), 
Trading Activity Wind-Down Governance (on 28 September 
2023), Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) litigation 
(on 30 November 2023), ICS Horizon Scanning (on 5 December 
2023) and Directors’ Duties applicable to directors of Hong 
Kong-listed companies (on 14 December 2023). Following 
his relevant training provided by a firm of solicitors on 
14 December 2023, Diego confirmed his understanding of  
the obligations as a director of a listed issuer pursuant to  
Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules. 

The Group Company Secretary supports new directors 
as they undertake their induction programmes, which are 
typically completed within the first six to twelve months of 
their appointment. The induction programmes are regularly 
reviewed and take into account directors’ feedback to ensure 
continuous development and improvement.

Progress against induction programmes
The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible 
for periodically reviewing the induction programme of all 
new INEDs, to understand the level of progress made and 
to consider where any areas of additional focus might be 
required. The Committee is satisfied that all new INEDs have 
made good progress completing induction work, both in 
London and as part of overseas Board visits to our markets. 

2023 director training overview

Ongoing development plans
Continuous training and development beyond a director’s 
induction plan is essential for maintaining a highly engaged, 
effective and well-informed Board. Ongoing development 
plans also help ensure directors lead with integrity and 
promote the Group’s culture, purpose and values.

Mandatory learning and training are important elements of 
directors’ fitness and propriety assessments as required under 
the UK Senior Managers and Certification Regime. During 
the year, all directors received a combination of mandatory 
learning and training, internal and external briefings, 
presentations from guest speakers, and papers on a wide 
range of topics to ensure the directors are well informed and 
that the Board remains highly effective. The table below gives 
further detail on who received these briefings. 

In 2023, Board members received briefings from and engaged 
with leading diplomats, former national security advisers, 
former leaders of international organisations and economists 
on topics including China’s emergence from the COVID 
pandemic, the evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle 
East, and the global macroeconomic environment. 

The Board committee members also received specific 
training relevant to the work of their respective committees. 
In 2023, the Board Risk Committee received training on topics 
including: Threat Scenario-led Risk Assessment, Trading 
Activity Wind-Down Governance, Operational Risk and the 
implications of Basel 3.1. 

The Group Chairman reviews with each director their training 
and development needs both in real time and as part of 
the annual performance cycle. Where it is recognised that 
the Board or individual directors need further training or 
development in key areas, additional sessions are arranged 
with subject matter experts.

Directors’ duties 
and regulatory 
updates

Induction1

Digital  
assets

Climate Risk

ICS Horizon 
Scanning 
Emerging Risks

José Viñals

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Shirish Apte2

David Conner

Gay Huey Evans, CBE

Jackie Hunt2

Robin Lawther, CBE2

Maria Ramos

Phil Rivett

David Tang

Carlson Tong

Jasmine Whitbread3

Linda Yueh, CBE2

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1  Applicable to directors who received induction training during 2023

  Director attended the session

2  Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh joined the Board on 

4 May 2022, 1 July 2022, 1 October 2022 and 1 January 2023 respectively

3   Jasmine Whitbread stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2023

   Director was unable to attend the session but received any accompanying 
material and had opportunities to raise questions and observations with the 
Group Chairman and Group Company Secretary

152

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceAll of the directors have access to the advice of the Group 
Company Secretary, who provides support to the Board and  
is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters. 
Directors also have access to independent, professional 
advice at the Group’s expense where they judge it necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities as directors. 

Directors’ performance
The Group Chairman led the evaluation of individual director 
performance during 2023. These one-to-one sessions 
considered:

•  their performance against core competencies and their 

individual effectiveness

•  their time commitment to the Group, including (where 
relevant) the potential impact of any outside interests

•  their ongoing development and training needs

•  the Board’s composition, taking into account when each 

INED envisaged stepping down from the Board

•  the current and future committee membership and 

structure

•  their engagement across the Group.

These performance reviews are used as the basis for 
recommending the re-election of directors by shareholders 
at the 2024 AGM and to assist the Group Chairman with 
his assessment of the INEDs’ competencies. In addition, the 
Group Chairman has responsibility for assessing annually the 
fitness and propriety of the Company’s INEDs and the Group 
Chief Executive Officer under the Senior Managers Regime. 
These assessments were carried out in respect of each INED 
and the Group Chief Executive and no issues in relation to 
fitness and propriety were identified.

Group Chairman’s performance
Maria Ramos, as Senior Independent Director, reviewed José 
Viñals’ performance as Group Chairman, meeting with each 
director separately to take their feedback. Consolidated 
feedback was shared with him.

Time commitment
Our INEDs commit sufficient time in discharging their 
responsibilities as directors of Standard Chartered. In general, 
we estimate that each INED spent approximately 40 to 90 
days on Board-related duties.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

153

 
Directors’ report

Corporate governance

Spotlight

Interview with Dr Linda Yueh

An insight into one of our new INEDs

Dr Linda Yueh  
Independent Non-Executive Director

Q. What drew you to Standard Chartered  
and have your initial impressions aligned with 
your experiences as an INED one year on?
A. One of the key things that attracted me to Standard 
Chartered was the Group’s culture and its people. Prior to 
my appointment, I had a number of discussions with several 
directors, including the Group Chairman, who offered insights 
into serving on the Board of a global financial institution. I 
was particularly impressed with their willingness to listen and 
engage collaboratively in constructive discourse over issues of 
importance to the Group. One year on, I’m pleased to say that 
I am working with a great group of people from a variety of 
backgrounds, who possess strong skills and industry-leading 
experience in their respective fields. In my role as Chair of the 
Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC), I am able to 
actively engage with the issues around culture that are central 
to a people business. This has been particularly rewarding.

Q. How effective have you found your  
induction programme in preparing you as an 
INED and for the Standard Chartered Board  
and committee discussions?
A. The induction programme, designed to be undertaken 
over several months, is extensive and well-designed. As my 
knowledge of the Group grew, my induction meetings became 
a mixture of introductions and substantive discussions, which 
worked well. I met with various employees and stakeholders 
around the Group, which provided a great opportunity to 
listen to, and understand, a number of different aspects of the 
bank. The induction programme also included joint sessions 
with other INEDs who joined the Board in 2022. These joint 
induction sessions were extremely helpful, as we learned 
from each other’s perspectives and got to know each other 
better through the process. In addition, I joined part of the BRC 
meetings as an observer, on discussions covering topics such 
as reputation and sustainability risks, which dovetail into the 
work of the CSC. I also travelled with the Board to Hong Kong, 
Seoul and Singapore and undertook part of my induction in 
these overseas locations. Market visits are a helpful part of the 
induction programme and provide important commercial and 
regulatory context, which helped me to better understand the 
global nature of Standard Chartered’s business. 

Q. As the new chair of the Culture and 
Sustainability Committee, what do you see as  
its key priorities over the next five years?

A. It is a privilege to chair the CSC and to help define the 
priorities of the Group in areas which lie at the heart of  
our organisation and inform everything that we do. 

154

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

In terms of culture, our priorities include embedding a high-
performance culture, whereby our people can excel and do so 
in prudent ways. Diversity and inclusion are essential building 
blocks which will go a long way in ensuring that our employees 
can succeed and thrive. Another key component to driving a 
healthy culture is through embedding valued behaviours, such 
as risk awareness, into the Group’s culture. 

In terms of sustainability, our key priorities include achieving 
the Group’s net zero transition pathway, with particular focus 
being placed on ensuring that the milestones are clearly 
defined, measured and delivered. In addition, biodiversity and 
other emerging issues around safeguarding our planet will 
also be in focus in the coming years. 

Q. How important is a company’s culture to 
you and what are your views on the culture at 
Standard Chartered?
A. Standard Chartered is a people business, so culture is 
central to its success and ability to contribute positively to our 
stakeholders, including clients, investors, employees and wider 
society. The Group is a global institution with footprints in 
over 52 markets, so it is particularly important that INEDs and 
executive directors continually engage with our stakeholders 
and always remain sensitive to the cultural and business 
context in which particular issues arise in individual markets. In 
the year I’ve been on the Board, I have been impressed by the 
focus on culture and the thoughtfulness of the Group in this 
area that is not straightforward to manage. 

Q. As an INED, how do you build connections and 
maintain relationships with our key stakeholders?
A. Delivering for our stakeholders is an area I have placed 
great focus on. I am pleased that the CSC has been refocused 
on supporting the Board’s engagement notably with our 
employees, communities, suppliers and shareholders. For 
instance, our relationship with our colleagues has been 
strengthened by honing our Board workforce engagement 
sessions this year. During our workforce engagement sessions, 
which regularly take place as part of the Board’s overseas 
market visits as well as in the Group’s London headquarters, 
INEDs will spend time with colleagues to understand the 
areas in which the business excels, and also the areas where 
the My Voice survey scores are below average. With those 
insights, the CSC and the Board can have informed follow-up 
discussions, where we can reflect and act upon what we have 
heard to continually improve the Group’s operations.

Board effectiveness

The 2023 Board and committees’ effectiveness review was 
conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company 
Secretary, and in accordance with the UK Code.

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions to be 
achieved following the externally facilitated Board evaluation 
conducted in 2022. The 2023 Action Plan was regularly 
reviewed during the year and good progress had been made 
against many of the actions as evidenced by this year’s 
internally facilitated Board effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

•  The Board remains effective at testing and 

•  The Board engaged well with a range of key 

shaping the Group’s strategy.

stakeholders at different levels.

•  Board meetings had focused well on business 
opportunities with a good level of discussion 
and challenge, which helped to set strategic 
priorities.

•  The Board has a comprehensive understanding 
of the Group’s principal risks and explores them 
extensively.

2024 Action Plan

•  Review the length and focus of Board papers, 
ensuring a focus on key points for the Board  
to understand, discuss, challenge and agree  
on actions.

•  Evaluate the balance of topics on the Board 
agenda to maximise time allocation and 
focus on key strategic items, challenges and 
commercial opportunities.

•   The Board agenda had accommodated the 

impact of emerging geopolitical vulnerabilities 
and the evolving macroeconomic landscape.

•  The management of the transition of new 
INEDs on the Board had been handled well.

•  Enhance measurement of progress on the 

Group’s engagement with its key stakeholders.

•  Continue to enhance the sustainability aspect 

of the Board’s education programme.

Internal evaluation process 

Review approach 
agreed 

Questionnaires 
completed

Evaluation  
and report

Findings shared with 
committee Chairs 
and committees

Findings discussed with  
the Group Chairman and 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee

Board discussion and agreed  
Action Plan for 2024

155

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDetails of the directors’ external directorships can be found 
in their biographies on pages 137 to 141. Before committing to 
an additional appointment, directors confirm the existence of 
any potential or actual conflicts, that the role will not breach 
their limit as set out by the PRA, and provide the necessary 
assurance that the appointment will not adversely impact 
their ability to continue to fulfil their role as a director of the 
Company. All directors continue to hold no more than four 
non-executive directorships (or one executive directorship 
alongside two non-executive directorships) permitted under 
the General Organisational Requirements Part of the PRA 
Rulebook.

Our established internal processes ensure that directors 
do not undertake any new external appointments without 
first receiving formal approval of the Board. The Board has 
delegated authority to make such approvals to the Group 
Chairman, with the exception of his own appointments. Of 
those INEDs who took on new external directorships during 
the year, two were regarded as significant directorships 
(appointed to the board of a listed company) and as 
such were announced to the market in line with our listing 
obligations. Further detail on the specific appointments are 
provided below:

•  Carlson Tong was appointed to the board of Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange as a Board member on 23 April 2023.

•  Jackie Hunt was appointed to the Board of Willis Towers 

Watson plc as an independent non-executive director on  
1 April 2023.

The two directors discussed their respective appointments 
with the Group Chairman in advance of accepting the 
positions. Each director confirmed the existence of any 
potential or actual conflicts; provided assurance that the 
respective roles would not breach their limits as set out by 
the PRA; and confirmed that their appointments would not 
impact their abilities to devote sufficient time and focus to 
both their Board and committee responsibilities.

2023 Board effectiveness review
This year’s review took the form of a questionnaire-based 
evaluation for the Board and its committees which was 
completed by every Board member. These questionnaires 
explored some of the themes for the previous year’s review 
as well as probing the Board’s and committees’ performance 
through the year. 

The results were compiled into a detailed report and 
conclusions were discussed with the Group Chairman and 
by the Governance and Nomination Committee ahead of 
a Board discussion. At the Board meeting, the key findings 
and recommendations were presented along with an Action 
Plan for 2024, which was then approved. Details of the key 
observations from this year’s review and the agreed Action 
Plan are set out on page 155.

The Board’s five committees were also included as part of the 
effectiveness review. The observations and key themes arising 
from the review were shared with the relevant committee 
Chairs before being circulated to each of the committees and 
action plans for 2024 agreed. Details of the key observations 
and action plans for each of the committees can be found 
within each of the committees’ reports.

Director independence
The GNC reviews the independence of each of the non-
executive directors, taking into account any circumstances 
likely to impair, or which could impair, their independence. 
Recommendations are then made to the Board for further 
consideration.

In determining the independence of a non-executive director, 
the Board considers each individual against the criteria set 
out in the UK Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules and also 
considers their contribution and conduct at Board meetings, 
including how they demonstrate objective judgement and 
independent thinking.

The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be 
independent of Standard Chartered, concluding that there 
are no relationships or circumstances likely to impair any 
INED’s judgement.

External directorships and other business 
interests
Board members hold external directorships and other outside 
business interests. We recognise the significant benefits 
that broader boardroom exposure provides for our directors. 
However, we closely monitor the nature and quantity of 
external directorships our directors hold, in order to satisfy 
ourselves that any additional appointments will not adversely 
impact their time commitment to their role at Standard 
Chartered, and to ensure that all of our Board members 
remain compliant with the PRA directorship requirements, as 
well as the shareholder advisory groups’ individual guidance 
on ‘overboarding’. These requirements impose a limit on 
the number of directorships both executive and INEDs are 
permitted to hold.

156

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceStakeholder 
engagement

Ensuring authentic engagement 
across our markets

Investors

Clients

Suppliers

Regulators and 
governments

Society

Employees

The Board recognises the importance of stakeholder 
consideration and interaction. It forms a crucial part of Board 
decisions and discussions, as well as the review of our purpose, 
values and strategy.

Board activities led to a number of invaluable opportunities to 
engage with stakeholders across the Group’s diverse network, 
including those identified on the following pages. Directors 
did not just engage collectively with stakeholders, but also 
individually. The Remuneration, Culture and Sustainability, 
Board Risk and Audit Committees also engaged directly with 
employees. Informal and formal sessions with stakeholders 
across our footprint help provide INEDs and independent 
adviser members with a comprehensive understanding of the 
Group’s market operations, implementation of strategy, and 
the external and internal impact of the Group’s activities.

Further detail regarding the Board’s engagement with our 
stakeholders can be found on the following pages. Detail 
regarding how Board committees and their members 
engaged with stakeholders can be found in the committee 
report sections starting from page 162.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Chairman and INED travel across our markets

The Chairman and 
INEDs, either together or 
individually, visited  
a range of markets.

 Europe and  
the Americas

1.  Germany 
2.   Poland 
3.  UK 
4.  US

 Africa and  
Middle East

5.  Ghana 
6.  Kenya 
7.  South Africa 
8.  UAE

  Asia

9. 

 China, including  
Hong Kong
10.  Indonesia 
11.   Japan 
12.   South Korea 
13.   Malaysia 
14.   Singapore 
15.   Vietnam

4

3

2

1

5

8

6

7

11

12

9

13

15

14

10

3. London, United 
Kingdom
In September 2023, the 
Board and committees 
held their meetings in 
London. The Board was 
joined by UK-based 
colleagues for an informal 
top talent lunch at which 
colleagues shared their 
experiences of working 
at Standard Chartered. 
The Board also heard 
from other UK colleagues 
through the employee 
townhall, held to mark 
170 years of Standard 
Chartered’s presence in 
the UK. Board members 
also met with the UK PRA, 
and Hong Kong Trade 
Development Council  
in London. 

9. Hong Kong, China 
The Board and 
committees held their 
meetings in Hong Kong in 
March 2023. During this 
visit, the Board met with 
clients, colleagues, senior 
government officials and 
regulators. An informal 
top talent lunch was 
held where the Board 
met with employees 
from Hong Kong 
representing different 
functions and discussed 
the goals, challenges 
and opportunities of the 
business. The Board also 
took the opportunity to 
visit Mox Bank, the Group’s 
virtual bank in Hong Kong 
and hosted a client dinner.

10. Jakarta, Indonesia
In June 2023, the Board 
travelled to Jakarta. 
During this visit, the Board 
took the opportunity to 
meet with a wide range 
of stakeholders, including 
informal discussions 
with senior leaders, 
other colleagues at 
the bank as well as top 
government officials. 
The Board also hosted 
an employee townhall 
and concluded the visit 
with a client dinner 
celebrating 160 year of 
Standard Chartered’s 
presence in Indonesia. 

12. Seoul,  
South Korea
The Board held its 
November meetings 
in Seoul. The week’s 
programme began with 
a global townhall, with 
colleagues around the 
world tuning in virtually. 
The Board also hosted 
a talent lunch and met 
with colleagues based 
in Korea. As part of the 
trip, the Board met with 
clients, top government 
officials, and local 
regulators, and engaged 
with local entrepreneurs 
for a community 
engagement session.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

157

 
 
 
The Board’s engagement with investors

Our approach
Aiming to deliver robust returns and long-term, 
sustainable value for shareholders is of key importance 
to the Board. We continuously reflect on how the Board 
engages with our investors, openly seeking feedback and 
reviewing previous activities. We believe this strengthens 
engagements and helps support the Board’s focus on 
developing open and trusted relationships with investors.

During the year, we maintained a comprehensive 
programme of engagement, including with investor 
advisory bodies and credit rating agencies, and provided 
updates on progress made to transform our business for 
improved returns.

The Group Chairman and other Board directors had direct 
contact with investors and advisory voting bodies during 
the year, and received regular updates from the Investor 
Relations team, including reports on market developments. 
The Group Chairman, as part of his role, leads engagement 
with shareholders and hosted the 2023 AGM alongside 
fellow Board members. The Group Chairman and certain 
Board members also held an investor stewardship event. 

Maria Ramos, our Senior Independent Director, was 
available as an alternative point of contact for shareholders.

Bill Winters and Andy Halford were the primary 
spokespeople for the Group in 2023. Throughout the year 
they engaged extensively with existing shareholders 
and potential new investors during individual or group 
meetings and conferences, either in person or virtually. 
Diego De Giorgi has replaced Andy, following his 
retirement, in this regard from January 2024. In addition, 
Ben Hung, CEO Asia hosted investors and analysts in 
Asia aimed at promoting greater awareness of our 
strategy and progress in that region. Various members 
of the Group’s Management Team also participated 
in investor conferences throughout the year.

Institutional shareholders
The Group maintains a diverse, high-quality and 
predominantly institutional shareholder base. The Investor 
Relations team has primary responsibility for managing 
day-to-day communications with these shareholders 
and provides support to the Group Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other 
Board members and senior management in conducting 
a comprehensive engagement programme.

Presentation material and webcast transcripts are made available 
on the Group’s website and can be viewed at sc.com/investors

Investor stewardship event
The Group Chairman hosted a stewardship event in 
November 2023 alongside the chairs of the Board 
Audit and Remuneration committees. The Group 
Chairman provided an update regarding the Group’s 
strategy, including with respect to sustainability, which 
was supplemented by opening remarks from the 
Remuneration Committee Chair. The Audit Committee 
Chair also provided updates on both the Audit and Risk 
committees and their activities during the year. This 
was followed by a Q&A session. Questions could be 
submitted in advance of the event, asked live in person 
or via a web-based platform for those who joined 
electronically.

Debt investors and credit rating agencies
Our Debt Investor Relations team has primary responsibility 
for managing the Group’s relationships with debt investors 
and the three major rating agencies, with local market chief 
executives and chief financial officers leading on smaller 
subsidiary ratings. In 2023, management met with debt 
investors across the regions, and maintained a regular 
dialogue with the rating agencies.

It is important that the Group, as an active issuer of senior 
unsecured and non-equity capital, maintains regular 
contact with debt investors to ensure continued appetite  
for the Group’s credit. The Group’s credit ratings are a key 
part of the external perception of our financial strength  
and creditworthiness.

Further information can be viewed at sc.com/investors

Engagement with investors: what we did during 2023

February
2022 full-year 
results and 
roadshows

March
Conferences and 
roadshows

April
2023 first quarter 
results and 
conferences

May
AGM, Asia 
seminar and 
conferences

June
Conferences

July
2023 half-year 
results 

August
Roadshows

September
Conferences and  
roadshows

October
2023 third-quarter  
results

November
Stewardship event, 
sustainability event  
and conferences

December
Conferences 

158

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceThe Board’s engagement with investors

Retail shareholders
The Group Company Secretary oversees communication with our retail shareholders.

AGM
The meeting was held on 3 May 2023. We were pleased 
that in addition to in-person attendance, we offered 
shareholders the opportunity to participate electronically 
via a live web portal. Within this portal, shareholders were 
able to view a live video feed of the AGM, submit voting 
instructions and questions in writing or ask them through 
an audio line. Shareholders who attended the meeting 
in person were able to submit voting instructions and ask 
questions directly.

The AGM is a key date in the Board’s calendar and the 
hybrid format ensured that shareholders could engage 
with them regarding the Company’s recent performance 
and strategic priorities. Questions received from 
shareholders covered a diverse range of topics, including 
climate and the Group’s net zero pathway; diversity; the 
Group’s strategy; director remuneration; shareholder 
engagement; share price and regulatory developments.

All Board-proposed resolutions were passed, with 
shareholder support for each ranging from 94.70 per cent 
to 100 per cent. We remain very grateful for the support 
of our shareholders.

Detail regarding the directors’ remuneration report 
resolution can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report starting on page 182. Further detail on how the 
Group engaged with investors more generally can be 
found on page 57.

Voting results from the 2023 AGM can be viewed at 
sc.com/investors

A summary of responses to questions on key themes 
raised by shareholders was made available on our website 
after the meeting and can be found at sc.com/agm

The Board’s engagement with clients and suppliers

Clients are central to everything we do and promoting 
productive, sustainable relationships with them is a key 
priority. In 2023, Board members, either collectively or 
individually, met clients face-to-face or virtually to keep 
abreast of developing client trends, experiences and needs. 
As part of our overseas Board programme, members of 
the Board also travelled within our footprint for meetings 
with clients and hosted client dinners throughout the year. 
In addition, updates on clients’ insights form part of deep 
dives into product segment strategy at Board meetings.

Suppliers provide efficient and sustainable goods and 
services for our business and certain members of the  
Board also met with them during the year. Detail on how  
the Group engaged more generally with clients and 
suppliers can be found on pages 55, 56, 58 and 59 of the 
Strategic report.

The Board’s engagement with regulators and governments

The Board, either collectively or individually, engaged 
with relevant authorities and regulators including in the 
UK, Hong Kong and South Korea to discuss key items 
and developments. Topics of discussion varied, including 
change management, Execution Risk, information and 
cybersecurity, Data Risk, Model Risk management, Climate 

Risk, Credit Risk and macroeconomic developments, 
resolvability, and risk-free rate transition. Further detail  
on how the Group engaged with regulators and 
governments more generally can be found on page 57  
of the Strategic report.

The Board’s engagement with society

The Board receives regular updates from management 
concerning the communities and environment in which  
we operate.

Either collectively or individually, directors were able to 
visit some of the Group’s markets this year. Directors 
participated in a volunteering day in Jakarta, where 
they taught four modules from our financial education 
programme to children aged 15–16. In Seoul, directors took 
part in a community engagement session where they 
facilitated a mock investment and solution challenge 
with three female start-up CEOs from our Women in 
Entrepreneurship programme. 

In addition, external and internal speakers provided input 
to the Board’s discussions, which covered key societal issues 
such as China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic, the 
evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle East, and the 
global macroeconomic environment. Further detail on how 
the Group engaged with society more generally can be 
found on page 59.

159

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportThe Board’s engagement and linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries

The Remuneration Committee Chair also held a 
videoconference attended by the subsidiary remuneration 
committee chairs and the chairs of subsidiary boards 
that have remuneration responsibilities. The call was 
also attended by the Group Chairman, other members 
of the Group Remuneration Committee and executives 
from Human Resources and Reward. The call fostered 
knowledge sharing and best practice between the Group 
Remuneration Committee and the subsidiary remuneration 
committees and raises awareness of the priorities felt by  
the wider workforce in our markets. Topics that were 
discussed included:

•  The Fair Pay Charter and recent benefits-related 

initiatives

•  Key focus areas for the 2023 year-end pay review and 

our drive to embed a high-performance culture through 
strong differentiation

•  Discussion on key focus areas for the subsidiaries

•  2024 priorities, including the development of a new 

recognition platform.

Other activities that took place during 2023 to further 
strengthen the linkages across the Group included  
the following:

•  The Group Chairman attended a SCBHK board meeting

•  The Chair of the Group Audit Committee attended an 
audit committee meeting of Standard Chartered Bank 
(Singapore) Limited (SCBSL). The audit committee 
chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL attended one Group Audit 
Committee Meeting

•  The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended a 

risk committee meeting of SCBHK. The risk committee 
chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL joined one Group Board Risk 
Committee meeting.

Further detail regarding how the Group engages with 
its stakeholders can be found on pages 54 to 64.

The Board and its committees recognise the importance 
of creating, maintaining and building upon appropriate 
linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries. In 2023, the Group 
Chairman and INEDs engaged with the Group’s subsidiaries 
through a number of forums. This included a video-enabled 
chair and committee chair engagement session, as well as 
other forms of interaction.

The Group Chairman hosted a virtual subsidiary chair 
engagement session during 2023. The event opened with 
an update from Bill Winters on the third-quarter results, 
progress against our strategic priorities, and areas of  
focus for the remainder of the year and going into 2024. 
The subsidiary chairs asked questions, both on the Group’s 
performance and questions specific to their markets. 
José Viñals then updated the subsidiary chairs on Board 
changes, areas of focus for the year so far at the PLC Board, 
and Board diversity. The Chairman finished his thoughts on 
the macro outlook and challenges for the Group into 2024. 

Committee chair engagement
The Audit Committee held its annual videoconference 
during the year, followed by a Q&A session. This was hosted 
by the Audit Committee Chair and attended by the Group 
Chairman and the chairs of subsidiary audit committees. 
The Group Financial Controller; Group Head, Internal Audit; 
Regional Head, Audit, Europe and the Americas, and Africa 
and the Middle East; Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime 
and Compliance; members of the Group’s statutory auditor, 
EY, including the lead audit partner; the Group Company 
Secretary and the Committee Secretary also participated  
in the call. Items discussed during the call included:

•  2023 Audit Committee focus areas

•  Group Finance update, which featured UK Audit and 
Corporate Governance reforms and likely impact on 
subsidiaries, IFRS 9 models, increased sustainability 
disclosure and an update on capitalised software

•  Conduct, financial crime and compliance update

•  Group Internal Audit reporting to subsidiary audit 

committees

•  Group statutory audit update from EY.

The Board Risk Committee Chair hosted the annual 
videoconference with chairs of the subsidiary board 
risk committees, followed by a Q&A session. The Group 
Chairman; Group Chief Risk Officer; Global Head of 
Enterprise Risk Management and Deputy Chief Risk Officer 
Standard Chartered Bank; the Group Company Secretary 
and Committee Secretary also participated in the call.

Items discussed during the call included:

•  2023 Board Risk Committee focus areas

•  Group Chief Risk Officer’s 2023 priorities

•  Update on Model and Treasury Risk.

160

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceThe Board’s engagement with employees

The Board places great importance on workforce 
engagement and values its interactions at all levels of the 
Group. Two-way dialogue through a variety of forums 
helps build the Board’s understanding of key issues and 
developments around its markets, as well as providing an 
insight into the hands-on experiences of colleagues.

The role of the Board is distinct from management, and 
the directors are aware of the importance of overseeing, 
supporting and, where necessary, challenging management 
in implementing its people strategy and ensuring that 
the voice of colleagues is heard and reflected in decision-
making. 

Following a review of the existing Board workforce 
engagement model by the CSC, an enhanced model 
involving more face-to-face colleague interaction was 
approved and implemented during the year. This enhances 
the model that was put in place immediately preceding the 
COVID pandemic and was reliant on virtual touchpoints. 
As part of these changes, the Board continues to adopt an 
alternative workforce engagement method as set out in the 
UK Code.

The enhanced model is designed to improve how Board 
members gather and share feedback obtained from 
colleagues, while paying special attention to expanding 
participation in engagement sessions to a more diverse 
set of voices. In 2023, the Board met colleagues in various 
markets, including Hong Kong, Jakarta, Seoul and London, 
with the enhanced model being trialled successfully in 
London, where the Board conducted informal listening 
sessions in September, and again as part of the Board’s trip 
to Seoul in November. Ahead of these informal listening 
sessions, directors were briefed on the individual market, 

including local trends provided by the annual employee 
engagement survey (My Voice) and other relevant data 
points offered by local and regional management teams. 
Following the listening sessions, feedback was subsequently 
shared with the CSC and other stakeholders, where 
appropriate. Through these sessions directors were able 
to appreciate the challenges, successes and concerns 
shared by colleagues in each of the markets. The Board will 
continue to implement our enhanced model of engagement 
in London and in three overseas markets which the Board 
plans to visit in 2024. 

In addition to this enhanced model, the Group has a 
comprehensive employee listening programme, through 
which the Board has an opportunity to understand diverse 
employee perspectives. These tools include the annual 
employee engagement survey, a continuous listening 
programme, lifecycle surveys and diagnostic research 
on specific areas of focus, such as flexible working and 
performance management. Details on all of our employee 
engagement can be found on page 60. 

The Board is also informed about the operation of the 
Speaking Up programme, including on the themes of 
employee concerns raised through Speaking Up, employee 
confidence level in Speaking Up and the programme’s usage 
volume. For more details on Speaking Up, please refer to 
page 131. Our Brand and Culture Dashboard has been in 
place since 2018 and provides a comprehensive overview 
of cultural change by reporting on several key metrics that 
allow us to monitor progress of our culture journey.

Further detail regarding employee engagement this 
year can be found within the Culture and Sustainability 
Committee report starting on page 174.

INTERNAL\Internal Recipient 

INED Kenya Visit  

161

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
 
 
 
 
Audit Committee

“In light of the challenging 
external environment, the 
Group’s investment in China 
Bohai Bank (Bohai), and the 
Group’s exposures to China 
Commercial Real Estate (CRE) 
in particular, was an area of 
significant focus.”

Committee composition

Phil 
Rivett 
(Chair) 

David 
Conner

Christine 
Hodgson,  
CBE1

Shirish 
Apte 

Jackie 
Hunt

Maria 
Ramos

Carlson 
Tong

8/8

8/8

1/1

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

1  Christine stepped down from the Committee on 1 May 2023.

I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023. This report sets out the areas of significant 
focus for the Committee and its activities over the course of the year. 
Throughout the year, the Committee has carefully scrutinised and 
challenged credit impairments, key accounting issues, significant 
accounting estimates and judgements made by management to 
ensure that they are appropriate and clearly communicated in the 
Group’s public disclosures. In light of the challenging external 
environment, the Group’s investment in China Bohai Bank (Bohai),  
and the Group’s exposures to China Commercial Real Estate (CRE) in 
particular, was an area of significant focus. The Committee reviewed 
carrying values for larger investments and management overlays.
Sovereign ratings and credit impairments have also been reviewed 
and discussed, including Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nigeria and Ghana.  
The Committee is mindful of the work of the BRC on emerging 
sovereign and country risks. The Audit Committee’s work during the 
year complemented the wider review undertaken by the BRC on 
sovereign and country risks. 
The Committee has been focused on the Group’s implementation 
plan addressing UK ACG reforms, including the FRC’s consultation on 
the UK Code and legislation published, and later withdrawn, by the 
UK government. In readiness for those proposals, work has been  
done on controls, process improvement and examining work already 
undertaken on stress testing, going concern and viability statements. 
Following its consultation, the FRC decided not to take forward a 
number of proposals. The Committee is considering which of the 
proposals the Group may decide to take forward on a voluntary  
basis. The updated UK Code was published in January 2024 and 
management is reviewing the implications and timings, with reporting 
being provided to the Committee regularly throughout the year.
As the Board-appointed Consumer Duty Champion, I am fully 
engaged on the progress of Standard Chartered Bank’s 
implementation plans, through regular briefings with the Consumer 
Duty Accountable Executive. The Committee also receives updates  
on Consumer Duty, including progress on agreed commitments  
and actions to ensure that Consumer Duty is fully embedded in  
our customer experience. 

162

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for oversight and advice to the  
Board on matters relating to financial, non-financial and narrative 
reporting. The Committee’s role is to review, on behalf of the Board, 
the Group’s internal controls, including internal financial controls. 
The Committee has exercised oversight of the work undertaken by 
the internal Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) and 
Group Internal Audit (GIA) functions and EY. The Committee Chair 
reports to the Board on the Committee’s key areas of focus 
following each meeting.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be  
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended 2023 Committee meetings?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief  
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate (from 
2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer; Group General Counsel; 
Group Head, Internal Audit; Group Head of CFCC; Group Head, 
Central Finance; representatives from Group Finance; Group 
Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary. Paul Khoo, 
independent adviser to the Board, attended a discussion on 
Financial Crime Compliance-related matters.

As part of, and in addition to most scheduled Committee  
meetings, the Committee held private members-only meetings. 
The Committee also met with the Group’s Statutory Auditor, EY  
and the Group Head, Internal Audit, without management being 
present. The Committee members have detailed and relevant 
experience and bring an independent mindset to their role.

The Board is satisfied that Phil Rivett has recent and relevant 
financial experience. Phil is a chartered accountant with over  
40 years’ experience of professional accountancy and audit 
focused on banks and insurance companies. He led the audits  
of a number of leading banks during his career as senior audit 
partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is also chair of the audit 
committee for Nationwide Building Society.

Biographical details of the Committee members can be 
viewed on pages 137 to 141

The Committee reviewed and discussed the refresh of the Group 
Code of Conduct and Ethics, and recommended this to the Board for 
endorsement. This was a substantial refresh, designed to provide a 
guide for colleague behaviour in a fast-changing world with new 
technologies including artificial intelligence, customer expectations 
and the shifting geopolitical landscape. We were keen to understand 
the roll-out and training that would be provided to fully embed this 
within the Group.
The Committee is cognisant of the benefits of engaging with broader 
stakeholders and updating them on the Committee’s priorities and 
activities. As Audit Committee Chair, I participated in the Group’s 
stewardship event in November 2023, where the work of the Audit 
Committee was discussed. Details on the stewardship event may be 
found on page 158.
The Committee has exercised its authority delegated by the Board for 
ensuring the integrity of the Group’s published financial information 
by discussing and challenging the judgements and disclosures made 
by management, and the assumptions and estimates on which they 
are based. The Committee has exercised judgement in deciding 
which of the issues it considered to be significant in the financial 
statements, and this report sets out the material matters that it has 
considered in these deliberations. 
As a result of the Committee’s work in 2023, assurance has been 
provided to the Board on the quality and appropriateness of the 
Group’s financial reporting, and on internal audit, compliance and 
regulatory matters, to continue to safeguard the interests of the 
Group’s broader stakeholders. The following pages provide insight 
and context into the Committee’s work and activities during the year.

Phil Rivett 
Chair of the Audit Committee

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year

Financial  
reporting

•  Satisfied itself that the Group’s accounting policies and practices are appropriate.

•  Reviewed the clarity and completeness of the disclosures made within the published financial statements, 

in particular, that they are fair, balanced and understandable.

•  Monitored the integrity of the Group’s published financial statements and formal announcements relating 

to the Group’s financial performance, reviewing the significant financial judgements, estimates and 
accounting issues.

•  Considered the forthcoming UK ACG Reforms and discussed how the Group will implement the new 

proposals.

•  Considered the ‘Audit Committees and External Audit Minimum Standard’ published by the FRC in May 

2023 and is satisfied that the Committee met the relevant requirements. 

Significant accounting judgements considered during 2023 are shown below.

The Committee can confirm that the key judgements and significant issues reported are consistent with the 
disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements as set out in Note 1 starting on page 367.

Key area

Action taken

Impairment of 
loans and 
advances

•  Reviewed and challenged, on a quarterly basis, reports detailing the composition and credit quality of the 

loan book, concentrations of risk and provisioning levels.

•  Understood the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model output, reviewed ,considered and challenged 

judgemental Post Model Adjustments (PMAs) and management overlays in both the wholesale and retail 
portfolios on a quarterly basis, that were required to estimate ECL. 

•  Applied careful consideration and challenge on ECL provisions relating to China CRE lending and 

sovereign exposures. 

• 

In the case of PMAs, understood adjustments made where model performance breached monitoring 
standards or validation standards. 

•  Reviewed and challenged management’s proposed reduction of management COVID overlays for CPBB, 

as the outlook has improved during 2023.

•  As well as the expectation of elevated losses in industries and locations, paid particular attention to the 

China CRE sector and certain sovereigns. In respect of high-risk credit grade exposures, received briefings 
on business plans, including remedial actions and management assessment of the recoveries and 
collateral available.

•  Received a briefing on the assessment of the output of the Group’s Monte Carlo model incorporating a 
wider range of scenario outcomes than the previous model, with the effect of increasing non-linearity in 
the model output. Reviewed and challenged the judgement to release the previously held PMA for CPBB, 
as a result of the output of these model changes. Benchmarked the ECL non-linearity calculated using the 
Monte Carlo model against discrete scenarios as a stand-back assessment.

•  Reviewed the Group’s high-level quantitative assessment of the impact of Climate Risk on the Group’s ECL 
and considered the materiality of the impact and the judgement to disclose a potential range of impact, 
rather than to adjust the ECL given the immaterial impact.

•  Received a briefing on the performance of ECL models and the remediation plans in place to address 

material non-performance issues, where these had been identified.

•  Received a briefing on the Group’s adoption of the high-quality practices relating to IFRS 9 ECL and the 

areas of focus recommended by the PRA in recent Dear CFO letters.

•  Considered the appropriateness of the staging of higher-risk loans. For Stage 3 loans, monitored the 

impairment coverage rates, recovery forecasts and material movements.

•  Challenged management on the assumptions made on the decline in Bohai’s Net Interest Margin (NIM), 

and the outlook should China GDP not improve.

•  Reviewed and challenged management’s assessment that the Group maintained significant influence 

and satisfied itself that it remained appropriate to continue to equity account for the investment.

•  Received reports and updates at each reporting period detailing the key processes undertaken to produce 
and validate valuations of financial instruments, including any changes in methodology from prior years 
and significant valuation judgements. 

•  Received regular updates on the level of unsold positions in the syndications portfolio and the valuation of 

these positions and plans for sell down. 

•  Reviewed credit valuation adjustments, debit valuation adjustments, funding valuation adjustments and 
own credit adjustments, and considered the explanation and rationale for any significant movements.

Carrying value 
of investments 
in associates

Valuation of 
financial 
instruments 
held at fair 
value

163

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Other areas of focus
Goodwill 
impairment

Recoverability 
of parent 
company’s 
investment in 
subsidiaries
Disposals of 
aviation finance 
business and 
businesses in 
the Africa and 
Middle East 
(AME) region
Classification of 
assets as held 
for sale

Hold to collect 
portfolio

Restructuring 
costs
Taxation

Provisions for 
legal and 
regulatory 
matters

•  Reviewed management’s annual assessment of goodwill impairment, covering key assumptions (including 

forecasts, discount rate and significant changes from the previous year), headroom availability and 
sensitivities to possible changes in key assumptions and related disclosures.

•  Discussed and challenged management’s impairment assessment of investments in subsidiaries.

•  Reviewed and challenged the accounting treatment and impact of the disposals of the aviation finance 

business and businesses in the AME region.

•  Reviewed management’s assessment of whether certain assets or disposal groups should be reclassified 
as held for sale. This included reviewing the facts and circumstances for the proposed sale of the business 
exits in the AME region, the sale of the aviation finance business, shipping assets and remaining Principal 
Finance investments.

•  After the collapse of several US banks during the first quarter of the year, reviewed the Group’s portfolio of 
hold to collect debt securities on a quarterly basis to monitor the amount of any unrecognised losses and 
to understand the potential impact.

•  Reviewed and considered, on a quarterly basis, income statement charges and credits classified as 

restructuring.

•  Reviewed and considered a paper on the key drivers of the Group’s tax rate, and updates on the Group’s 

Deferred Tax Assets, tax exposures and recent tax developments.

•  Considered the impacts of the global minimum tax rules which will apply from 2024.
•  Considered advice presented on the current status of significant legal and regulatory matters, and 

reviewed management’s judgements on the level of provisions and the adequacy of disclosure, as set  
out in Note 26 on page 434.

Going concern 
assessment and 
viability 
statement

•  Reviewed management’s process, assessment and conclusions with respect to the Group’s going concern 

assessment and viability statement, including the forward-looking Corporate Plan cashflows, the results of 
various stress tests that explore the resilience of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and business 
model, principal and emerging risks, liquidity and capital positions and key assumptions. Ensured that the 
going concern assessment and viability statement is consistent with the Group’s Strategic report and other 
risk disclosures. 

Further details can be found on pages 369, 218 and 229

Fair, balanced 
and 
understandable

•  Considered, satisfied itself and recommended to the Board that the processes and procedures in place 

ensure that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy, and the business risks it faces. 

164

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Examples of 
deeper 
discussions into 
specific topics

•  EY regional partner and topical overviews: Received a presentation from EY’s local regional partners in 

India on the Group’s global business services hubs. We also held discussions with EY’s specialist partners on 
Climate Risk and ACG reforms, providing external perspective and peer comparison. These EY regional 
partner overviews and technical topics will continue in 2024 and beyond.

•  UK ACG reforms implementation approach: Received and discussed updates on the implementation by 
the Group, including end-to-end controls and process improvement. Discussion focused on the adequacy 
of resourcing, potential impact to Committee and Board responsibilities under the new requirements and 
broader market developments associated with the reforms. The proposed approach for an Audit and 
Assurance Policy (AAP) was discussed, with the Committee providing feedback on this. Even though this 
was a proposal not taken forward by the FRC, the Committee continues to consider what might be done 
on a voluntary basis, where beneficial for the Group. 

•  Aspire programme: Discussed an update on the Group’s Aspire programme (a programme launched  

to deliver a modern technology system and data landscape for financial management and reporting). 
Discussion focused on the programme’s potential in driving control enhancement and cost efficiencies  
in resourcing. 

•  Internal financial controls: Received and discussed a paper setting out the approach taken to safeguard 

the production of the Group’s financial books and records. 

•  IFRS 9 models: Received and discussed updates on the Group’s use of IFRS 9 ECL models.

•  Finance resourcing: Reviewed and discussed a paper providing assurance that the Accounting and 

Financial Reporting function is adequately and appropriately resourced; the qualifications, experience and 
training of colleagues is appropriate; and in the context of a stretching agenda, the level of resource is 
deemed to be appropriate to cover the implementation of ACG reforms, new capital rules under Basel 3.1 
and the deployment of the Aspire programme. 

•  Tax update: Received and discussed a paper setting out an update on international tax reform and a 
review of tax exposures and deferred tax assets. EY’s specialist tax partner also joined this discussion.

•  Large Exposures: Received and discussed reports on the methodology supporting the Group’s Large 

Exposures reporting to the regulators. 

•  Financial regulatory reporting: Received and discussed an update on the Group’s financial regulatory 

reporting remediation programme.

•  Data management: Received and discussed updates on progress in reducing the Group’s Data Risk 

exposure. The H1 2023 discussion focused on managing Data Privacy risks in SC Ventures investments  
and Data Sovereignity Risk in high-risk jurisdictions, given numerous data storage, transfer and  
access obligations across the Group’s footprint. The H2 2023 discussion focused on progress made in 
refreshing the focus of the Data Shield Programme, previously known as the Group’s Data and Privacy 
Transformation Programme, resourcing and the roadmap and timelines to reach the desired end-state. 
This will continue to be an area of focus for 2024.

•  China Data Security: Received and discussed an update on China Data Security measures. 

•  Financial Crime: Reviewed and discussed an update on Financial Crime, cognisant of the work of the  

BRC and Board on this matter.

•  Report of the Group Money Laundering Report Officer (MLRO): Reviewed and discussed the annual 

report from the MLRO. 

•  Group Code of Conduct Refresh: Received and discussed a paper setting out the refreshed Code, which 
better connects to the Group’s valued behaviours and introduces additional areas such as data ethics.  
The Committee recommended the Code to the Board for endorsement. 

•  Politically Exposed Persons (PEP): In light of external events, received and discussed a paper setting out 

an overview of the Group’s approach to managing PEP risk.

•  FCA Consumer Duty: Received updates on Standard Chartered Bank’s implementation plans and 

oversight for compliance with the FCA Consumer Duty. Particular focus was placed on management 
information, client documentation, pricing and processes. This will continue to be an area of focus for 2024.

•  Major disputes, significant regulatory and government investigations: Received and discussed updates 

on major disputes and significant regulatory government investigations facing the Group.

•  Technology costs: Reviewed and considered updates from management and EY on work undertaken on 

capitalised technology costs, including software as a service (SaaS) arrangements.

•  Technology controls: Reviewed and considered updates from EY on the results of their testing of 

privileged user access management controls, noting improvements made by management in this area 
during 2023.

165

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Group Statutory 
Auditor, EY 

Non-audit 
services

Internal 
controls

•  Reviewed and discussed the risks identified by EY’s audit planning, as well as EY’s planned audit strategy  

in response to those risks.

•  Satisfied itself that EY has allocated sufficient and suitably experienced resources to address these risks 

and reviewed the findings from the audit work undertaken.

•  Sought and received assurance that no undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees,  

to ensure that audit work can be conducted effectively and independently.

•  Conducted an annual performance and effectiveness review of EY. Input was received from Committee 
members, chairs of subsidiary audit committees, the Group Management Team, regional/country chief 
financial officers, members of the Group Finance Leadership Team and GIA senior leadership. The results 
of this input were discussed by the Committee. Overall, it was felt that EY is considered to be effective, 
objective and independent in its role as the Group’s Statutory Auditor. The Committee agreed to propose 
to the Board that the re-appointment of EY as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for a further year be 
recommended to shareholders at the 2024 AGM. This recommendation was made without any influence 
from a third party and free from any contractual obligation to do so, including for the avoidance of doubt, 
any contractual term described in Article 16(6) of the Audit Regulation.

•  Reviewed and discussed EY’s audit planning report and any updates, audit results reports and interim 

review reports.

•  Received and discussed a paper setting out EY’s control themes and observations from the 31 December 

2023 year-end audit, as well as an update on these matters later in the year.

•  Reviewed and discussed EY’s approach to the private Written Auditor Report to the PRA for the year 

ended 31 December 2023. Updates from management were also provided. 

•  Received reports from EY and management regarding EY’s FCA Client Assets (CASS) audit of Standard 

Chartered Bank.

The Committee met privately with EY at the end of certain Committee meetings, without management 
being present.
Phil Rivett met regularly with the EY partners leading the Group’s audit during the course of the year.
The Company complies with the Statutory Audit services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee responsibilities) Order 2014, which 
relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the external auditor. As a UK 
public interest entity, the Group is required to tender the audit every 10 years and rotate the auditor every  
20 years. As long as the Committee remains satisfied with EY’s performance, the Group has no current 
intention of tendering for an alternative external auditor to commence before the end of the current  
required 10 year period. Any tender would be in respect of 2030 onwards and would likely occur in 2027,  
in order to allow sufficient time to plan for a transition.
EY has been the Group’s Statutory Auditor for four years. In accordance with the Audit Practices Board’s 
requirements, the lead audit engagement partner will have held the role for five years following the 
completion of the audit for the year-ending 31 December 2025. The lead engagement partner, David 
Canning-Jones, has a background of auditing banks and understands the markets in which the Group 
operates. Following completion of the audit for the year-ending 31 December 2024, Micha Missakian, an  
EY senior audit partner who is also experienced in auditing global banking institutions, will assume the role  
of the lead audit engagement partner.
Following the 2017 audit tender, EY was appointed as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2020. EY has been re-appointed as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023 at the 2023 AGM.
• 

In 2023, the Group spent $14.1 million on non-audit services provided by EY (including audit-related 
assurance services such as quarterly and half year reviews and regulatory reporting) and $41.2 million on 
the audit of the Group and its subsidiaries.

Further details on non-audit services provided by EY can be found in Note 38 on page 462  
and the Group’s approach to non-audit services on page 228

•  Discussed reports from GIA that provide GIA’s view on the system of internal controls across all risk types, 

business and country functions, including summary highlights of the most significant matters identified by 
GIA and areas of thematic interest that have arisen as part of the audits and warrant the Committee’s 
attention. On a periodic basis, GIA reports on any overdue remediation of findings. The BRC and the CSC 
discussed separate reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit on GIA’s appraisal of controls across key 
risks, subject to each committee’s oversight.

Further details on internal controls can be found on page 222

Group Internal 
Audit

•  Assessed the role and effectiveness of the GIA function, and reviewed and monitored GIA’s progress 

against the 2023 Audit Plan and the review and monitoring of audit themes, trends and significant issues. 
Significant changes to the Audit Plan were also discussed and approved by the Committee.

•  Reviewed and approved GIA’s 2024 Audit Plan, resourcing and budget, and is satisfied that these are 

appropriate. 

•  Reviewed and approved the refreshed GIA Charter.
•  Received and discussed reports from the Global Head, Audit Quality Assurance (QA) on the QA function’s 

view of the control environment in GIA.

•  Scrutinised any long overdue issues raised by GIA and requested management to develop risk reduction 

plans for items with long closure periods to be monitored by GIA.

•  Reviewed GIA’s functional strategy, including GIA’s mission, vision and priorities. The Committee is satisfied 

with the independence and objectivity of the GIA function.

•  Received an update on the planned External Quality Assurance Review that will take place in 2024.
•  Over the course of the year, Phil Rivett met regularly with the Group Head, Internal Audit and the Audit 

Executive Team. The Group Head, Internal Audit also met privately with the Committee.

166

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Conduct, 
Financial Crime 
& Compliance 

Speaking Up

In 2023, the Committee was updated on and discussed:

•  regulators’ supervisory focus areas, regulatory updates and forward-looking themes, the status of the 

Group’s core college regulatory relationships and enforcement matters

•  topical compliance issues, for example, the Committee was updated on transaction reporting and the  
use of unapproved communication channels, recognising progress made to date and issues faced by  
the Group

•  the importance of continuing to strengthen the effectiveness in our overall risk management

•  the function’s operating model, including an overview of the CFCC budget and organisational changes  

to simplify the function

•  CFCC’s resources and budget to deliver against its mandate, including the use of automation.

Phil Rivett met regularly throughout the year with the Group Head, CFCC.
The Committee reviewed and discussed an annual report on the operation and effectiveness of Speaking 
Up, the Group’s confidential whistleblowing programme. The report provided the Committee with assurance 
of the Group’s ongoing compliance with the PRA and the FCA’s Whistleblowing Rules. Once reviewed and 
discussed by the Committee, this report was submitted to the Board. 

In 2023, the Committee Chair received updates on Speaking Up outside of formal Committee meetings and 
regularly met with senior management from Conduct and Compliance. 

Further details on Speaking Up can be found on page 131

Interaction with 
regulators
Linkages with 
subsidiary audit 
committees

Phil Rivett attended a trilateral meeting with EY and the PRA and also met with the PRA in his capacity as 
Audit Committee Chair.

In 2023, Phil Rivett attended an audit committee meeting of SCBSL. The audit committee chairs of SCBHK and 
SCBSL attended one Standard Chartered PLC Audit Committee meeting. This practice will continue in 2024 to 
reinforce these important linkages.

Phil Rivett hosted an annual video-conference with the chairs of subsidiary audit committees and INEDs in 
May 2023.

Please refer to page 160 on linkages between the Committee and chairs of subsidiary audit committees. 

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with all of them 
being completed. 

Committee effectiveness review
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  The Committee’s oversight and 

understanding of all the key issues under its 
remit was rated highly, with focused agendas 
and productive discussions.

•  While there were no identified gaps in the 
technical skills of Committee members,  
there is a need to monitor the Committee’s 
composition to ensure that sufficient 
experience in banking, accounting and 
financial reporting remain in the Committee 
as Committee members step down. 

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Maintain focus on enhanced internal controls 

to meeting forthcoming legislative and 
corporate governance requirements.

•  The contributions from EY and GIA were  

well rated. A suggestion was made for more 
engagement with members of the GIA 
function, in addition to the Group Head, 
Internal Audit.

•  Continue to monitor the length, focus and 

timeliness of papers.

•  Schedule training sessions in 2024 to cover 
topics such as ECL, internal controls and an 
optimum control environment.

167

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard Risk Committee

“In an ever-changing and 
complex geopolitical and 
macroeconomic environment, 
the Committee remained 
focused to ensure efficient 
and effective risk 
management across  
the Group.”

Committee composition

Maria 
Ramos 
(Chair)

David 
Conner

Gay 
Huey 
Evans, 
CBE

Phil 
Rivett

David 
Tang 

Carlson 
Tong

Shirish 
Apte 

Robin 
Lawther, 
CBE1 

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

Ad hoc

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

4/5

1  Robin was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting due to a prior 

business commitment

I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee’s report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023. 

In an ever-changing and complex geopolitical and macroeconomic 
environment, the Committee remained focused to ensure efficient 
and effective risk management across the Group.

Market volatility earlier in the year, resulting from the challenging 
external environment, prompted the Committee to focus on key 
macroeconomic issues. In particular, a severe liquidity stress test was 
performed, in light of banking sector events, and the Committee also 
reviewed and challenged the Group’s Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS) 
stress test results for submission to the Bank of England (BoE). 

Credit Risk has been reviewed and discussed at most Committee 
meetings, given the uncertain external environment, with China  
CRE and global CRE being key areas of focus. Sovereign Risk  
remained a priority, with global trends throughout the year being 
closely monitored. 

The Group’s hedging strategies were robustly challenged, with 
specific deep dives on Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,  
Foreign Exchange, Treasury Portfolios and Financial Markets. 

The Committee is aware of its critical role in overseeing and assessing 
robust ICS defence strategies. A key focus of 2023 was ICS Risk 
management, with representation from the three lines of defence 
and our Cyber Advisor to the Board, Sir Iain Lobban. In particular,  
we scrutinised the Group’s ICS Risk Appetite and Strategic Plan.  
The Committee has dedicated significant time to ICS Risk this year, 
including scheduling an ad hoc meeting and completing ICS training. 
ICS Risk will remain a key priority given the evolving and dynamic 
landscape in which we operate.

The Committee has had oversight of Operational Risk during  
the year, with particular focus on the Group’s data centre  
migration programme.

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for exercising oversight, on behalf 
of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. It reviews the Group’s 
Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) and makes recommendations to the Board. 
Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems, key 
controls and considering the implications of material regulatory 
change proposals, reviewing reports on principal risks, including 
Climate Risk, to the Group’s business, providing oversight and 
challenge to the design and execution of stress testing, and 
ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and 
disposals. The Committee Chair reports to the Board on the 
Committee’s key areas of focus following each meeting.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be 
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief 
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate 
(from 2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO); Group 
Head of Enterprise Risk Management; Group General 
Counsel; Group Treasurer; Group Head, Conduct, Financial 
Crime & Compliance; Group Head, Internal Audit; the Group’s 
Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary. 

Sir Iain Lobban, independent adviser to the Board, regularly 
attended discussions on Information and Cyber Security Risk 
and technology. Paul Khoo, an independent adviser to the 
Board, attended discussions on Financial Crime Risk (FCR) 
related matters. EY attended all Committee meetings in 
2023. As part of, and in addition to scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Committee held private members-only 
meetings. The Committee’s membership comprises INEDs 
who have a deep and broad experience of banking and 
the risk factors affecting the Group, including geopolitical, 
economic, IT, Financial Crime (FC) and general business risks.

Biographical details of the Committee members can be 
viewed on pages 137 to 141

taken from the extensive work performed by the second and third 
lines of defence to review and challenge Resolvability documentation 
prepared by the first line. 

Operational Resilience remained a key topic in 2023, with the 
Committee challenging the embedding of Important Business 
Services (IBS) and Impact Tolerance Statements (ITS) within the 
Group. The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board  
for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience Self-Assessment. 
Furthermore, we considered and approved material changes to the 
Group’s IBS and ITS arising from the annual review, in accordance  
with authority delegated by the Board. Progress to meet the  
2025 regulatory deadline continues to be carefully monitored to 
ensure compliance. 

Financial Crime Risk has been a key feature of the Committee’s work 
during the year. The CCIB and CPBB Risk reviews both covered FCR 
matters, and we received dedicated papers on client due diligence 
and surveillance and Russian sanctions. Towards the end of the year, 
we considered emerging FC threats faced by the Group and risk 
mitigation; and we reviewed and discussed the coverage of FCR by 
the Committee, Audit Committee and the Board, to ensure that the 
balance is appropriate. This discussion provided useful suggestions  
for enhancement, which will be taken forward in 2024. 

In December 2023, we welcomed the board risk committee chairs 
from the Group’s Hong Kong and Singapore banking subsidiaries as 
observers. I hosted a call with subsidiary board risk committee chairs 
from across the Group in July 2023, designed to strengthen subsidiary 
governance linkages and engagement. 

The following pages provide insight and context into the Committee’s 
work and activities during the year.

Resolvability was discussed regularly throughout the year, and we 
reviewed and approved the Group’s Resolvability Assessment Report, 
ahead of submission to the PRA in October 2023. Assurance was 

Maria Ramos 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 

168

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year

Risk Appetite 

•  Reviewed, challenged and approved at half year changes to the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and 

Board metrics. 

•  Scrutinised and recommended to the Board for approval the revised ICS Risk Appetite Statement and 

Board metrics. 

•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board revisions to the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Board 

metrics for 2024. Challenge was provided to ensure that the Risk Appetite sets appropriate boundaries in 
respect of each Principal Risk Type and is affordable within the overall context of our financial resources. 
Specific consideration was given to redistribution of metrics between the Board and management-level, 
as well as appropriate Board oversight and reporting, including any breaches. 

•  Monitored actual exposures throughout the year relative to Risk Appetite limits using regular Board Risk 

Information reports.

Further details of the Group’s Risk Appetite are set out on pages 314 to 316

Enterprise Risk 
Management 
Framework 
(ERMF)

•  Reviewed proposed material changes to the ERMF, arising from the 2023 annual review, including a 
refreshed definition of the Risk Culture and recommended these changes to the Board for approval.

•  Considered the approach and key outcomes of the 2023 annual effectiveness of the ERMF. Affirmation 

was received from the GCRO that the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is 
materially effective and improvement areas were highlighted for management attention.

Further details of the ERMF are set out on pages 314 to 316

Principal Risk 
Types

•  Received reports on the Group’s Principal Risk Types at each of its scheduled meetings, through a Board 
Risk Information report. In addition, the Committee had deeper discussions on the topics set out on 
page 172.

Further details on Principal Risk Types, including the definitions of each, are set out on  
pages 317 to 337

Key area

Action taken

Operational and 
Technology Risk 

•  Received regular updates on the risk environment including progress of key change and technology 

programmes. 

•  Discussed independent reports on Cash Payments systems and Client Lifecycle Management in CCIB, 

particularly the progress to address the recommendations provided.

•  Considered the Group’s ISO 20022 readiness ahead of launch and the technological developments 

required. 

•  Received updates on the progress of key technology transformation programmes, particularly data 

centre resilience and updates to the Group’s Cloud strategy, from all three lines of defence.

•  Sought assurance as to appropriate risk management of the key programmes. 

Model Risk 

•  Reviewed and discussed the key risks and issues relating to Model Risk management.

•  Provided review and challenge on the Group Model Risk Appetite.

•  Considered the progress of the programme for Advanced Internal Ratings Based model delivery. 

•  Received updates on the Group Model Risk profile, Risk Appetite and the progress of Model Risk  

strategic initiatives. 

•  Considered the recent PRA requirements relating to Model Risk management for banks (SS1/23), the 

implications for the Group’s model framework and expectations of the Board. 

169

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Key area

ICS Risk 

Action taken

•  Reviewed and discussed ICS Risk management, with representation from the three lines of defence and 
our Cyber Adviser to the Board, Sir Iain Lobban. This included oversight of key milestones and topical 
deep dives. 

•  Challenged management as to its progress on the ICS Transformation Programme and scrutinised the 

ICS Strategic Plan. 

•  Considered the ICS Risk Appetite in detail. In particular, this included ICS Risk Appetite linkages to the 
Group’s Threat-led Scenario Risk Assessment and calibration between Board and management-level 
metrics and leading indicators. 

•  Recommended three refreshed ICS Risk Appetite Board-level metrics to the Board for approval.

•  Received assurance from GIA on the ICS programme and monitored management’s progress to address 

audit actions. 

•  Monitored progress of the Insider Threat Programme and endorsed management’s holistic approach. 

•  Committee members were invited to attend meetings of the Group’s Cyber Security Advisory Forum, 

along with the rest of the Board.

Treasury Risk 

•  Received the Group Treasurer’s report, at each scheduled meeting, which covers market developments, 
capital, liquidity, leverage and funding, recovery and resolution planning, regulatory updates and rating 
agency updates.

•  Reviewed and discussed papers on Hedging strategies: Interest Rate in the Banking Book, Foreign 

Exchange and Treasury Portfolios deep dives.

•  Considered and discussed the Group’s capital and liquidity position and the regulatory environment in 

the context of regulatory submissions. 

•  Reviewed, discussed and challenged the Group’s ACS stress test results for submission to the BoE, as  

well as the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and a severe liquidity stress test in 
response to external market events.

For further detail on the Committee’s work on stress testing see page 171

The Committee’s work on Resolvability is set out on page 171

Credit Risk

Traded Risk

Financial Crime 
Risk

•  Received and discussed updates on Credit Risk, with China-related impairments being key areas of focus, 
cognisant of the work of the Audit Committee. These discussions were further enhanced through deep 
dives into various countries, sovereigns, and business/client segments, details of which are set out in 
examples of deeper discussions on specific topics.

•  Received and discussed papers on developments and changes in the risk profile of Treasury and 

Financial Markets over the past year. The size and volatility of the Treasury book was reviewed, as well  
as the quality and resilience of the Financial Markets business. 

•  Discussed management’s work to de-risk the Treasury Markets portfolio and the review of the Treasury 

Market Risk Appetite. 

•  Requested a deep dive on changes to the Financial Markets Fair Value portfolios.

•  Reviewed FCR matters as part of regular CCIB and CPBB Risk reviews.

•  Discussed a paper on the Group’s approach to managing FCR, including client due diligence and 

surveillance, as well as a Russian sanctions update. 

•  Considered a paper setting out emerging FCR threats and the Group’s risk mitigation. 

•  Reviewed and discussed the coverage of FCR by the Committee, Audit Committee and the Board, 

whereby enhancements for 2024 were discussed.

170

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Stress Testing 

•  Provided oversight, challenge and, where required, approval for:

Regulatory

–  the Group Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) submission, including the scenario 

and stress test results

–  the Group ICAAP submissions, including the scenarios, stress test and reverse stress test results
–  the Group’s ACS Stress Test results submission to the BoE
–  results of the Group Recovery Plan stress test
–  results of management’s ad hoc stress tests. 

•  Considered the results of a severe liquidity stress test ran in early 2023, due to considerable banking 

sector market volatility, with the particular objective of testing the speed with which the Group could 
execute management actions to mitigate the outflows. 

•  Reviewed, discussed and challenged the outcome and key findings of the liquidity stress test, particularly 

management’s assumptions and the quality of management information.

Further details of stress testing are set out on pages 314 to 316

Resolvability
•  Received regular updates from the three lines of defence which provided the Committee with oversight 
of the Group’s progress on resolvability since its first regulatory submission in 2022, with learnings from 
the external market events in early 2023 particularly considered.

•  Welcomed management’s active dialogue with the BoE on the Group’s 2023 submission.

•  Approved the final Group Resolvability Assessment Report for submission to the BoE and PRA, in 

accordance with delegated authority from the Board.

Recovery Plan
•  Reviewed and challenged the enhancements to the Group’s Recovery Plan.

Trading Book Wind-Down
•  Reviewed and discussed the Trading Book Wind-Down (TWD) programme.

•  Attended a training session ahead of discussing and probing the expertise and resource capacity for the 

TWD programme. 

•  Approved TWD Governance roles and responsibilities for submission to the PRA.

Operational Resilience – IBS and ITS
•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience self-

assessment. 

•  Considered and approved material changes to the Group’s IBS and ITS, arising from an annual review,  

in line with authority delegated by the Board. 

•  Challenged the embedding of the IBS and ITS in the Group’s day-to-day processes. 

IBOR transition
•  Received updates on the IBOR transition programme tracking remediation closely ahead of the LIBOR 
cessation in September 2023, noting the transition of the programme into business as usual at the end  
of 2023. 

BCBS 239 principles
•  Received and discussed an update on the outcome of the BCBS 239 self-assessment as of end 2022 and 

the roadmap for compliance with BCBS 239.

•  Received an update on the trajectory of the BCBS 239 programme at year end 2023, including the 

progress made and challenges faced.

Internal controls

•  Discussed reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit which provided summaries of GIA’s appraisals of 
controls across key risks, subject to the Committee’s oversight, together with the key risk issues identified 
by GIA’s work and management actions put in place to address the findings.

•  Reviewed the annual Risk and Control self-assessment and challenged the key areas of elevated  

residual risk.

Further details on internal controls are set out on page 222

Remuneration  
as a risk 
management 
tool

•  Considered advice provided by the GCRO to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk factors  
to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining incentives for the Group Chief 
Executive and other colleagues. Such advice assists the Remuneration Committee in its assessment as  
to whether the Group’s remuneration policy, practices and procedures are consistent with and promote 
sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of 
tolerated risk of the Group.

Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk management  
tool is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 182 to 216

171

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
 Activities during the year continued

Group regulator 
communications
Examples of 
deeper 
discussions into 
specific topics

•  Discussed key communications from the PRA and FCA, where ICS, Resolvability and TWD Governance 

were the main themes.

•  CCIB Risk deep dive: Received and discussed updates on the key risk areas and recent GIA work, with a 

particular focus on change management and regulatory programmes. 

•  CPBB Risk review: Received and discussed papers covering the CPBB portfolio and particularly, Credit 

Cards and Personal Loans, Partnerships, FC and ICS risks. 

•  Funding and Liquidity review: Considered a paper outlining the Group approach to liquidity and funding 

risk management and enhancements made in response to bank failures in early 2023.

•  Country Risk including Sovereign Risk: Discussed the key Country Risk actions during 2022 and a 

forward-looking view of the material risks for 2023 and also reviewed the Group’s Country Risk Early 
Warning System.

•  Credit Portfolio Management (CPM) annual review: Reviewed and discussed the risks relating to CPM 
activities and the progress made in balance sheet optimisation, better funds transfer pricing and more 
accurate capital and liquidity forecasting.

•  Reputational and Sustainability Risk: Discussed a paper setting out the Group’s approach to 

Environmental, Social and Governance risk and key enhancements planned, as well as the challenges 
relating to regulatory change and data. 

•  Climate Risk: Discussed a paper on Climate Risk integration and scenario analysis, probing into the 
embedding of Climate Risk in the Group’s three lines of defence. Received training, along with other 
members of the Board, on Climate Risk in November 2023. Cognisant of the UK regulator’s focus on 
Climate Risk, this will remain a key priority in 2024.

•  Safety and Security Risk: Received an update on safety and security issues over the past 12 months.

•  Credit Risk review: Reviewed progress reports including the key themes from the 2023 reviews and the 

review plan for 2024. Discussion focused on large exposures, resourcing and scope of Climate Risk 
assessments and stress testing. 

•  Chief Risk Officer Treasury report: Reviewed the second line view of Treasury Risk including risk 

observations and recommendations around the current balance sheet and management of capital  
and liquidity.

•  SC Ventures Risk and Governance: Discussed an update on the key business risks, the governance model 

adopted in the past year and outcomes of, and work to address recent GIA work. 

•  Blue Sky Thinking/Horizon Scanning: Jointly held a horizon scanning session with the Audit Committee 
on the forward-looking geopolitical agenda, where emerging risks were discussed. Further details on the 
Blue Sky Thinking session on geopolitical risks are set out on page 146.

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with them all  
being completed. 

Committee effectiveness review
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  Work had been done to make Committee 

papers more focused and succinct.

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Continue to monitor the length, focus and 
timeliness of papers, with consideration to  
be given as to how peer analysis can be 
included in relevant Committee papers.

•  The Committee, in conjunction with the Audit 
Committee, had placed appropriate and 
balanced focus on the oversight of FCR, 
following the retirement of the Board 
Financial Crime Committee in April 2022. 
However, this is an important topic which  
will remain on the agenda. 

•  The contributions by the GCRO and the Risk 

function were well rated.

•  Schedule a joint BRC and Audit Committee 

session in Q4 2024 to cover FCR.

•  Schedule training sessions in 2024 to cover 

topics such as PRA model requirements, ICS 
and future developments, FCR trends and 
Climate Risk.

172

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceInteraction between Board committees on  
risk-related issues
In the few instances where it does not have primary oversight 
for a given type of risk, the Committee interacts closely with 
other Board committees where the remit of these other 
Committees clearly covers risk-related matters. For example, 
the Audit Committee reviews the Group’s internal financial 
controls and has oversight of regulatory compliance and the 
Culture and Sustainability Committee has oversight of culture 
and sustainability-related matters. The interaction assists the 
Committee in ensuring that it is well informed on discussions 
held, and the close collaboration of the Committee Chairs 
helps to ensure that there are no gaps and any potential for 
unnecessary duplication is avoided.

Risk function resourcing
The Committee has sought and received assurance that the 
Risk function is adequately resourced to perform its remit 
effectively. The Committee reviewed and discussed a paper 
setting out an overview of the changes to the Risk function in 
2023, management’s assessment of the adequacy of people 
resources within the function and the forward-looking view of 
the Risk function.

Linkages with subsidiary board risk committees 
In 2023, Maria Ramos attended a risk committee meeting  
of SCBHK. The risk committee chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL 
attended one Board Risk Committee meeting. This practice 
will continue in 2024 to reinforce these important linkages.

Maria Ramos hosted an annual video-conference with the 
chairs of subsidiary board risk committees and INEDs in  
July 2023.

Please refer to page 160 on linkages between the Committee 
and chairs of subsidiary board risk committees. 

Risk information provided to the Committee 
The Committee is authorised to seek any information that it 
requires in connection with its purpose consistent with the 
requirements of BCBS 239 (a set of principles for effective risk 
data aggregation and risk reporting to enable enhanced  
risk management and decision-making) that will allow the 
Committee to fulfil its governance mandate relating to risks  
to which the Group is exposed, and alert senior management 
when risk reports do not meet its requirements. The 
Committee will receive an update on the level of compliance 
with the requirements of BCBS 239 (as at 31 December 2023), 
once the outcome of the self-assessment is available on  
29 February 2024.

The Committee receives regular reports on risk management 
and tracks a wide range of risk metrics through a Board  
Risk Information report. This report provides an overview of 
the Group’s risk profile against the Group’s Risk Appetite 
Statement. The GCRO’s report covers the macroeconomic 
environment, geopolitical outlook, material events and 
disclosures and ongoing risks. Coverage of Principal Risk  
Types and regulatory matters are also included in this report. 
Regular updates on Country Risk and geopolitical tensions 
have been reported on and discussed throughout the year.

Risk management disclosures
The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the Annual 
Report and the Half Year Report, and has also reviewed the 
disclosures regarding the work of the Committee.

Interaction with the Group Chief Risk Officer 
The Committee Chair meets individually with the GCRO 
regularly in between formal Committee meetings. These 
meetings allow open discussion of any matters relating to 
issues arising from the Committee’s formal discussions and 
inform the forward-looking agenda.

Interaction with management
The Committee is mindful of the need to hold management 
directly accountable when issues have arisen and have been 
reported by the GCRO. Senior management has attended 
Committee meetings for deeper discussions in such instances. 
The Committee Chair also meets individually with senior 
leaders of the Risk function.

Interaction with regulators
Maria Ramos attended meetings with the PRA and the BoE 
over the course of 2023 and in early 2024.

173

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCulture and Sustainability  
Committee

“ The Group’s Stands are particularly important as 
they represent not only for what the Group 
stands but also how we can deliver concrete 
impact over a multi-year time horizon.”

Committee composition

Linda Yueh, 
CBE (Chair)

Jasmine 
Whitbread1

Jackie  
Hunt

Robin 
Lawther, 
CBE

David  
Tang

4/4

1/1

4/4

4/4

4/4

Ad hoc

1/1

N/A

1/1

1/1

1/1

1  Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023

I am delighted to present my first Culture and Sustainability 
Committee report, and I extend my thanks to Jasmine Whitbread for 
her skilful stewardship of the Committee over the past seven years.  
I have reviewed the operation and scope of the Committee, including 
how it enhances the scrutiny of the Board in key areas, how it interacts 
with the Board and other committees, and how it discharges its 
responsibilities. Building on a strong foundation, the Committee has 
been refocused on the development of our Sustainability, Climate and 
Culture initiatives and the Stands. 

Sustainability is a strategic priority for the Group, helping people to 
thrive long term. Following the Board’s approval of our refreshed 
Sustainability Strategy, the Committee has been overseeing the 
implementation of this plan, which includes delivering on our net  
zero commitments, scaling up Sustainable Finance, leveraging our 
Innovation Hubs to drive ecosystem development and future income, 
and further embedding sustainability across the Group. At every 
meeting, the Committee has been monitoring the fast-moving global 
sustainability landscape to ensure the Group continues to strengthen 
its support for clients on their transition journeys. 

The Committee has overseen the rationalisation of the Group’s 
approach to sustainability, underpinned by both long-term goals –  
our Sustainability Aspirations – and short-term targets and priorities 
– our Strategic Pillars. These objectives are explicitly linked to 
performance metrics, to assist the Group in narrowing its focus to 
deliver greater relevance and impact for our stakeholders. 

Last year, Jasmine spoke about the work that was in progress to 
enhance our Board workforce engagement programme. I’m pleased 
to report that the Board has revamped its approach and it is being 
monitored by the Committee. Under this framework, all INEDs  
will participate in engagement sessions with targeted groups of 
colleagues as part of our programme of Board visits and in our 
London headquarters. These sessions will provide directors with a 
better sense of our colleagues’ challenges, successes and concerns, 
and add to the information received from employee surveys and 
other engagements. 

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee was formed by the Board to oversee the Group’s 
culture and sustainability priorities.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that  
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Head, 
Human Resources; Group Head Corporate Affairs, Brand & 
Marketing; Chief Sustainability Officer, Group General Counsel 
and Group Company Secretary.

Biographical details of Committee members can be found 
on pages 137 to 141

received a progress update on how the Stands were being ‘lived’  
in practice and the ongoing initiatives framed around three key  
areas: financial inclusion through lifting participation, initiatives in 
supporting SMEs, and the contributions of ESG Products/ Sustainable 
Finance. The Committee is also overseeing a review of the metrics 
underpinning each of the Stands to ensure that we can measure 
progress and look to incorporate relevant aspects within our annual 
and longer-term remuneration incentives. 

This year, the Committee endorsed phase 2 of Futuremakers – the 
Group’s global initiative to tackle inequality and promote economic 
inclusion. The Committee applauded the achievement of phase 1 
which raised USD93.3 million from 2019 to 2023 and reached more 
than 2.1 million young people across 43 countries to empower the  
next generation to learn, earn and grow. Building on the successes  
of phase 1, we have refined our focus to create greater impact in our 
communities in the next seven years (2024 to 2030). With a select 
group of value-adding programme partners, we will lift the economic 
participation of disadvantaged young women and micro businesses. 

The Group’s culture of excellence has been defined as ‘a one Bank 
culture of ambition, action and accountability that puts our clients  
at the heart of all we do’. The Committee has been overseeing the 
ongoing work to deliver on this aspiration, and it is pleasing to see the 
effect of this with the most recent My Voice survey showing that the 
employee experience is improving across the Group. 

Focus on diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiatives continued, and the 
Committee was supportive of the attention and focus on ‘inclusion 
sentiment’, measured through an index of eight indicators in the My 
Voice survey. The Committee has overseen the Group’s progress on 
advancing its D&I maturity and performance culture. 

The following report provides further insight into the Committee’s 
work over the year. 

The Group’s Stands are particularly important as they represent not 
only for what the Group stands but also how we can deliver concrete 
impact over a multi-year time horizon. During the year, the Committee 

Dr Linda Yueh 
Chair of the Culture and Sustainability Committee

174

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance 
 Activities during the year

Sustainability 
and ESG

•  Continued to review and challenge the Group’s progress on the net zero pledge made at the 2021 AGM, 

tracking the Group’s progress in the ever-evolving landscape. 

•  Oversaw the Group’s Sustainability Strategy, receiving progress updates from the Group Chief 

Sustainability Officer.

Stands 
(Accelerating 
Zero, Lifting 
Participation  
and Resetting 
Globalisation)

Culture and 
Diversity and 
Inclusion (D&I)

Board workforce 
engagement  
and workforce 
policies and 
practices

•  Monitored the assessment of the Group’s performance by the various external ratings agencies on its 

approach to ESG matters, focusing on the agencies that the Group’s investors prioritise.

•  Oversaw the rationalisation of the Sustainability Aspirations into a framework of four high-level 
overarching Aspirations: scale sustainable finance, drive social impact through our business and 
communities, uplift and deliver on net zero commitments, and enhance and deepen leadership within 
the sustainability ecosystem. These four overarching Aspirations will remain constant with the metrics 
underpinning them being periodically reviewed and amended.

•  Discussed and endorsed the revised Global Community Engagement Strategy, phase 2 of Futuremakers 

by Standard Chartered, following achievement of the ambition set out in phase 1 .

•  Received an update on how CPBB was embedding the immediate and longer-term aspects of its work 

on the Stands into its business strategy.

•  Continued to monitor the Accelerating Zero Stand through the work outlined in the Sustainability  

section above, including overseeing the net zero pathway and the rationalisation of the sustainability 
Aspirations.

•  Reviewed and discussed the year-end assessment on the achievement of the Stands. 

Under the revised terms of reference, a progress update on one of the Stands will be presented to each 
meeting and a written update will be provide on the other two. The Committee will also review and 
challenge the annual Stands assessment and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee.

•  Received an update on the Group’s culture work which had been completed in 2023 and the areas of 

focus for the remainder of the year and into 2024.

•  Monitored progress against the D&I strategy and discussed the Group’s approach to inclusion against an 

evolving employee advocacy landscape. 

•  Received an update from Group Internal Audit on its activities and opinions with respect to culture and 

sustainability.

The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Board’s workforce engagement programme and 
ensuring workforce policies and practices remain consistent with the Group’s valued behaviours.

During the year, the Committee has overseen the following activity:

•  Received the annual employee engagement survey (My Voice) and probed the results to understand 

what was driving the scores and challenged the team on areas for improvement. 

•  Reviewed the existing framework for Board workforce engagement and launched a new enhanced 
model at the end of the year. Under the new model, informal listening sessions will be included in the 
programme for every overseas visit, and in our London headquarters, with an expectation that all INEDs 
will participate in at least one session annually. These are in addition to the channels that are currently  
in place for the Board to understand the views of the workforce, including management reporting to  
the Board on culture, the My Voice survey, and other people-related topics presented to the Committee.

• 

Informal lunches hosted by the Board, with UK Talent in September and Seoul Talent in November, 
provided an opportunity for the Board to hear directly from employees on how the Bank’s direction and 
strategy was lived and embedded in different parts of the Bank.

More information on listening to our employees can be found on page 60

175

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportProgress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with all of them 
being completed.

Committee performance review
During 2023, an internal Board and Committee performance review was facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  The review of the Committee’s responsibilities 

had been completed during the year, 
including strengthening the links between 
the Committee and the Board and its  
other committees.

•  There were no identified gaps in the 
technical skills of the Committee, but 
consideration is being given to continuing  
to enhance the Committee with expertise  
in technology, employee engagement  
and climate.

•  Committee papers were rated as high 
quality and could be further improved  
by clearly stating the action required by  
the Committee.

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Monitor the refocus of the Committee to 
ensure that the Committee’s mandate is 
clear, that papers clearly set out their 
purpose, and that the links between the 
Committee and the Board and other Board 
committees continue to be strengthened.

•  Monitor and reduce the overlap with the 

Board, other Board committees and 
Management, with particular focus placed 
on the alignment between the Committee 
and the Remuneration Committee in relation 
to the Stands.

•  Arrange further training on net zero, ESG and 

sustainability/climate.

176

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceGovernance and 
Nomination Committee

“ This year, the Committee has been 
focused on the recruitment of 
high-quality candidates with a 
diversity of skills and backgrounds 
including technology, sustainability, 
consumer focus and improving 
gender diversity and 
representation.” 

Committee composition

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee has responsibility for assisting and 
advising the Board in relation to the composition of, and 
appointments to, the Company’s Board and its committees, 
and the development of a diverse pipeline for succession. 

The Committee is also responsible for considering the impact 
of material changes to corporate governance regulation 
and legislation affecting the Group, and has oversight of the 
Group’s approach to subsidiary corporate governance.

The Committee reports to the Board on its key areas 
of focus following each Committee meeting.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that  
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chief Executive; Group Head, HR; and Group 
Company Secretary.

Biographical details of the Committee members  
can be viewed on pages 137 to 141

José  
Viñals 
(Chair)

Shirish  
Apte

Phil  
Rivett

Linda Yueh, 
CBE 1

Maria 
Ramos

Jasmine 
Whitbread2

3/3

3/3

3/3

2/2

3/3

Ad hoc

2/2

2/2

2/2

1/1

2/2

1  Linda joined the Committee on 3 May 2023
2  Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023

1/1

1/1

The year started with a number of changes to the Board’s 
composition. We welcomed Linda Yueh to the Board as an INED on  
1 January 2023, Christine Hodgson retired on 31 January 2023 after 
nine years on the Board, and Jasmine Whitbread retired after eight 
years, at the Annual General Meeting. Following Jasmine’s retirement, 
Linda was appointed Chair of the Culture and Sustainability 
Committee and a member of the Governance and Nomination 
Committee. This year, we are sorry to say goodbye to Gay Huey Evans 
and Carlson Tong. As announced on 16 February 2024, Gay will step 
down from the Board with effect from 29 February 2024. Carlson will 
step down on 9 May 2024, ahead of the AGM. We thank Gay for her 
dedication and significant contribution, particularly as chair of the 
Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, and Carlson for his dedication 
and contribution as a member of the Audit and Board Risk 
Committees. We also thank Paul Khoo, who steps down this year as 
Financial Crime Advisor to the Board. Paul’s wise counsel has been 
invaluable in our financial crime compliance journey over the past  
nine years.

After nine years as GCFO, Andy Halford decided to retire from the 
Group. The Committee spent considerable time overseeing the search 
for his replacement. A robust search and assessment process was 
undertaken, both internally, through the succession plans which were 
in place, and mapped externally, in conjunction with executive search 
firm Russell Reynolds. A number of exceptional candidates were 
identified, both internal and external, and Committee members met 
with a range of shortlisted candidates, of which Diego De Giorgi 
emerged as the preferred successor. The Committee was impressed 
by Diego’s profound commercial acumen and strong business 
experience, including deep investor and entrepreneurial experience, 
which he has developed over more than three decades in the global 
financial services sector. Diego joined the Group in September 2023  
as GCFO Designate and began a comprehensive induction into the 
Group. After receiving regulatory approval he was appointed to the 
Board as GCFO in January 2024. Andy will remain with the Group as  
a senior adviser until the end of August 2024. 

On 16 February 2024 we announced that we are welcoming Diane 
Jurgens to the Board from 1 March 2024. Diane is a highly experienced 
and respected technologist who will bring significant technology and 
transformation expertise and insight to the Board having operated 
across a variety of sectors and the Group’s key markets. 

The Committee spends a great deal of its time considering INED 
succession planning and the wider composition of the Board, ensuring 
that the Board has, and will continue to have, the necessary mix of 
skills, knowledge, expertise and diversity, in the broadest sense, to 

enable the Group’s long-term success. This year, the Committee has 
been focused on the recruitment of high-quality candidates with a 
diversity of skills and backgrounds including technology, sustainability, 
consumer focus, and improving gender diversity and representation. 
Throughout we remain committed to the importance of maintaining 
gender diversity on the Board. The Committee also provided oversight 
of the detailed executive and senior management succession plans.

While, as a result of the departure of Christine and Jasmine, we were 
disappointed to end the year just below both our own gender diversity 
target of at least 40 per cent female representation and that set out 
in the UK Listing Rules, following the composition changes to the 
Board announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female 
representation on the Board will be 42 per cent.

As part of the Committee’s governance oversight role, it considered 
proposals from the FRC and the UK Government for ACG reforms.  
The new UK Code was published in January 2024. The Committee  
will consider the changes to the UK Code as part of its Committee 
agenda in 2024, ahead of the UK Code 2024 becoming applicable  
to the Company in 2025, and additional internal control reporting 
provisions becoming applicable the following year. It also received 
updates from the three regional CEOs who each have responsibility 
for the subsidiary governance processes across their regions and 
provide a holistic view of the governance framework and challenges 
faced across the Group’s footprint.

The Committee reviewed the progress of our induction programme 
for Linda Yueh, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, and found that the 
programme had been well received and that good progress had been 
made. The Committee also paid significant attention to enhancing 
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. In the autumn  
of 2023, a Board effectiveness review was undertaken, internally 
facilitated by the Group Company Secretary, which concluded that 
the Board continues to operate effectively while also signalling several 
areas for improvement, details of which can be found on page 155. 

Dr José Viñals 
Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee 

177

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard composition as at 31 December 2023

In compliance with the UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(10), we report on the ethnic background and gender of directors on our Board 
and senior management in this section.

Gender and ethnic diversity

Board gender diversity

Female

5

Male

8

38%

(2022: 43%)

Experience

Number of senior of positions 
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)

Board ethnic diversity

Female

1

Male

3

25%

(2022: 25%)

White

9

Ethnic  
minority 
background 

4

31%

(2022: 21%)

International 
experience

Representation 
from our markets

Banking, risk, finance and 
accounting experience among 
INEDs and Chair

INED tenure (including Chair)

100%

92%

82%

0–1 year

1–3 years

3–6 years

6–9 years

9+ years

0%

36%

36%

27%

0%

Gender diversity – Board members, senior positions and executive management

Men 

Women

Not specified/prefer not to say

Number of  
Board members

Percentage of  
the Board1 
(%)

Number of  
senior positions 
on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management1
(%)

8

5

0

61.5

38.5

0

3

1

0

7

7

0

50.0

50.0

0

Ethnic diversity – Board members, senior positions and executive management

Number of  
Board members

Percentage of  
the Board1 
(%)

Number of  
senior positions 
on the Board 
(CEO, CFO, SID 
and Chair)

Number in 
executive 
management

Percentage of 
executive 
management1
(%)

9

0

4

0

0

0

69.2

0

30.8

0

0

0

4

0

0

0

0

0

5

0

6

1

0

2

35.7

0

42.9

7.1

0

14.3

White British or other White  
(including minority-White groups)

Mixed/multiple ethnic groups

Asian/ Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified/prefer not to say

1   The figures are presented to 1 decimal place

178

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year

Board and senior 
talent succession 
planning

Board and 
committees’ 
effectiveness 
review

Board Diversity 
Policy 

Independent 
advisers
Outside interest

Assessment  
of the non-
executive 
directors’ 
independence
Subsidiary 
governance

Corporate 
governance

Terms of 
Reference

•  Engaged Russell Reynolds1, a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, to 
review the market for future INED candidates with capabilities in technology, consumer experience, 
sustainability and market representation.

•  Discussed the composition of the Board and considered the orderly succession of current INEDs and the 
skills, knowledge, experience, diversity (in the widest sense) and attributes required of future INEDs, both 
immediately and in the medium to longer term. In considering the Board’s succession, the Committee 
takes into account the length of tenure of the INEDs, and the importance of regularly refreshing the 
Board membership.

•  Systematically reviewed a number of INED long and short lists throughout the year to identify potential 

candidates with a diverse range of skills, experience, knowledge and perspectives.

•  Worked with Russell Reynolds to conduct an external talent mapping and search process for the Group 

Chief Financial Officer role. Oversaw a thorough assessment and interview process for both external and 
internal candidates for the role. The process resulted in the Committee recommending to the Board the 
appointment of Diego De Giorgi. 

•  Maintained oversight of the progress made by Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh, 

against their tailored Board and committee induction programmes.

•  Provided oversight of the detailed executive and senior management (level below Management Team) 
succession plans, alongside other critical roles, including the oversight of a process of external market 
mapping of key management roles.

•  Reviewed succession plans for the committee chair roles, identifying appropriate individuals with the 

necessary skills and attributes to provide emergency cover as required, as well as on a longer-term basis, 
including acknowledging and addressing where gaps exist. As part of this process, the Committee 
recommended to the Board the appointment of Linda Yueh as Chair of the CSC.

•  Provided oversight of the Board and committees’ evaluation, and monitored progress against the 2023 

Action Plan, which addressed the key observations from the 2022 effectiveness review.

•  Discussed the observations and recommendations which flowed from the 2023 internally facilitated 

Board and committees’ review and recommended to the Board the 2024 Action Plan.

Details of this year’s Board and committees’ evaluation, including the process which we followed, observations from the 
review and the resulting 2024 Action Plan can be found on pages 155 and 156

•  Reviewed progress made in 2023 against the agreed commitments set out in the Board Diversity Policy. 
•  Conducted a review of the Board Diversity Policy to ensure that it continued to drive diversity in its 

broadest sense, while continuing to take account of best practice, specifically in the area of gender, 
social and ethnic backgrounds, knowledge, personal attributes, skills and experience. No changes were 
made to the Policy in 2023.

•  Considered the Company’s current and projected compliance against the targets set out in the UK 

Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs) in relation to diversity and inclusion 
on company boards.

Further details of progress the Board has made against the key objectives set out in the Board Diversity Policy  
are set out on page 180

•  Recommended to the Board the extension, for a further 12 months, of Sir Iain Lobban’s appointment as 

independent adviser to the Board and its committees on cyber security and cyber threats.

•  Conducted an annual review of the directors’ existing and previously authorised potential and actual 
situational conflicts of interest and considered whether any circumstances would necessitate the 
authorisation being revoked or amended. Also noted directors’ other directorships and business  
interests taken during the year in the context of time commitment, overboarding and the PRA limits on 
directorships as well as other regulatory requirements in this area.

•  Considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account any 

circumstances likely to impair, or which could impair, their independence. Noted the thorough process 
undertaken to assess individual director performance and effectiveness, taking these reviews into 
account along with tenure and succession plans in making its recommendation to appoint the INEDs  
for a further year.

•  Received updates from the three regional CEOs on the Group’s approach to subsidiary governance. 

Received assurance of effective oversight and compliance with the Group’s Subsidiary Governance Policy 
and discussed material regulatory trends, initiatives and considerations likely to impact the current or 
future governance of the Group’s banking subsidiaries; the key actions arising from banking subsidiary 
board effectiveness reviews; and linkages between banking subsidiaries and the Group.

•  Considered the FRC’s proposed reforms to the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, the outcome of the 
FRC’s consultation and potential implications on the Group’s governance, including on risk management, 
internal controls and reporting obligations.

•  Conducted a review of the Committee’s Terms of Reference during the year, taking into account the 

responsibilities, obligations and best practice principles it has in the UK and Hong Kong.

1  Russell Reynolds also provides senior resourcing to the Group. The Company is not aware of any connections between Russell Reynolds and the 

Company’s directors.

Implementation of the Board Diversity Policy 
The Committee conducted its annual review of the Board Diversity Policy (the Policy) in 2023. No changes were made to  
the Policy. 

Although our Board Diversity Policy does not contain specifications or targets for committee membership, the Policy provides  
for a diverse Board with a wide range of skills and perspectives which its members bring to our Board committees.

179

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportProgress against the Board Diversity Policy objectives, and targets set out in the UK Listing Rules 
9.8.6(9)
As the composition of the Board continues to change, the balance of women directors on the Board this year fell slightly 
compared with last year, with female representation on the Board ending the year at 38 per cent following the departures  
of Christine Hodgson and Jasmine Whitbread (as at 31 December 2022 it was at 43 per cent). This falls short of both the 
requirements set out in the Policy and in the Listing Rules. The Board is absolutely committed to ensuring female representation 
on the Board is at least in line with the target of 40 per cent set out in the Listing Rules and the Policy. Following the composition 
changes to the Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation on the Board will be  
42 per cent.

As of 31 December 2023, the senior positions on the Board, as defined by the Listing Rules, are held by one female director and 
three male directors, in line with the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178. 

As of 31 December 2023, directors from an ethnic minority background represented 31 per cent of the Board, above the  
30 per cent target set out in our Policy. Of the thirteen directors on our Board, four directors are from an ethnic minority 
background, above the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178. 

Aligned to the Policy’s broad ambition, this year we continue to report on the progress made against the seven objectives set 
out in the table below.

Board Diversity Policy objectives

Progress

Increasing the representation of women on  
the Board with an aim to have a minimum of 
40 per cent female representation

Adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a  
minimum of 30 per cent from an ethnic 
minority background

Ensuring that our Board reflects the diverse 
markets in which we operate 

Ensuring that the Board is comprised of a  
good balance of skills, experience, knowledge, 
perspective and varied backgrounds

Ensuring that we consider the Group’s 
aspirations in relation to disability, sexual 
orientation, gender identity and gender 
expression

Only engaging search firms who are signed up 
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search firms

Reporting annually on the diversity of the 
executive pipeline as well as the diversity of 
the Board, including progress being made on 
reaching the Board’s gender and ethnicity 
aspirations

180

Increasing gender representation on the Board remains an important focus of the 
Board’s succession planning process, ensuring that female candidates are fairly 
represented on long and short lists. The composition of the Board continued to 
change during the year, with the retirement of two INEDs, Christine Hodgson  
and Jasmine Whitbread from the Board on 31 January 2023 and 3 May 2023 
respectively. Linda Yueh was appointed an INED to the Board on 1 January 2023 
and we announced the appointment of Diego De Giorgi as Chief Financial Officer 
Designate to succeed Andy Halford, with effect from 3 January 2024. Female 
representation on the Board is currently 38 per cent, below both the Board’s target 
and that set out in the Listing Rules. Following the composition changes to the 
Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation 
on the Board will be 42 per cent.

Following the changes to the composition of the Board during the year, 
representation from ethnic minority background has increased from 21 per cent  
in 2022 to 31 per cent at the end of 2023. We remain committed to our ethnicity 
aspiration and to ensuring a broad representation of our directors from across  
our markets.

What sets Standard Chartered apart is our diversity of people, cultures and 
networks. The Board has representation from across the regions in which we 
operate, including the UK, EU, North America, North and South-East Asia and 
Africa. Many of the INEDs have additional experience of having worked and lived 
in many of the Group’s markets. As part of the Committee’s succession planning in 
2023, it has considered a significant number of potential future INED candidates 
who are representative of some of our key regions and markets.

Throughout the year the Committee has focused on identifying the collective 
experience, skills and attributes required both immediately and in the medium to 
longer term. The Committee has systematically reviewed candidate longlists and 
shortlists to identify potentially suitable INED candidates. Areas of particular focus 
in 2023 included:
•  Expertise from the Technology sector
•  Global Consumer experience (non-FS)
•  Former CEO experience
•  Representation from Group’s markets.

We remain committed to all aspects of diversity as we undertake any Board 
succession process.

We continue to only engage search firms signed up to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct. We worked with Russell Reynolds to assist us in identifying and building 
a pipeline of high-quality potential INED candidates for a number of assignments. 
Russell Reynolds is signed up to the Voluntary Code and is committed in 
supporting our ambitions to widen all aspects of diversity on the Board.

The Committee takes an active role in reviewing the succession planning for the 
Executive, Management Team and senior management one level below the 
Management Team. We continue to improve our reporting of Board and senior 
talent succession planning as well as reporting on the importance of a diverse 
Board as a means of capturing differing perspectives and enhancing discussion. 
Progress enhancing diversity along with the Board’s gender and ethnicity 
aspirations will continue to be developed.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceDetails of the Board’s diverse composition are set out on pages 137 to 141 of this report, and that of the Management Team can 
be found on pages 142 to 144. Our approach to collecting Board diversity data is set out on page 503. 

Details of the Group’s wider diversity and inclusion strategy, including gender balance across the Group and targets for ethnic 
representation, can be found on pages 60 to 63 of this report.

A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy can be viewed at sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy and further details on the Group’s 
approach to Diversity and Inclusion can be viewed at  sc.com/diversity-and-inclusion

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions. 

Committee effectiveness review 
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  Work had been done to improve the pace  
of the identification and assessment of 
candidates.

•  The Committee’s focus and diligence in 

identifying skills and experience required on 
the Board, and oversight of CEO, CFO and 
INED succession was rated highly.

•  The INED induction programmes, including 
the phased nature of their delivery, were  
well rated.

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Continue to focus on Board succession 

planning, with particular focus placed on 
increasing diversity and adding further  
deep banking expertise, global markets 
representation and sustainability expertise  
to the Board.

•  Consider increasing the time allotted for 

meetings to ensure sufficient deliberation.

•  Follow up on the suggestions for training to 
be provided in 2024, including on diversity 
and inclusion.

181

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’  
remuneration report

“Rewarding strong performance 
and delivering on our targets.”

Key sections

Page 186  

Remuneration at a glance 

Page 188 

 Summary of the directors’ remuneration 
policy

Page 190 

Remuneration alignment

Page 192 

Committee at a glance

Page 194 

Group-wide remuneration

Page 195 

Directors’ remuneration in 2023

Page 205 

 2024 policy implementation for directors

Page 208  Additional remuneration disclosures

Summary of 2023  
remuneration decisions

•  Group performance in 2023 was strong across both 
financial and non-financial metrics. Remuneration 
decisions have been made to reflect this performance 
and the delivery of our targets.

•  Discretionary incentives are USD1,574m, down 1 per 
cent on 2022, reflecting Group performance and 
affordability. 

•  Annual incentive awards for executive directors, Bill 
Winters, Group Chief Executive (CEO) and Andy 
Halford, Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO), were 
assessed at 66 per cent and 65 per cent of the 
maximum, and are 2.5 per cent and 2.6 per cent  
lower than 2022 awards respectively. 

•  Global average salary increases of 2.2 per cent for 2024, 
focused on junior employees and those in high inflation 
markets. No salary increases for executive directors in 
line with this approach.

•  Projected performance outcome of 66 per cent for the 

2021-23 long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards.

•  Reward for all Group employees, including the 

executive directors, continues to be aligned to the 
Group’s strategic priorities, through the annual and 
long-term incentive scorecards.

182

I am pleased to present our directors’ remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 December 2023. This report provides  
an overview of the Remuneration Committee’s work on 
remuneration for the executive directors and the wider 
workforce. The directors’ remuneration policy has operated  
as intended, incentivising performance linked to the Group’s 
strategy and aligning with shareholder interests.

The Group continues to make significant progress and has 
delivered strong performance in 2023, achieving our ambition 
of a double-digit return on tangible equity (RoTE) for the full 
year. The decisions taken by the Committee were based on 
careful consideration of a broad range of factors including the 
economic environment in our markets, performance across 
the Group, and the need for appropriate and fair reward for 
our workforce.

Our performance in 2023

Underlying profit before tax is up 27 per cent at ccy on 
2022, reflecting significant progress in our high-growth 
markets despite an uncertain picture for the global 
economy. RoTE has continued to grow above pre-
pandemic levels and is up 240 basis points to 10.1 per cent. 

RoTE performance

12%

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

The Group remains well capitalised with Common Equity 
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio at 14.1 per cent. 

The formulaic outcome for Group performance, based  
on the balanced scorecard, was 80 per cent. Of this,  
38 per cent (out of a possible 50 per cent) related to 
financial performance including income up 13 per cent 
and the increase in RoTE. The remaining 42 per cent 
related to the achievement of non-financial goals, 
including strong client satisfaction performance, 
improved growth across target markets and 
achievements against our sustainability targets.  

See pages 196 and 197 for more information

Financial KPIs

Profit before taxation

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

$5,678m 

 27%

14.1% 

 10bps

Return on tangible equity 

Total shareholder return

10.1% 

9.4% 

 240bps (underlying basis)

2022: 41.4%

Group-wide remuneration

2023 discretionary annual incentives 
The Group scorecard formulaic assessment of 80 per cent is 
the starting point for determining discretionary incentives. 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportTo arrive at a distributable pool, the Committee considers 
additional factors not captured by the scorecard, such as the 
external environment, market competitiveness and overall 
affordability. The Committee also considers risk, control and 
conduct matters, including ongoing investigations and 
matters raised by regulators. 

Following its review of these factors, the Committee 
determined that a reduction of 15 percentage points from the 
initial scorecard outcome was appropriate. In making this 
decision, while noting that 2023 performance was very 
positive, the Committee was conscious to maintain an 
appropriate balance between rewarding our employees and 
delivering appropriate value to shareholders.

Calculating the Group scorecard outcome for 
discretionary incentives

2021-23 LTIP awards vesting in March 2024 
The 2021-23 LTIP awards are due to start vesting in March 
2024 with a projected performance outcome of 66 per cent, 
based on RoTE performance of 10.1 per cent (maximum 
outcome), relative total shareholder return (TSR) ranking 
between median and upper quartile and above target 
performance against sustainability and other strategic 
measures. As usual, the final relative TSR outcome will be 
assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2024. 
The values delivered by this projected outcome are based on 
the three-month average share price to 31 December 2023 
and are included in the single total figures of remuneration for 
Bill and Andy.

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Award share 
price (£)

Valuation share 
price (£)

4.90

4.90

6.72

6.72

2021-23 LTIP 
projected 
outcome (£)

3,340,237

 2,135,206

Financials

Non-ﬁnancials

Committee 
discretionary 
reduction

-15%

38%

42%

65%   Group scorecard outcome 

See pages 196 and 197 for further details

Discretionary incentive pool

Incentive pool  
($m)

1,574

% change  
(reported)

% change  
(same store basis) 

(1%)

(2%)

2024 salaries 
We have increased salaries in 2024 by 2.2 per cent on average 
globally. This is lower than last year, reflecting falling inflation 
in a number of our locations. We have focused the increases 
on junior employees, and on markets that continue to 
experience high rates of inflation.

Additionally, we have provided targeted support through 
off-cycle salary increases to colleagues facing economic 
hardships in countries such as Angola, Argentina, Egypt, 
Ghana, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Turkey and Zimbabwe.

Executive director remuneration in 2023

Annual incentives for executive directors 
Annual incentives for Bill and Andy are based predominantly 
on the Group scorecard with an additional element for 
personal performance, as below.

Financials

Strategic

Individual
performance

50%

40%

10%

50%

50%

The Committee considered the grant price against that of the 
previous year’s award, and against the average share price in 
the period leading up to the grant date. Based on the review, 
the Committee determined that the price difference was not 
significant and, therefore, there was no windfall gain and no 
adjustment to the award was required.

See pages 200 and 201 for further details

Single total figure of remuneration for 2023
The 2023 annual incentive and projected 2021-23 LTIP 
performance outcome results in a 2023 single figure for Bill of 
GBP7,836,987 and for Andy of GBP4,921,095. This represents 
year-on-year increases of 22 and 23 per cent respectively, 
largely due to the projected performance outcome of the 
2021-23 LTIP award. 

2023 single total ﬁgure of remuneration (£000)

Salary, pension, beneﬁts

Annual incentive

LTIP

Bill Winters

2023

2022

2021

7,837

6,408

4,740

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

7,000

8,000

Andy Halford

2023

2022

2021

4,921

3,988

3,032

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

For 2023, the Committee approved the following annual 
incentive outcomes, including individual performance 
assessments, for Bill and Andy. The Committee is satisfied that 
these are appropriate given 2023 Group performance and the 
significant personal contributions from Bill and Andy.

2023 annual 
incentive (£) % of maximum

Year-on-year 
change (%)

A significant portion of both Bill’s and Andy’s total 
remuneration is share-based with delivery and release over an 
eight-year period. The deferral, retention and recovery 
provisions of their pay continue to reinforce alignment with 
shareholder interests and the Group’s long-term performance. 
Both Bill and Andy continue to exceed their shareholding 
requirements.

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

1,461,874

920,348

66%

65%

(2.5%)

(2.6%)

See page 195 for further details

See pages 196 to 199  for further details

183

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
continued

Executive directors’ remuneration in 2024

[[Change in GCFO]]

On 31 August 2023 we announced that Andy Halford had decided to retire as GCFO and as an executive director. 
He has been succeeded by Diego De Giorgi who joined on 1 September 2023. Diego was appointed as GCFO and 
joined the Board as an executive director on 3 January 2024, after receiving regulatory approval.

Andy 
Andy remained as GCFO and an executive director 
until 2 January 2024, helping to ensure a smooth 
transition. After stepping down as GCFO, he is 
continuing as a Senior Adviser, working on strategic 
projects for the Group. He will continue to receive his 
salary and benefits until he retires on 31 August 2024. 

Andy will be considered an eligible leaver and, in 
accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy, 
was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive award, 
determined by the Committee based on Group and 
individual performance during 2023. 

As an eligible leaver, Andy will retain all existing LTIP 
awards subject to the achievement of performance 
measures. He will receive the full value of his 2021-23 
LTIP award given the performance period will complete  
during his employment. His other awards will be 
pro-rated for the period until he retires. All outstanding 
awards will vest and release as scheduled and remain 
subject to malus and clawback arrangements. Andy is 
not eligible for any further LTIP awards and will not 
receive an award in March 2024. 

Andy will be eligible to be considered for a pro-rated 
2024 annual incentive award for time served as a 
Senior Advisor, based on contribution. 

Diego 
Diego’s remuneration arrangements have been set in 
accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy. 

Value (£)

Delivery method

Salary

1,650,000

Pension

110,000

67% cash
33% delivered in shares 
– released in equal 
amounts over five years 

10% of the cash element 
of salary

Diego also receives core benefits in line with the 
approach for all UK employees with additional 
role-specific benefits appropriate to his responsibilities.

Diego was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive which 
has been pro-rated to reflect the period for which he 
was employed during the year. He is also eligible to 
receive an LTIP award that will be granted in 2024.

Diego did not receive a buyout award.

In line with the approved directors’ remuneration policy, the 
Committee considers annual salary increases for executive 
directors taking account of any increase in scope or 
responsibility, market competitiveness, and any salary 
increases across the Group. Taking these factors into account, 
and in line with the approach of focusing increases on junior 
employees, fixed pay for Bill and Diego will not be increased in 
2024 with their salaries being GBP2,517,000 and GBP1,650,000 
respectively. 

2024-26 LTIP awards to be granted in March 2024
Having considered 2023 performance, the Committee has 
approved the following LTIP awards for the period of 2024-26.

Bill Winters

Diego De Giorgi

2024-26 LTIP 
award (£)

3,322,440

2,178,000

% of salary

132%

132%

The LTIP awards are performance-linked and outcomes will 
depend upon achieving specified targets by the end of the 
three-year performance period. 

Following the assessment of performance, resulting shares will 
vest pro-rata from years three to seven, with an additional 
retention period of 12 months after vesting. 

Performance will be assessed on:

RoTE

30%

Relative TSR

30%

ESG

25%

0

Other
strategic

15%

100

Financial

Non-ﬁnancial

See pages 202 and 203 for further details

Working closely with the Culture and Sustainability 
Committee we have considered the categorisation of 
performance measures and reorganised the non-financial 
strategic measures that relate to environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues. These are now combined with the 
existing sustainability measures, with a weighting of 25 per 
cent for this category. The overall scorecard continues to be 
split 60 per cent financial and 40 per cent non-financial. 

Discussions with shareholders were held in December 2023 
and January 2024 on the development of these performance 
measures and targets and the input received was 
incorporated into the final decisions by the Committee.

184

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
In January 2024 the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code which 
will apply from 1 January 2025. Following a consultation on 
potential changes during 2023, many of the proposed 
changes were not included in the revised Code. We will reflect 
the updates that have been made in our 2025 report.

In the rest of this report we present the disclosures required by 
regulations, as well as additional information to explain how 
remuneration for our executives aligns with our strategy, 
shareholder interests and wider workforce pay. In making 
remuneration decisions for 2023 and beyond, we have also 
been mindful of the experience of our wider stakeholder 
group.

I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for the 
work they have put into the Committee, and our shareholders 
for their ongoing support and engagement.

Shirish Apte
Chair of the Remuneration Committee  

(All disclosures in the directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless 
otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited 
in the context of the financial statements as a whole.)

[[Removal of the  
bonus cap]]

On 24 October 2023, the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) confirmed the removal of the bonus cap in 
the UK, effective immediately. 

We aim to pay our colleagues competitively for 
performance aligned to the strategic aims of the 
Group, through structures that are consistent 
with and promote sound and effective risk 
management. This should support the Group in 
generating sustained and sustainable returns in 
the interests of shareholders and other 
stakeholders. The removal of the cap does not 
change this.

We are considering our pay structures and how 
they might evolve now that the cap has been 
removed. For our executive directors, 
remuneration will continue to be set in line with 
relevant regulations and guidance and our 
approved directors’ remuneration policy which 
includes maximums in respect of variable pay. 
These maximums do not change as a result of 
the cap being removed and the current structure 
will continue until a new policy is proposed and 
approved by shareholders, scheduled to be at 
the 2025 Annual General Meeting (AGM).

How to use this report

Within the directors’ remuneration report we have  
used colour coding to denote different elements  
of remuneration, as follows:

      Salary, pension, benefits  
(fixed remuneration) 

     Annual incentive

     LTIP

We have also used the following icons for ease of navigation through this section and to show alignment between 
remuneration and the strategic objectives of the Group.

See pages 20 to 26 for further details

Investors

Clients

Risk management

Ways of Working

Employees

Innovation

Sustainability

Lifting Participation

Resetting Globalisation

Accelerating Zero

People and culture

185

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ report Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration at a glance 

How does remuneration link to Group strategy?

As measured by

2023 Annual 
incentive

2021-23  
LTIP

Financial KPIs

Further details can be found 
on pages 196 and 202

• 

Income

•  Costs

•  Return on tangible equity

•  Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

•  Relative total shareholder return

Financial  
results 

Strategic priorities 

Further details can be found 
on page 25

Critical enablers 

Further details can be found 
on page 24

•  Network business

•  Affluent client business

•  Mass Retail business

•  Sustainability

•  People and culture

•  Ways of Working

• 

Innovation

Achievement  
against  
objectives 

How did we determine variable remuneration outcomes in 2023?

2023 Group scorecard

2021-23 LTIP

Financials

38%

50%

RoTE with  
CET1 underpin 

30%

Clients

13%

15%

Relative TSR

9%

30%

30%

Sustainability

10%

10%

Sustainability

13%

15%

Enablers

6%

10%

Strategic

14%

25%

Risk and control

13%

15%

15ppt  

 Committee discretionary reduction to the formulaic 
outcome. See page 183 for further details

Following the detailed performance assessment of measures 
and proof points, the Committee considered the projected 
performance outcome to be consistent with Group 
performance and no adjustment has been made.

2023 Group scorecard outcome

65%

66% 2021-23 LTIP projected outcome

How do executive directors’ remuneration outcomes compare with the maximum opportunity?

2023 annual incentive (£000)

2021-23 LTIP projected outcome (£000)1

Actual Max

Bill Winters

1,462

2,215

Andy Halford

Actual Max

920

1,416

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Actual

3,340

Max

5,061

Actual

Max

2,135

3,235

1  The values of the projected outcome and maximum opportunity are calculated using a three-month average share price to 31 December 2023

186

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

How did we pay our executive directors in 2023 (single total figure of remuneration)?

Variable  
remuneration

LTIP

Fixed 
remuneration

Annual incentive

Salary  

Pension

Benefits

7,837

3,340

1,462

3,035

6,408

1,949

1,499

2,960

2023

2022

Bill Winters

£000

4,921

2,135

920

1,866

2023

3,988

1,210

945

1,833

2022

Andy Halford

How is executive director remuneration delivered over time?1

Awarded for 2023 
£000

Delivery method

Structure and timing of payment

CEO: 50% cash

Cash

Salary

CEO: £2,496

CEO: 50% shares

Shares
Released in equal amounts between  
2024 and 2028

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Pension

CEO: £251

100% cash

Cash

Annual  
incentive2

CEO: £1,462

50% cash

Cash 

50% shares

Shares

LTIP2

CEO: £3,322

100% shares

Performance  
measured over  
3 years 

Shares
Delivered in equal amounts between  
2027 and 2031 (subject to 12 month  
retention post release)

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2029

2030

2031

Information is provided for the CEO only due to the change in GCFO at the end of the year 

1 
2  Annual incentive and LTIP shares are subject to clawback for up to 10 years from grant 

68% of Bill’s maximum remuneration opportunity is delivered in shares creating strong alignment of interests between 
executives and shareholders to generate long-term value.  

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

187

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the directors’ remuneration policy 

The forward-looking remuneration policy for executive directors and independent non-executive directors (INEDs) was 
approved at the AGM held on 4 May 2022 and applies for three years from that date. A summary of the executive director 
policy, including the key remuneration elements, is set out below for information.

The full policy, including recruitment and leaver provisions, can be found on pages 159 to 164 of the 2021 Annual Report and on our website at sc.com

Our approach to remuneration is consistent for all employees and is designed to create alignment with our Fair Pay Charter, 
which applies globally. However, our pay structures may vary according to location (to comply with local requirements) and, 
therefore, the table below explains the alignment between the executive directors and our UK workforce, being the most 
relevant market.

Fixed remuneration

Policy

Alignment with UK employees 

Salary
Set to reflect the role, 
and the skills and 
experience of the 
individual.

•  Delivered part in cash and part in shares.
•  To maintain alignment with shareholders, the 
share element is subject to a holding period of 
five years, with 20 per cent being released 
annually.

•  The process of setting and annually reviewing 

salaries against market information is the same 
for all employees.

•  For all other UK employees, salary is paid 100 per 

cent in cash in line with market practice.

Pension
To facilitate long-term 
retirement savings.

•  For directors who joined before 4 May 2022, an 
annual pension allowance or contribution of  
10 per cent of salary is payable.

Benefits
A competitive benefits 
package to support 
executives to carry out 
their duties effectively.

•  For directors who joined after 4 May 2022, 10 per 
cent of the cash element of salary only will be 
payable.

•  A range of benefits is provided including holiday 
and sick pay, a benefits cash allowance, private 
medical insurance, life insurance, financial advice 
and tax return preparation. A car and driver or 
other car-related service is available to the CEO, 
which is a role-based provision due to security 
requirements.

•  Executive directors receive a lower cash benefits 

allowance than other UK employees as a 
percentage of their salary.

•  Pension is set at 10 per cent of salary for both the 
executive directors and other UK employees, 
aligned with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.

•  Core benefits are aligned with all employees. 
Some additional, role-specific benefits are 
received by the current executive directors. 

•  Employees are eligible for tax return preparation 

in the year of an international relocation.

Variable remuneration 

Policy 

Alignment with UK employees 

Annual incentive
Remuneration based on 
measurable 
performance criteria 
linked to the Group’s 
strategy and assessed 
over a period of one 
year.

LTIP
LTIP awards are granted 
to senior executives who 
have the ability to 
influence the long-term 
performance of the 
Group. Awards are 
performance 
dependent based on 
measurable, long-term 
criteria.

•  Annual incentive awards are delivered as a 
combination of cash and shares subject to 
holding requirements, and deferred shares.
•  The maximum value of an annual incentive 

award cannot exceed 88 per cent of salary and 
can be any amount from zero to the maximum.
•  Awards are determined by the Committee, based 
on the assessment of the Group scorecard which 
contains financial (at least 50 per cent of the 
scorecard) and strategic measures, as well as the 
personal performance of the individual.

•  LTIP awards are granted annually, based on 

performance in the relevant year. 

•  The maximum value of an LTIP award cannot 
exceed 132 per cent of salary and can be any 
amount from zero to the maximum. 

•  Following the grant of awards, performance is 

measured over three years with no vesting before 
the third anniversary of the grant. 

•  LTIP awards are delivered in shares and subject to 

holding requirements.

•  The annual incentive plan is operated for all 

employees, paid in cash up to certain limits with 
the balance deferred over at least three years in 
shares and/or cash. 

•  The same Group scorecard is used in assessing 
incentives for executive directors and other UK 
employees.

•  Members of the Management Team are also 
eligible for LTIP awards, granted annually and 
assessed on the same performance measures 
and targets, with awards typically at a lower 
level. 

•  LTIP awards may also be granted to other 

employees in the Group which may be subject to 
the same or different performance conditions.

188

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportOther remuneration

Policy

Alignment with UK employees 

Sharesave
Provides an opportunity 
for all employees to 
invest voluntarily in the 
Group.

•  Participants are able to open a savings contract 
to fund the exercise of an option over shares. 
•  The option price is set at a discount of up to  

20 per cent of the share price at the date of the 
invitation to participate. 

•  All employees are eligible to participate in 

Sharesave, which enables employees to share in 
the success of the Group at a discounted share 
price.

•  Savings per month of between £5 and the 

maximum set by the Group, which is currently 
£250.

Shareholding 
requirements
Provides alignment with 
the interests of 
shareholders during 
employment.

•  The CEO and the GCFO are required to hold  

•  Formal shareholding and post-employment 

250 per cent and 200 per cent of salary in shares, 
respectively. 

shareholding requirements are operated for the 
executive directors only. 

•  Post-employment shareholding requirement in 

place for two years following cessation of 
employment. The amount to be held is as 
described above or, if lower, the actual 
shareholding on departure.

•  However, material risk takers are also required to 
hold shares in-line with regulatory deferral and 
retention requirements.

Appropriateness of executive directors’ remuneration
We maintain a consistent remuneration approach for all employees, in line with our Fair Pay Charter. Remuneration for 
executive directors is reviewed annually against internal and external measures to ensure appropriate levels, aligned with the 
approach for other employees.

Executive director policy at target opportunity compared with industry peers
We compete for talent in a global marketplace, with many of our key competitors based outside the UK. We review executive 
director fixed and variable remuneration opportunity against a peer group of international banks to ensure that it remains 
appropriately competitive. This peer group reflects both our global footprint and where we compete for talent. Market data 
used in benchmarking is based on the latest published report and accounts. In addition, we consider executive director 
remuneration against FTSE30 companies, with data sourced from an external provider.

Bank peer group

CEO

GCFO1

FTSE 30

CEO

GCFO1

Bottom quartile

3rd quartile

2nd quartile

Top quartile

Executive director target opportunity

The current bank peer group comprises: ANZ, Bank of America, Bank of Nova Scotia, Barclays, BBVA, BNP Paribas, CIBC, Citigroup, DBS, Deutsche Bank, FirstRand, 
HSBC, ICICI, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Lloyds Banking Group, National Australia Bank, NatWest, OCBC, Santander, Société Générale, UBS, United Overseas Bank
1  GCFO total compensation is based on Diego De Giorgi’s target opportunity

Executive director remuneration compared with wider workforce 
The balance between fixed and variable remuneration is geared to provide a greater proportion of fixed remuneration for more 
junior employees to give more financial security. In comparison, for more senior employees, including the executive directors, the 
variable remuneration opportunity is larger reflecting their ability to influence the Group’s performance and in turn, their 
remuneration outcome.

Salary

Annual incentive

LTIP

Senior executive 
(incl executive directors)

Senior professional

37%

3,057

60%

38%

25%

40%

Intermediate professional

79%

Junior professional

Admin/Support

88%

89%

21%

12%

11%

See pages 196 to 198 for how Bill’s remuneration links to Group performance, individual performance, and risk, control and conduct-related matters

189

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ report Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration alignment

Alignment with...

Our culture 

Our strategy 

Remuneration decisions made 
across the Group, including for 
our executive directors, align 
with our strategic priorities 
and our Stands, including our 
commitment to sustainable 
social and economic 
development:

•  Performance measures in our Group 
and LTIP scorecards are designed to 
drive achievement of the financial 
and strategic goals that will deliver 
long-term sustainable value for our 
stakeholders. 

•  Sustainability and our Stands are 
key considerations for setting and 
measuring financial and strategic 
targets.

•  If scorecard outcomes are not 

consistent with progress against 
our strategic commitments the 
Committee has the discretion to make 
adjustments.

See page 186 for further details on how our 
incentive plans are aligned to our strategy

Our performance and 
reward framework supports 
us in embedding a high 
performance culture and 
aligns with our principle that 
colleagues should share in 
the success of the Group. For 
example:

•  All remuneration decisions are 

grounded in our Fair Pay Charter.

See page 194 for further details on our Fair 
Pay Charter 

•  The wider workforce and our 

executive directors participate 
in continuous performance 
management and feedback, to 
ensure that performance is discussed 
and assessed throughout the year. 

•  Employee performance is assessed 
based on what is achieved and how 
it is achieved in line with our valued 
behaviours. Our remuneration 
structure and policies ensure that 
behaviours consistent with these 
values are appropriately recognised 
and rewarded. 

•  Our LTIP further supports this with an 
assessment to ensure appropriate 
levels of conduct have been 
demonstrated to meet our conduct 
gateway requirement. 

Our approach  
to risk and control

The determination of our 
remuneration policy and 
outcomes align with the 
Group’s risk and control 
framework. In particular:

•  Our scorecards include risk and 

control measures, and the Committee 
has the discretion to adjust incentive 
outcomes for risk and control matters 
that are not reflected in the 
scorecards. 

•  The Committee can apply a 

discretionary risk adjustment in 
respect of the Group scorecard 
outcome and has a track record of 
applying discretion appropriately. 

•  Long-term sustainable performance is 
supported through the ability to make 
adjustments to variable remuneration 
for risk, control and conduct 
behaviours, the deferral of variable 
remuneration, and the ability to apply 
malus and clawback where 
appropriate. 

See page 215 for further details

•  Incentives for employees engaged in 
Audit, Risk and Compliance functions 
are set independent of the businesses 
they oversee.

[[Managing risk and control]]

The Group has a robust formal process for reviewing risk and control matters and reflecting these in remuneration outcomes at 
both an individual and Group level. All material risk events (MREs) are reviewed by a dedicated group of senior colleagues in 
Control Functions to ensure lessons are learned and appropriate actions are taken for accountable individuals. If necessary, a 
deep dive will be commissioned to understand risk, control and conduct issues in a particular location or business area. The 
most severe MREs are escalated for oversight by the Remuneration Committee. At year end, a summary of risk and control 
matters will be reviewed and discussed to determine any impact to Group incentives. The outcomes of the 2023 reviews are 
one component in the adjustment to the 2023 scorecard outcome as detailed on pages 196 and 197. Details of our approach to 
risk adjustment, including our malus and clawback provisions, are provided on page 215.

190
190

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report  
How does our directors’ remuneration policy address other key features set out in the  
UK Corporate Governance Code?

Proportionality 
•  In line with our commitment to pay for performance, a 

Predictability 
•  The range of possible rewards to individual executive 

significant proportion of executive director pay is delivered 
through incentives based on performance metrics aligned 
with our strategy. The Committee sets robust and stretching 
targets to ensure there is a clear link between Group 
performance and executive director awards.

•  Executive directors’ interests are further aligned with 

shareholders’ long-term interests through the deferred 
release of salary, annual incentive and LTIP awards over a 
period ranging from one to eight years. Incentive awards 
are also subject to clawback provisions for up to 10 years 
from grant. 

•  Shareholding requirements are in place for executive 

directors, requiring them to build and maintain a significant 
shareholding in Company shares while in employment and 
for a period of two years post-employment. Bill and Andy 
currently exceed their respective shareholding 
requirements.

directors is set out in the scenario charts on page 205 where 
we also demonstrate the impact of a 50 per cent share 
price appreciation over the three-year performance period 
of the LTIP. 

•  In addition to maximum award levels specified in our 

remuneration policy, the value of incentive awards will vary 
depending on achievement against specified performance 
targets and the share price at the time of delivery for the 
significant part of reward which is delivered in shares.

Simplicity and clarity
•  Simplicity is a key driver for the structure of our executive 
pay, subject to adherence to regulatory requirements 
arising from operating as a UK regulated bank. 

•  Our remuneration structure comprises straightforward and 

well-understood components. The purpose, structure, 
alignment with strategy and consistency with arrangements 
for the wider workforce are clearly set out in the 
remuneration policy. 

See pages 188 and 189 for further details

•  We set and report our performance-related measures, targets 
and outcomes in a clear, transparent and balanced way.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

How is our executive director remuneration aligned to stakeholder experience?

•  Remuneration outcomes reflect key financial and  
non-financial performance delivered in the year.

•  Variable remuneration awards are based on stretching 

targets.

•  A significant portion of executive remuneration is paid in 

shares and shareholding requirements apply.

•  Post-employment shareholding requirements  

further reinforce the importance of  
sustainable long-term performance. 

•  The Remuneration Committee  
Chair regularly engages with  
shareholders on remuneration  
matters to seek feedback which 
helps guide decision-making.

Investors

Employees

•  The same remuneration principles apply 
to executives and employees, including 
consistent benefit and pension provision 
by location.

See pages 188 and 189 for further details

•  Annual incentives for executive directors 
are based on the same scorecard used 
to determine discretionary incentives 
across the Group.

• 

In line with our approach to 2024 salary 
increases, focusing on junior employees 
and those in high inflation markets, 
fixed pay for Bill and Diego will  
remain unchanged.

•  Remuneration outcomes 
take into account risk, 
control and conduct 
considerations.

•  Pay structures are aligned  
to relevant best practice, 
including the application  
of deferrals and malus/
clawback.

Executive  
director  
remuneration

Regulators and 
governments

Society and 
sustainability

•  Remuneration outcomes  
from both annual incentive 
and LTIP awards consider 
performance against 
sustainability objectives.

•  The Committee tracks  
gender and ethnicity pay 
gaps, and actively monitors 
the actions being taken to 
close them.

Clients

•  Remuneration outcomes reflect performance delivered including client-related  
performance objectives (e.g. improved client satisfaction).

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

191
191

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
Committee at a glance

Committee composition

Shirish  
Apte  
(Chair)

David 
Conner

Robin 
Lawther, 
CBE

Maria 
Ramos

Jasmine 
Whitbread1

Linda 
Yueh, CBE2

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?

The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief 
Financial Officer; Group Chief Risk Officer; Group Head, HR; 
Global Head, Performance, Reward and Benefits; Group Head, 
Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; Group Company 
Secretary; Chair of the Audit Committee; Group Head, Internal 
Audit.

See pages 137 to 141 for biographical details of the 
Committee members

1  Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023
2  Linda joined the Committee on 1 January 2023

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

2/2

5/5

What are the main responsibilities of the 
Committee? 

How did the Committee spend their time  
during their 2023 meetings?

The Committee is responsible for setting the principles, 
parameters and governance framework for the Group’s 
remuneration policy and overseeing its implementation.  
This includes:

•  Determining the framework and policies for the 

remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive 
directors and other senior management considering our 
Fair Pay Charter, wider workforce remuneration and 
alignment with culture and conduct. 

•  Overseeing the alignment of reward, culture, the strategic 

priorities and our Stands.

•  Approving Group discretionary remuneration, including 
adjustment for risk, control and conduct for current and 
future risks.

•  Overseeing the Fair Pay Charter.

The Committee has written terms of reference that  
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Executive remuneration and policy

Senior management remuneration

Group-wide reward, the Fair Pay 
Charter and pay diversity

Business performance and  
risk assessment review

Shareholder engagement,  
regulatory and governance

Other, inc. Group Share Plans

25%

10%

25%

20%

15%

5%

[[Committee focus  
for 2023]]

During the year, the Committee determined the retirement 
arrangements and remuneration arrangements for the outgoing 
and incoming GCFO respectively, working to ensure appropriate 
arrangements were put in place to facilitate a smooth and 
effective transition to the new GCFO. 

Read more on page 184

192

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportHow did our shareholders vote?

Advisory vote on the 2022 
remuneration report at 2023 
AGM1

Binding vote to approve the
2022 directors’ remuneration 
policy at 2022 AGM

For

Against

Withheld

521,070,732
94.7%

29,151,006
5.3%

14,890,207

404,531,068
68.8%

183,344,607
31.2%

24,340,637

The Committee Chair continues to 
engage with shareholders to seek views 
and feedback on key decisions the 
Committee takes each year. In 2024, 
shareholders will be consulted with on 
the development of the new directors’ 
remuneration policy scheduled to be put 
to shareholders for approval at the 2025 
AGM.

1 If withheld votes are considered as part of the overall voting outcome distribution, 92.2 per cent of 
votes would have been ‘For’ the resolution

What advice does the Committee receive?

How effective was the Committee in 2023? 

PwC was re-appointed as the Committee’s remuneration 
adviser in 2021. The Committee conducts a detailed review 
of potential advisers every three or four years. 

PwC is a signatory to the voluntary remuneration consulting 
Code of Conduct. It provides other services to the Group 
including assurance, advisory, consultancy and tax advice. 
The Committee is satisfied the advice received was 
objective and independent and that no potential or actual 
conflict arose. The total fees paid to PwC (partly a fixed fee 
and partly on a time and materials basis) was GBP148,175, 
which included advice to the Committee relating to 
executive directors’ remuneration and regulatory matters.

The Group CFO and Chief Risk Officer regularly update the 
Committee on finance and risk matters. The Committee 
manages conflicts of interest when receiving views from 
senior individuals on remuneration proposals and no 
individual is involved in deciding their own pay.

The feedback from the internally conducted 2023 
Committee effectiveness review was positive. The key 
points raised and the action plan for 2024 are summarised 
below.

•  The Committee performed well against an extensive 

agenda. The Chair works effectively, prioritising key issues 
and allowing for the appropriate level of challenge and 
engagement. 

•  The Committee has a good composition of technical skills 
including understanding the work of other committees, 
with other Board members being drawn upon where 
needed.

•  Positive commentary was given on the support received 
from internal specialists (e.g. human resources, finance, 
risk) and PwC.

[[2024 action plan]]

The 2024 action plan for the Committee reflects the recommendations from the effectiveness review and 
continues to build on the progress made last year:

•  Establish the Group’s position on the removal of the bonus cap.

•  Develop the new 2025 directors’ remuneration policy.

•  Follow up on Committee suggested training to be provided in 2024.

How does the Committee understand the views of our workforce? 

87%

of colleagues responded to the 
Group’s engagement survey, My Voice, 
which seeks to understand colleague 
sentiment in respect of performance 
management, the process of giving 
and receiving feedback and reward.

The Committee recognises the importance of seeking feedback from colleagues 
on remuneration matters to inform decision-making. The Culture and 
Sustainability Committee (CSC) is responsible for the Group’s workforce 
engagement programme and provides colleague feedback to the Remuneration 
Committee to inform remuneration decision-making. 

The Board engages with and listens to the views of employees. In 2023, the Board 
hosted informal events with employees which provided an opportunity for the 
Board to understand how the Bank’s strategy and culture are being lived and 
embedded across the Group.

See our Culture and Sustainability Committee report on pages 174 to 176 and our Stakeholder 
section on pages 54 to 64 for further information on our workforce engagement framework

193

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ report Directors’ remuneration report

Group-wide remuneration 

Our Fair Pay Charter

The Fair Pay Charter is the compass for 
our performance and reward strategy and 
outlines how we aim to ensure fairness in 
our approach to reward. It supports our 
focus on being a great place to work and 
the achievement of our strategic goals. 

Together with broader human resources initiatives 
supporting diversity and inclusion, organisational and 
individual development, and the recognition of high 
performance, we are building a culture of excellence 
where, through innovation and continuous improvement, 
every one of our colleagues can fulfil their potential. 

Full details of the Charter can be found in our Diversity, Equality and 
Inclusion Impact Report here: sc.com/diversityfairpayreport

Other key 2023 highlights 

myPerformance
We have continued to embed our new approach to 
performance management which is designed to motivate 
outperformance and deliver a culture of excellence. With this 
new approach, we are creating a more transparent, real-
time feedback culture underpinned by continuous feedback, 
coaching, and open two-way performance and development 
conversations with people leaders. Data gathered through 
sentiment surveys and metrics on goal setting, as well as 
feedback and year-end review decisions have shown positive 
signs on achieving our aim to embed the behaviours of a high 
performance culture across the Bank. For example, more than 
70 per cent of employees feel that myPerformance has had a 
positive impact on their ability to perform at their best. 

We will continue to work on areas such as further encouraging 
upward feedback, upskilling people leaders and ensuring the 
new approach is well understood Bank wide.

Revising our Fair Pay Charter
Since the introduction of the Charter in 2017, our Group 
priorities and the external environment have shifted.

We have made significant progress in areas such as 
living wage and have laid a foundation for a more 
consistent and transparent approach to remuneration, 
supporting equal pay and greater flexibility. 

Building on this progress, our focus has now shifted 
to better aligning our proposition to our values and 
evolving employee needs, while supporting the culture 
of excellence needed to drive long-term success 
and maintaining the progress made to date. 

The revised Charter serves to reiterate our commitment to 
fair and equitable reward and hold ourselves accountable. 
It reflects our latest priorities, focusing on four priority 
areas, each critical to driving the Bank forward:

•  Equal pay – we commit to offering equal pay for equal work 

by market and do not tolerate unlawful discrimination.

•  Purpose-led – we provide a holistic set of reward and 

benefits that align with our valued behaviours and Stands.

•  Competitive opportunities – we aim to pay colleagues 

competitively.

•  Performance driven – we are committed to motivating, 

recognising and rewarding sustainable high performance.

Group-wide variable remuneration 
To support our objective of embedding a high performance 
culture in the organisation, during 2023 the Committee 
reviewed the effectiveness of our existing Target Total 
Variable Compensation plan which c. 75 per cent of our 
colleagues participate in.

For the 2023 performance year, to strengthen the link between 
performance and pay, we allocated a greater proportion 
of our incentive pool for individual differentiation. Further 
changes will be communicated and implemented for the 2024 
performance year. 

[[New recognition platform]]

Appreciate

As part of our drive to reinforce a high performance culture, in 2024 we have launched a new recognition platform, 
Appreciate, enabling colleagues to recognise one another’s outstanding achievements, further promoting the 
habit of recognising and celebrating excellence.

194

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Directors’ remuneration in 2023 (audited)

This section, which is subject to an advisory vote at the 2024 AGM, outlines the 2023 executive director remuneration delivered 
under the 2022 shareholder-approved remuneration policy and the 2023 fees for the Group Chairman and INEDs.

The following table sets out the 2023 single total figure of remuneration for the CEO and GCFO showing a year-on-year increase 
of 22 and 23 per cent respectively, largely due to the projected performance outcome of the 2021-23 LTIP awards . Diego De 
Giorgi was appointed to the role of GCFO on 3 January 2024 and details of his remuneration are included in the 2024 policy 
implementation for directors section on page 205. 

Single total figure of remuneration £000

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

7,837

7,837

£000

£000

Variable 
remuneration

3,340

3,340

6,408

6,408

1,949

1,949

4,921

4,921

1,462

1,462

1,499

1,499

2,135

2,135

3,988

1,210

Fixed 
 remuneration

3,035

3,035

2,960

2,960

920

920

945

1,866

1,866

1,833

3,988

1,210

945

1,833

2022

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

2023

£000

Salary

Pension

Benefits

Total fixed remuneration

Annual incentive award

LTIP outcome

Value based on performance

Value based on share price growth

Total variable remuneration

Single total figure of remuneration

2023

2022

Bill Winters

2023
Bill Winters
2,496

251

288

3,035

1,462

2,435

905

4,802

7,837

2022

2022

2,418

245

297

2,960

1,499

1,540

409

3,448

6,408

2023

2023

2022

Andy Halford

Andy Halford

2023

1,596

2022

1,546

160

110

1,866

920

1,557

578

3,055

4,921

154

133

1,833

945

956

254

2,155

3,988

Notes to the single total figure of remuneration table

Benefits  

•  Bill receives a contribution towards his annual tax preparation due to the complexity of his tax affairs, partly 

due to Group business travel requirements. 

•  Bill has the use of a vehicle and driver. This is a role-based provision given the executive role and the 

associated security and privacy requirements. 

•  Figures relate to UK tax years 2022/23 and 2021/22.

Annual incentive 
award

•  Received in respect of 2023.

Outcome of  
LTIP award

•  Projected outcome values of the 2021-23 LTIP awards vesting, awarded in 2021.  
•  The values of the 2020–22 LTIP vesting awards for 2022 have increased compared with the projected values 

disclosed in last year’s report and have been restated. At that time, the projected performance outcome was 
22 per cent. When the relative TSR performance was assessed in March 2023, the actual outcome was 36.8 
per cent with a share price of £6.577, resulting in the increased outcome value.

No payments, including no pension contributions, were made to, or in respect of, past directors in the year in excess of the 
minimum threshold of GBP50,000, set for this purpose. 

See pages 188 and 189 for a summary of the directors’ remuneration policy

195

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 
Annual incentive awards for the executive directors (audited)

Annual incentive awards for executive directors are based on the assessment of the Group scorecard and personal 
performance, in line with the remuneration policy. The Group scorecard is used for all eligible employees, including the executive 
directors, to maintain alignment and a shared sense of purpose. 

For Bill and Andy, the Committee considered Group and individual performance, as well as risk, control, and conduct-related 
matters with input from Risk and other control functions. The Committee considered that both directors exhibited appropriate 
levels of conduct and had met the gateway requirement to be eligible for an incentive. 

The annual incentive scorecard outcomes for Bill and Andy are summarised below:

Executive director scorecard outcomes 

Measure 

Financial       

Strategic

Personal performance

Total

Committee adjustment (see page 183 for further detail)

Final scorecard for determining annual incentives

Maximum annual incentive opportunity (£000)

Annual incentive outcome (£000)

Weighting

Bill Winters  
outcome

Andy Halford  
outcome

50%

40%

10%

100%

38%

34%

9%

81%

(15%)

66%

2,215

1,462

38%

34%

8%

80%

(15%)

65%

1,416

920

The Committee has the ability to make an adjustment to reflect progress against our Stands. In 2023, good progress has been 
made against all Stands and no adjustment is required.

Set out below are the assessments of performance in 2023 for the Group and for Bill and Andy.

Assessment of the 2023 scorecard – financial measures

Measure 

Income1

Costs

Weighting

Threshold 
(0%)

Target

(100%) Achievement

Outcome

Maximum 

10%

16,142m

16,814m

17,487m

17,378m

10%

11,246m

10,813m

10,380m

11,025m

9%

3%

RoTE2 with a CET13 underpin of the higher of  
13% or the minimum regulatory requirement

30%

8.5%

9.3%

10.2%

10.1%

26%

1  Total income and operating profit are on an underlying basis. Certain items are presented as restructuring and other items that are excluded from the underlying 
results of the Group. These are income, costs and impairment and resulting operating profit relating to identifiable business units, products or portfolios from the 
relevant dates that they have been approved for restructuring, disposal, wind-down or redundancy. This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from 
management’s decisions to dispose of assets, as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of related legacy assets of those identifiable business units, 
products or portfolios. See Note 2 on page 370

2  Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders, to the weighted average ordinary shareholders’ 
equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this 
would be subject to review by the Committee

3  The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level at 31 December 2023. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take 
into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and 
implemented after the start of the performance period

196

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
Assessment of the 2023 scorecard – strategic measures

Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass)

Target

Assessment

Improve client satisfaction and client experience ratings.

• 
•  Deliver growth in qualified clients across Affluent, 

• 

 Client satisfaction outperformed with strong loyalty and 
satisfaction ratings.

Private Banking and Wealth Management activity.

•  Deliver network income growth in Corporate, 
Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB).

•  Grow value of Digital Ventures.
•  Mass market Retail growth through new to bank 

personal customers.

•  Substantially improved growth delivered across target 
markets, significantly exceeding our maximum target.
Increased network income in CCIB to $6.9 billion ($5.2 
billion in 2022).

• 

•  Strong performance in Ventures with new customers 

• 

approaching 1.8 million.
 Strong performance of Mass Retail with 2.3 million 
active clients, exceeding our maximum target.

Weighting  –  12%

Outcome  – 10%

Sustainability

Target

Assessment

•  Progress against the Group’s Sustainable Finance 

• 

income targets and its aim to achieve net zero by 2050.
Improve community engagement through employee 
volunteering participation.

• 

• 

 Income targets from Sustainable Finance products 
exceeded at $720 million.
 Community engagement exceeded our aspirational 
target with an employee participation rate of 61%.

Weighting  –  8%

Outcome  –  8%

Enablers (Ways of Working and people)

Target

Assessment

•  Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and 

digital sales adoption.
Improve end-to-end speed to deliver change (from idea 
formation to commercialisation).
Improve organisational effectiveness.
Improve employee engagement, diversity and inclusion.

• 

• 
• 

•  Digital adoption through mobile channel take up above 
targets as a result of focused efforts to drive customers 
to mobile channel in major markets.

•  Speed to deliver improved by 6% and targets achieved.
•  Organisational effectiveness targets achieved.
Improved employee inclusion and engagement 
• 
outcomes based on the results of specific questions in 
our employee survey, and an increase in number of 
females in senior roles, achieving baseline levels.

Weighting  –  8%

Outcome  –  5%

Risk and controls

Target

•  Non-financial risk reduction.
•  Self-identification of audit issues.

Assessment

•  Strong performance of non-financial risk reduction 

• 

across the Bank.
Improved self-identification of audit issues with targets 
exceeded in key areas and nearly 60% of all issues now 
being self-identified.

Weighting  –  12%

Outcome  –  11%

Our Stands: Accelerating Zero; Lifting Participation; Resetting Globalisation

•  A holistic assessment of the embedding of our Stands showed good progress has been made across the Group with 

all areas on track. No adjustment was made to the scorecard outcome.

No adjustment

Assessment of the 2023 scorecard – personal performance 
The Committee considers areas of responsibility together with progress against key objectives for the year and personal 
contribution to the Group scorecard outcome. This element focuses on measures that reflect real personal impact, such as 
transformation of processes and improving the culture within the Bank. Key achievements against Bill’s and Andy’s personal 
objectives are summarised in the tables on the next pages.

197

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBill Winters 

2023 has been a strong year for Bill in which he continued to lead the Group with passion and focus. Our positive financial 
and strategic results have been significantly influenced by his leadership and focus on delivery. In particular, Bill has had an 
extensive influence on our sustainability achievements, where we have exceeded many of our targets and continued to 
enhance, update and implement our sustainability strategy (see more details on pages 66 to 79). Our achievement of RoTE of 
10.1 per cent has followed a cultural embedding of the need to deliver sustainable improvement of the metric into the Group’s 
psyche, making it an understandable and focused target for all.

Innovation

Goal

Assessment

•  Continue personal 
push for innovation 
and simplification 
across the Group

Financial performance 

•  Grow other sources 
of income in our 
footprint

•  The Bank is now recognised as a very strong innovator, driving improvements in its existing businesses and 

developing its Venture portfolio.

•  Bill has increased his personal visibility during the year, actively promoting themes of innovation including 

digitalisation, digital assets and AI.

•  He was a keynote / panel speaker at the Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai FinTech Festivals and Point Zero, 
and is a key contributor to many climate organisations including the Net Zero Banking Alliance and Glasgow 
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).

•  As a core member of the World Bank’s Private Sector Investment Lab, Bill is providing his expertise to help the 
Lab identify new approaches and recommendations that support the World Bank’s capital mobilisation in 
support of emerging markets.

•  Bill has continued his push for further efficiency and simplification, establishing our Operating Excellence 

programme to improve our ability to get things done.  This has resulted in substantial reductions in 
turnaround time in key onboarding processes with improved customer satisfaction and material cost saves.
•  Bill has personally embraced the transformation of our Technology, Transformation and Operations business 

which is generating substantial reduction in operating risk and cost savings.

•  Through Tech Simplification, $66.5 million has been secured in 2023 in sustainable saves, with further saves 

forecast for future years.

•  Bill is a leading advocate for our Ventures business, for which 300 new venture ideas have been reviewed,  

10 ventures are currently in incubation, 5 are in acceleration, 5 have been commercially launched during 2023 
and two have been profitably exited.

•  Bill continues to actively drive for further growth to support sustainable and sustained performance, through 
both innovation and expansion in traditional business areas, and has personally engaged in our growth 
objectives across key markets.
In CCIB, our risk-weighted assets optimisation target between 2022-2024 has been achieved ahead of 
target, creating capacity for growth opportunities.

• 

•  Strong progress has been made in establishing the Group as a partner of choice bridging banking and 
technology/non-banking sectors, with over 20 fully active partnerships in place leading to asset and 
profitable income growth.

•  Bill participated in the B20 and co-Chaired the UK-India Financial Partnership, and took part in a number of 

client engagement events during the year.

•  43 Sustainable Finance products are now on offer (32 in 2022) and we have seen momentum in the transition 

finance team with a number of key firsts and incremental deals.

•  He has supported the expansion of Ventures into new markets and the launch of our Digital Assets Joint 

Venture with SBI Holdings in the UAE following that in Japan.

Risk and controls 

•  Further improve the 
Group’s risk and 
control framework, 
accelerating 
progress and 
embedding a 
robust preventative 
risk culture

•  Bill remains focused on improving the Group’s risk culture and frameworks through personal participation in 

relevant forums and a strong tone from the top.

•  He has overseen good progress on improving our risk culture, with recognition from our regulators that 

dedicated work is promoting a healthier risk culture.

•  Bill played a crucial role in the successful delivery of an improved Cyber Risk and control framework.
•  We have extended our capabilities in New Economy risk origination and management, keeping pace with 

business growth.

•  We have managed through various episodes of sovereign risk stresses in our markets with good results.

People and culture 

•  Continue drive  

•  Bill has instilled a high performance culture underpinned by teamwork and innovation. He has been vocal in 

for a high 
performance 
culture, including 
the development 
of internal talent 
and effective 
succession 
planning

supporting the changes we have made to embed a culture of high-quality feedback, including role-
modelling with his own team.

•  Through our employee survey, we have seen our employee net promoter score (eNPS) (a way of measuring 

whether employees would recommend working for the Bank) record its biggest ever increase against a prior 
year outcome that was our highest ever result.
In addition, all dimensions of our employee value proposition recorded a year-on-year increase in the survey, 
most to a 5-year ‘high-water mark’.

• 

•  He has continued the development of Management Team members, with strong hires into the team and 

overseeing the effective and smooth succession of GCFO from Andy to Diego.

•  The Management Team is now more than 50% female.
•  Bill has continued to focus on internal talent, with the development of internal successors for key roles.

Weighting  –  10% Outcome  –  9%

198

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportAndy Halford 

Having served over nine years as our Group Chief Financial Officer, Andy stepped down from the Board on 2 January 2024. 
Throughout his tenure and during 2023, Andy provided strong financial leadership to the Bank and served as an effective 
partner to Bill, the Management Team and the Board. Andy leaves the Board on track to deliver our external financial targets 
and the Group strategy. In particular, strong progress has been made in the year across our regulatory projects including 
substantial improvements in resolution planning. Andy actively supported the on-boarding and induction of the incoming 
GCFO and ensured a smooth transition period.

Ways of Working 

Goal

Assessment

•  Drive collaboration 
within the Finance 
function across 
segments and 
markets

•  Andy has played a significant role in driving collaboration across the Finance function 
working closely with business stakeholders to deliver the Group’s corporate plan with 
positive endorsement received from the Board.

•  He played a key role in driving the articulation of the strategic priorities for the Group 

which have been translated into a set of actionable strategic plans through 
collaborating with colleagues across segments and markets.

•  Continue to 

improve financial 
reporting 
procedures

•  Andy has continued to drive improvements in the Finance control environment through 

investments in the Group’s regulatory reporting infrastructure.

•   He has been instrumental in driving the upgrade of the financial systems used across 

the Group through a multi-year programme which is targeting to substantially 
complete at the end of 2024. 

•   He has continued to maintain open and transparent relationships with regulators and 
kept them abreast of our progress on regulatory topics including Group resolvability 
and regulatory reporting remediation.

•  Andy partnered with the Chief Sustainability Office to redesign the content to be 

included in the annual report and uplifted the controls with regards to Sustainability 
including key KPIs.

Financial performance

•  Deliver the focus on 
achieving target 
RoTE and other 
strategic objectives

•  Andy has continued to actively manage the Group’s cost base to ensure positive jaws.

•  He has played a significant role in raising awareness of RoTE as a central financial 

metric across the Bank.

•   He was key to driving maximum value from the Group’s exit from a number of markets 

in the Africa and Middle East region and the sale of our Aviation Finance business.

•   Andy played an active role in driving our efforts to diversify the footprint of our 

shareholders to focus on Asia, through targeted investor events in Asia.

•  He has been an active Board member contributing on key initiatives outside his core 

areas of finance expertise, including process simplification and enhancing governance 
and oversight of Group investments. 

•  Andy has led a multi-year upgrade and rationalisation of the Bank’s property portfolio, 

enhancing client and employees’ experience and delivering on the Bank’s net zero 
commitments.

Weighting  –  10%

Outcome  –  8%

199

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportLTIP awards 

The LTIP values included in the single total figure of remuneration for 2023 are based on the awards that will be subject to final 
performance testing in March 2024. These awards were granted in 2021 with a face value of 120 per cent of fixed pay, to 
incentivise the achievement of the Group’s priorities over the three-year period 2021 to 2023. The awards are share-based and 
are subject to the performance targets set out below which were set when the awards were granted and have not been 
adjusted since. A conduct gateway requirement must be met before any awards vest. 

The Committee concluded that Bill and Andy exhibited appropriate conduct during the performance period and, therefore, the 
conduct gateway was met.

Bill Winters
Andy Halford

Award share price (£)

Valuation share price (£) 2021-23 LTIP projected outcome (£)

4.90
4.90

6.72
6.72

3,340,237
2,135,206

See page 195 for the value attributable to share price growth in the single total figure of remuneration 

RoTE performance of 10.1 per cent was achieved, resulting in a 30 per cent outcome and relative TSR is projected to be ranked 
between median and upper quartile resulting in a projected outcome of 9 per cent. The Committee considered performance 
against the sustainability and strategic proof points set out in the table below and determined that an outcome of 27 per cent 
was appropriate. Based on these assessments, the total projected performance outcome is 66 per cent. The final relative TSR 
performance will be assessed in March 2024 and any change to the overall outcome will be reported in the 2024 directors’ 
remuneration report.

The awards will vest pro rata over 2024 to 2028 and the shares will be subject to a 12-month retention period post-vesting. Malus 
and clawback provisions apply. 

Projected outcome

Measure 

Weighting

RoTE1 in 2023 plus CET12 
underpin of the higher 
of 13% or the minimum 
regulatory requirement
Relative TSR 
performance against the 
peer group
Sustainability

30%

30%

15%

Strategic measures

25%

Minimum 
performance  
(25% outcome)

Maximum 
performance
(100% outcome)

6%

10%

Assessment of 
achievement

Outcome 
status

Projected 
outcome

RoTE 10.1% and CET1 
14.1%

Confirmed

30%

Median

Upper quartile

Targets set for sustainability 
measures linked to the business 
strategy
Targets set for strategic measures 
linked to the business strategy

Currently estimated 
between median and 
upper quartile
Improved  
performance against 
our strategic priorities
Improved  
performance against 
our strategic priorities

Projected3

9%

Confirmed

13%

Confirmed

14%

Total 2021-23 LTIP awards projected outcomes

66%

1   Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders, to the weighted average ordinary shareholders’ 
equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this 
would be subject to review by the Committee

2   The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level at 31 December 2023. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take 
into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and 
implemented after the start of the performance period

3   TSR performance will be assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2024, making the projected outcome subject to change

Assessment of non-financial measures 

Sustainable finance 

Proof point

Assessment

•  Develop and implement a framework to align our 
financial services with net zero emissions by 2050, 
and deliver 2023 targets consistent with that plan.

•  Delivered all milestones against publicly stated net zero 

roadmap including setting an Oil & Gas absolute emissions 
target.

•  Provide $35 billion (cumulative) worth of project 

financing services, M&A advisory, debt structuring, 
transaction banking and lending services for 
renewable energy that align to our verified Green and 
Sustainable Product Framework.

•  Provided financing in excess of $40 billion.
•  Targets achieved and are on track to meet the longer-term 

10-year commitment of $300 billion.

•  Only provide financial services to clients who are less 
than 80% dependent on earnings from thermal coal 
(based on % EBITDA at group level).

•  Exited 54 entities that derived >80% of income from 
thermal coal and those that remain have exit plans 
agreed/in progress based on contractual obligations.

200

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportResponsible company

Proof point

Assessment

•  Reduction in property emissions of 10% annually.

•  Achieved.

•  Reduction of flight emissions of 25%.

•  Achieved with a 36% reduction in flight emissions against 

our 2019 baseline.

•  Offset 95% of all residual emissions from our 

operations.

•  Successfully completed our carbon credit purchases 
against our residual operating emissions since 2021.  

Clients

Enablers 

Proof point

Assessment

• 

Improve client satisfaction rating evidenced in surveys 
and internal benchmarks.

•  Deliver growth in qualified clients across Private, 

Priority & Premium Banking, and Wealth 
Management.

•  Significantly improved performance in all three years, with 
consumer client satisfaction metric of 56.6%, increased 
from 29.5% in 2020.

• 

Improved growth in qualified clients across our Affluent 
business, with strong performance achieved in 2023.

•  Deliver network income growth in CCIB.

•  Exceeded targets in 2023 ($6.9 billion) following strong 

performance in 2022 and improving on performance in 2021 
(from $4.4 billion in 2020).

•  Add more than 2 million new customers via digital 

partnerships, platforms and technologies.

•  Added 1.8 million new customers by the end of 2023 
following weaker performance in 2022 and 2021.

Proof point

Assessment

•  Drive culture of innovation to generate new revenues.

•  36% of Group revenue coming from innovation, digital and 

•  Adopt new ways of working that result in quicker 

decision-making and delivery.

• 

Increase senior female representation to 33%.

• 

Increase our culture of inclusion score from 81% to 84% 
(internal index).

transformation revenue streams

•  Speed of decision-making and delivery have improved in 
each of the three years including ‘speed to value’, which 
measures time from ideation until customer go-live.

• 

Increase in the number of females in senior roles by 3 ppt 
over the three years to 32.5%.

• 

Increased by 1.5 ppt over the three years to 83.2%. 

Risk and controls 

Proof point

Assessment

•  Maintain effective risk and control governance.

• 

Improved performance of risk reduction across the Bank 
and good progress in embedding a healthier risk culture.

•  Successfully deliver milestones within the Cyber Risk 

•  Continued reduction of Cyber Risk including the delivery of 

management plan.

information and Cyber security strategic plan with all 
objectives achieved.

[[Windfall gains]]

When making LTIP awards the Committee reviews the proposed size of the award and considers the change in share price in 
the period leading up to the award compared with the share price when awards were made in the previous year. A significant 
fall in share price will increase the overall number of shares being awarded, and the Committee considers this, being mindful 
of the potential for a ‘windfall gain’.

For awards made in 2021 the Committee reviewed the change in share price compared with the previous year and, being 
comfortable that the change was not significant, at -5.7 per cent, determined not to adjust the size of the awards.

The Committee further reviews any increase in share price at the end of the performance period, when awards are due to 
vest, and considers potential outcomes to determine if any adjustment should be made where an increase in share price is 
not reflective of a corresponding improvement in underlying financial performance. To date no adjustments have been made.

201

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration in 2023: LTIP awards 
continued

LTIP awards for the executive directors to be granted in 2024
Based on Group and individual performance during 2023 awards for the performance year will be granted in March 2024 at the 
maximum amount under the 2022 directors’ remuneration policy. Performance measures are aligned to our strategic priorities.  
In line with his retirement arrangements, Andy Halford is not eligible for this LTIP award.

Award as % of salary

Award value on grant (£) Award value on vesting (£) 

Bill Winters

Diego De Giorgi

132%

132%

3,322,440 To be determined based on the level of performance 

2,178,000

achieved at the end of the three-year period against the 
performance measures and the future share price.

The RoTE target range for the awards is increased to 10 to 13 per cent, versus 10 to 12.5 per cent for the 2023-25 awards, reflecting 
the progress in RoTE achieved in 2023 and our increased ambition of 12.5 per cent by 2026.

Peer group for the relative TSR measure in the 2024-26 LTIP

The peer group of companies selected for the relative TSR performance calculation are those with generally comparable 
business activities, size or geographic spread to Standard Chartered or with which we compete for investor funds and 
talent.  The group is reviewed annually, prior to new LTIP awards being made and following the 2023 review the group for 
the 2024-26 LTIP awards has been updated. Bank of China, ICBC and State Bank of India are no longer considered to be 
comparable peers as they are state-owned banks which have significantly different purpose, strategies and performance 
profiles. In addition, Credit Suisse has been removed as it ceased public trading during 2023.

TSR is measured in sterling for each company and the data is averaged over a month at the start and end of the three-year 
measurement period which starts from the date of grant. 

Banco Santander 

Bank of America 

Bank of East Asia

Barclays

BNP Paribas

Citigroup

DBS Group

Deutsche Bank

HSBC

ICICI

JPMorgan Chase

KB Financial Group

Oversea Chinese Banking Corporation

Société Générale

Standard Bank

UBS

United Overseas Bank

Financial measures for 2024-26 LTIP awards

Measure 

Weighting

Minimum 
performance (25%)

Between minimum  
and maximum performance 

Maximum performance 
(100%)

RoTE1 in 2026 with a 
CET12 of the higher of 
13% or the minimum 
regulatory 
requirement

Relative TSR 
performance against 
peer group

30%

10%

Straight-line assessment 
between minimum and 
maximum

13%

30%

Median

Straight-line assessment 
between peer companies 
positioned immediately 
above and below the Group

Upper quartile 

1   Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other  
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee

2  The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as of 31 December 2026. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to 

take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been 
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period, for example in relation to Basel IV

Non-financial measures for 2024-26 LTIP awards

Environmental, social and governance

•  Accelerating Zero: Progress towards our 2030 Sustainable Finance mobilisation target in each of the three performance 

years.

•  Actively contributing to the development of the sustainability ecosystem through global partnerships, initiatives and 

cross-sector collaborations.

•  Lifting participation: Year-on year growth in financing activity with female and/or small and medium enterprise (SME) 

clients and other underserved populations.

•  Resetting Globalisation: Maintaining our presence and supporting international/cross border trade in key developing 

markets that we serve.
Improve eNPS target.
Increase senior female representation and increase our ‘culture of inclusion’ (internal index). 

• 
• 

Weighting  –  25%

202

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
Other strategic measures

Clients

Improve client satisfaction rating.

• 
•  Deliver growth across our markets including in cross-border income in CCIB, in Affluent wealth client 

activity and in Ventures.

Productivity

Improve Operating Profit less credit impairment per FTE. 

• 
•  Percentage of transformation programmes on track.

Risk and controls

• 

Improve effectiveness of risk and control governance.

Weighting  –  15%

Remuneration regulations for UK banks prohibit the award of dividend equivalent shares on vesting. The number of shares 
awarded in respect of the LTIP will take into account the lack of dividend equivalents (calculated by reference to market 
consensus dividend yield) such that the overall market value of the award is maintained.

These awards will vest in five annual tranches beginning after the third anniversary of the grant (i.e. March 2027 to March 2031) 
subject to meeting the performance measures set out at the end of 2026. All vested shares are subject to a 12-month retention 
period.

Total variable remuneration awarded to directors in respect of 2023 (audited)

Annual incentive (£000)

Annual incentive as a percentage of salary
LTIP award (value of shares subject to performance conditions) (£000)1

LTIP award as a percentage of salary

Total variable remuneration (£000)

Total variable remuneration as a percentage of salary

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

2023

1,462

58%

3,322

132%

4,784

190%

2022

1,499

62%

3,213

132%

4,712

194%

2023

920

57%

N/A

N/A

920

57%

2022

945

61%

2,054

132%

2,999

193% 

1  LTIP awards for the 2023 performance year will be granted to executive directors in March 2024 and are based on 2023 salary

203

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration in 2023  
continued

Service contracts for executive directors
Copies of the executive directors’ service contracts are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office. These contracts 
have rolling 12-month notice periods and the dates of the executive directors’ current service contracts are shown below. The 
contracts were updated effective 1 January 2020 to reflect the changes made following the implementation of the 2019 
remuneration policy and the change to pension contributions.

Executive directors are permitted to hold non-executive directorship positions in other organisations. Where such appointments 
are agreed with the Board, the executive directors may retain any fees payable for their services. Bill and Andy served as 
non-executive directors elsewhere and received fees for the period covered by this report as set out below. Andy joined the 
Board of UK Government Investments Limited on 17 October 2023. 

Date of Standard Chartered  
employment contract

Details of any non-executive 
directorship

Fees retained for any non-executive 
directorship (local currency)

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

1 January 2020

1 January 2020

Novartis International AG

CHF360,000

Board of UK Government 
Investments Limited

GBP5,208

Diego De Giorgi

1 September 2023

–

–

Single figure of remuneration for the Chairman and INEDs (audited)
The Chairman and INEDs were paid in monthly instalments during the year. The INEDs are required to hold shares with a 
nominal value of $1,000. The table below shows the fees and benefits received by the Chairman and INEDs in 2023 and 2022.
The INEDs’ 2023 benefit figures are in respect of the 2022/23 tax year and the 2022 benefit figures are in respect of the 2021/22 
tax year to provide consistency with the reporting of similar benefits in previous years and with those received by executive 
directors.

Group Chairman

José Viñals

Current INEDs

Shirish Apte
David Conner3
Christine Hodgson, CBE4
Gay Huey Evans, CBE

Jackie Hunt

Robin Lawther, CBE

Maria Ramos

Phil Rivett

David Tang

Carlson Tong
Jasmine Whitbread5
Linda Yueh, CBE6

Fees £000

Benefits £0001

Total £000

Shares 
beneficially 
held as at  
31 December2

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

1,293

1,250

69

45

1,362

1,295

45,000 

287

250

17

150

185

225

332

247

185

190

82

219

128

233

289

155

43

93

239

234

170

183

210

–

0

1

0

0

3

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

–

287

251

17

150

188

225

332

247

186

190

82

219

128

234

289

156

43

93

239

234

171

183

210

–

2,000 

10,000

–

2,615

2,000

2,000

2,000

2,128

2,000

2,000

–

2,000

1  The costs of benefits (and any associated tax costs) are paid by the Group
2  The beneficial interests of Chairman and INEDs, and connected persons in the shares of the Company are set out above. These directors do not have any 

non-beneficial interests in the Company’s shares. None of these directors used shares as collateral for any loans. No director had either: (i) an interest in the 
Company’s preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group; or (ii) any corporate interests in the Company’s ordinary 
shares. All figures are as of 31 December 2023 or on the retirement of a director unless otherwise stated

3  David Conner’s fee includes his role on the Combined US Operations Risk Committee
4  Christine Hodgson stepped down from the Board on 31 January 2023 and we are no longer tracking her shareholding. Her reported fee for 2023 of £17,000 is in 

respect of the period of 1 January 2023 to 31 January 2023

5  Jasmine Whitbread stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2023 and we are no longer tracking her shareholding. Her reported fee for 2023 of £82,000 is in 

respect of the period of 1 January 2023 to 3 May 2023

6  Linda Yueh was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2023

INEDs’ letters of appointment
The INEDs have letters of appointment, which are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office. INEDs are appointed 
for a period of one year, unless terminated by either party with three months’ notice.

Details of the INEDs’ appointments are set out on pages 137 to 141

204

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
 
2024 policy implementation for directors

Remuneration for the executive directors in 2024 will be in line with our directors’ remuneration policy, approved at the AGM in 
May 2022. Key elements include salary, pension, benefits, an annual incentive and an LTIP award. 

Our policy is summarised on pages 188 and 189 of this report and set out in full on pages 159 to 164 of the 2021 Annual Report and on our website at sc.com

The Committee annually reviews the executive directors’ salaries, considering changes to the scope or responsibility of the role, 
market alignment and Group-wide increases. Fixed pay for Bill and Diego will not be increased in 2024.

£000

Salary

of which cash

of which shares

Pension

Total fixed pay

Proportion of total fixed pay paid in cash

Proportion of total fixed pay paid in shares

Bill Winters

Diego De Giorgi

2024

2,517

1,258

1,259

252

2,769

55%

45%

2023

% change

2,517

1,258

1,259

252

2,769

55%

45%

0

0

0

0

0

–

–

2024

1,650

1,100

550

110

1,760

69%

31%

2023

% change

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Illustration of application of 2024 remuneration policy 
The charts below illustrate potential directors’ remuneration outcomes based on our policy (i.e. March 2024 awards based on 
2023 performance and fixed remuneration with effect from 1 April 2024). These illustrate four performance scenarios and the 
percentages in each bar show the remuneration provided by each pay element. 2022 and 2023 single figures of remuneration 
for Bill are also shown.

Executive director remuneration (£000)

Fixed remuneration

Annual incentive

LTIP

Bill Winters

Minimum

100%

3,057

On-target

Maximum

Maximum + 50%
share price increase

2022 single ﬁgure

2023 single ﬁgure

Diego De Giorgi

52%

35%

30%

46%

39%

19%

29%

5,825

26%

22%

23%

19%

39%

8,594

48%

10,255

31%

6,408

42%

7,837

Minimum

100%

1,819

On-target

Maximum

Maximum + 50%
share price increase

50%

33%

28%

20%

30%

3,634

27%

22%

40%

5,449

50%

6,538

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

7,000

8,000

9,000

10,000

11,000

12,000

Fixed remuneration
Consists of salary and pension (as at 1 April 2024) 
and benefits (received in 2023, annualised for GCFO)

Bill Winters

Diego De Giorgi 

2,517

1,650

288

59

252

110

£000

Salary

Benefits

Pension

Total

3,057

1,819

Minimum

£000

On-target

Maximum

% of target

% of salary

% of target

% of salary

Annual incentive

No annual incentive is awarded 

LTIP award

No LTIP award vests

50%

50%

44%

66%

100%

100%

88%

132%

205

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report2024 policy implementation for directors  
continued

2024 annual incentive scorecard

Our annual incentive scorecard reflects our strategic priorities. Targets are set annually by the Committee based on the Group’s 
annual financial plans and strategic priorities. Targets and performance achieved will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2024 
Annual Report due to commercial sensitivity.

Financial measures make up 50 per cent of the scorecard. The Committee assesses strategic and personal measures using a 
quantitative and qualitative framework.

2024 scorecard – financial measures

Measure 

Income1

CCIB Sustainable Finance Income

Costs

RoTE2 with a CET13 underpin of the higher of 13% or the 
minimum regulatory requirement

Weighting

Target

9%

3%

8%

30%

•  Targets to be disclosed retrospectively

1  The Group’s reported performance is adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent, 
other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period and items 
which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying performance period by period

2   Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other 
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee

3   The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2024. In addition, the Committee has the discretion  

to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been 
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period

2024 scorecard – strategic measures

Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass)

Target

Improve client satisfaction and client experience ratings.

• 
•  Deliver cross border income growth in CCIB.
•  Deliver network growth in qualified clients across Affluent activity.
•  Grow value of Ventures.
•  Mass market Retail growth through new to bank personal customers.

Weighting  –  12%

Sustainability

Target

•  Meeting key milestones through building infrastructure relating to client, transaction and 

central data for delivering on our net zero ambition.

•  Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in line with our risk appetite and based on 

Weighting  –  4%

interim 2030 sectoral targets.

•  Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our operational net zero target by 2025.

Productivity and transformation

Target

•  Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and digital sales adoption.
•  Transformational Change: % of transformation change programmes on track.
•  Productivity: Increase Operating Profit less Credit Impairment per FTE.

Weighting  –  8%

People and culture

Target

• 
• 
• 

Improve employee engagement as evidenced in our annual My Voice survey. 
Improve senior female representation to support reaching 35% by 2025.
Improve our ‘culture of inclusion’ score (internal index).

Weighting  –  4%

206

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
Risk and controls

Target

•  Non-financial risk reduction.
•  Self-identification of audit issues.

2024 scorecard – personal performance measures

Bill – performance goals

Target

Weighting  –  12%

•  Further progress towards an efficient and more profitable Bank while maintaining focus on risk 

and control.

•  Further promote our culture of innovation and maximise synergies between the main bank and 

Weighting  –  10%

our various Ventures.

•  Continue to build a high performance environment and embed the culture of excellence.

Diego – performance goals 

Target

•  Financial performance: contribute to the delivery of Group financial performance and 

operating leverage.

•  Finance function performance: partner with and support business in the execution of the 

Group’s strategy.

•  Transformation and simplification: lead implementation of strategic change initiatives across 

• 

the Group.
 Process and controls: continue to progress on major multi-year programs and address 
regulatory requirements. 

Weighting  –  10%

INED fees 
The Board regularly reviews the fee levels, considering market data and the duties, time commitment and contribution 
expected for the PLC Board and, where appropriate, subsidiary boards. Considering the increasing demands made of our INEDs 
the Board determined an increase in INED basic fees of GBP5,000 to GBP115,000 to be appropriate. The revised fees are 
effective from 1 January 2024.

The Chairman and the INEDs are eligible for benefits in line with the directors’ remuneration policy. Neither the Chairman or 
INEDs receive any performance-related remuneration. 

Our policy is summarised on pages 188 and 189 of this report and set out in full on pages 159 to 164 of the 2021 Annual Report and on our website at sc.com

Role

Group Chairman1

Senior Independent Director

Independent Non-Executive Director

Committee

Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration

Culture and Sustainability

Governance and Nomination

Member fee

£40,000

£35,000

£17,000

1  The Group Chairman receives a stand-alone fee which is inclusive of all services (including Board and Committee responsibilities)
2  The Group does not currently utilise the role of Deputy Chairman and does not plan to do so

Annual fee

£1,293,000

£45,000

£115,000

Chair fee

£80,000

£70,000

Nil

207

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAdditional remuneration disclosures

The following disclosures provide further information and context on executive director and wider workforce remuneration as 
required by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. 

The relationship between the remuneration of the Group CEO and all UK employees

Ratio of the total remuneration of the CEO to that of the UK lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees

Year

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

Method

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

CEO

UK employee – £000 

Pay ratio

£000

7,837

6,408

4,740

3,926

5,360

6,287

4,683

P25

110

95

92

84

83

78

76

P50

162

145

139

128

128

124

121

P75

247

228

215

199

212

208

203

P25

71:1

67:1

52:1

46:1

65:1

80:1

61:1

P50

48:1

44:1

34:1

31:1

42:1

51:1

39:1

P75

32:1

28:1

22:1

20:1

25:1

30:1

23:1

The ratio will depend materially on yearly LTIP outcomes for the CEO, and accordingly may fluctuate. Therefore, the Committee 
also discloses salary and salary plus annual incentive ratios, as most UK employees do not typically receive LTIP awards. 

Additional ratios of pay based on salary and salary plus annual incentive

CEO

UK employee – £000 

Pay ratio

Salary

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

Salary plus annual incentive 

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

£000

2,496

2,418

2,370

2,370

2,353

2,300

2,300

P25

78

72

68

63

65

59

55

P50

103

87

100

93

90

86

81

CEO

UK employee – £000 

£000

3,958

3,917

3,559

2,756

3,604

3,691

3,978

P25

96

84

79

74

73

72

69

P50

138

123

122

104

109

105

103

P75

149

138

136

116

128

142

124

P75

220

202

186

175

187

183

182

P25

32:1

34:1

35:1

38:1

36:1

39:1

42:1

P25

41:1

47:1

45:1

37:1

49:1

52:1

58:1

P50

24:1

28:1

24:1

25:1

26:1

27:1

28:1

Pay ratio

P50

29:1

32:1

29:1

26:1

33:1

35:1

39:1

P75

17:1

18:1

17:1

20:1

18:1

16:1

19:1

P75

18:1

19:1

19:1

16:1

19:1

20:1

22:1

CEO pay ratio methodology 

•  Pay ratios are calculated using Option A methodology, aligned with investor guidance.

•  Employee pay data is based on full-time equivalent UK employees as of 31 December for the relevant year, excluding 

leavers, joiners, and transfers in/out of the UK during the year for like-for-like comparison. Total remuneration is 
calculated in line with the single figure methodology and insured benefits data is based on notional premiums.  
No other adjustments or assumptions have been made. 

•  CEO pay is the single figure of remuneration for 2023 and restated for 2022 to reflect the final LTIP performance outcome 
assessed in March 2023. The 2023 ratio will be restated in the 2024 report to reflect the final LTIP performance outcome 
for eligible employees and the CEO.

•  The Committee considered the data for three individuals identified at the quartiles for 2023 and believes it fairly reflects 
UK employee pay. They were full-time employees and received remuneration in line with policy, without exceptional pay.

•  Our LTIP links remuneration to the achievement of long-term strategy and reinforces alignment with shareholder 

interests. Participation is typically senior employees who directly influence the award’s performance targets.  
The identified quartile employees are not LTIP participants.

208

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAdditional remuneration disclosures 
Group performance versus the CEO’s remuneration
The graph below shows the Group’s TSR performance on a cumulative basis over the past 10 years alongside that of the 
FTSE 100 and peer banks. The graph also shows CEO remuneration based on the single figure over the 10 years ended  
31 December 2023 for comparison. The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparison group against which shareholders may  
measure their relative returns.

CEO single ﬁgure of remuneration (Bill Winters)

Standard Chartered

FTSE  100

Comparator median

CEO single ﬁgure of remuneration (Peter Sands)

200

180

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

3
1
0
2
r
e
b
m
e
c
e
D

1
3
n
o
d
e
t
s
e
v
n

i

0
0
1
£
f
o
e
u
a
V

l

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Jan 14

Jan 15

Jan 16

Jan 16

Jan 17

Jan 18

Jan 19

Jan 20

Jan 21

Jan 22

Jan 23

Jan 24

)
n
o

i
l
l
i

m
£
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
e
n
u
m
e
r

l

a
t
o
t

O
E
C

The table below shows the single figure of total remuneration for the CEO since 2014 and the variable remuneration  
delivered as a percentage of maximum opportunity.

Salary

2014

2015

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

PS

PS

BW

BW

BW

BW

BW

BW

BW

BW

BW

Single figure of total  
remuneration £000

Annual incentive as percentage  
of maximum opportunity

Vesting of LTIP awards as a 
percentage of maximum1

3,093

1,290

8,399

3,392

4,683

6,287

5,360

3,926

4,740  6,408 

7,837

0%

0%

0%

45%

76%

63%

55% 18.5%

57%

70%

66%

10%

0%

–

–

–

27%

38%

26%

23% 36.8%

66%

1  TSR performance will be assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2024, making the projected 2023 LTIP outcome of 66 per cent subject to change

•  Bill’s single figure of total remuneration in 2015 includes his buyout award of £6.5 million to compensate for the forfeiture of 

share interests on joining from his previous employment.

•  The 2022 single figure for Bill has been restated based on the actual performance outcome and share price when the 2020-22 

LTIP awards started vesting in March 2023.

209

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional remuneration disclosures 

Additional remuneration disclosures
continued

Annual percentage change in remuneration of directors and UK employees
In line with our Fair Pay Charter, we monitor CEO and wider workforce remuneration changes annually. Additionally, complying 
with the Shareholder Rights Directive, we compare PLC Board directors with an average FTE UK employee. As individuals are 
employed by subsidiary companies rather than Standard Chartered PLC we voluntarily disclose comparison against UK 
employees as we feel this is a suitable comparison. 

Salary % change

Taxable benefits % change

Annual incentive % change 

CEO Bill Winters

GCFO Andy Halford

Workforce average  
FTE UK employee

Group Chairman  
José Viñals1

Shirish Apte

David Conner

Christine Hodgson, CBE2

2023

2022

3.2

3.2

10.4

3.4

–

7.5

–

2.0

2.0

3.3

0.0

–

(8.8)

(11.0)

Gay Huey Evans, CBE

(3.2)

(22.5)

Jackie Hunt

Robin Lawther, CBE
Maria Ramos3

Phil Rivett

David Tang

Carlson Tong
Jasmine Whitbread2

Linda Yueh

–

–

38.8

5.7

8.8

4.1

–

–

–

–

25.9

3.9

0.0

(11.0)

0.0

–

2021

0.0

0.7

3.1

0.0

–

2020

0.7

3.7

3.8

0.0

–

(6.7)

(0.6)

0.0

2023

(3.0)

(17.0)

2022

79.8

23.9

2021

2020

(26.5)

(2.9)

(5.6)

30.2

2023

(2.5)

(2.6)

2022

26.1

24.3

2021

2020

208.1

208.9

(69.2)

(68.2)

2.2

(7.0)

(2.0)

2.9

0.8

14.3

38.2

(22.1)

53.2

170.2

(61.5)

(11.7)

–

0.0

–

–

0.0

–

5.9

–

(57.5)

0.0 (100.0)

28.2

0.0 (100.0)

100.0 (100.0)

233.9

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.0

–

–

–

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

–

–

–

–

0.0

0.0

0.0

–

–

–

–

(82.3)

0.0 (100.0)

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.0 (100.0)

(49.2)

–

–

–

0.0

0.0

–

–

–

–

18.3

0.0

0.0

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1  The increase in 2023 taxable benefits for José Viñals is primarily due to the continuing increase in business travel to pre-pandemic levels
2 

In 2023, Christine Hodgson and Jasmine Whitbread stepped down from the Board on 31 January and 3 May respectively. Linda Yueh was appointed to the Board 
on 1 January

3  The increase in fees for Maria Ramos is due to changes in Board and Committee responsibilities in 2022

See pages 195 and 204 for the CEO, GCFO, Group Chairman and INEDs data the changes relates to

Annual percentage change in remuneration of directors and UK employees methodology

•  Employee pay data is based on FTE UK employees as of 31 December for the relevant year, excluding leavers, joiners,  

and transfers in/out of the UK during the year for like-for-like comparison. Salary percentage change reflects increases 
decided at the end of 2022 and implemented in 2023. 

•  Average FTE UK employee percentage change is calculated on a mean basis to allow for a more consistent year-on-year 

comparison. 

•  Due to the low value taxable benefits received by INEDs, small value changes may lead to annual percentage change 

fluctuations.

210

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
Scheme interests awarded, exercised and lapsed during the year
Employees, including executive directors, are not permitted to engage in any personal investment strategies with regards to 
their Company shares, including hedging against the share price of Company shares. The main features of the outstanding 
shares and awards are summarised below:

Award

Performance measures

Performance outcome (100%)

Accrues notional 
dividends?1

Delivery

2016-18 LTIP

2017-19 LTIP

2018-20 LTIP

2019-21 LTIP

2020-22 LTIP

2021-23 LTIP

2022-24 LTIP

2023-25 LTIP

33% RoE2
33% TSR
33% Strategic 

33% RoTE
33% TSR
33% Strategic

30% RoTE
30% TSR
15% Sustainability 
25% Strategic 

27%

38%

26%

23%

36.8%

66%

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

•  Tranche 1: 50% 
•  Tranches 2-5: 12.5% 

•  5 equal tranches

•  5 equal tranches

•  5 equal tranches

•  5 equal tranches

•  5 equal tranches

To be assessed at the end of 2024 No

•  5 equal tranches

To be assessed at the end of 2025 No

•  5 equal tranches

1  2016-18 and 2017-19 LTIP awards may receive dividend equivalent shares based on dividends declared between grant and vest. From 1 January 2017 remuneration 

regulations for European banks prohibited the award of dividend equivalent shares. Therefore, the number of shares awarded in respect of the LTIP awards 
granted after this date took into account the lack of dividend equivalents (calculated by reference to market consensus dividend yield) such that the overall  
value of the award was maintained

2  Return on equity

Change in interests during the period 1 January to 31 December 2023 (audited)

Bill Winters1

Date of grant

Share award 
price (£)

As at  
1 January

Awarded2

Dividends 
awarded3

Vested/
exercised4

Lapsed

As at  
31 December

Performance 
period end

Vesting date

2016-18 LTIP

4 May 2016

2017-19 LTIP

13 Mar 2017

5.560

7.450

2018-20 LTIP

9 Mar 2018

7.782

2019-21 LTIP

11 Mar 2019

6.105

2020-22 LTIP

9 Mar 2020

5.196

2021-23 LTIP

15 Mar 2021

4.901

2022-24 LTIP

14 Mar 2022

4.876

2023-25 LTIP

13 Mar 2023

7.398

33,507

45,049

45,049

28,178

28,178

28,179

30,604

30,604

30,604

30,605

161,095

161,095

161,095

161,095

161,095

150,621

150,621

150,621

150,621

150,621

151,386

151,386

151,386

151,386

151,388

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

101,209

101,209

101,209

101,209

101,209

3,292

4,421

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

36,799

49,470

–

28,178

–

–

30,604

–

–

–

59,282

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

101,813

101,813

101,813

101,813

101,813

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

11 Mar 2019 4 May 2023

– 13 Mar 2020 13 Mar 2023

45,049

13 Mar 2024

–

9 Mar 2021 9 Mar 2023

28,178

28,179

9 Mar 2024

9 Mar 2025

–

11 Mar 2022 11 Mar 2023

30,604

30,604

30,605

11 Mar 2024

11 Mar 2025

11 Mar 2026

–

9 Mar 2023 9 Mar 2023

59,282

59,282

59,282

59,282

9 Mar 2024

9 Mar 2025

9 Mar 2026

9 Mar 2027

150,621

15 Mar 2024 15 Mar 2024

150,621

150,621

150,621

150,621

15 Mar 2025

15 Mar 2026

15 Mar 2027

15 Mar 2028

151,386 14 Mar 2025 14 Mar 2025

151,386

151,386

151,386

151,388

14 Mar 2026

14 Mar 2027

14 Mar 2028

14 Mar 2029

101,209 13 Mar 2026 13 Mar 2026

101,209

101,209

101,209

101,209

13 Mar 2027

13 Mar 2028

13 Mar 2029

13 Mar 2030

211

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAdditional remuneration disclosures 

Additional remuneration disclosures
continued

Andy Halford1 

Date of grant 

Share award 
price (£)

As at  
1 January

Awarded2

Dividends 
awarded3

Vested/
exercised4

Lapsed

As at  
31 December

Performance 
period end

Vesting date

2016-18 LTIP

4 May 2016

2017-19 LTIP

13 Mar 2017

5.560

7.450

2018-20 LTIP

9 Mar 2018

7.782

2019-21 LTIP

11 Mar 2019

6.105

2020-22 LTIP

9 Mar 2020

5.196

2021-23 LTIP

15 Mar 2021

4.901

2022-24 LTIP

14 Mar 2022

4.876

2023-25 LTIP

13 Mar 2023

7.398

20,009

27,888

27,890

17,448

17,448

17,448

19,571

19,571

19,571

19,572

99,976

99,976

99,976

99,976

99,977

96,283

96,283

96,283

96,283

96,283

96,772

96,772

96,772

96,772

96,773

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

64,700

64,700

64,700

64,700

64,702

2022 
Sharesave5,6

4.230

2,127

–

1,966

2,740

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

21,975

30,628

–

17,448

–

–

19,571

–

–

–

36,791

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

63,185

63,185

63,185

63,185

63,186

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

11 Mar 2019 4 May 2023

– 13 Mar 2020 13 Mar 2023

27,890

13 Mar 2024

–

9 Mar 2021 9 Mar 2023

17,448

17,448

9 Mar 2024

9 Mar 2025

–

11 Mar 2022 11 Mar 2023

19,571

19,571

19,572

11 Mar 2024

11 Mar 2025

11 Mar 2026

–

9 Mar 2023 9 Mar 2023

36,791

36,791

36,791

36,791

9 Mar 2024

9 Mar 2025

9 Mar 2026

9 Mar 2027

96,283 15 Mar 2024 15 Mar 2024

96,283

96,283

96,283

96,283

15 Mar 2025

15 Mar 2026

15 Mar 2027

15 Mar 2028

96,772 14 Mar 2025 14 Mar 2025

96,772

96,772

96,772

96,773

14 Mar 2026

14 Mar 2027

14 Mar 2028

14 Mar 2029

64,700 13 Mar 2026 13 Mar 2026

64,700

64,700

64,700

64,702

13 Mar 2027

13 Mar 2028

13 Mar 2029

13 Mar 2030

2,127

–

1 Feb 2026

1  The unvested LTIP awards held by Bill and Andy are conditional rights. They do not have to pay towards these awards. Under these awards, shares are delivered 

on vesting or as soon as practicable thereafter

2  For the 2023-25 LTIP awards granted to Bill and Andy on 13 March 2023, the values granted were: Bill: £3.2 million; Andy £2.1 million. The number of shares awarded 
in respect of the LTIP took into account the lack of dividend equivalents (calculated by reference to market consensus dividend yield) such that the overall value of 
the award was maintained. Performance measures apply to 2023-25 LTIP awards. The closing price on the day before grant was £7.398

3  Dividend equivalent shares may be awarded on vesting for awards granted prior to 1 January 2018. On 31 March 2020, Standard Chartered announced that  
in response to the request from the PRA and as a consequence of the unprecedented challenges facing the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board 
decided to withdraw the recommendation to pay a final dividend for 2019. Dividend equivalent shares allocated to the 2016-18 and 2017-19 LTIP awards vesting  
in 2023 did not include any shares relating to the cancelled dividend

4  Shares (before tax) were delivered to Bill and Andy from the vesting element of LTIP awards. The closing share price on the day before the shares were delivered 

was as follows:
•  4 May 2023: Shares in respect of the 2016-18 LTIP. Previous day closing share price: £6.114
• 
•  9 March 2023: Shares in respect of the 2018-20 LTIP. Previous day closing share price: £7.874
• 

15 March 2023: Shares in respect of the 2020-22 LTIP. Previous day closing share price: £6.968

13 March 2023: Shares in respect of the 2017-19 LTIP and 2019-21 LTIP. Previous day closing share price: £7.398

5  Andy chose to participate in the 2022 Sharesave invitation. This unvested option was granted on 28 November 2022 under the 2013 Plan – to exercise this option, 

Andy has to pay an exercise price of £4.23 per share, which has been discounted by 20 per cent

6  The vesting date relates to the end of the savings contract and the start of the six month exercise window

As at 31 December 2023, none of the directors had registered an interest or short position in the shares, underlying shares or 
debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations that was required to be recorded pursuant to section 352 of 
the Securities and Futures Ordinance, or as otherwise notified to the Company and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange pursuant  
to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers.

See page 450 for details of share plan dilution limits

212

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportExecutive directors’ shareholdings and share interests including share awards (audited)
Shares that count towards the executive director shareholding requirements are beneficially owned shares, including shares 
subject to a retention period, and unvested share awards for which performance conditions have been satisfied (on a net of tax 
basis). As of 31 December 2023, both Bill and Andy significantly exceeded their shareholding requirement.

Shares purchased voluntarily from their own funds are equivalent to 82 and 60 per cent of salary for Bill and Andy, respectively. 
No shares were purchased voluntarily in 2023. The following chart and table summarise the executive directors’ shareholdings 
and share interests.

Shares held beneﬁcially

Unvested share awards not subject to 
performance measures (net of tax)

Shareholding requirement

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

687% 60%

473%

59%

0%

100%

200%

300%

400%

500%

600%

700%

800%

Bill Winters
Andy Halford

Shares held
beneficially1,2,3

2,590,604

1,140,269

Unvested  
share awards  
not subject to 
performance
measures
(net of tax)4,5

228,083

142,389

Total shares
counting
towards
shareholding
requirement

Shareholding 
requirement

Salary3

Value of shares 
counting towards 
shareholding 
requirement as a 
percentage of 
salary1

Unvested share 
awards subject to 
performance 
measures  
(before tax)

2,818,687

250% salary

£2,517,000

1,282,658

200% salary

£1,609,000

747%

532%

2,016,082

1,288,778

1  All figures are as of 31 December 2023 unless stated otherwise. The closing share price on 29 December 2023 was £6.67. No director had either: (i) an interest in 
Standard Chartered PLC’s preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group; or (ii) any corporate interests in Standard 
Chartered PLC’s ordinary shares

2  The beneficial interests of directors and connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above. The executive directors do not have any 

non-beneficial interest in the Company’s shares. Neither of the executive directors used ordinary shares as collateral for any loans

3  The salary and shares held beneficially include shares awarded to deliver the executive directors’ salary shares
4  36.8 per cent of the 2020-22 LTIP award is no longer subject to performance measures due to achievement against 2020-22 TSR and strategic measures
5  As Bill and Andy are both UK taxpayers zero per cent tax is assumed to apply to Sharesave (as Sharesave is a UK tax qualified share plan) and 47 per cent tax is 
assumed to apply to other unvested share awards (marginal combined PAYE rate of income tax at 45 per cent and employee National Insurance contributions  
at 2 per cent) – rates may change

Historical LTIP awards
The current position on projected vesting for unvested LTIP awards from the 2021 and 2022 performance years based on current 
performance as at 31 December 2023 is set out in the tables below. 

Current position on the 2022-24 LTIP award: projected partial vesting

Measure

Weighting

Minimum (25%)

Maximum (100%)

RoTE1 in 2024 with a CET12 underpin 
of the higher of 13% or the 
minimum regulatory requirement

Relative TSR performance  
against peer group

30%

7%

11%

30%

Median

Upper quartile

2022-24 LTIP assessment as of  
31 December 2023

RoTE between threshold  
and maximum: indicative  
partial vesting

TSR positioned between  
median and upper quartile: 
indicative partial vesting

Sustainability

15%

Other strategic measures

25%

Targets set for sustainability 
measures linked to the  
business strategy

Tracking above target 
performance: indicative  
partial vesting

Targets set for strategic 
measures linked to the  
business strategy

Tracking above target 
performance: indicative  
partial vesting

1  Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other  
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee

2  The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2024. In addition, the Committee has the discretion  

to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been 
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period

213

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAdditional remuneration disclosures 

Additional remuneration disclosures
continued

Current position on the 2023-25 LTIP award: projected partial vesting

Measure

Weighting

Minimum (25%)

Maximum (100%)

RoTE1 in 2025 with a CET12 underpin 
of the higher of 13% or the 
minimum regulatory requirement

Relative TSR performance  
against peer group

30%

10%

12.5%

30%

Median

Upper quartile

2023-25 LTIP assessment as of  
31 December 2023

RoTE between threshold  
and maximum: indicative  
partial vesting

TSR positioned below the 
median: indicative 0% vesting

Sustainability

15%

Other strategic measures

25%

Targets set for sustainability 
measures linked to the  
business strategy

Tracking above target 
performance: indicative  
partial vesting

Targets set for strategic 
measures linked to the  
business strategy

Tracking above target 
performance: indicative  
partial vesting

1  Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other 
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee

2  The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2025. In addition, the Committee has the discretion  

to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been 
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period

The Committee assesses the value of LTIP awards on vesting and has the flexibility to adjust if the formulaic outcome is not 
considered to be an appropriate reflection of the performance achieved and to avoid windfall gains.

The approach used to determine Group-wide total discretionary incentives in 2023 is explained on pages 182 and 183 of this 
report. The following tables show the income statement charge for these incentives.

Income statement charge for Group discretionary incentives

Total discretionary incentives

Less: discretionary incentives that will be charged in future years

Plus: current year charge for discretionary incentives from prior years 

Total

Year in which income statement is expected to reflect discretionary incentives 

Discretionary incentives awarded for 2021 and earlier 

Discretionary incentives awarded for 2022

Discretionary incentives awarded for 2023

Total

2023  
$million

1,574

(242)

188

1,520

Actual

Expected

2022  
$million

2023 
$million

2024 
$million

 150 

77

–

227

82

106

81

269

37

60

116

213

2022 
$million 

1,589

(242)

150

1,497

2025  
and beyond  
$million

27

60

126

213

214

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAllocation of the Group’s earnings between stakeholders
When considering Group variable remuneration, the Committee takes account of shareholders’ concerns about relative 
expenditure on pay and determines the allocation of earnings to expenditure on remuneration carefully, and has approached 
this allocation in a disciplined way. The amount of corporate tax, including the bank levy, is included in the chart because it  
is a significant payment and illustrates the Group’s contribution through the tax system.

Staff costs

Corporate taxation including levy

Paid to shareholders in dividends and buybacks

2023

2022

8,256

7,618

$million

1,742

2,568

1,486

1,651

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

 Approach to risk adjustment 

Risk adjustment

What and how?

When?

Collective  
adjustments

Individual  
adjustments

• 

•  At a collective level, the Group annual scorecard 
and LTIP performance criteria include risk and 
control measures.
In addition, the Committee carries out a detailed 
review of all risk, control and conduct matters 
including ongoing investigations and any matters 
raised by regulators, and may use its discretion  
to adjust scorecard outcomes or remuneration  
to reflect matters not adequately captured by  
the scorecards.

• 

Individual risk adjustments to variable 
remuneration are considered based on the 
materiality of the issue.

•  At an individual level, risk adjustments can be 

applied through the reduction or forfeiture of the 
value of current year variable remuneration or  
the application of malus or clawback to unpaid  
or paid variable remuneration as appropriate,  
at the Committee’s discretion.

•  Material restatement of the Group’s financials. 
•  Significant failure in risk management.
•  Discovery of endemic problems in financial 

reporting.

•  Financial losses, due to a material breach of 

regulatory guidelines.

•  The exercise of regulatory or government action  

to recapitalise the Group following material 
financial losses.

•  Deemed to have: (i) caused in full or in part a 

material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, 
negligent or wilful actions, or (ii) exhibited 
inappropriate behaviours, or (iii) applied a lack  
of appropriate supervision and due diligence.

•  The individual failed to meet appropriate 

standards of fitness and propriety.

Our Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures can be viewed in our 2023 Pillar 3 Report at sc.com

Remuneration of the five highest paid individuals and the remuneration of senior management
In line with the requirements of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, the following table sets out, on an aggregate  
basis, the annual remuneration of: (i) the five highest paid employees; and (ii) senior management for the year ended  
31 December 2023.

Five highest paid1
$000

Senior management2
$000

Components of remuneration

Salary, cash allowances and benefits in kind

Pension contributions

Variable remuneration awards paid or receivable

Payments made on appointment

Remuneration for loss of office (contractual or other)

Other

Total

Total HKD equivalent

1  The five highest paid individuals include Bill Winters
2  Senior management comprises the executive directors and the members of the Group Management Team at any point during 2023

19,537

358

31,376

–

–

–

51,271

401,528

28,286

1,428

42,928

1,070

–

–

73,712

577,275

215

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportShare award movements for the five highest paid individuals for the year to 31 December 20231

LTIP2 Deferred shares2

Sharesave

Weighted 
average 
Sharesave 
exercise price
(£)

Outstanding at 1 January 2023
Granted3,4,5

Lapsed

Vested/Exercised

Outstanding at 31 December 2023

Exercisable as at 31 December 2023

Range of exercise prices (£)

4,483,528

997,172

729,613

253,569

3,097,427

1,303,485

–

738,051

4,497,518

3,662,861

4,334

–

–

–

–

–

–

4,246

4.23

88

–

–

–

–

–

4.26

–

4.23 – 5.88

1  The five highest paid individuals include Bill Winters
2  Granted under the 2021 Plan and 2011 Plan. Employees do not contribute to the cost of these awards
3  993,801 (LTIP) granted on 13 March 2023, 2,821 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2023, 550 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 1 September 

2023. 1,302,503 (Deferred shares) granted on 13 March 2023, 690 (Deferred shares) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2023, 292 (Deferred shares) granted 
as a notional dividend on 1 September 2023. 88 (Sharesave) granted on 18 Sep 2023

4  LTIP and Deferred shares were granted at a share price of £7.398, the closing price on the last trading day preceding the grant date. The vesting period for these 

awards ranges from 1 to 7 years

5  For Sharesave granted in 2023 the exercise price is £5.88 per share, a 20% discount from the average of the closing prices over the five days to the invitation date 

of 21 August 2023. The closing share price on 18 August 2023 was £7.214

See page 211 for details of awards and options for Bill Winters

See page 451 for a view of share awards and options for all employees

See page 447 for details on the accounting standard adopted for share awards is IFRS2

The table below shows the emoluments of: (i) the five highest paid employees; and (ii) senior management for the year ended 
31 December 2023.

Remuneration band
HKD

20,000,001 – 20,500,000

22,000,001 – 22,500,000

23,500,001 – 24,000,000

24,000,001 – 24,500,000

26,500,001 – 27,000,000

27,000,001 – 27,500,000

32,000,001 – 32,500,000

32,500,001 – 33,000,000

34,500,001 – 35,000,000

41,000,001 – 41,500,000

44,500,001 – 45,000,000

52,000,001 – 52,500,000

75,500,001 – 76,000,000

78,000,001 – 78,500,000

84,500,001 – 85,000,000

110,500,001 – 111,000,000

Total

Remuneration band
USD equivalent

Five highest
paid

Senior
management1

Number of employees

2,553,789 – 2,617,634

2,809,168 – 2,873,013

3,000,702 – 3,064,547

3,064,547 – 3,128,392

3,383,771 – 3,447,615

3,447,616 – 3,511,460

4,086,063 – 4,149,907

4,149,908 – 4,213,752

4,405,286 – 4,469,131

5,235,268 – 5,299,113

5,682,181 – 5,746,026

6,639,852 – 6,703,697

9,640,554 – 9,704,399

9,959,778 – 10,023,623

10,789,759 – 10,853,604

14,109,685 – 14,173,530

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1

1

1

1

1

5

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

–

1

1

1

–

14

1  Senior management comprises the executive directors and the members of the Group Management Team at any point during 2023

Shirish Apte
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

23 February 2024

216

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAdditional remuneration disclosures 
Other disclosures

The Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 
comprises pages 134 to 229 of this report (together with the 
sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference).  
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) 
of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ 
report, to include certain matters in its Strategic report that 
would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors’ report. Both the 
Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been drawn up 
and presented in accordance with English company law, and 
the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report 
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by 
such law. Other information to be disclosed in the Directors’ 
report is given in this section. In addition to the requirements 
set out in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
relating to the Annual Report, information required by UK 
Listing Rule 9.8.4 to be included in the Annual Report, where 
applicable, is set out in the table below and cross-referenced.

Information to be included in the Annual Report 
(UK Listing Rules 9.8.4)
Relevant Listing Rule

Pages

LR 9.8.4 (1) (2) (4-11) (14) (A) (B)

LR 9.8.4 (12-13)

N/A

439

Principal activities
We are a leading international banking group, with over  
170 years of history. Our unique geographical footprint in Asia, 
Africa and the Middle East helps connect the world’s most 
dynamic markets. Our purpose is to drive commerce and 
prosperity through our unique diversity. The Group’s roots in 
trade ﬁnance and commercial banking have been at the core 
of its success throughout its history, but the Group is now more 
broadly based across Consumer, Private and Business Banking 
and Ventures. The Group operates in the UK and overseas 
through a number of subsidiaries, branches and ofﬁces.

Further details on our business, including key performance indicators, 
can be found within the Strategic report on pages 2 to 89

Fair, balanced and understandable
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed 
the Annual Report and the process by which the Group 
believes that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary  
for shareholders to assess the position and performance, 
strategy and business model of the Group. Following its 
review, the Audit Committee has advised the Board that  
such a statement can be made in the Annual Report.

UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The table below contains examples of where the Company has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
in this Annual Report.

 A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.org.uk

Board leadership 
and company 
purpose

Principles

A –  Promoting long-term sustainable success and value

Pages/reference

2 to 89, and 137 to 141

B –  Purpose, value, strategy and alignment with culture

2 and 3, 24 and 25, 130 and 225

C –  Performance measures, controls and risk management

D –  Shareholder and other stakeholder engagement

E –  Workforce policies and practices

Division of 
responsibilities

F –   Chair role and responsibilities

G –  Board roles and responsibilities

H –  Non-executive directors’ role and capacity

I –   Board effectiveness and efﬁciency

J –   Board appointments and succession plans

K –  Board skills, experience, knowledge and tenure

Composition, 
succession and 
evaluation

Audit, risk and 
internal control

M –  Independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions, 

integrity of ﬁnancial and narrative statements

N –   Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position 

and prospects

O – Risk management and internal controls

Remuneration

P –  Remuneration policies and practices

Q –  Procedure for developing remuneration policy

R –   Independent judgement and discretion when authorising remuneration 

outcomes

The Remuneration Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference 

L –   Board evaluation of composition, diversity and effectiveness

153, 155 and 156

14 and 15, and 314 to 319

54 to 64, and 157 to 161

60 to 64

151 to 153, and 155 to 156

151

151

155 to 156

179

137 to 141

166

164

314 to 319

182 to 216

Remuneration Committee  
Terms of Reference

Remuneration Committee  
Terms of Reference

217

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportEvents after the balance sheet date
For details on post balance sheet events, see Note 35 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.

Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure
The Group’s 2023 ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the principles of the UK Finance Disclosure 
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.

Viability and going concern
Having made appropriate enquiries, the Board is satisfied 
that the Company and the Group as a whole has adequate 
resources to continue in operation and meet its liabilities  
as they fall due for a period of at least 12 months from  
23 February 2024 and therefore continues to adopt the  
going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.

The directors’ viability statement in respect to the Group can 
be found in the Strategic report on pages 88 and 89, while the 
directors’ going concern considerations for the Group can be 
found on page 369.

Sufﬁciency of public ﬂoat
As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained  
the prescribed public ﬂoat under the rules governing the 
listing of securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited (the Hong Kong Listing Rules), based on the 
information publicly available to the Company and  
within the knowledge of the directors.

Research and development
During the year, the Group invested $2.01 billion (2022:  
$1.98 billion) in research and development, of which  
$0.99 billion (2022: $0.94 billion) was recognised as an 
expense. The research and development investment  
primarily related to the planning, analysis, design, 
development, testing, integration, deployment and  
initial support of technology systems.

Political donations
The Group has a policy in place which prohibits donations 
being made that would: (i) improperly inﬂuence legislation  
or regulation, (ii) promote political views or ideologies, and  
(iii) fund political causes. In alignment to this, no political 
donations were made in the year ended 31 December 2023.

Directors and their interests
The membership of the Board, together with the Directors’ 
biographical details, are given on pages 137 to 141. Details of 
the directors’ beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests in the 
ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2023 are 
shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 204  
and 213. As at 16 February 2024, there had been no changes  
to those interests in relation to directors remaining in ofﬁce  
at that date. The Group operates a number of share-based 
arrangements for its directors and employees.

Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report and in Note 29 to the ﬁnancial statements

The Company has received from each of the INEDs an  
annual conﬁrmation of independence pursuant to Rule 3.13  
of the Hong Kong Listing Rules and still considers all of the 
non- executive directors to be independent.

At no time during the year did any director hold a material 
interest in any contracts of signiﬁcance with the Company  
or any of its subsidiary undertakings.

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have 
established a process requiring directors to disclose proposed 
outside business interests before any are entered into. This 
enables prior assessment of any conﬂict or potential conﬂict  
of interest and any impact on time commitment. On behalf  
of the Board, the GNC reviews existing conﬂicts of interest 
annually to consider if they continue to be conﬂicts of interest, 
and also to revisit the terms upon which they were authorised. 
The Board is satisﬁed that our processes in this respect 
continue to operate effectively.

Subject to company law, the Articles of Association and  
the authority granted to directors in general meeting, the 
directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and 
may delegate authorities to committees. The Articles of 
Association contain provisions relating to the appointment, 
re-election and removal of directors. Newly appointed 
directors retire at the AGM following appointment and are 
eligible for election. All directors are nominated for annual 
re-election by shareholders subject to continued satisfactory 
performance based upon their annual assessment.

Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of 
one year and subject to (re)election by shareholders at AGMs, 
in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018.

The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors  
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions. 
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes 
of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly  
in force during the course of the ﬁnancial year ended 
31 December 2023 and remain in force at the date of  
this report.

218

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresQualifying pension scheme indemnities  
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions (as deﬁned 
by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) were in force 
during the course of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 
2023 for the beneﬁt of the UK’s pension fund corporate trustee 
(Standard Chartered Trustees (UK) Limited), and remain in 
force at the date of this report.

Signiﬁcant agreements
The Company is not party to any signiﬁcant agreements  
that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change 
of control of the Company. The Company does not have 
agreements with any director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment resulting from 
a takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share 
schemes and plans may cause awards granted to employees 
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover, subject 
to any regulatory or tax considerations that may prevent this.

Future developments in the business of the Group 
An indication of likely future developments in the business of 
the Group is provided in the Strategic report.

Results and dividends

2023: paid interim dividend of 6 cents per ordinary share  
(2022: paid interim dividend of 4 cents per ordinary share)

2023: proposed ﬁnal dividend of 21 cents per ordinary share 
(2022: paid ﬁnal dividend of 14 cents per ordinary share)

2023: total dividend of 27 cents per ordinary share 
(2022: total dividend, 18 cents per ordinary share)

Share capital
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was 
reduced by a total of 229, 693, 294 over the course of 2023.

This was due to the cancellation of ordinary shares as part of 
the Company’s two share buy-back programmes. No ordinary 
shares were issued during the year. The Company has one 
class of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to ﬁxed 
income. On a show of hands, each member present has the 
right to one vote at our general meetings. On a poll, each 
member is entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal value  
of share capital held.

The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares represents 
84.3 per cent of the total issued nominal value of all share 
capital. The remaining 15.7 per cent comprises preference 
shares, which have preferential rights to income and capital 
but which, in general, do not confer a right to attend and vote 
at our general meetings.

Further details of the Group’s share capital can be found in  
Note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements

There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor 
on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. There are no specific restrictions on voting rights 
and the directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has 
any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital 
and all issued shares are fully paid.

Articles of Association
The Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders. They were last amended at the 
2023 AGM. The amendments primarily related to compliance 
with regulatory requirements in Hong Kong, but we also took 
the opportunity to amend them to reﬂect developments in 
market practice.

A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association can be found  
on our website here sc.com/investors

Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM held on 3 May 2023, our shareholders renewed 
the Company’s authority to make market purchases of up  
to 284,703,272 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately  
10 per cent of issued ordinary shares as at 20 March 2023,  
and up to all of the issued preference share capital.

The authority to make market purchases up to 10 per cent  
of issued ordinary share capital was used during the year 
through two buy-back programmes announced in February 
and August 2023. These were utilised to reduce the number of 
ordinary shares in issue and as part of the Group’s approach 
to dividend growth and capital returns. The ﬁrst share 
buy-back programme commenced on 20 February 2023 and 
ended on 29 September 2023. The second share buy-back 
programme commenced on 1 August 2023 and ended on  
6 November 2023. A total of 229,693,294 ordinary shares  
with a nominal value of $0.50 were re-purchased for an 
approximate aggregate consideration paid of $2 billion.

A monthly breakdown of the shares purchased during the 
period including the lowest and highest price paid per share  
is set out in Note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements. All ordinary 
shares which were bought back were cancelled.

In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by  
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (HKSE) as 
subsequently modified, the Company will comply with the 
applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding 
of any shares in treasury and with the conditions of granting 
the waiver by the HKSE. No treasury shares were held during 
the year.

Further details can be found in Note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements

219

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportAuthority to issue shares
The Company is granted authority to issue shares by the 
shareholders at its AGM. The size of the authorities granted 
depends on the purposes for which shares are to be issued 
and is within applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Major interests in shares and voting rights
As at 31 December 2023, Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited 
(Temasek) is the only shareholder that has an interest of  
more than 10 per cent in the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital carrying a right to vote at any general meeting.

Shareholder rights
Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding  
5 per cent or more of the paid-up share capital of the 
Company carrying the right of voting at general meetings  
of the Company are able to require the directors to hold a 
general meeting. A request may be in hard copy or electronic 
form and must be authenticated by the shareholders making 
it. Where such a request has been duly lodged with the 
Company, the directors are obliged to call a general meeting 
within 21 days of becoming subject to the request and must 
set a date for the meeting not more than 28 days from the 
date of the issue of the notice convening the meeting.

Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding  
5 per cent or more of the total voting rights at an AGM of the 
Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to vote at the AGM 
with an average of at least £100 paid-up share capital per 
shareholder, are entitled to require the Company to circulate  
a resolution intended to be moved at the Company’s next 
AGM. Such a request must be made not later than six weeks 
before the AGM to which the request relates or, if later, the 
time notice is given of the AGM. The request may be in hard 
copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which 
notice is to be given and must be authenticated by the 
shareholders making it.

Shareholders are also able to put forward proposals to shareholder 
meetings and enquiries to the Board and/or the Senior Independent 
Director by using the ‘contact us’ information on the Company’s  
website sc.com or by emailing the Group Corporate Secretariat at 
group-corporate.secretariat@sc.com

Notifiable interests

Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited

BlackRock Inc.

Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCA’s 
DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on 
the Company’s website.

As at 16 February 2024, the Company has been notified of the 
following information, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders 
of notifiable interests in the Company’s issued share capital. 
The information provided in the table below was correct at 
the date of notification; however, the date received may not 
have been within 2023. It should be noted that these holdings 
are likely to have changed since the Company was notified. 

However, notification of any change is not required until the 
next notifiable threshold is crossed.

Interest in 
ordinary shares 
(based on voting 
rights disclosed)

474,751,383

183,640,172

Percentage  
of capital 
disclosed

16.00

5.55

Nature of holding as per disclosure

Indirect

Indirect (5.01%) 
Securities Lending (0.39%)  
Contracts for Difference (0.14%)

Dodge & Cox

150,620,884

5.08

Indirect

Related party transactions
Details of transactions with directors and ofﬁcers and  
other related parties are set out in Note 36 to the  
ﬁnancial statements.

Connected/continuing connected transactions 
By virtue of its shareholding of over 10 per cent in the 
Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties  
and connected persons of the Company for the purposes  
of the UK Listing Rules and the Rules Governing the Listing  
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
(“HKEx”) (“the HK Listing Rules”) respectively (together  
“the Rules”).

220

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresThe Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable 
treatment to Temasek or its associates to the detriment of 
other shareholders in the Company. Unless transactions 
between the Group and Temasek or its associates are 
specifically exempt under the Rules or are subject to a specific 
waiver, they may require a combination of announcements, 
reporting and independent shareholders’ approval. 

On 12 November 2021, the HKEx extended a waiver (the 
“Waiver”) it previously granted to the Company for the 
revenue banking transactions with Temasek which do not fall 
under the passive investor exemption (“the Passive Investor 
Exemption”) under Rules 14A.99 and 14A.100 of the HK Listing 
Rules. Under the Waiver, the HKEx agreed to waive the 
announcement requirement, the requirements to enter into 
written agreements and to set annual caps, and the annual 
report disclosure (including annual review) requirements 
under Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules for the three-year 
period ending 31 December 2024 on the conditions that:

a)  The Company will disclose details of the Waiver (including  
nature of the revenue banking transactions with Temasek  
and reasons for the Waiver) in subsequent annual reports;  
and 

b)  The Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking  
transactions with Temasek during the three years ending  
31 December 2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold 
for the revenue ratio will not be exceeded. 

The main reasons for seeking the Waiver were:

•  The nature and terms of revenue banking transactions  

may vary and evolve over time; having ﬁxed-term written 
agreements would not be suitable to accommodate the 
various banking needs of the Company’s customers 
(including Temasek) and would be impractical and  
unduly burdensome.

•  It would be impracticable to estimate and determine an 
annual cap on the revenue banking transactions with 
Temasek as the volume and aggregate value of each 
transaction are uncertain and unknown to the Company  
as a banking group due to multiple factors including  
market driven factors.

•  The revenues generated from revenue banking transactions 
were insignificant. Without a waiver from the HKEx or an 
applicable exemption, these transactions would be subject 
to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different 
types of connected transactions and as such may produce 
anomalous results. 

As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the Waiver, 
the vast majority of the Company’s transactions with Temasek 
and its associates fall outside of the connected transactions 
regime. However, non-revenue transactions with Temasek or 
any of its associates continue to be subject to monitoring for 
connected transaction issues.

The Company conﬁrms that:

•  The revenue banking transactions entered into with 
Temasek and its associates in 2023 were below the  
5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under the  
HK Listing Rules; and

•  It will continue to monitor revenue banking transactions 

with Temasek during the three years ending 31 December 
2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue 
ratio will not be exceeded.

The Company therefore satisfied the conditions of the Waiver. 

Fixed assets
Details of additions to ﬁxed assets are presented in Note 18  
to the ﬁnancial statements.

Loan capital
Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries 
are set out in Notes 22 and 27 to the ﬁnancial statements.

Debenture issues and equity-linked agreements 
During the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2023, the 
Company made no issuance of debentures. Further details  
of the equity-linked agreements the Group entered into can 
be found in Note 28 to ﬁnancial statements.

Risk management1
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the risk management system. An ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
signiﬁcant risks that we face is in place. The Board is satisfied 
that this process constitutes a robust assessment of all of the 
principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated risks 
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

1   The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control 
applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to 
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.

Key areas of risk on ﬁnancial instruments for the directors 
included the impairment of loans and advances and 
valuation of ﬁnancial instruments held at fair value. This risk 
assessment and management is explained further in the 
Audit Committee Key areas and Action taken on pages 163 
and 164.

The Risk review and Capital review on pages 44 to 51, and 314 to 337 
sets out the principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated 
risks, our approach to risk management, including our risk management 
principles, an overview of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
and the risk management and governance practices for each principal 
risk type. The Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement can be found 
on pages 47, and 314 to 337

In accordance with Article 435(1)(e) of the Disclosure (CRR) 
Part of the PRA Rulebook, the Board Risk Committee, on 
behalf of the Board, has considered the adequacy of the risk 
management arrangements of the Group and has sought 
and received assurance that the risk management systems  
in place are adequate with regard to the Group’s proﬁle  
and strategy.

221

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportInternal control2
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal control system. Its effectiveness  
is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the 
Management Team and Group Internal Audit.

For the year ended 31 December 2023, the Board Risk 
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control and discussed a report on the 2024 
annual risk and control self-assessment. Group Internal Audit 
represents the third line of defence and provides independent 
assurance of the effectiveness of management’s control of 
business activities (the ﬁrst line) and of the control processes 
maintained by the Risk Framework Owners and Policy Owners 
(the second line). The audit programme includes obtaining  
an understanding of the processes and systems under audit 
review, evaluating the design of controls, and testing the 
operating effectiveness and outcomes of key controls.  
The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas  
of greatest risk as determined by a risk-based assessment 
methodology. The Board considers the internal control 
systems of the Company to be effective and adequate.

2   The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control 
applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to 
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.

Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, 
the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive; and the 
Group Head, Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the 
Audit Committee and administratively to the Group Chief 
Executive. The ﬁndings of all adverse audits are reported to 
the Audit Committee, the Group Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive where immediate corrective action is required.

The Board Risk Committee is responsible for exercising 
oversight, on behalf of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. 
It reviews the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework and makes recommendations 
to the Board. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight 
and advice to the Board on matters relating to ﬁnancial, 
non-ﬁnancial and narrative reporting. The Committee’s role is 
to review, on behalf of the Board, the Group’s internal controls 
including internal ﬁnancial controls. The Audit Committee 
receives and discusses a paper on the internal controls for 
ﬁnancial books and records. 

The risk management approach starting on page 314 describes the 
Group’s risk management oversight committee structure.

Our business is conducted within a developed control 
framework, underpinned by policy statements and standards. 
There are written policies and standards designed to ensure 
the identiﬁcation and management of risk, including Credit 
Risk, Traded Risk, Treasury Risk, Operational and Technology 
Risk, Information and Cyber Security Risk, Compliance Risk, 
Financial Crime Risk, Model Risk and Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk. This framework incorporates the Group’s 
internal controls on ﬁnancial reporting. The Board has 
established a management structure that clearly deﬁnes 
roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.

Delegated authorities are documented and communicated. 
Executive risk committees regularly review the Group’s risk 
proﬁle. The performance of the Group’s businesses is reported 
regularly to senior management and the Board. Performance 
trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance against 
budgets and prior periods, are monitored closely. Group 
ﬁnancial information is prepared in accordance with  
UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union, and ﬁnancial reporting is subject to the 
Group’s control framework for reconciliation processes.

Operational procedures and controls have been established 
to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of 
transactions and the safeguarding of assets. These controls 
include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular 
reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of assets and 
positions. In respect of handling inside information, we have 
applied controls to help ensure only those explicitly required 
receive inside information as well as controls regarding the 
onward dissemination of inside information. Controls are also 
in place to approve and review dealings in the Company’s 
shares. Such systems and controls are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Employee policies and engagement
We work hard to ensure that our employees are kept informed 
about matters affecting or of interest to them, and more 
importantly that they have opportunities to provide feedback 
and engage in a dialogue.

We strive to listen and act on feedback from colleagues to 
ensure internal communications are timely, informative, 
meaningful, and in support of the Group’s strategy and 
transformation. In November 2023, we launched our new 
employee communications platform – Pulse. Pulse will become 
our primary internal communications channel that will  
allow colleagues to receive key dynamic updates that are 
personalised by role and location, sign up for events, provide 
feedback, and navigate to other internal platforms. In 
addition to targeted digital communications, we also deploy 
audio and video calls, virtual and face-to-face townhalls,  
and other staff engagement and recognition events.  
To continue to improve the way we communicate and  
ensure our employee communications remain relevant,  
we also periodically analyse and measure the impact  
of our communications through a range of survey and 
feedback tools.

Our senior leaders and people leaders play a critical role in 
engaging our teams across the network, ensuring that they 
are kept up to date on key business developments related to 
our performance and strategy. We offer additional support  
to our people leaders with specific calls and communications 
packs to help them provide context and guidance to their 
team members to better understand their role in executing 
and delivering the Group’s strategy.

222

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresAcross the organisation, regular team meetings with people 
leaders, one-to-one conversations and various management 
meetings provide an important platform for colleagues  
to discuss and clarify key issues. Regular performance 
conversations provide the opportunity to discuss how 
individuals, the team and the business area have contributed 
to our overall performance and how any recognition and 
reward relate to this. The Group’s senior leadership also 
regularly shares global, business, function, region and market 
updates on performance, strategy, structural changes, HR 
programmes, community involvement and other campaigns. 
The Board also engages with and listens to the views of  
the workforce through several sources, including through 
interactive engagement sessions. More information can be 
found on page 161 in the Directors’ report.

Employees past, present and future can follow our progress 
through the Group’s LinkedIn network and Facebook page,  
as well as other social network channels including Instagram, 
which collectively have over 2.7 million followers.

The diverse range of internal and external communication 
tools and channels we have put in place aim to ensure that all 
colleagues receive timely and relevant information to support 
their effectiveness.

The wellbeing of our employees is central to our thinking 
about beneﬁts and support, so that they can thrive at work 
and in their personal lives. Our Group minimum standards 
provide employees with a range of ﬂexible working options,  
in relation to both location and working patterns. In terms of 
leave, employees are provided with at least 30 days’ leave 
(through annual leave and public holidays), and new parents 
are provided a minimum of 20 calendar weeks’ fully paid  
leave irrespective of gender, relationship status or how a  
child comes to permanently join a family. These are above the 
International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) minimum standards.

We seek to build productive and enduring partnerships with 
various employee representative bodies (including unions  
and work councils). In our recognition and interactions, we  
are heavily inﬂuenced by the 1948 United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and several ILO 
conventions including the Right to Organise and Collective 
Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) and the Freedom  
of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise 
Convention, 1948 (No. 87). 12.6 per cent of employees, across 
20 markets, have collective representation through unions  
or employee representative bodies. The working conditions 
and terms of employment of other employees are based  
on our Group and country policies, and in accordance with 
individual employment contracts issued by the Group.

The Group Grievance Standard provides a formal framework 
for dealing with concerns that employees have in relation  
to their employment or another colleague, which affect  
them directly, and cannot be resolved through informal 
mechanisms, such as counselling, coaching or mediation.  
This can include concerns related to bullying, harassment, 
discrimination and victimisation, as well as concerns regarding 
conditions of employment (for example, working practices or 
the working environment).

Employees can raise grievances to their People Leader or a 
Human Resources (HR) Representative. The global process for 
addressing grievances involves an HR representative and a 
member of the business reviewing the grievance, conducting 
fact ﬁnding into the grievance and providing a written 
outcome to the aggrieved employee. Where employees raise 
concerns regarding alleged wrongdoing which does not 
pertain to those employees themselves, or in circumstances 
where the alleged wrongdoing does pertain to the employees 
themselves but they do not wish to raise a grievance, such 
concerns are investigated in accordance with the Group 
Investigations Standard.

If a grievance or investigation is upheld, the next steps  
might include remedying a policy or process, or initiating a 
disciplinary review of the conduct of the colleague who is the 
subject of the concern. The Group Grievance Standard and 
accompanying process is reviewed on a periodic basis in 
consultation with stakeholders across HR, Legal, Compliance 
and Shared Investigative Services. Grievance trends are 
reviewed on a quarterly basis and action is taken to address 
any concerning trends.

There is a distinct Group Speaking Up Policy and Standard 
which covers instances where an employee wishes to ‘blow 
the whistle’ on actual, planned or potential wrongdoing by 
another employee or the Group.

The Group is committed to creating a fair, consistent and 
transparent approach to making decisions in a disciplinary 
context. This commitment is codified in our Fair Accountability 
Principles, which underpin our Group Disciplinary Standard. 
Dismissals due to misconduct issues and/or performance 
(where required by law to follow a disciplinary process) are 
governed by the Group Disciplinary Standard. Where local 
law or regulation requires a different process with regards to 
dismissals and other disciplinary outcomes, we have country 
variances in place.

223

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOur Group Diversity and Inclusion Standard has been 
developed to ensure a respectful workplace, with fair and 
equal treatment, diversity and inclusion, and the provision of 
opportunities for employees to participate fully and reach 
their full potential in an appropriate working environment. 
The Group aims to provide equality of opportunity for all, 
protect the dignity of employees and promote respect at 
work. All individuals are entitled to be treated with dignity  
and respect, and to be free from harassment, bullying, 
discrimination and victimisation. This helps to support 
productive working conditions, decreased staff attrition, 
positive employee morale and engagement, maintains 
employee wellbeing, and reduces people-related risk.  
All colleagues are responsible for fostering an inclusive  
culture where individuality and differing skills, capabilities  
and experience are understood, respected and valued.  
All colleagues, consultants, contractors, volunteers,  
interns, casual workers and agency workers are required  
to comply with the Standard, including conducting  
themselves in a manner that demonstrates appropriate, 
non-discriminatory behaviours.

We do not accept unlawful discrimination in our recruitment 
or employment practices on any grounds including but not 
limited to: sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnicity, national or 
indigenous origin, disability, age, marital or civil partner status, 
pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
expression or reassignment, HIV or AIDS status, parental 
status, military and veterans status, ﬂexibility of working 
arrangements, religion or belief. We are committed to provide 
equal opportunities and fair treatment in recruitment, 
appraisals, pay and conditions, training, development, 
succession planning, promotion, grievance/disciplinary 
procedures and employment termination practices, that  
are inclusive and accessible; and that do not directly or 
indirectly discriminate. Recruitment, employment, training, 
development and promotion decisions are based on the skills, 
knowledge and behaviour required to perform the role to the 
Group’s standards. Implied in all employment terms is the 
commitment to equal pay for equal work. We also endeavour 
to make reasonable workplace adjustments (including during 
the hiring process) to ensure all individuals feel supported  
and are able to participate fully and reach their potential.  
If employees become disabled, we will aim to support them 
with appropriate training and workplace adjustments where 
possible and to support their continued employment.

Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Our Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) vision is to support 
employee productivity through a healthy and resilient 
workforce, and our mission is for employees to deliver every 
day in a safe, secure and resilient way. Our corporate HSW 
programme covers both mental and physical health and 
wellbeing. The Group complies with both external regulatory 
requirements and internal policy and standards for HSW  
in all markets. It is Group policy to ensure that the more 
stringent of the two requirements is always met, ensuring  
our HSW practices meet or exceed the regulatory minimum. 
Compliance rates are reported at least biannually to each 
country’s Management Team. 

We follow the International Labour Organisation (ILO) code  
of practice on recording and notification of occupational 
accidents and diseases, and guidance published by the  
UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE), and ensure that  
we meet all local Health and Safety (H&S) regulatory 
reporting requirements. We record and report all work- 
related illness and injuries, including from sub-contractors, 
visitors and clients.

HSW performance and risks are reported annually to the 
Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee. We use an 
H&S management system and local regulatory compliance 
tracker across all countries to ensure a consistently high level 
of H&S reporting and compliance for all our colleagues  
and clients.

The Group sponsors medical and healthcare services for  
all employees, except in markets where cover is provided 
through State-mandated healthcare, which represent less 
than 0.6 per cent of the Group’s employees. 

Across the Group, support for employee mental wellbeing  
is available. All employees have access to professional 
counselling via our Employee Assistance Programme, as well 
as to more proactive mental health support through our 
holistic wellbeing app and wellbeing platform. Our global 
Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) programme offers help to 
anyone developing a mental health problem, experiencing  
a worsening of an existing mental illness or a mental health 
crisis. The mental health support is given until appropriate 
professional help is received, or the crisis resolved. To date  
we have trained more than 600 mental health ﬁrst aiders  
in 51 markets, covering over 99 per cent of colleagues. 

In 2023, we recorded two work-related fatalities. A contractor 
was tragically and fatally injured while crossing a road on her 
way to work in Nigeria. An employee was tragically and fatally 
injured in a road accident in India. Major injuries (per the UK 
HSE deﬁnition) decreased from 20 in 2022 to 16, with fractures 
the most common type of major injury (75 per cent). Overall, 
reported injuries increased by 28 per cent, with ‘slips/trips/falls’ 
and ‘transport/commuting’ remaining the most common 
causes of injury. The overall increase in reported injuries was  
a post COVID result, with all markets moving into the new 
normal in 2023. Our injury rates remain aligned to, or better 
than industry benchmarks. Hazards and near-miss reports 
decreased 4 per cent between 2022 and 2023.

In 2023, we ran a back-to-basics programme to re-establish 
commitment and responsibility in safety and security at all 
levels, and address post pandemic and new normal practices. 
All premises are inspected at least annually to identify any 
hazards, risks and incidences of non-compliance. HSW 
communication is provided through mandatory training for  
all new joiners, along with annual refreshers. In 2023, we also 
created a pathway in the Group’s learning platform using 
engaging bite-sized video content to help educate colleagues 
on their responsibilities to keep the Group safe. The Group 
celebrated World Day for Safety and Health at Work in April 
with the theme ‘Safety is Everyone’s Responsibility’ in line with 
the back-to-basics intent. 

224

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresOne hundred and ﬁfty eight (158) buildings, which covers more 
than 90 per cent of our employees, were certified with the 
WELL Health & Safety Rating; an evidence-based, third-party 
certification that validates our efforts to address the hygiene 
and safety of our workspaces. Four major head ofﬁce projects 
also obtained the broader WELL certification. 

Our regular Ofﬁce and Home Working Experience survey, 
conducted across 49 markets, demonstrated continued high 
scores around wellbeing with 80 per cent of respondents 
agreeing that the workplace has a positive impact on their 
wellbeing and 87 per cent saying they are able to be physically 
active and maintain a healthy work–life balance.

In 2023, all of the Group’s markets saw relaxation of COVID 
restrictions with business moving to new normal, and 
continued uptake of the Group’s Future Workplace Now 
(ﬂexible working) programme. An ergonomic online 
assessment tool is available for employees to assess their 
home working area for hazards, with a virtual assessment  
of the individual’s work environment, and a workplace 
adjustment procedure available for employees who require 
support based on personal circumstances. Our work injury 
insurance covers all employees working from home. 

Business travel returned to pre-pandemic levels in 2023, and 
we put together a Travel Risk Management Framework 
aligned to ISO 31030:2021 Travel Risk Management Standards 
and supported by external travel risk and security advisers at 
International SOS to support travellers.

Major customers
Our ﬁve largest customers together accounted for  
2.1 per cent of our total operating income in the year  
ended 31 December 2023.

Major suppliers
In 2023, USD $4.479 billion was spent with 11,563 suppliers.  
Of this, 74 per cent of the total spend was spent in the  
Asia region, with 18 per cent in Europe and the Americas,  
and 8 per cent in Africa and the Middle East. 

Furthermore, 80 per cent of total spend in 2023 was with  
474 suppliers. In addition, 80 per cent of carbon emissions 
were with 481 suppliers (excluding air travel suppliers). In 2023, 
our ﬁve largest suppliers together accounted for 14.8 per cent 
of total spend, with the largest ten amounting to 23 per cent 
of total spend. 

Supply chain management
To support the operation of our businesses we source a variety 
of goods and services governed through a third-party risk 
management framework through which we aim to follow the 
highest standards in terms of supplier selection, due diligence 
and contract management. 

For information about how the Group engages with suppliers 
on environmental and social matters, please see our Supplier 
Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Standard. 

Our Supplier Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion standard can 
be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter and sc.com/supplierdiversity 

Details of how we create value for our suppliers and other stakeholder 
groups can be found on pages 58 and 59

Product responsibility
We aim to design and offer products based on client needs  
to ensure fair treatment and outcomes for clients.

The Group has in place a risk framework, comprising  
policies, standards and controls to support these objectives  
in alignment with our Conduct Risk Framework. This 
framework covers sales practices, client communications, 
appropriateness and suitability, and post-sales practices. 
There are controls across all activities above and the controls 
are tested on a regular basis to provide assurance on the 
framework. As part of this, we ensure products sold are 
suitable for clients and comply with relevant laws and 
regulations. We also review our products on a periodic basis 
and reﬁne them to keep them relevant to the changing needs 
of clients and to meet regulatory obligations.

We have processes and guidelines specific to each of our 
client industries, to promptly resolve client complaints  
and understand and respond to client issues. Conduct 
considerations are given signiﬁcant weighting in frontline 
incentive structures to drive the right behaviours.

For more information on our approach to product design, 
product pricing, treating customers fairly and protecting 
customers, and incentivising our frontline employees, see 
pages 55 and 56. For more information on fraud identiﬁcation 
see page 131.

Safeguarding intellectual property rights
The Group has processes in place to manage the Group’s 
trade mark rights and it respects third-party intellectual 
property rights.

Group Code of Conduct
The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct and  
Ethics (the Code) relating to the lawful and ethical conduct  
of business and this is supported by the Group’s valued 
behaviours. This has been communicated to all directors  
and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high 
standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, 
employees and regulators in the communities in which the 
Group operates. Directors and employees are asked to 
recommit to the Code annually, and 99.75 per cent have 
completed the 2023 recommitment. All Board members  
have recommitted to the Code.

Community engagement
We collaborate with local partners to support social and 
economic development in communities across our footprint. 
We aim to create more inclusive economies by sharing our 
skills and expertise and supporting community initiatives that 
transform lives. 

Established in 2019, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered  
is our global youth economic empowerment initiative,  
helping disadvantaged young people learn, earn and grow. 
We are committed to improving economic participation  
and equitable access to ﬁnance for young women and 
microbusinesses. For more information on Futuremakers,  
as well as our employee volunteering and community 
expenditure, please see pages 97 and 98.

225

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportESG reporting guide

Compliance with Listing Rules
We comply with the requirements of the ESG Reporting Guide 
contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing the Listing 
of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. 
With respect to the key performance indicators (KPIs) noted  
in Part C: “Comply or explain” provisions, the Group does not 
report on KPI A1.3 and KPI A1.6 related to the production and 
handling of hazardous waste; KPI A2.5 related to packaging 
materials used for ﬁnished products; KPI B2.2 related lost  
days due to work injury; KPI B6.1 total products recalled due  
to safety and health reasons, and KPI B6.4 product recall 
procedures. As an ofﬁce-based ﬁnancial services provider 
these issues were not deemed material. For further 
information related to Aspect B4 Labour Standards and  
B5 Supply Chain Management, please also refer to the 
Group’s annual Modern Slavery Statement. 

Compliance with Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
In line with our “comply or explain” obligation under the UK’s 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can conﬁrm 
that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD 
recommendations and recommended disclosures in this 
Annual Report.  

Our TCFD disclosures also meet the new climate-related 
ﬁnancial disclosure requirements contained in section 414CB 
of the Companies Act 2006. We have also taken into account 
the implementation guidance included in the TCFD 2021 
Annex. Further information on net zero progress and ﬁnanced 
emissions is available on pages 104 to 117. For a detailed  
TCFD summary and alignment index referencing relevant 
disclosures see page 511 to 516.

Modern Slavery Act 
The Group publishes a Modern Slavery Statement annually. 
This document gives further detail on the actions the Group 
has taken as it seeks to prevent modern slavery and human 
trafﬁcking in its operations (workforce), ﬁnancing and  
supply chain. The Group publishes a Statement under the  
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the ﬁnancial year ending  
31 December 2023.

See more via sc.com/modernslavery

Sustainable ﬁnance taxonomies
Standard Chartered continues to assess the applicability of 
sustainable ﬁnance taxonomies across the Group’s footprint. 
Reporting has commenced in several markets in Asia in 
accordance with local sustainable ﬁnance taxonomy 
regulatory requirements. An assessment on the applicability 
and implementation timeline of the EU Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) for Standard 
Chartered Bank AG and Standard Chartered PLC has also 
been undertaken. Preparatory work has commenced to 
embed EU Taxonomy classifications and metrics. We will 
continue to monitor expected policy developments from the 
UK and the European Commission concerning guidance on 
taxonomy alignment and technical screening criteria to 
incrementally enhance our assessment and support reporting 
as required. 

The Group is developing scalable digital capability to 
facilitate reporting against taxonomies being developed 
across the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The 
solution adopts a rules-based approach to assess whether a 
client and any client activity with the Group is in-scope and 
eligible for taxonomy reporting and will facilitate broader 
implementation of taxonomy compliance by relevant Group 
entities as and when compliance implementation will be 
required. Taxonomy data availability and quality will  
continue to evolve via client engagement, data vendors  
and partnerships. 

The Group will consider applicable taxonomy alignment in our 
business decisions, including at a client and transaction level, 
as well as more broadly at a sector strategy level. Given our 
footprint across Europe and the UK, Asia, Africa and the 
Middle East, we need to continually assess taxonomy-
alignment requirements based on information available  
from clients and through our due diligence processes. 

Environmental impact of our operations
We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our 
operations as part of our commitment to be a responsible 
company. We report on the actions we take to reduce energy 
and water usage and non-hazardous waste generated in our 
operations in the Sustainability Review on page 106 and in the 
Supplementary sustainability information section on pages 
505 and 506. 

Our reporting methodology is based on the ‘The Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Revised Edition)’. We have adopted the operational 
control approach to deﬁne our reporting boundary for GHG 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. For Scope 3 ﬁnanced emissions, 
boundaries are noted for each high-emitting sector in the  
‘Our approach to measuring ﬁnanced emissions’ table in the 
Sustainability Review.

Information on the principles and methodologies used to 
calculate the GHG emissions of the Group can be found  
in our Environmental Reporting Criteria document at  
sc.com/environmentcriteria. 

Reporting period, boundary and scope
We report on Sustainability and Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual Report,  
in particular in the following sections: (i) Strategic report, 
Sustainability overview on pages 66 to 79; (ii) Sustainability 
review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk review on pages 298 to 313;  
and (iv) in the Supplementary sustainability information 
section on pages 504 to 516.

The Sustainability and ESG information in this Annual report 
was compiled for the ﬁnancial year 1 January to 31 December 
2023, unless otherwise specified.

The reporting period of operational environmental 
performance indicators is from 1 October 2022 to  
30 September 2023. This allows sufﬁcient time for 
independent third-party assurance to be completed prior to 
the publication of the Group’s Annual Report. Accordingly,  
the operating income used for associated environmental 
intensity metrics corresponds to the same time period,  
rather than the calendar year used in ﬁnancial reporting. 

There was no signiﬁcant change in the boundary and scope 
of this Annual Report from that of Standard Chartered PLC 
Annual Report 2022, published on 16 February 2023.

226

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresAssurance
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured by an independent company, Global Documentation, against the requirements of  
ISO 14064. 

The Group as disclosed GHG emissions and energy consumption data as required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.

Units

2023

2022

2021

Reporting coverage of data

Annual operating income from 1 October to 30 September

Net internal area of occupied property

$ million
m2

17,414

880,515

15,863

946,234

14,541

998,571

GHG emissions 

Scope 1 & 2:

Scope 1 emissions 

Scope 2 emissions (location-based)²
Scope 2 emissions (market-based)3
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based)3

Scope 1 & 2 emissions (UK and offshore area only)

GHG emissions – Intensity:

tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e
tCO2e

8,488¹

85,741

26,246

34,734

248

Total Scope 1 &2 emissions (market-based)/ intensity

tCO2e/$ million

2

Environmental resource efﬁciency

Energy

Indirect non-renewable energy consumption

Indirect renewable energy consumption

Direct non-renewable energy consumption

Direct renewable energy consumption

Energy consumption

Energy consumption (UK and offshore area only)

GWh

GWh

GWh

GWh

GWh

GWh

142

16

13

2

173

6

2,071

89,410

47,363

49,434

2,902

96,256

82,761

85,663

–

3

142

24

10

1

177

6

–

6 

142

28

12

1

183

5

1  Scope 1 ﬁgure includes fugitive emissions for the ﬁrst time in 2023 (2023: 5,266 tCO2e). Prior year data was not available for fugitive emissions. For more information 

on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

2  Location based emissions have been restated for prior comparative periods. Emissions erroneously included renewable energy certificates and power purchase 

agreements. Other scope 2 reductions outside clean power are attributed to footprint reduction and efﬁciency gains.

3   Market based emissions have decreased from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efﬁciency gains and the purchase of additional energy attribution 

certificates by the Group.

Further detail on our environment performance can be found on pages 104 to 117; associated assumptions and methodologies in our reporting 
criteria document at sc.com/environmentalcriteria

Electronic communication
The Board recognises the importance of good 
communications with all shareholders. Directors are in regular 
contact with our institutional shareholders and general 
presentations are made when we announce our ﬁnancial 
results. The AGM presents an opportunity to communicate 
with all shareholders. Our shareholders are encouraged to 
receive our corporate documents electronically. The annual 
and interim ﬁnancial statements, Notice of AGM and any 
dividend circulars are all available electronically. If you do not 
already receive your corporate documents electronically and 
would like to do so in future, please contact our registrars at 
the address on page 517. Shareholders are also able to vote 
electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through 
our registrars’ website at investorcentre.co.uk.

Annual General Meeting
Our 2024 AGM will be held at 11:00am (UK time) (6:00pm 
Hong Kong time) on 10 May 2024. Further details regarding 
the format, location and business to be transacted will be 
disclosed within the 2024 Notice of AGM.

Our 2023 AGM was held on 3 May 2023 at 11:00am (UK time) 
(6:00pm Hong Kong time). Special business at the meeting 
included the approval of the power to allot ECAT1 Securities 
for cash without certain formalities.

227

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportThe Policy is not a prescribed list of non-audit services that  
EY is permitted to provide. Rather, each request for EY to 
provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own merits. 
The Audit Committee believes that such a case-by-case 
approach best accommodates (i) the need for the 
appropriate rigour and challenge to be applied to each 
request for EY to provide non-audit services while (ii) 
preserving sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for the Group to engage EY  
to provide non-audit services where they are able to deliver 
particular value to the Group and where the proposed 
services can be provided without compromising EY’s 
objectivity and independence. To ensure that the Group will 
comply with a cap that limits fees on non-audit services 
provided by EY to under 70 per cent of the average Group 
audit fee from the previous three consecutive ﬁnancial years 
(which will apply from EY’s fourth year of being the Group’s 
external auditor), the Policy requires that annual non-audit 
service fees are lower than 70 per cent of the average annual 
Group audit fee up to this time. The caps exclude audit related 
non-audit services and services carried out pursuant to law or 
regulation. For 2023, without deducting non-audit service fees 
which were required by law or regulation and performed by 
EY, the ratio was 0.3:1. Details relating to EY’s remuneration as 
the Group statutory auditor and a description of the broad 
categories of the types of non-audit services provided by EY 
are given in Note 38 to the ﬁnancial statements.

Auditor
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group’s 
statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the 
Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for 
non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit 
fees paid.

Following an annual performance and effectiveness review of 
EY, it was felt that EY is considered to be effective, objective 
and independent in its role as Group statutory auditor.

Each director believes that there is no relevant information of 
which our Group statutory auditor is unaware. Each has taken 
all steps necessary as a director to be aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group statutory 
auditor is made aware of any pertinent information.

EY will be in attendance at the 2024 AGM. A resolution to 
re-appoint EY as auditor was proposed at the Company’s 
2023 AGM and was successfully passed.

EY is a Public Interest Entity Auditor recognised in accordance 
with the Hong Kong Financial Reporting Council Ordinance.

By order of the Board

Adrian de Souza
Group Company Secretary 

23 February 2024

Standard Chartered PLC  
Registered No. 966425

Non-audit services
The Group’s non-audit services policy (the Policy) was 
reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on 
23 October 2023. The Policy is based on an overriding principle 
that, to avoid any actual or perceived conﬂicts of interest, the 
Group’s auditor should only be used when there is evidence 
that there is no alternative in terms of quality and when there 
is no conﬂict with their duties as auditor. EY can be used where 
the work is required by a regulator or competent authority.

The Policy clearly sets out the criteria for when the Audit 
Committee’s prior written approval is required. The Policy 
requires a conservative approach to be taken to the 
assessment of requests for EY to provide non-audit services. 
Subject to the overriding principle, the Audit Committee’s view 
is that EY can be of value in a range of non-audit service 
activities and should be allowed to tender subject to the terms 
of the Policy. The Group is required to take a conservative 
approach to interpreting the potential threats to auditor 
independence and requires commensurately robust 
safeguards against them.

UK legislation and guidance from the FRC sets out threats  
to audit independence, including self-interest, self-review, 
familiarity, taking of a management role or conducting 
advocacy. In particular, maintaining EY’s independence from 
the Group requires EY to avoid taking decisions on the Group’s 
behalf. It is also recognised as essential that management 
retains the decision-making capability as to whether to act on 
advice given by EY as part of a non-audit service. This means 
not just the ability to action the advice given, but to have 
sufﬁcient knowledge of the subject matter to be able to make 
a reasoned and independent judgement as to its validity.

All of this is contained within the Policy.

By way of (non-exhaustive) illustration of the application of 
the principles set out in the Policy, the following types of 
non-audit services are likely to be permissible under the Policy:

•  Reviews of interim ﬁnancial information and verification of 

interim proﬁts – the Group would also extend this to work on 
investor circulars in most foreseeable circumstances

•  Extended audit or assurance work on ﬁnancial information 
and/or ﬁnancial or operational controls, where this work is 
closely linked to the audit engagement

•  Agreed-upon procedures on materials within or referenced 

in the Annual Report of the Group or an entity within  
the Group

•  Internal control review services

Strictly prohibited under the Policy:

•  Bookkeeping, information technology and internal  

audit services

•  Corporate ﬁnance services, valuation services or  

litigation support

•  Tax or regulatory structuring proposals

•  Services where fees are paid on a contingent basis  

(in whole or in part)

•  Consulting services that actively assist in running the 
business in place of management as opposed to  
providing or validating information, which management 
then utilises in the operation of the business 

228

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportOther disclosuresStatement of directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual  
Report and the Group and Company financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and 
Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law:

•  The Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting 
Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union;

•  The Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International 
Accounting Standards as applied in accordance with 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006; and

•  The financial statements have been prepared in 

accordance with the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006.

Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of their profit or loss for that period.

In preparing each of the Group and Company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:

•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 

consistently;

•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, 

relevant and reliable;

•  State whether they have been prepared in accordance  

with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union;

•  Assess the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern; and

Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement of the directors in 
respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

•  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and

•  The Strategic report includes a fair review of the 

development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the emerging risks and uncertainties that 
they face

We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.

By order of the Board

•  Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they 

either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to 
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to 
do so

Diego De Giorgi
Group Chief Financial Officer

23 February 2024

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible 
for such internal control1 as they determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and have general responsibility for taking such steps as  
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of  
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.

229

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportRisk review
Strategic report

Section heading

Risk review and  
Capital review

234   Risk profile

298   Climate risk

314   Enterprise Risk Management Framework

320   Principal risks

338   Capital review

[[Thousands 
run our 2023 
marathons]]    

In 2023, more than 160,000 elite  
runners, passionate amateurs and 
first-timers completed our sponsored 
marathons and races. We sponsor 
marathons in Singapore, Hong Kong, 
Taipei, Nairobi, Kuala Lumpur, Stanley 
(Falkland Islands) and Jersey, as well as 
a 10km run in Shanghai and a 5km run 
in London. 

These events champion a range  
of charitable causes, including  
underprivileged communities,  
healthcare, education, and the  
environment. We sponsored our  
first marathon in 1997 in Hong Kong 
and will introduce our first heritage 
marathon in Vietnam in 2024 –  
our 10th annual race.

Read more at sc.com/marathons

230

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

R
i
s
k
r
e
v

i

e
w
a
n
d
C
a
p
i
t
a

l

r
e
v

i

e
w

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

231

 
 
 
 
Risk review and Capital review 

Risk Index

Risk profile

Credit risk 

Basis of preparation

Credit risk overview

Impairment model

Staging of financial instruments

IFRS 9 expected credit loss principles and approaches

Summary of Performance in 2023

Maximum exposure to credit risk

Analysis of financial instrument by stage 

Credit quality analysis

•  Credit quality by client segment

•  Credit quality by geographic region

Movement in gross exposures and credit impairment for loans and advances, debt securities, 
undrawn commitments and financial guarantees

Movement of debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills

Analysis of Stage 2 balances

Credit impairment charge

Problem credit management and provisioning

•  Forborne and other modified loans by client segment

•  Forborne and other modified loans by region

•  Credit-impaired (stage 3) loans and advances by geographic region

Credit risk mitigation

•  Collateral 

•  Collateral held on loans and advances

•  Collateral – Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

•  Collateral – Consumer, Private & Business Banking

•  Mortgage loan-to-value ratios by geography

•  Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed or called upon

•  Other Credit risk mitigation

Other portfolio analysis

•  Maturity analysis of loans and advances by client segment

•  Credit quality by industry

• 

Industry and Retail Products analysis of loans and advances by geographic region 

•  Vulnerable, cyclical and high carbon sectors

•  China commericial real estate

•  Debt securities and other eligible bills

IFRS 9 expected credit loss methodology

Traded risk

Market risk movements

Counterparty Credit risk

Derivative financial instruments Credit risk mitigation

Liquidity and Funding risk

Liquidity & Funding risk metrics

Liquidity analysis of the Group’s balance sheet

Interest Rate risk in the Banking Book

Operational and Technology risk

Operational and Technology risk profile

Other principal risks

232

Annual 
Report and 
Accounts

234

234

234

234

234

234

235

237

238

240

240

248

248

251

256

257

257

257

258

258

258

259

259

259

260

261

261

262

262

262

263

264

265

271

272

273

286

286

289

289

290

290

293

296

297

297

297

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewIndexRisk Index

Climate risk

Managing financial and non-financial risks from climate change 

Assessing the resilience of our strategy using scenario analysis

Risk management approach Enterprise Risk Management Framework

Capital

Principal Risks

Capital summary

•  Capital ratio

•  Capital base

Movement in total capital

Risk-weighted asset

Leverage ratio

Annual 
Report and 
Accounts

298

309

314

320

338

338

339

340

341

343

The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review form part of these financial statements and are audited by the 
external auditors:

•  a) Risk review: Disclosures marked as ‘audited’ from the start of Credit risk section (page 234) to the end of other principal 

risks in the same section (page 297); and

•  b) Capital review: Tables marked as ‘audited’ from the start of ‘Capital base’ to the end of ‘Movement in total capital’, 

excluding ‘Total risk-weighted assets’ (pages 339 and 340). 

233

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewRisk profile

Credit Risk (audited)

Basis of preparation
Unless otherwise stated the balance sheet and income 
statement information presented within this section is based 
on the Group’s management view. This is principally the 
location from which a client relationship is managed, which 
may differ from where it is financially booked and may be 
shared between businesses and/or regions. This view reflects 
how the client segments and regions are managed internally.

Loans and advances to customers and banks held at 
amortised cost in this Risk profile section include reverse 
repurchase agreement balances held at amortised cost,  
per Note 16 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements 
including other similar secured lending and borrowing.

Credit Risk overview
Credit Risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a 
counterparty to meet its contractual obligations to pay the 
Group. Credit exposures arise from both the banking and 
trading books.

Impairment model
IFRS 9 mandates an impairment model that requires the 
recognition of expected credit losses (ECL) on all financial 
debt instruments held at amortised cost, Fair Value through 
Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI), undrawn loan 
commitments and financial guarantees.

Staging of financial instruments
Financial instruments that are not already credit-impaired are 
originated into stage 1 and a 12-month expected credit loss 
provision is recognised. 

Instruments will remain in stage 1 until they are repaid, unless 
they experience significant credit deterioration (stage 2) or 
they become credit-impaired (stage 3). 

Instruments will transfer to stage 2 and a lifetime expected 
credit loss provision is recognised when there has been a 
significant change in the Credit Risk compared to what was 
expected at origination. 

The framework used to determine a significant increase in 
credit risk is set out below. 

Stage 1
•  12-month ECL

•  Performing

Stage 2
•  Lifetime expected credit loss

Stage 3
•  Credit-impaired

•  Performing but has exhibited 

•  Non-performing

significant increase in Credit Risk 
(SICR)

IFRS 9 expected credit loss principles and approaches
The main methodology principles and approach adopted by the Group are set out in the following table.

Title

Supplementary Information

Approach for determining expected credit losses

Incorporation of forward-looking information

IFRS 9 methodology
Determining lifetime expected credit loss for revolving 
products
Post model adjustments

Incorporation of forward-looking information 
Forecast of key macroeconomic variables underlying  
the expected credit loss calculation and the impact of 
non-linearity
Judgemental adjustments and sensitivity to macroeconomic 
variables

Significant increase in credit risk (SICR)

Quantitative and qualitative criteria

Assessment of credit-impaired financial assets

Consumer and Business Banking clients
CCIB and Private Banking clients
Write-offs

Transfers between stages

Modified financial assets

Movement in loan exposures and expected credit losses

Forbearance and other modified loans

Governance and application of expert credit judgement  
in respect of expected credit losses

Page

273

273
280

275

275

279

282

284
284
284

248

257

284

234

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
 
 
 
 
Summary of performance in 2023

Loans and Advances
94 per cent (31 December 2022: 93 per cent) of the Group’s 
gross loans and advances to customers remain in stage 1 at 
$273.7 billion (31 December 2022: $295.2 billion), reflecting our 
continued focus on high-quality origination. 

Stage 1 loans decreased by $21.5 billion to $274 billion  
(31 December 2022: $295 billion). For Corporate, Commercial 
and Institutional Banking (CCIB), stage 1 balances increased  
to 90 per cent of the gross loans and advances to customers 
(31 December 2022: 88 per cent), while there was an overall 
decrease due to reductions in the financing, insurance and 
non-banking sectors. Stage 1 balances for Consumer, Private 
and Business Banking (CPBB) decreased by $5.6 billion, mainly 
driven by a slowdown in mortgages sales in Korea and Hong 
Kong, which was partly offset by new Credit Cards and 
Personal Loans businesses in Asia. Stage 1 balances for Central 
and other items decreased by $10.8 billion due to exposure 
reductions to a Central Bank in the Asia region. Stage 1 cover 
ratio remained stable at 0.2 per cent (31 December 2022:  
0.2 per cent). 

Stage 2 gross loans and advances to customers decreased by 
$1.8 billion to $11.2 billion (31 December 2022: $13 billion). This 
was due to CCIB exposure reductions and transfers to stage 3 
in the Commercial Real Estate (CRE) sector, and exposure 
reductions in the Transport sector. This was partially offset by 
an increase in CPBB Korea and Hong Kong Mortgage portfolio 
and Singapore Private Banking. Higher risk exposure net 
increase of $1 billion from Central and other items, was due  
to a short-term exposure to a Central Bank in the Africa and 
Middle East region, which was partly offset by exposure 
reductions and transfers to stage 3 in CCIB. Stage 2 cover ratio 
increased by 0.3 per cent to 3.7 per cent (31 December 2022: 
3.4 per cent). The increase was driven by Ventures due to 
increased delinquencies and portfolio growth mainly in Mox 
Bank. The increase in CCIB cover ratio was due to a decrease 
in expected credit losses from exposure reductions and 
transfers to Stage 3. The decrease in CPBB stage 2 cover ratio 
was mainly due to an increase in secured portfolio exposures 
with relatively lower Loss Given Default. 

Stage 3 loans decreased by $0.6 billion to $7.2 billion  
(31 December 2022: $7.8 billion) as a result of repayments,  
debt sales and write-offs in CCIB. Although the portfolio 
reduced year on year, China CRE clients were the major inflows 
this year. The CCIB stage 3 cover ratio increased by 4.5 per 
cent to 64 per cent as a result of repayments and incremental 
provisions taken (31 December 2022: 60 per cent). The CPBB 
stage 3 cover ratio reduced by 2.2 per cent to 51 per cent  
(31 December 2022: 53 per cent), due to a small exposure 
increase mainly in Secured wealth products. Ventures stage 3 
exposures increased by $11 million to $12 million (31 December 
2022: $1 million). The cover ratio after collateral remained 
stable at 76 per cent (31 December 2022: 76 per cent)

Further details can be found in the ‘Analysis of financial instruments by 
stage’ section in pages 238 and 239; ‘Credit quality by client segment’ 
section in pages 240 to 247; ‘Credit quality by industry’ section in pages 
263 and 264. Stage 3 cover ratio is also disclosed in the ‘Stage 3 cover 
ratio’ and ‘Credit-impaired (stage 3) loans and advances by geographic 
region’ sections in page 258.

Maximum exposure
The Group’s on-balance sheet maximum exposure to Credit 
Risk increased by $8.6 billion to $798 billion (31 December 2022: 
$790 billion). Cash at Central bank increased by $11.6 billion  
to $70 billion (31 December 2022: $58 billion) due to deposits 
placed with the US Federal Reserve. Loans to banks also 
increased by $5 billion to $45 billion (31 December 2022:  
$40 billion). Fair Value through profit and loss increased by  
$42 billion to $144 billion (31 December 2022: $103 billion), 
largely due to an increase in Debt Securities and Reverse 
Repos. This was partly offset by a $13 billion decrease in 
Derivative financial instruments, and a $23.7 billion  
decrease in loans and advances to customers to $287 billion 
(31 December 2022: $311 billion). Out of the $23.7 billion 
decrease in loans and advances to customers, a $10.5 billion 
reduction relates to reverse repos, and a $11 billion reduction 
relates to Amortised Cost Debt Securities, as part of the 
Group’s liquidity management actions. Off-balance  
sheet instruments increased by $28 billion to $257 billion  
(31 December 2022: $229 billion), which was driven by  
new businesses.

Further details can be found in the ‘Maximum exposure to Credit Risk’ 
section in page 237.

Analysis of stage 2
The key SICR driver that caused exposures to be classified  
as stage 2 remains increase in probability of default. The 
proportion of exposures in CCIB in stage 2 due to increased PD 
has decreased partly due to an increase in clients placed on 
non-purely precautionary early alert that have not breached 
PD thresholds. In CPBB, the proportion of loans in stage 2 loans 
from 30 days past due trigger decreased by 2 per cent to  
6 per cent (31 December 2022: 8 per cent). ‘Others’ category 
includes exposures where origination data is incomplete and 
the exposures are getting allocated into stage 2.

Further details can be found in the ‘Analysis of stage 2 balances’ section 
in page 256.

Credit impairment charges
The Group’s ongoing credit impairment was a net charge of 
$508 million (31 December 2022: $836 million). 

For CCIB, stage 1 and 2 impairment charges decreased by  
$137 million to $11 million (31 December 2022: $148 million), as 
2022 included Pakistan Sovereign downgrades and China CRE 
overlays, which was partly offset by a $102 million full release 
of COVID-19 overlay. In 2023, $11 million impairment charges 
were due to portfolio movements, including impairments on 
Pakistan Sovereign clients, and China CRE overlays, which  
was partly offset by a $13 million net release from model and 
methodology updates.

CCIB stage 3 impairment charges decreased by $165 million  
to $112 million (31 December 2022: $277 million) largely due to 
higher releases and lower impairments on China CRE clients. 
In 2023, $112 million impairment charges were largely driven  
by impairments on China CRE clients, and releases across 
multiple clients.

235

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewFor CPBB, stage 1 and 2 impairment charges decreased by  
$22 million to $129 million (31 December 2022: $151 million).  
In 2023, $129 million impairment charges were from normal 
flows, largely from unsecured portfolios in China, Hong Kong, 
India and Singapore. This was partially offset by $21 million  
of COVID-19 overlay releases, including the full release of  
$16 million remaining COVID-19 overlays in Bahrain.

CPBB stage 3 impairment charges increased by $114 million to 
$225 million (31 December 2022: $111 million). The increase has 
been driven mainly by the unsecured business due to a mix of 
higher bankruptcies in Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea, and 
portfolio growth in digital partnerships.  

For Ventures, stage 1 and 2 impairment charges increased  
by $29 million to $42 million (31 December 2022: $13 million), 
mainly due to portfolio growth in Mox Bank.

Ventures stage 3 impairment charges increased by $40 million 
to $43 million (31 December 2022: $3 million), mainly due to 
portfolio growth in Mox Bank, and higher bankruptcies. 
Mitigating actions have been taken to address these.

For Central and other items, stage 1 and 2 impairment charges 
decreased by $139 million due to a net release of $44 million 
(31 December 2022: $95 million) as 2022 included Pakistan 
Sovereign CG12 downgrades. In 2023, $44 million net release 
of impairment charges were driven by exposure reductions 
and shortening tenors of balances to the Pakistan 
Government. This was partly offset by a $8 million charge  
due to Kenya Sovereign downgrade. 

Central and other items stage 3 impairment charges 
decreased by $28 million to $10 million (31 December 2022:  
$38 million) as Sri Lanka and Ghana exposures were 
downgraded to Stage 3 in 2022.

Further details can be found in the ‘Credit impairment charge’ section  
in page 257.

Vulnerable and Cyclical Sectors
Total net on-balance sheet exposure to vulnerable and 
cyclical sectors decreased by $3 billion to $29 billion  
(31 December 2022: $32 billion) largely due to the exit of the 
Aviation business and lower drawn balances particularly in 
the CRE sector, where on-balance sheet exposure decreased 
by $1.8 billion to $14.5 billion (31 December 2022: $16.3 billion). 
Stage 2 vulnerable and cyclical sector loans decreased by  
$2.3 billion to $3.3 billion (31 December 2022: $5.6 billion), 
primarily driven by a $1.4 billion exposure reduction in the  
CRE sector and transfers to Stage 3. Stage 3 vulnerable and 
cyclical sector loans decreased by $0.5 billion to $3.6 billion  
(31 December 2022: $4 billion), mainly due to the Oil and Gas,  
and Commodity sectors, which was partly offset by new 
inflows into the CRE sector.

The Group provides loans to CRE counterparties of which  
$9.6 billion is to counterparties in the CCIB segment where  
the source of repayment is substantially derived from rental  
or sale of real estate and is secured by real estate collateral. 
The remaining CRE loans comprise working capital loans to 
real estate corporates, loans with non-property collateral, 
unsecured loans and loans to real estate entities of diversified 
conglomerates. The average LTV ratio of the performing book 
CRE portfolio has increased to 52 per cent (31 December 2022: 
49 per cent). The proportion of loans with an LTV greater than 
80 per cent has increased to 3 per cent (31 December 2022: 
1 per cent).

Further details can be found in the ‘Vulnerable, cyclical and high carbon 
sectors’ section in pages 265 to 270.

China commercial real estate
Total exposure to China CRE decreased by $0.8 billion to  
$2.6 billion (31 December 2022: $3.4 billion) mainly from 
exposure reductions. The proportion of credit impaired 
exposures increased to 58 per cent (31 December 2022:  
33 per cent) as market conditions continued to deteriorate 
during the period, and provision coverage increased to  
72 per cent (31 December 2022: 56 per cent) reflecting 
increased provision charges during the period. The proportion 
of the loan book rated as Higher Risk decreased by 8 per cent 
to 0.3 per cent (31 December 2022: 8.4 per cent) primarily due 
to downgrades in the period.

The Group continues to hold a judgemental management 
overlay, which decreased by $32 million to $141 million  
(31 December 2022: $173 million), reflecting changes in  
the portfolio and downgrades to Stage 3. 

The Group is further indirectly exposed to China CRE through 
its associate investment in China Bohai Bank.

Further details can be found in the ‘China commercial real estate’ section 
in page 271.

Management adjustments
Given the evolving nature of the risks in the China CRE sector, 
a management overlay of $141 million (31 December 2022:  
$173 million) has been taken by estimating the impact of 
further deterioration to exposures in this sector. Overlays of  
$5 million (31 December 2022: $16 million) have been applied  
in CPBB to capture macroeconomic environment challenges 
caused by sovereign defaults or heightened sovereign risk  
and an overlay of $17 million (31 December 2022: nil) was 
applied in Central and other items, due to a temporary  
market dislocation in the Africa and Middle East.

The remaining COVID-19 overlay in CPBB of $21 million that 
was held at 31 December 2022 has been fully released in 2023.  
The stage 3 overlay in CCIB of $9 million that was held at  
31 December 2022, following the Sri Lanka Sovereign default 
was also fully released in 2023.

Further details can be found in the ‘Judgemental management overlays’ 
section in page 280. Model performance and judgemental post model 
adjustments are also disclosed in the ‘Model performance post model 
adjustments’ section in page 275.

236

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileMaximum exposure to Credit Risk (audited) 
The table below presents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial 
instruments as at 31 December 2023, before and after taking into account any collateral held or other credit risk mitigation.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

2023

2022

Credit risk management

Credit risk management

Maximum 
exposure 
$million

Collateral8
$million

Master 
netting 
agreements 
$million

Net 
Exposure 
$million

Maximum 
exposure 
$million

Collateral8
$million

Master 
netting 
agreements 
$million

Net 
exposure 
$million

58,263

38,541

–

175,453

–

171,640

38,084

976

6,546

–

30,562

4,378

2,706

1,388

39,295

On-balance sheet

Cash and balances at central banks
Loans and advances to banks1

69,905

44,977

1,738

69,905

43,239

58,263

39,519

978

of which – reverse repurchase 
agreements and other similar  
secured lending7

1,738

1,738

–

978

978

Loans and advances to customers1

286,975

118,492

168,483

310,647

135,194

of which – reverse repurchase 
agreements and other similar  
secured lending7

Investment securities – Debt securities 
and other eligible bills2
Fair value through profit or loss3, 7

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar lending7

Investment securities – Debt securities 
and other eligible bills2

Derivative financial instruments4, 7

Accrued income
Assets held for sale9
Other assets5

Total balance sheet
Off-balance sheet6

Undrawn Commitments

Financial Guarantees and  
other equivalents

Total off-balance sheet

13,996

13,996

–

24,498

24,498

160,263

144,276

2,265

7,212

81,847

–

62,429

160,263

2,265

7,212

171,640

102,575

976

6,546

64,491

–

81,847

81,847

–

64,491

64,491

52,952

50,434

2,673

701

38,140

8,440

39,293

52,952

2,701

2,673

701

38,140

30,562

63,717

2,706

1,388

39,295

9,206

50,133

798,344

210,517

39,293

548,534

789,750

209,869

50,133

529,748

182,390

2,940

179,450

168,668

2,951

74,414

256,804

2,590

5,530

71,824

–

251,274

60,410

229,078

2,592

5,543

165,717

57,818

–

223,535

Total

1,055,148

216,047

39,293

799,808

1,018,828

215,412

50,133

753,283

1.   An analysis of credit quality is set out in the credit quality analysis section (page 240). Further details of collateral held by client segment and stage are set out in 

the collateral analysis section (page 259)

2.   Excludes equity and other investments of $992 million (31 December 2022: $808 million). Further details are set out in Note 13 financial instruments

3.   Excludes equity and other investments of $2,940 million (31 December 2022: $3,230 million). Further details are set out in Note 13 financial instruments

4   The Group enters into master netting agreements, which in the event of default result in a single amount owed by or to the counterparty through netting the sum 

of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of applicable derivative transactions

5.   Other assets include Hong Kong certificates of indebtedness, cash collateral, and acceptances, in addition to unsettled trades and other financial assets

6.  Excludes ECL allowances which are reported under Provisions for liabilities and charges

7.   Collateral capped at maximum exposure (over-collateralised)

8.  Adjusted for over-collateralisation, which has been determined with reference to the drawn and undrawn component as this best reflects the effect on the 

amount arising from expected credit losses

9.   The amount is after ECL. Further details are set out in Note 21 Assets held for sale and associated liabilities

237

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewAnalysis of financial instruments by stage (audited)
The table below presents the gross and credit impairment balances by stage for the Group’s amortised cost and FVOCI 
financial instruments as at 31 December 2023.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

2023

69,313

–

69,313

207

(7)

200

404

(12)

392

69,924

(19) 69,905

44,384

(8) 44,376

540

(10)

530

77

(6)

71

45,001

(24) 44,977

273,692

(430) 273,262

11,225

(420) 10,805

7,228 (4,320)

2,908

292,145

(5,170) 286,975

158,314

56,787

101,527

(26)

(16) 56,771

(10)

1,860

103

1,757

2,673

–

2,673

661

(33)

628

38,139

–

38,139

–

76

–

(34)

(2)

(32)

–

(4)

–

101

–

72

–

176,654

(52)

5,733

(39)

164

120

44

–

1

4

3

(61)

(57)

(4)

–

–

(3)

–

160,338

(121)

63

57,010

(75) 56,935

103,328

(46)

–

–

1

1

2,673

–

2,673

738

(37)

701

38,143

(3) 38,140

182,390

(91)

70,832

834,662

(10)

(559)

2,910

22,551

(14)

(528)

672

(112)

8,553

(4,514)

74,414

(136)

865,766

(5,601)

Cash and 
balances at 
central banks

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
(amortised cost)

Loans and 
advances to 
customers 
(amortised cost)

Debt securities 
and other  
eligible bills5

Amortised cost
FVOCI2

Accrued income 
(amortised cost)4

Assets held  
for sale4

Other assets

Undrawn 
commitments3

Financial 
guarantees,  
trade credits  
and irrevocable 
letter of credits3

Total

1   Gross carrying amount for off-balance sheet refers to notional values

2   These instruments are held at fair value on the balance sheet. The ECL provision in respect of debt securities measured at FVOCI is held within the OCI reserve

3   These are off-balance sheet instruments. Only the ECL is recorded on-balance sheet as a financial liability and therefore there is no “net carrying amount”.  

ECL allowances on off-balance sheet instruments are held as liability provisions to the extent that the drawn and undrawn components of loan exposures can  
be separately identified. Otherwise they will be reported against the drawn component

4   Stage 1 ECL is not material

5   Stage 3 gross includes $80 million (31 December 2022: $28 million) originated credit-impaired debt securities with impairment of $14 million (31 December 2022: 

$13 million) 

238

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileStage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
value 
$million

2022

57,643

–

57,643

333

(8)

325

295

–

295

58,271

(8) 58,263

39,149

(9)

39,140

337

(3)

334

59

(14)

45

39,545

(26)

39,519

295,219

(559) 294,660

13,043

(444)

12,599

7,845

(4,457)

3,388

316,107

(5,460) 310,647

166,103

59,427

106,676

(25)

(9)

(16)

59,418

2,706

–

2,706

1,083

39,294

(6)

–

1,077

39,294

5,455

271

5,184

–

262

–

(90)

(2)

(88)

–

(4)

–

269

–

258

–

162,958

(41)

5,582

(53)

144

78

66

–

120

4

128

(106)

(51)

(55)

–

(67)

(3)

–

171,702

59,776

111,926

(221)

(62)

59,714

(159)

2,706

–

2,706

1,465

39,298

(77)

1,388

(3) 39,295

27

–

53

1

168,668

(94)

56,683

820,838

(11)

(651)

3,062

28,074

(28)

(630)

665

(147)

9,260

(4,794)

60,410

(186)

858,172

(6,075)

Cash and 
balances at 
central banks

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
(amortised cost)

Loans and 
advances to 
customers 
(amortised cost)

Debt securities 
and other  
eligible bills5

Amortised cost
FVOCI2

Accrued income 
(amortised cost)4

Assets held  
for sale4

Other assets

Undrawn 
commitments3

Financial 
guarantees,  
trade credits  
and irrevocable 
letter of credits3

Total

1   Gross carrying amount for off-balance sheet refers to notional values

2   These instruments are held at fair value on the balance sheet. The ECL provision in respect of debt securities measured at FVOCI is held within the OCI reserve

3   These are off-balance sheet instruments. Only the ECL is recorded on-balance sheet as a financial liability and therefore there is no “net carrying amount”.  

ECL allowances on off-balance sheet instruments are held as liability provisions to the extent that the drawn and undrawn components of loan exposures can  
be separately identified. Otherwise they will be reported against the drawn component

4   Stage 1 ECL is not material

5   Stage 3 gross includes $28 million originated credit-impaired debt securities with impairment of $13 million

239

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCredit quality analysis (audited)

Credit quality by client segment
For CCIB, exposures are analysed by credit grade (CG), which plays a central role in the quality assessment and monitoring of 
risk. All loans are assigned a CG, which is reviewed periodically and amended in light of changes in the borrower’s circumstances 
or behaviour. CGs 1 to 12 are assigned to stage 1 and stage 2 (performing) clients or accounts, while CGs 13 and 14 are assigned 
to stage 3 (credit-impaired) clients. Consumer and Business Banking portfolios are analysed by days past due and Private 
Banking by the type of collateral held.

Mapping of credit quality
The Group uses the following internal risk mapping to determine the credit quality for loans.

Credit quality 
description

Internal grade mapping

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Regulatory  
PD range (%)

Internal ratings

Internal grade mapping

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Private Banking1

Consumer & Business 
Banking5

Strong

1A to 5B

AAA/AA+ to BBB-/
BB+²

0 to 0.425

Class I and Class IV

Satisfactory

6A to 11C

BB+/BB to B-/CCC+³ 0.426 to 15.75

Class II and Class III

Higher risk

Grade 12

CCC+ to C⁴

15.751 to 99.999

Stressed Assets Group 
(SAG) managed

Current loans (no past 
dues nor impaired)

Loans past due till 
29 days

Past due loans 
30 days and over 
till 90 days

1   For Private Banking, classes of risk represent the type of collateral held. Class I represents facilities with liquid collateral, such as cash and marketable securities. 
Class II represents unsecured/partially secured facilities and those with illiquid collateral, such as equity in private enterprises. Class III represents facilities with 
residential or commercial real estate collateral. Class IV covers margin trading facilities

2   Banks’ rating: AAA/AA+ to BB+. Sovereigns’ rating: AAA to BB+ 

3   Banks’ rating: BB to “CCC+ to C”. Sovereigns’ rating: BB+/BB to B-/CCC+

4   Banks’ rating: CCC+ to C. Sovereigns’ rating: CCC+ to “CCC+ to C”

5   Medium enterprise clients within Business Banking are managed using the same internal credit grades as CCIB

The table below sets out the gross loans and advances held at amortised cost, expected credit loss provisions and expected 
credit loss coverage by business segment and stage. Expected credit loss coverage represents the expected credit loss reported 
for each segment and stage as a proportion of the gross loan balance for each segment and stage.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

240

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileLoans and advances by client segment (audited)

2023

Customers

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

120,886

123,486

84,248

36,638

7,902

1,145

5,840

917

78

10

118,193

5,293

2,304

1,761

206

337

206

337

5,508

1,484

Banks 
$million

44,384

35,284

9,100

540

55

212

273

–

–

77

Ventures 
$million

1,015

1,000

15

54

34

7

13

7

13

12

Central & 
other items 
$million

Customer 
Total 
$million

Undrawn 
commitments 
$million

Financial 
Guarantees 
$million

28,305

273,692

27,967

231,408

176,654

162,643

338

965

–

–

965

–

–

42,284

11,225

2,940

6,053

2,232

291

360

224

7,228

14,011

5,733

1,090

4,169

474

–

–

3

70,832

47,885

22,947

2,910

830

1,823

257

–

–

672

45,001

134,296

127,274

1,081

29,494

292,145

182,390

74,414

(15)

(14)

(1)

(21)

(14)

(3)

(4)

(3)

(4)

(12)

(48)

1,033

1.5%

1.4%

6.7%

38.9%

41.2%

42.9%

30.8%

(8)

(3)

(5)

(10)

(1)

(2)

(7)

–

–

(6)

(24)

(101)

(34)

(67)

(257)

(18)

(179)

(60)

(2)

(1)

(314)

(234)

(80)

(141)

(65)

(22)

(54)

(22)

(54)

(3,533)

(3,891)

(760)

(1,215)

44,977

130,405

126,059

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

1.9%

1.8%

0.9%

2.6%

0.0%

0.0%

7.8%

0.1%

32,813

28,402

4,411

–

–

32,813

77,790

0.1%

0.0%

0.2%

3.3%

1.6%

3.1%

6.5%

2.6%

10.0%

64.1%

2.9%

58,465

38,014

20,388

63

33

58,498

0.3%

0.2%

1.5%

6.1%

3.7%

10.7%

16.0%

10.7%

16.0%

42.9%

30.8%

51.2% 100.0%

1.0%

4.4%

13

13

–

–

–

13

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

–

–

(1)

–

–

(430)

(282)

(148)

(420)

(97)

(204)

(119)

(27)

(59)

(15)

(16)

(4,320)

(5,170)

29,478

286,975

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

0.0%

6.7%

0.1%

–

–

–

–

–

–

0.2%

0.1%

0.4%

3.7%

3.3%

3.4%

5.3%

9.3%

16.4%

59.8%

1.8%

58,478

38,027

20,388

63

33

58,511

(52)

(31)

(21)

(39)

(5)

(23)

(11)

–

–

–

(91)

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.7%

0.5%

0.6%

2.3%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(10)

(2)

(8)

(14)

–

(7)

(7)

–

–

(112)

(136)

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.5%

0.0%

0.4%

2.7%

0.0%

0.0%

16.7%

0.2%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Amortised cost

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets

Gross balance¹

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets

Total credit impairment

Net carrying value

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets (S3)

Cover ratio

Fair value through profit or loss

Performing

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Defaulted (CG13-14)
Gross balance (FVTPL)2

Net carrying value (incl FVTPL)

188,903

126,072

1,033

29,478

345,486

1.   Loans and advances includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $13,996 million under Customers and of $1,738 million under 

Banks, held at amortised cost

2.   Loans and advances includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $51,299 million under Customers and of $30,548 million under 

Banks, held at fair value through profit or loss

241

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review2022

Customers

Ventures
$million

Central & 
other items 
$million

Customer 
Total 
$million

Undrawn 
commitments 
$million

Financial 
Guarantees 
$million

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking
$million

126,261

89,567

36,694

11,355

2,068

7,783

1,504

109

23

129,134

124,734

4,400

1,670

1,215

146

309

148

310

6,143

1,453

Banks 
$million

39,149

27,941

11,208

337

148

119

70

5

6

59

39,545

143,759

132,257

(9)

(3)

(6)

(3)

–

(2)

(1)

–

–

(143)

(43)

(100)

(323)

(30)

(159)

(134)

(2)

(1)

(406)

(332)

(74)

(120)

(62)

(17)

(41)

(17)

(41)

691

685

6

18

10

4

4

4

4

1

710

(10)

(10)

–

(1)

(1)

–

–

–

–

(14)

(26)

(3,662)

(4,128)

(776)

(1,302)

(1)

(12)

39,519

139,631

130,955

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.9%

0.0%

1.7%

1.4%

0.0%

0.0%

23.7%

0.1%

24,930

21,451

3,479

–

–

24,930

64,449

0.1%

0.0%

0.3%

2.8%

1.5%

2.0%

8.9%

1.8%

4.3%

0.3%

0.3%

1.7%

7.2%

5.1%

11.6%

13.3%

11.5%

13.2%

698

1.4%

1.5%

0.0%

5.6%

10.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

59.6%

2.9%

53.4%

100.0%

1.0%

1.7%

44,461

36,454

8,007

–

37

44,498

184,129

28

27

1

–

–

28

–

–

–

–

–

–

130,983

698

39,133

39,133

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

295,219

254,119

41,100

13,043

3,293

7,933

1,817

261

337

162,958

148,303

14,655

5,582

1,449

3,454

679

56,683

39,612

17,071

3,062

522

2,134

406

–

–

–

–

248

7,845

128

665

39,381

316,107

168,668

60,410

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(559)

(385)

(174)

(444)

(93)

(176)

(175)

(19)

(42)

(18)

(18)

(4,457)

(5,460)

39,363

310,647

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

7.3%

0.0%

2,557

2,409

148

–

–

0.2%

0.2%

0.4%

3.4%

2.8%

2.2%

9.6%

7.3%

12.5%

56.8%

1.7%

47,046

38,890

8,156

–

37

2,557

41,920

47,083

357,730

(41)

(28)

(13)

(53)

(6)

(42)

(5)

–

–

–

(94)

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.9%

0.4%

1.2%

0.7%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(11)

(3)

(8)

(28)

–

(15)

(13)

–

–

(147)

(186)

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.9%

0.0%

0.7%

3.2%

0.0%

0.0%

22.1%

0.3%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Amortised cost

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets
Gross balance1

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets

Total credit impairment

Net carrying value

Stage 1

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Of which (stage 2):

– Less than 30 days past due

– More than 30 days past due

Stage 3, credit-impaired  
financial assets (S3)

Cover ratio

Fair value through profit or loss

Performing

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Defaulted (CG13-14)
Gross balance (FVTPL)2

Net carrying value (incl FVTPL)

1.   Loans and advances includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $24,498 million under Customers and of $978 million under 

Banks, held at amortised cost

2.   Loans and advances includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $40,537 million under Customers and of $23,954 million under 

Banks, held at fair value through profit or loss

242

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileCredit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

6A-7B

8A-9B

Defaulted

13-14

Total

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

Loans and advances by client segment credit quality analysis

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

2023

Gross

Credit impairment

84,248

1,145

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

10,891

31,974

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

 41,383

81

558

506

 36,638

5,840

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

 24,296

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

100

Defaulted

 1,873

2,273

1,694

917

917

–

–

8,196

4,146

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

85,893

10,972

 32,532

 41,889

 42,478

26,169

10,469

 5,840

917

917

 5,508

 5,508

 5,508

 5,508

 (34)

 (1)

 (3)

 (30)

 (67)

 (38)

 (13)

 (16)

–

–

–

–

 (18)

–

–

 (18)

 (179)

 (77)

 (90)

 (12)

 (60)

 (60)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 (52)

 (1)

 (3)

 (48)

 (246)

 (115)

 (103)

 (28)

 (60)

 (60)

–

–

(3,533) 

(3,533) 

(3,533) 

(3,533) 

120,886

7,902

5,508 134,296

 (101)

 (257)

(3,533) 

 (3,891)

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

2022

Gross

Credit impairment

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

8,247

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

36,379

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

89,567

2,068

117

321

1,630

7,783

2,684

3,116

1,983

1,504

1,504

–

–

44,941

36,694

23,196

9,979

3,519

–

–

–

–

126,261

11,355

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6,143

6,143

6,143

91,635

8,364

36,700

46,571

44,477

25,880

13,095

5,502

1,504

1,504

6,143

6,143

(43)

(4)

(5)

(34)

(100)

(67)

(20)

(13)

–

–

–

–

(30)

–

–

(30)

(159)

(94)

(35)

(30)

(134)

(134)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(73)

(4)

(5)

(64)

(259)

(161)

(55)

(43)

(134)

(134)

–

–

(3,662)

(3,662)

(3,662)

(3,662)

143,759

(143)

(323)

(3,662)

(4,128)

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate lending¹  - Asia

2023

Gross

Credit impairment

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

 36,959

 3,550

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

 12,634

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

 20,775

 802

 24

 400

 378

 22,581

 2,534

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

 14,740

 5,243

 2,598

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 37,761

 3,574

 13,034

 21,153

 25,115

 15,479

 6,377

 3,259

 231

 231

 739

 1,134

 661

 231

 231

–

–

–

–

–

–

 2,870

 2,870

2,870

2,870

 (12)

–

 (1)

 (11)

 (35)

 (28)

 (5)

 (2)

–

–

–

–

 (15)

–

–

 (15)

 (137)

 (68)

 (66)

 (3)

 (19)

 (19)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 (27)

–

 (1)

 (26)

 (172)

 (96)

 (71)

 (5)

 (19)

 (19)

–

–

(2,014) 

(2,014) 

(2,014) 

(2,014) 

 59,540

3,567

 2,870  65,977

 (47)

 (171)

(2,014) 

 (2,232)

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties

243

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCorporate lending1 - Asia

2022

Gross

Credit impairment

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

40,402

3,857

14,694

21,851

22,064

14,512

5,091

2,461

–

–

–

–

1,361

52

250

1,059

3,859

1,285

1,451

1,123

463

463

–

–

62,466

5,683

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,063

3,063

3,063

41,763

3,909

14,944

22,910

25,923

15,797

6,542

3,584

463

463

3,063

3,063

71,212

(28)

(3)

(2)

(23)

(55)

(47)

(7)

(1)

–

–

–

–

(21)

–

(1)

(20)

(99)

(81)

(7)

(11)

(106)

(106)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(49)

(3)

(3)

(43)

(154)

(128)

(14)

(12)

(106)

(106)

–

–

(1,748)

(1,748)

(1,748)

(1,748)

(83)

(226)

(1,748)

(2,057)

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties 

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate lending1 - Africa & Middle East

2023

Gross

Credit impairment

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

7,756

 358

 1,952

5,446

 2,801

 1,512

 587

 702

–

–

–

–

 43

–

–

 43

 492

 82

175

235

 515

 515

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 7,799

 358

 1,952

5,489

 3,293

 1,594

 762

937

 515

 515

 1,435

 1,435

 1,435

 1,435

(1)

–

–

(1)

 (18)

 (2)

 (4)

 (12)

–

–

–

–

 (2)

–

–

 (2)

 (13)

 (3)

 (7)

 (3)

 (37)

 (37)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 (3)

–

–

 (3)

 (31)

 (5)

 (11)

 (15)

 (37)

 (37)

–

–

 (1,079)

(1,079) 

 (1,079)

(1,079) 

 10,557

 1,050

 1,435

 13,042

 (19)

 (52)

 (1,079)

 (1,150)

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate lending1 - Africa & Middle East

2022

Gross

Credit impairment

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

6,268

338

2,049

3,881

4,389

1,454

2,361

574

–

–

–

–

311

6

23

282

642

218

320

104

653

653

–

–

10,657

1,606

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,735

1,735

1,735

6,579

344

2,072

4,163

5,031

1,672

2,681

678

653

653

1,735

1,735

13,998

–

–

–

–

(32)

(11)

(11)

(10)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(41)

(3)

(24)

(14)

(26)

(26)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(73)

(14)

(35)

(24)

(26)

(26)

(1,344)

(1,344)

(1,344)

(1,344)

(32)

(67)

(1,344)

(1,443)

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties

244

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileRegulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate lending1 - Europe &Americas

2023

Gross

Credit impairment

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

9,283

 528

 4,413

4,342

 4,778

 3,912

 596

 270

–

–

–

–

 198

–

 124

 74

1,621

768

821

 32

 77

 77

–

–

 14,061

 1,896

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 980

980

980

 9,481

 528

 4,537

4,416

6,399

 4,680

 1,417

 302

 77

 77

980

980

 (11)

–

 (1)

 (10)

 (5)

 (4)

 (1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 (22)

 (2)

 (15)

 (5)

 (7)

 (7)

–

–

 16,937

 (16)

 (29)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

 (11)

–

 (1)

 (10)

 (27)

 (6)

 (16)

 (5)

 (7)

 (7)

 (345)

 (345)

 (345)

 (345)

 (345)

 (390)

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties

Corporate lending1 - Europe & Americas

2022

Gross

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Regulatory 1 year  
PD range (%)

S&P external ratings 
equivalent

0 – 0.045

A+ and above

0.046 – 0.110

A/A- to BBB+/BBB

0.111 – 0.425

BBB to BBB-/BB+

Credit grade

Strong

1A-2B

3A-4A

4B-5B

Satisfactory

6A-7B

8A-9B

0.426 – 1.350

BB+/BB to BB-

1.351 – 4.000

BB-/B+ to B

10A-11C

4.001 – 15.75

B/B- to B-/CCC+

Higher risk

12

15.751 – 99.999

CCC+/C

Defaulted

13-14

Total

100

Defaulted

Stage 1 
$million

10,033

575

4,065

5,393

4,498

3,867

537

94

–

–

–

–

225

–

8

217

2,077

1,376

636

65

387

387

–

–

Total 
$million

10,258

575

4,073

5,610

6,575

5,243

1,173

159

387

387

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Credit impairment

Stage 1 
$million

Stage 2 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

(13)

–

(1)

(12)

(4)

(4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(25)

(25)

–

–

(1)

(1)

–

–

(17)

(26)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(13)

–

(1)

(12)

(29)

(29)

–

–

(1)

(1)

(398)

(398)

(398)

(398)

(398)

(441)

14,531

2,689

1,230

1,230

1,230

1,230

1,230

18,450

1   Corporate loans and advances to customers excludes loans to “Financing, insurance and non-banking” and “Government” counterparties

245

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewConsumer, Private & Business Banking

2023

Asia

Africa & Middle East

Europe & Americas

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
Cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
Cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
Cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1

Gross

Strong

77,270

6,234 30,027 113,531

Satisfactory

659

113

2,418

3,190

77,929

6,347 32,445 116,721

974

158

1,132

263

2,471

3,708

11

121

290

274

2,592

3,998

335

1,812

2,147

619

954 118,193

1

1,813

5,293

620

2,767 123,486

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Total

Coverage %

0%

Stage 2

Gross

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Total

1,014

122

161

1,297

(1)

–

(1)

(2)

(25)

(57)

(82)

1%

124

14

39

177

(12)

(14)

(17)

(43)

(5)

–

(5)

(181)

(19)

(211)

(76)

(200)

(287)

(2)

–

(2)

(7)

–

(7)

1%

0%

0%

3%

583

29

118

1,721

165

318

730

2,204

(43)

(7)

(34)

(84)

(56)

(21)

(52)

(129)

6%

17

4

5

26

(1)

–

–

(1)

8

1

3

12

(1)

–

(1)

(2)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(13)

(2)

(15)

1%

15

9

11

35

(7)

(1)

(1)

(9)

(22)

(2)

(24)

1%

40

14

19

73

(9)

(1)

(2)

(12)

–

(2)

(2)

(1)

–

(1)

(1)

(2)

(3)

0%

0%

0%

0%

–

27

–

27

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

27

–

27

–

–

–

–

(234)

(80)

(314)

0%

1,761

206

337

2,304

(65)

(22)

(54)

(141)

6%

Coverage %

0% 24%

12%

4%

17% 26%

16%

0%

0%

0%

0%

Stage 3

Gross credit 
impaired

ECL

382

(84)

53

841

1,276

(36)

(566)

(686)

53

(25)

3

(2)

59

(33)

115

(60)

85

(14)

–

–

8

–

93

1,484

(14)

(760)

Coverage %

22% 68% 67% 54%

47% 67% 56% 52%

16%

0%

0%

15%

51%

Total

Gross

Strong

78,284

6,358 30,610 115,252

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit-Impaired

781

161

382

127

2,447

3,355

39

53

118

841

318

1,276

991

162

5

53

271

2,486

3,748

12

3

3

130

11

59

304

19

115

335

1,839

–

85

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit-Impaired

Total

Coverage %

79,608

6,577 34,016 120,201

1,211

289

2,686

4,186

2,259

(6)

–

(1)

(84)

(91)

0%

(37)

(71)

(17)

(36)

(224)

(267)

(26)

(34)

(97)

(52)

(566)

(686)

(161)

(850)

(1,102)

2%

2%

1%

(3)

–

–

(25)

(28)

2%

(8)

–

(1)

(2)

(11)

4%

(20)

(3)

(1)

(33)

(57)

2%

(31)

(3)

(2)

(60)

(96)

2%

–

(2)

–

(14)

(16)

1%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0%

619

954 119,954

1

–

8

1,840

5,499

–

93

337

1,484

628

2,887 127,274

(1)

–

–

–

(1)

0%

(1)

(2)

–

(14)

(17)

1%

(299)

(102)

(54)

(760)

(1,215)

1%

246

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileConsumer, Private & Business Banking

2022

Asia

Africa & Middle East

Europe & Americas

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Mort-
gages 
$million

Credit 
cards 
$million

Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Total 
$million

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Total

Coverage %

0%

Stage 2

Gross

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Total

576

75

150

801

(2)

(1)

(2)

(5)

(49)

(37)

(86)

1%

88

10

34

132

(26)

(9)

(6)

(41)

Stage 1

Gross

Strong

81,738

5,781

32,297

119,816

1,004

281

2,590

3,875

Satisfactory

1,155

145

1,378

2,678

82,893

5,926

33,675 122,494

189

1,193

9

71

269

290

2,661

4,144

–

(6)

(6)

(233)

(282)

(27)

(260)

1%

(70)

(352)

0%

(3)

(1)

(4)

(6)

–

(6)

0%

2%

397

1,372

1,769

(2)

(2)

(4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

646

81

727

1,043 124,734

1,453

4,400

2,496 129,134

(2)

–

(2)

(4)

(2)

(6)

0%

0%

0%

0%

1

–

34

35

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2

–

–

2

–

–

–

–

3

–

34

37

–

–

–

–

0%

0%

0%

0%

(332)

(74)

(406)

0%

1,215

146

309

1,670

(62)

(17)

(41)

(120)

7%

(37)

(1)

(38)

1%

46

3

13

62

(3)

–

(4)

(7)

(46)

(2)

(48)

1%

160

47

28

235

(7)

–

(5)

(12)

5%

2

1

3

6

(1)

–

(1)

(2)

10

(7)

56

(30)

177

(113)

68%

70%

54%

64%

77

(7)

9%

–

–

–

–

0%

0%

77

(7)

9%

1,453

(776)

53%

388

1,052

14

63

99

247

465

1,398

(27)

(7)

(28)

(62)

(55)

(17)

(36)

(108)

8%

112

43

12

167

(3)

–

–

(3)

2%

111

(76)

Coverage %

1%

31%

13%

33%

11%

Stage 3

Gross credit 
impaired

ECL

368

(97)

48

(35)

Coverage %

26%

73%

783

(524)

67%

1,199

(656)

55%

Total

Gross

Strong

82,314

5,869 32,685 120,868

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit-Impaired

1,230

150

368

155

34

48

1,392

2,777

63

783

247

1,199

1,116

232

12

111

283

2,636

4,035

10

3

10

74

13

56

316

28

177

398

1,372

34

77

Total

ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit-Impaired

Total

Coverage %

84,062

6,106

34,923 125,091

1,471

306

2,779

4,556

1,881

(2)

(7)

(2)

(97)

(108)

0%

(75)

(46)

(6)

(35)

(162)

3%

(260)

(337)

(34)

(28)

(524)

(846)

2%

(87)

(36)

(656)

(1,116)

1%

(6)

(1)

–

(76)

(83)

6%

(7)

–

(1)

(7)

(15)

5%

(40)

(53)

(1)

(4)

(30)

(75)

3%

(2)

(5)

(113)

(173)

4%

(2)

(2)

–

(7)

(11)

1%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

0%

648

1,046 125,949

81

–

–

1,453

4,546

34

77

309

1,453

729

2,610 132,257

(2)

–

–

–

(2)

0%

(4)

(2)

–

(7)

(394)

(91)

(41)

(776)

(13)

(1,302)

0%

1%

247

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCredit quality by geographic region 
The following table sets out the credit quality for gross loans and advances to customers and banks, held at amortised cost, by 
geographic region and stage.

Loans and advances to customers

Amortised cost

Gross (stage 1)

Provision (stage 1)

Gross (stage 2)

Provision (stage 2)

Gross (stage 3)

Provision (stage 3)
Net loans1

2023

2022

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

229,289

17,536

26,867

273,692

248,625

17,553

29,041

295,219

(363)

6,660

(321)

4,604

(39)

3,276

(70)

2,273

(28)

(430)

1,289

11,225

(29)

351

(420)

7,228

(454)

8,302

(337)

4,562

(2,734)

(1,387)

(199)

(4,320)

(2,483)

(73)

3,122

(104)

2,725

(1,765)

(32)

1,619

(3)

558

(209)

(559)

13,043

(444)

7,845

(4,457)

237,135

21,589

28,251

286,975

258,215

21,458

30,974

310,647

1  

Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending

Loans and advances to banks

Amortised cost

Gross (stage 1)

Provision (stage 1)

Gross (stage 2)

Provision (stage 2)

Gross (stage 3)

Provision (stage 3)
Net loans1

2023

2022

Asia 
$million

35,338

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

2,803

6,243

44,384

Asia 
$million

21,806

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

3,818

13,525

(7)

17

(2)

73

(2)

–

311

(8)

–

–

(1)

212

–

4

(4)

(8)

540

(10)

77

(6)

(3)

212

(2)

59

(14)

(4)

116

(1)

–

–

(2)

9

–

–

–

Total 
$million

39,149

(9)

337

(3)

59

(14)

35,417

3,106

6,454

44,977

22,058

3,929

13,532

39,519

1  

Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending

Movement in gross exposures and credit impairment for loans and advances, debt securities, undrawn commitments and 
financial guarantees (audited)
The tables overleaf set out the movement in gross exposures and credit impairment by stage in respect of amortised cost loans 
to banks and customers, undrawn commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at amortised cost and 
FVOCI. The tables are presented for the Group, debt securities and other eligible bills.

Methodology
The movement lines within the tables are an aggregation of monthly movements over the year and will therefore reflect the 
accumulation of multiple trades during the year. The credit impairment charge in the income statement comprises the amounts 
within the boxes in the table below, less recoveries of amounts previously written off. Discount unwind is reported in net interest 
income and related to stage 3 financial instruments only.

The approach for determining the key line items in the tables is set out below.

•  Transfers - transfers between stages are deemed to occur at the beginning of a month based on prior month closing 

balances.

•  Net remeasurement from stage changes - the remeasurement of credit impairment provisions arising from a change  
in stage is reported within the stage that the assets are transferred to. For example, assets transferred into stage 2 are 
remeasured from a 12-month to a lifetime expected credit loss, with the effect of remeasurement reported in stage 2.  
For stage 3, this represents the initial remeasurement from specific provisions recognised on individual assets transferred  
into stage 3 in the year.

•  Net changes in exposures - new business written less repayments in the year. Within stage 1, new business written will attract 
up to 12 months of expected credit loss charges. Repayments of non-amortising loans (primarily within CCIB) will have low 
amounts of expected credit loss provisions attributed to them, due to the release of provisions over the term to maturity.  
In stages 2 and 3, the net change in exposures reflect repayments although stage 2 may include new facilities where clients 
are on non-purely precautionary early alert, are CG 12, or when non-investment grade debt securities are acquired.

248

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile•  Changes in risk parameters - for stages 1 and 2, this reflects changes in the probability of default (PD), loss given default 

(LGD) and exposure at default (EAD) of assets during the year, which includes the impact of releasing provisions over the  
term to maturity. It also includes the effect of changes in forecasts of macroeconomic variables during the year. In stage 3,  
this line represents additional specific provisions recognised on exposures held within stage 3.

•  Interest due but not paid – change in contractual amount of interest due in stage 3 financial instruments but not paid, being 

the net of accruals, repayments and write-offs, together with the corresponding change in credit impairment.

Changes to ECL models, which incorporate changes to model approaches and methodologies, are not reported as a separate 
line item as these have an impact over a number of lines and stages.

Movements during the year
Stage 1 gross exposures increased by $3.8 billion to $724 billion (31 December 2022: $720 billion). CCIB exposure increased by 
$21.8 billion to $337 billion (31 December 2022: $315 billion) due to off-balance sheet exposures, which was partly offset by a 
decrease in loans and advances to customers. CPBB decreased by $2.2 billion to $191 billion (31 December 2022: $193 billion) 
which was largely driven by the mortgage portfolio in Korea and Hong Kong. Stage 1 debt securities decreased by $7.8 billion  
to $158 billion (31 December 2022: $166 billion) due to liquidity management and maturities.

Total stage 1 provisions decreased by $119 million to $526 million (31 December 2022: $645 million). CCIB provisions decreased by 
$43 million to $151 million (31 December 2022: $194 million), primarily due to new originations, which was partly offset by model 
updates. Debt securities provisions was stable at $26 million (31 December 2022: $25 million). CPBB decreased by $88 million  
to $325 million (31 December 2022: $413 million), mainly driven by the release of the judgemental non-linearity post model 
adjustment and overlay releases, both of which are reported in ‘Changes in risk parameters’.

Stage 2 gross exposures decreased by $5.2 billion to $22 billion (31 December 2022: $27 billion), primarily driven by a net 
reduction in exposures in CCIB, particularly in the CRE and Transport sectors. CPBB exposures increased by $0.7 billion to 
$2.5 billion (31 December 2022: $1.8 billion), of which $0.4 billion was from the Secured portfolio. Debt securities decreased by 
$3.6 billion to $1.9 billion (31 December 2022: $5.5 billion).

Stage 2 provisions decreased by $101 million to $517 million (31 December 2022: $618 million). CCIB provisions decreased by  
$93 million to $318 million (31 December 2022: $411 million) from releases due to exposure reductions, transfers to stage 3 for 
China CRE exposures and model updates. This was partly offset by a further downgrade of Pakistan sovereign clients within 
stage 2. CPBB provisions increased by $22 million to $140 million (31 December 2022: $118 million) due to higher delinquencies. 
This was partly offset by the release of judgemental non-linearity post model adjustment and overlay releases which are 
reported within ‘Changes in risk parameters’ due to underlying factors not being valid any more. Debt Securities decreased  
by $56 million to $34 million (31 December 2022: $90 million) largely due to exposure reductions and shortening of tenors, 
particularly in Pakistan.

The impact of model and methodology updates in 2023 reduced stage 1 and 2 provisions by $15 million, of which $10 million  
was in CCIB and Central and other items, while $5 million was in CPBB.

Stage 3 gross loans for CCIB decreased by $0.7 billion to $6.3 billion (31 December 2022: $7 billion) as repayments and write-offs 
were partly offset by the downgrade of China CRE clients. CCIB provisions decreased by $171 million to $3.7 billion (31 December 
2022: $3.8 billion) as charges from new downgrades were offset by releases due to repayments and write-offs. CPBB stage 3 
loans was stable at $1.5 billion (31 December 2022: $1.5 billion) but provisions decreased by $17 million to $0.8 billion (31 December 
2022: $0.8 billion). Debt security gross assets increased by $20 million to $164 million (31 December 2022: $144 million).  

249

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewAll segments (audited)

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance3
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Stage 35

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance3
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance3
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance3
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

684,759

(609) 684,150

34,550

(652) 33,898

9,061

(4,941)

4,120

728,370 (6,202) 722,168

Transfers to stage 1

24,666

(555)

24,111

(24,633)

555 (24,078)

Transfers to stage 2

(46,960)

228 (46,732)

47,479

(246) 47,233

(33)

(519)

–

18

(33)

(501)

Transfers to stage 3

(176)

74

(102)

(3,630)

253

(3,377)

3,806

(327)

3,479

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements¹

As at 31 December 
2022²

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment (charge)/
release

83,204

(137) 83,067

(24,324)

93

(24,231)

(1,710)

338

(1,372)

57,170

294

57,464

–

–

–

–

–

45

45

106

106

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(126)

(126)

(387)

(387)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(168)

(168)

(895)

(895)

(949)

949

(157)

–

157

136

–

–

136

–

–

(249)

(249)

(1,176)

(1,176)

(949)

949

(157)

–

157

136

–

–

136

(25,381)

203

(25,178)

(1,963)

(108)

(2,071)

(658)

9

(649)

(28,002)

104 (27,898)

720,112

(645) 719,467

27,479

(618)

26,861

8,841

(4,724)

4,117

756,432

(5,987) 750,445

14

–

14

(420)

–

(420)

(725)

293

(432)

(1,131)

293

(838)

As at 1 January 2023

720,112

(645) 719,467

27,479

(618) 26,861

8,841

(4,724)

4,117

756,432 (5,987)750,445

Transfers to stage 1

19,594

(661)

18,933

(19,583)

661 (18,922)

Transfers to stage 2

(42,628)

174 (42,454)

42,793

(182) 42,611

(11)

(165)

–

8

(11)

(157)

Transfers to stage 3

(96)

6

(90)

(2,329)

326 (2,003)

2,425

(332) 2,093

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements¹

As at 31 December 
2023²

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release⁶

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release4

23,717

(185) 23,532

(22,727)

22 (22,705)

(1,708)

624 (1,084)

(718)

461

(257)

–

–

–

–

–

52

52

202

202

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(199)

(199)

(32)

(32)

–

–

(163)

(163)

(1,100) (1,100)

–

–

(310)

(310)

(930)

(930)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1,027)

1,027

(83)

–

83

180

–

–

180

(1,027)

1,027

(83)

–

83

180

–

–

180

3,177

531

3,708

(3,365)

(495) (3,860)

(128)

(102)

(230)

(316)

(66)

(382)

723,876

(526) 723,350

22,268

(517)

21,751

8,144 (4,499) 3,645

754,288 (5,542) 748,746

69

–

69

(209)

–

(209)

(639)

271

(368)

(779)

271

(508)

Includes fair value adjustments and amortisation on debt securities

1  
2   Excludes Cash and balances at central banks, Accrued income, Assets held for sale and Other assets gross balances of $111,478 million (31 December 2022: 

$101,740 million) and Total credit impairment of $59 million (31 December 2022: $88 million)

3   The gross balance includes the notional amount of off -balance sheet instruments 
4   Reported basis
5   Stage 3 includes gross of $80 million (31 December 2022: $28 million) and ECL $14 million (31 December 2022: $13 million) originated credit-impaired debt securities 
6   Does not include release relating to Other assets  (31 December 2022: $2 million) 

250

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileTransfers to stage 1

Transfers to stage 2

Transfers to stage 3

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements1

As at 31 December 
2022

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements1

As at 31 December 
2023

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

Of which – movement of debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills (audited)

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Stage 32

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net3
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

157,352

(67) 157,285

5,315

(42)

5,273

2,296

(3,942)

–

(22)

2,274

(2,296)

22

(2,274)

38

–

(3,904)

3,942

(38)

3,904

–

(66)

42

(24)

21,613

(44)

21,569

(752)

9

(743)

–

–

–

–

10

38

–

–

10

38

–

–

–

–

–

–

(2)

(2)

(98)

(98)

–

–

–

–

113

–

–

66

–

–

–

(30)

–

(66)

47

162,780

(175) 162,605

–

–

(42)

–

–

24

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1

1

20,861

(34) 20,827

(15)

(15)

–

–

(30)

(73)

30

–

–

(73)

–

–

(23)

(23)

(13)

30

–

7

(13)

–

–

2

(11,216)

22

(11,194)

(688)

17

(671)

(5)

(11,909)

46

(11,863)

166,103

(25) 166,078

5,455

(90)

5,365

144

(106)

38

171,702

(221)

171,481

4

–

4

(91)

–

(91)

(35)

–

(35)

(122)

–

(122)

As at 1 January 2023

166,103

(25) 166,078

5,455

(90)

5,365

144

(106)

38

171,702

(221) 171,481

Transfers to stage 1

371

(65)

306

Transfers to stage 2

(884)

Transfers to stage 3

–

14

–

(870)

–

(371)

884

(16)

65

(14)

–

(306)

870

(16)

(11,583)

(28)

(11,611)

(1,899)

(44)

(1,943)

–

–

–

–

7

32

–

–

7

32

–

–

–

–

–

–

(18)

(18)

105

105

–

–

–

–

–

–

16

7

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

16

7

–

(4)

(4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(13,475)

(72) (13,547)

–

–

–

–

(11)

(11)

133

133

–

–

–

–

4,307

39

4,346

(2,193)

(38)

(2,231)

(3)

49

46

2,111

50

2,161

158,314

(26) 158,288

1,860

(34)

1,826

164

(61)

103

160,338

(121) 160,217

11

–

11

43

–

43

(4)

–

(4)

50

–

50

1  

Includes fair value adjustments and amortisation on debt securities

2   Stage 3 includes gross of $80 million (31 December 2022: $28 million) and ECL $14 million (31 December 2022: $13 million) originated credit-impaired debt securities 

3   FVOCI instruments are not presented net of ECL. While the presentation is on a net basis for the table, the total net on-balance sheet amount to $160,263 million 

(31 December 2022: $171,640 million). Refer to the Analysis of financial instrument by stage table 

251

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCorporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (audited)

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

313,132

(163) 312,969

25,437

(425) 25,012

7,372

(4,079)

3,293

345,941

(4,667) 341,274

Transfers to stage 1

17,565

(227)

17,338

(17,565)

227 (17,338)

–

Transfers to stage 2

(37,505)

48 (37,457)

37,944

(66) 37,878

(439)

–

18

–

(421)

Transfers to stage 3

(42)

–

(42)

(2,478)

134 (2,344)

2,520

(134)

2,386

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2022

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release2

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment (charge)/
release

30,508

(44) 30,464

(21,915)

65 (21,850)

(1,314)

340

(974)

7,279

361

7,640

–

–

–

–

–

2

21

–

–

–

2

21

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(42)

(42)

(154)

(154)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(384)

(130)

–

(104)

(104)

(551)

384

130

110

(551)

–

–

110

–

–

(144)

(144)

(684)

(684)

(384)

384

(130)

–

130

110

–

–

110

(8,221)

169

(8,052)

(1,275)

(150)

(1,425)

(631)

64

(567)

(10,127)

83 (10,044)

315,437

(194) 315,243

20,148

(411)

19,737

6,994 (3,822)

3,172

342,579 (4,427) 338,152

(21)

–

(21)

(131)

–

(131)

(315)

49

(266)

(467)

49

(418)

As at 1 January 2023

315,437

(194) 315,243

20,148

(411) 19,737

6,994 (3,822)

3,172

342,579 (4,427) 338,152

Transfers to stage 1

14,948

(347)

14,601

(14,948)

347 (14,601)

Transfers to stage 2

(34,133)

80 (34,053)

34,175

(88) 34,087

–

(42)

–

8

–

(34)

Transfers to stage 3

(17)

–

(17)

(1,270)

141

(1,129)

1,287

(141)

1,146

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2023

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release2

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

41,314

(73) 41,241

(20,084)

89 (19,995)

(1,335)

623

(712)

19,895

639 20,534

–

–

–

–

–

15

60

–

–

–

15

60

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(45)

(45)

(68)

(68)

–

–

(82)

(82)

(668)

(668)

–

–

(112)

(112)

(676)

(676)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(340)

340

(120)

–

120

155

–

–

155

(340)

340

(120)

–

120

155

–

–

155

(360)

308

(52)

(1,148)

(283) (1,431)

(188)

(184)

(372)

(1,696)

(159)

(1,855)

337,189

(151) 337,038

16,873

(318) 16,555

6,256 (3,651)

2,605

360,318 (4,120) 356,198

2

–

2

(24)

–

(24)

(127)

31

(96)

(149)

31

(118)

1   The gross balance includes the notional amount of off balance sheet instruments

2   Does not include release relating to Other assets (31 December 2022: $2 million) 

252

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileConsumer, Private and Business Banking (audited)

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance¹
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance¹
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance¹
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance¹
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

190,860

(377) 190,483

3,675

(185) 3,490

1,578

(797)

Transfers to stage 1

4,798

(314)

4,484

(4,765)

314

(4,451)

Transfers to stage 2

(5,498)

Transfers to stage 3

(81)

92

–

(5,406)

(81)

5,578

(890)

(92) 5,486

151

(739)

(33)

(80)

971

781

(33)

(80)

–

–

(151)

820

196,113

(1,359) 194,754

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2022

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

9,072

(49)

9,023

(1,611)

19

(1,592)

(396)

–

(396)

7,065

(30)

7,035

–

–

–

–

–

32

63

–

–

–

32

63

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(82)

(82)

(132)

(132)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(535)

(27)

–

(25)

(25)

(331)

535

27

26

(331)

–

–

26

–

–

(75)

(75)

(400)

(400)

(535)

535

(27)

–

27

26

–

–

26

(5,912)

140

(5,772)

(166)

(111)

(277)

(24)

(60)

(84)

(6,102)

(31)

(6,133)

193,239

(413) 192,826

1,821

(118)

1,703

1,454

(776)

678

196,514

(1,307) 195,207

46

–

46

(195)

–

(195)

(356)

245

(111)

(505)

245

(260)

As at 1 January 2023

193,239

(413) 192,826

1,821

(118)

1,703

1,454

(776)

678

196,514 (1,307) 195,207

Transfers to stage 1

4,265

(246)

4,019

(4,254)

246 (4,008)

Transfers to stage 2

(7,544)

Transfers to stage 3

(64)

73

1

(7,471)

7,667

(73) 7,594

(63)

(1,049)

187

(862)

(11)

(123)

1,113

–

–

(188)

(11)

(123)

925

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2023

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

1,965

(78)

1,887

(1,713)

14 (1,699)

(395)

–

(395)

(143)

(64)

(207)

–

–

–

–

–

31

31

110

110

–

–

–

–

–

–

(862)

197

(665)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(137)

(137)

(69)

(69)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(38)

(38)

(426)

(426)

(649)

649

37

–

(37)

24

–

–

24

–

–

(144)

(144)

(385)

(385)

(649)

649

37

–

(37)

24

–

–

24

(190)

(190)

59

33

92

(803)

40

(763)

190,999

(325) 190,674

2,472

(140) 2,332

1,485

(759)

726

194,956 (1,224) 193,732

63

–

63

(192)

–

(192)

(464)

239

(225)

(593)

239

(354)

1   The gross balance includes the notional amount of off-balance sheet instruments

253

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewConsumer, Private and Business Banking - Secured (audited) 

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

136,600

(96) 136,504

2,685

(32)

2,653

1,103

(517)

586

140,388

(645)

139,743

3,080

(3,254)

(38)

(28)

3,052

(3,054)

28 (3,026)

11

1

(3,243)

(37)

3,319

(473)

(11) 3,308

(472)

(26)

(65)

511

–

–

(26)

(65)

(2)

509

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Transfers to stage 1

Transfers to stage 2

Transfers to stage 3

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2022

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

1

1

3,093

(8)

3,085

(945)

(944)

(259)

–

(259)

1,889

(7)

1,882

–

–

–

–

–

1

(4)

–

–

–

1

(4)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

(1)

48

48

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(78)

–

–

(4)

(4)

(80)

78

–

–

(80)

–

–

–

–

–

(78)

–

–

(4)

(4)

(36)

78

–

–

(36)

–

–

–

(4,119)

63

(4,056)

(119)

(51)

(170)

(158)

(27)

(185)

(4,396)

(15)

(4,411)

135,362

(60) 135,302

1,413

(17)

1,396

1,028

(552)

476

137,803

(629)

137,174

(11)

–

(11)

48

–

48

(84)

55

(29)

(47)

55

8

As at 1 January 2023

135,362

(60) 135,302

1,413

(17)

1,396

1,028

(552)

476

137,803

(629) 137,174

Transfers to stage 1

3,311

(20)

3,291

(3,302)

20 (3,282)

Transfers to stage 2

(5,340)

Transfers to stage 3

(28)

11

1

(5,329)

5,436

(9) 5,427

(27)

(463)

1

(462)

(9)

(96)

491

–

(2)

(2)

(9)

(98)

489

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2023

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

(3,138)

(16)

(3,154)

(1,250)

3 (1,247)

(216)

–

(216)

(4,604)

(13)

(4,617)

–

–

–

–

–

4

22

–

–

–

4

22

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(16)

(16)

24

24

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(109)

(110)

109

(3)

–

3

12

(110)

–

–

12

(3)

(3)

–

–

(109)

(3)

–

(15)

(15)

(64)

109

3

12

(64)

–

–

12

(369)

25

(344)

(7)

(22)

(29)

(24)

20

(4)

(400)

23

(377)

129,798

(33) 129,765

1,827

(16)

1,811

1,062

(525)

537

132,687

(574) 132,113

10

–

10

11

–

11

(113)

68

(45)

(92)

68

(24)

1   The gross balance includes the notional amount of off-balance sheet instruments 

254

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileConsumer, Private and Business Banking - Unsecured (audited) 

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
$million

Net 
$million

Gross 
balance1
$million

Amortised cost  
and FVOCI

As at 1 January 2022

54,260

(281) 53,979

990

(153)

837

475

(280)

Transfers to stage 1

1,718

(286)

1,432

(1,711)

286

(1,425)

Transfers to stage 2

(2,244)

Transfers to stage 3

(43)

81

(1)

(2,163)

2,259

(81)

2,178

(44)

(417)

150

(267)

460

(149)

(7)

(15)

–

–

195

(7)

(15)

311

55,725

(714)

55,011

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2022

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

5,979

(41)

5,938

(666)

18

(648)

(137)

–

(137)

5,176

(23)

5,153

–

–

–

–

–

31

67

–

–

–

31

67

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(81)

(81)

(180)

(180)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(457)

(27)

–

(21)

(21)

(251)

457

27

26

(251)

–

–

26

–

–

(71)

(71)

(364)

(364)

(457)

457

(27)

–

27

26

–

–

26

(1,793)

77

(1,716)

(47)

(60)

(107)

134

(33)

101

(1,706)

(16)

(1,722)

57,877

(353)

57,524

408

(101)

307

426

(224)

202

58,711

(678) 58,033

57

–

57

(243)

–

(243)

(101)

(272)

190

(82)

307

426

(224)

(458)

190

(268)

202

(2)

(25)

436

58,711

(678) 58,033

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

As at 1 January 2023

57,877

(353) 57,524

408

Transfers to stage 1

954

(226)

728

(952)

226

(726)

Transfers to stage 2

(2,204)

Transfers to stage 3

(36)

62

–

(2,142)

2,231

(64)

2,167

(36)

(586)

186

(400)

(2)

(27)

622

–

2

(186)

Net change in 
exposures

Net remeasurement 
from stage changes

Changes in risk 
parameters

Write-offs

Interest due  
but unpaid

Discount unwind

Exchange translation 
differences and  
other movements

As at 31 December 
2023

Income statement 
ECL (charge)/release

Recoveries of 
amounts previously 
written off

Total credit 
impairment  
(charge)/release

5,103

(62)

5,041

(463)

11

(452)

(179)

–

(179)

4,461

(51)

4,410

–

–

–

–

–

27

88

–

–

–

27

88

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(121)

(121)

(93)

(93)

–

–

(35)

(35)

(316)

(316)

–

–

(129)

(129)

(321)

(321)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(540)

540

40

–

(40)

12

–

–

12

(540)

540

40

–

(40)

12

–

–

12

(493)

172

(321)

7

(168)

(161)

83

13

96

(403)

17

(386)

61,201

(292) 60,909

645

(124)

521

423

(234)

189

62,269

(650) 61,619

53

–

53

(203)

–

(203)

(351)

171

(180)

(501)

171

(330)

1   The gross balance includes the notional amount of off-balance sheet instruments

255

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewAnalysis of stage 2 balances 
The table below analyses total stage 2 gross on-and off-balance sheet exposures and associated expected credit provisions  
by the key significant increase in credit risk (SICR) driver that caused the exposures to be classified as stage 2 as at 31 December 
2023 and 31 December 2022 for each segment.

Where multiple drivers apply, the exposure is allocated based on the table order. For example, a loan may have breached  
the PD thresholds and could also be on non-purely precautionary early alert; in this instance, the exposure is reported under 
‘Increase in PD’.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business 
Banking

Ventures

Central & other items1

Total

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

2023

Increase in PD

8,262

75

0.9%

1,962

109

5.6%

96

23 24.0%

599

13

2.2% 10,919

220 2.0%

Non-purely 
precautionary early alert 5,136

Higher risk (CG12)

1,008

Sub-investment grade

Top up/Sell down 
(Private Banking)

–

–

26

56

0.5%

5.6%

– 0.0%

– 0.0%

Others

2,467

37

1.5%

30 days past due

Management overlay

–

–

– 0.0%

124 0.0%

37

26

–

148

151

148

–

– 0.0%

1

3.8%

– 0.0%

2

1.4%

16 10.6%

12

8.1%

– 0.0%

–

–

–

–

–

2

–

– 0.0%

–

– 0.0%

5,173

– 0.0% 2,020

17 0.8% 3,054

26

74

0.5%

2.4%

– 0.0%

–

– 0.0%

– 0.0%

– 0.0%

–

–

– 0.0%

148

– 0.0%

489

– 0.0% 3,107

– 0.0%

– 0.0%

–

–

– 0.0%

17 0.0%

150

–

2

53

12

1.4%

1.7%

8.0%

141 0.0%

Total stage 2

16,873

318

1.9% 2,472

140

5.7%

98

23 23.5% 3,108

47

1.5% 22,551

528

2.3%

Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business 
Banking

Ventures

Central & other items1

Total

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

Gross 
$million

ECL 
$million

Coverage 
%

2022

Increase in PD

13,620

192

1.4%

1,389

89

6.4%

Non-purely 
precautionary early alert 3,272

Higher risk (CG12)

653

Sub-investment grade

Top up/Sell down 
(Private Banking)

Others

30 days past due

Management overlay

–

–

2,603

–

–

Total stage 2

20,148

12

30

–

–

41

–

136

411

0.4%

4.6%

0.0%

0.0%

1.6%

0.0%

0.0%

2.0%

35

18

–

111

122

146

–

–

1

–

–

4

12

12

0.0%

5.6%

0.0%

0.0%

3.3%

8.2%

0.0%

1,821

118

6.5%

–

–

–

–

–

–

47

–

47

–

–

–

–

–

–

3

–

3

0.0%

2,973

11

0.4%

17,982

292

1.6%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

6.4%

0.0%

6.4%

5

2,534

95

–

451

–

–

–

69

11

–

7

–

–

0.0%

2.7%

11.6%

0.0%

1.6%

0.0%

0.0%

3,312

3,205

95

111

3,176

193

–

6,058

98

1.6% 28,074

12

0.4%

100

3.1%

11

11.6%

–

52

15

148

630

0.0%

1.6%

7.8%

0.0%

2.2%

1  

Includes Gross and ECL for Cash and balances at central banks and Assets held for sale

256

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileCredit impairment charge (audited) 
The table below analyses credit impairment charges or releases of the ongoing business portfolio and restructuring business 
portfolio for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

Stage 1 & 2 
$million

2023

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Stage 1 & 2 
$million

20221

Stage 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Ongoing business portfolio

Corporate, Commercial  
& Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Credit impairment charge/(release)

Restructuring business portfolio

Others

Credit impairment charge/(release)

Total credit impairment  
charge/(release)

11

129

42

(44)

138

1

1

139

112

225

43

10

390

(21)

(21)

369

123

354

85

(34)

528

(20)

(20)

508

148

151

13

95

407

(1)

(1)

277

111

3

38

429

1

1

425

262

16

133

836

–

–

406

430

836

1  Underlying credit impairment has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME and (ii) Aviation Finance. No change to reported credit 

impairment

Problem credit management and provisioning (audited)

Forborne and other modified loans by client segment
A forborne loan arises when a concession has been made to the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customer’s 
financial difficulties.

Net forborne loans decreased by $120 million to $1,005 million (31 December 2022: $1,125 million) largely on performing forborne 
loans stock. The net performing forborne loans declined from $151 million to $38 million while net non-performing forborne loans 
remained stable at $967 million (31 December 2022: $974 million).

2023

2022

Amortised cost

All loans with forbearance measures

Credit impairment (stage 1 and 2)

Credit impairment (stage 3)

Net carrying value

Included within the above table

Gross performing forborne loans

Modification of terms and conditions1
Refinancing2

Impairment provisions

Modification of terms and conditions1
Refinancing2

Net performing forborne loans

Collateral

Gross non-performing forborne loans

Modification of terms and conditions1
Refinancing2

Impairment provisions

Modification of terms and conditions1
Refinancing2

Net non-performing forborne loans

Collateral

Corporate, 
Commercial 
& 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

2,340

–

(1,529)

811

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,340

2,113

227

(1,529)

(1,337)

(192)

811

341

314

(2)

(118)

194

40

40

–

(2)

(2)

–

38

31

274

274

–

(118)

(118)

–

156

49

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Corporate, 
Commercial 
& 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

2,129

(1)

(1,253)

875

89

89

–

(1)

(1)

–

88

7

2,040

1,997

43

(1,253)

(1,210)

(43)

787

243

377

–

(127)

250

63

63

–

–

–

–

63

60

314

314

–

(127)

(127)

–

187

68

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Total 
$million

2,654

(2)

(1,647)

1,005

40

40

–

(2)

(2)

–

38

31

2,614

2,387

227

(1,647)

(1,454)

(192)

967

390

Total 
$million

2,506

(1)

(1,380)

1,125

152

152

–

(1)

(1)

–

151

67

2,354

2,311

43

(1,380)

(1,337)

(43)

974

311

1   Modification of terms is any contractual change apart from refinancing, as a result of credit stress of the counterparty, i.e. interest reductions, loan covenant 

waivers

2   Refinancing is a new contract to a borrower in credit stress, such that they are refinanced and can pay other debt contracts that they were unable to honour 

257

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewForborne and other modified loans by region
Net forborne loans decreased by $120 million to $1,005 million (31 December 2022: $1,125 million) mainly in the performing 
forborne loans, in particular the Asia and the Europe and Americas regions.

Amortised cost

Performing forborne loans

Stage 3 forborne loans

Net forborne loans

2023

2022

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

34

661

695

4

75

79

–

231

231

Total 
$million

38

967

1,005

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

129

568

697

9

144

153

13

262

275

Total 
$million

151

974

1,125

Stage 3 cover ratio (audited)
The stage 3 cover ratio measures the proportion of stage 3 impairment provisions to gross stage 3 loans, and is a metric 
commonly used in considering impairment trends. This metric does not allow for variations in the composition of stage 3  
loans and should be used in conjunction with other Credit Risk information provided, including the level of collateral cover.

The balance of stage 3 loans not covered by stage 3 impairment provisions represents the adjusted value of collateral held and 
the net outcome of any workout or recovery strategies. Collateral provides risk mitigation to some degree in all client segments 
and supports the credit quality and cover ratio assessments post impairment provisions.

Further information on collateral is provided in the ‘Credit Risk mitigation’ section in pages 258 to 260.

Further details on stage 3 loans and advances and cover ratio can be found in the ‘Summary of performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

2023

2022

Corporate, 
Commercial 
& 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central & 
Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Corporate, 
Commercial 
& 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central & 
Others 
$million

Total 
$million

Amortised cost

Gross credit-impaired 

5,508

1,484

Credit impairment provisions 

(3,533)

(760)

Net credit-impaired

Cover ratio

Collateral ($ million)

Cover ratio (after collateral)

1,975

64%

623

75%

724

51% 100%

554

–

89% 100%

12

(12)

–

224

7,228

(15)

(4,320)

209

7%

–

7%

2,908

60%

1,177

76%

6,143

(3,662)

2,481

60%

956

75%

1,453

(776)

677

53%

543

91%

1

(1)

–

100%

–

100%

248

7,845

(18)

(4,457)

230

7%

–

7%

3,388

57%

1,499

76%

Credit-impaired (stage 3) loans and advances by geographic region
Stage 3 gross loans decreased by $0.6 billion to $7.2 billion (31 December 2022: $7.8 billion). The decrease was primarily driven by 
repayments and write-offs in the Africa and the Middle East, which was offset by new inflows in Asia.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

Amortised cost

Gross credit-impaired 

2023

Asia 
$million

4,604

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,273

351

Total 
$million

7,228

Credit impairment provisions 

(2,734)

(1,388)

(198)

(4,320)

Net credit-impaired

Cover ratio

1,870

59%

885

61%

153

56%

2,908

60%

2022

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,725

(1,765)

960

65%

558

(209)

349

37%

Asia 
$million

4,562

(2,483)

2,079

54%

Total 
$million

7,845

(4,457)

3,388

57%

Credit Risk mitigation
Potential credit losses from any given account, customer or portfolio are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, 
netting arrangements, credit insurance and credit derivatives, taking into account expected volatility and guarantees.

The reliance that can be placed on these mitigants is carefully assessed in light of issues such as legal certainty and 
enforceability, market valuation correlation and counterparty risk of the guarantor.

258

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileCollateral (audited)
A secured loan is one where the borrower pledges an asset as collateral of which the Group is able to take possession in the 
event that the borrower defaults.

The unadjusted market value of collateral across all asset types, in respect of CCIB, without adjusting for over-collateralisation, 
reduced to $290 billion (31 December 2022: $345 billion) predominantly due to a reduction in reverse repos.

The collateral values in the table below (which covers loans and advances to banks and customers, excluding those held at fair 
value through profit or loss) are adjusted where appropriate in accordance with our risk mitigation policy and for the effect of 
over-collateralisation. The extent of over-collateralisation has been determined with reference to both the drawn and undrawn 
components of exposure as this best reflects the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the amounts arising 
from expected credit losses. The value of collateral reflects management’s best estimate and is backtested against our  
prior experience. On average, across all types of non-cash collateral, the value ascribed is approximately half of its current 
market value.

CCIB collateral decreased by $1.7 billion to $36.5 billion (31 December 2022: $38.2 billion) and CPBB collateral decreased by 
$5.5 billion to $86.8 billion (31 December 2022: $92.4 billion) due to exposure reductions from the mortgage portfolio. Total 
collateral for Central and other items decreased by $8.7 billion to $2.5 billion (31 December 2022: $11.2 billion) due to a decrease 
in stage 1 reverse repos. However, collateral for stage 2 Central and other items increased by $1 billion (31 December 2022: Nil) 
due to short-term reverse repo with a Central Bank in the Africa and Middle East region.

Collateral held on loans and advances 
The table below details collateral held against exposures, separately disclosing stage 2 and stage 3 exposure and 
corresponding collateral. 

Net amount outstanding

2023

Collateral

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Total2
$million

Total 
$million

Net exposure

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Total 
$million

175,382

8,175

2,046

36,458

2,972

623

138,924

5,203

1,423

126,059

1,033

29,478

331,952

2,163

33

964

11,335

724

–

209

2,979

86,827

–

2,475

125,760

Net amount outstanding

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Total 
$million

1,136

–

964

5,072

2022

Collateral

554

–

–

39,232

1,033

27,003

1,027

33

–

170

–

209

1,177

206,192

6,263

1,802

Net exposure

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Stage 2 
financial 
assets 
$million

Credit-
impaired 
financial 
assets (S3) 
$million

Total 
$million

Total2
$million

179,150

11,366

2,526

38,151

3,973

956

140,999

7393

1,570

130,955

1,550

698

39,363

350,166

17

–

12,933

677

–

230

3,433

92,350

1,019

543

38,605

–

11,214

141,715

–

–

–

–

4,992

1,499

698

28,149

208,451

531

17

–

7,941

134

–

230

1,934

Amortised cost

Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking1

Consumer, Private & 
Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Total 

Amortised cost

Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking1

Consumer, Private & 
Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Total 

1  

Includes loans and advances to banks

2   Adjusted for over-collateralisation based on the drawn and undrawn components of exposures

Collateral – Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (audited)
Collateral taken for longer-term and sub-investment grade corporate loans reduced to 41 per cent (31 December 2022:  
53 per cent) primarily due to the exit of the Aviation business.

Our underwriting standards encourage taking specific charges on assets and we consistently seek high-quality, investment-
grade collateral. 

83 per cent (31 December 2022: 85 per cent) of tangible collateral excluding reverse repurchase agreements and financial 
guarantees held comprises physical assets or is property based, with the remainder held in cash. Overall collateral decreased  
by $2 billion to $36 billion (31 December 2022: $38 billion) mainly due to a decrease in property collateral.

Non-tangible collateral, such as guarantees and standby letters of credit, is also held against corporate exposures, although the 
financial effect of this type of collateral is less significant in terms of recoveries. However, this is considered when determining 
the probability of default and other credit-related factors. Collateral is also held against off balance sheet exposures, including 
undrawn commitments and trade-related instruments.

259

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCorporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking 

Amortised cost

Maximum exposure

Property

Plant, machinery and other stock

Cash

Reverse repos
AA– to AA+2
A– to A+2

BBB– to BBB+

Lower than BBB-

Unrated

Financial guarantees and insurance

Commodities

Ships and aircraft
Total value of collateral1

Net exposure

2023 
$million

175,382

9,339

933

2,985

13,826

1,036

10,606

855

169

1,160

5,057

5

4,313

36,458

138,924

2022 
$million

179,150

10,152

1,168

2,797

14,305

92

10,459

1,485

–

2,269

5,096

37

4,596

38,151

140,999

1   Adjusted for over-collateralisation based on the drawn and undrawn components of exposures

2   Prior year has been represented to provide granular credit ratings

Collateral – Consumer, Private & Business Banking (audited)
In CPBB, fully secured products remain stable at 85 per cent of the total portfolio (31 December 2022: 86 per cent).

The following table presents an analysis of loans to individuals by product; split between fully secured, partially secured  
and unsecured.

Amortised cost

Maximum exposure

Loans to individuals

Mortgages

CCPL

Auto

Secured wealth products

Other
Total collateral1
Net exposure2

2023

2022

Fully  
secured 
$million

Partially 
secured 
$million

Unsecured 
$million

Total 
$million

106,914

505

18,640

126,059

Fully  
secured 
 $million

112,556

Partially 
secured 
$million

Unsecured 
$million

Total 
$million

449

17,950

130,955

82,943

375

312

20,303

2,981

–

–

–

–

–

17,395

–

–

505

1,245

82,943

17,770

312

20,303

4,731

86,827

39,232

87,212

221

502

19,551

5,070

–

–

–

–

–

16,711

–

–

449

1,239

87,212

16,932

502

19,551

6,758

92,350

38,605

Percentage of total loans

85%

0%

15%

86%

0%

14%

1   Collateral values are adjusted where appropriate in accordance with our risk mitigation policy and for the effect of over-collateralisation 

2   Amounts net of ECL

260

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileMortgage loan-to-value ratios by geography (audited)
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratios measure the ratio of the current mortgage outstanding to the current fair value of the properties on 
which they are secured.

In a majority of mortgages, the value of property held as security significantly exceeds principal outstanding of the mortgage 
loans. The average LTV of the overall mortgage portfolio increased to 47.1 per cent (31 December 2022: 44.7 per cent) driven  
by property prices decrease in a few key markets, including Hong Kong, Korea and China. Hong Kong, which represents  
39.9 per cent of the residential mortgage portfolio, has an average LTV of 55.9 per cent (31 December 2022: 52.6 per cent).  
The increase of Hong Kong residential mortgage LTV is due to a decrease of the Property Price Index. All of our other key 
markets continue to have low portfolio LTVs (Korea, Singapore and Taiwan at 40.5 per cent, 43.0 per cent and 47.0 per cent 
respectively). Korea average LTV increase is due to government relaxations whereby highly regulated areas have eased up  
to accommodate customers with higher LTV.

An analysis of LTV ratios by geography for the mortgage portfolio is presented in the table below.

Amortised cost

Less than 50 per cent

50 per cent to 59 per cent

60 per cent to 69 per cent

70 per cent to 79 per cent

80 per cent to 89 per cent

90 per cent to 99 per cent

100 per cent and greater

Average portfolio loan-to-value

Loans to individuals – mortgages ($million)

Amortised cost

Less than 50 per cent

50 per cent to 59 per cent

60 per cent to 69 per cent

70 per cent to 79 per cent

80 per cent to 89 per cent

90 per cent to 99 per cent

100 per cent and greater

Average portfolio loan-to-value

Loans to individuals – mortgages ($million)

2023

Africa &  
Middle East 
% 
Gross

Europe & 
Americas  
% 
Gross

51.1

14.7

13.7

12.8

3.9

2.1

1.7

51.1

1,183

31.0

17.4

33.9

14.4

2.5

0.6

0.3

56.0

2,243

2022

Africa &  
Middle East 
% 
Gross

Europe & 
Americas  
% 
Gross

43.0

18.2

16.8

12.8

5.1

2.0

2.2

54.3

1,388

32.2

19.2

31.3

14.8

1.1

–

1.3

56.6

1,870

Asia 
% 
Gross

55.5

17.1

11.4

7.7

3.3

2.6

2.5

46.9

79,517

Asia1
% 
Gross

60.9

15.5

9.8

6.5

3.6

2.5

1.4

44.4

83,954

Total 
% 
Gross

54.8

17.1

12.0

7.9

3.3

2.5

2.4

47.1

82,943

Total 
% 
Gross

60.1

15.6

10.2

6.7

3.6

2.4

1.4

44.7

87,212

Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed or called upon (audited)
The Group obtains assets by taking possession of collateral or calling upon other credit enhancements (such as guarantees). 
Repossessed properties are sold in an orderly fashion. Where the proceeds are in excess of the outstanding loan balance the 
excess is returned to the borrower.

Certain equity securities acquired may be held by the Group for investment purposes and are classified as fair value through 
profit or loss, and the related loan written off. The carrying value of collateral possessed and held by the Group is $16.5 million 
(31 December 2022: $14.9 million).

Property, plant and equipment

Guarantees

Total

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

10.5

6.0

16.5

9.6

5.3

14.9

261

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewOther Credit risk mitigation (audited)
Other forms of credit risk mitigation are set out below.

Credit default swaps
The Group has entered into credit default swaps for portfolio 
management purposes, referencing loan assets with a 
notional value of $3.5 billion (31 December 2022: $5.1 billion). 
These credit default swaps are accounted for as financial 
guarantees as per IFRS 9 as they will only reimburse the  
holder for an incurred loss on an underlying debt instrument. 
The Group continues to hold the underlying assets referenced 
in the credit default swaps and it continues to be exposed  
to related Credit Risk and Foreign Exchange Rate Risk on  
these assets.

Credit linked notes
The Group has issued credit linked notes for portfolio 
management purposes, referencing loan assets with a 
notional value of $22.5 billion (31 December 2022: $13.5 billion). 
The Group continues to hold the underlying assets for which 
the credit linked notes provide mitigation. The credit linked 
notes are recognised as a financial liability at amortised cost 
on the balance sheet.

Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into master netting agreements, which in 
the event of default result in a single amount owed by or to 
the counterparty through netting the sum of the positive  
and negative mark-to-market values of applicable derivative 
transactions. Credit Risk mitigation for derivative financial 
instruments is set out below. 

Off-balance sheet exposures
For certain types of exposures, such as letters of credit and 
guarantees, the Group obtains collateral such as cash 
depending on internal Credit Risk assessments, as well as  
in the case of letters of credit holding legal title to the 
underlying assets should a default take place.

Other portfolio analysis
This section provides maturity analysis by credit quality by 
industry and industry and retail products analysis by region.

Maturity analysis of loans and advances by client segment 
Loans and advances to the CCIB segment remain 
predominantly short-term, with $91 billion (31 December  
2022: $98 billion) maturing in less than one year. 98 per cent 
(31 December 2022: 96 per cent) of loans to banks mature in 
less than one year, an increase compared with 2022 as net 
exposures increased by $5.5 billion to $45 billion (31 December 
2022: $39.5 billion). Shorter maturities give us the flexibility to 
respond promptly to events and rebalance or reduce our 
exposure to clients or sectors that are facing increased 
pressure or uncertainty.

The CPBB short-term book of one year or less and long-term 
book of over five years is stable at 26 per cent (31 December 
2022: 25 per cent) and 63 per cent (31 December 2022: 
64 per cent) of the total portfolio respectively.

One year or less 
$million

One to five years 
$million

Over five years 
$million

2023

90,728

33,397

747

29,448

154,320

(4,872)

149,448

43,955

30,746

13,711

334

43

44,834

(185)

44,649

1,021

2022

12,822

80,166

–

3

92,991

(113)

92,878

1

One year or less 
$million

One to five years 
$million

Over five years 
$million

98,335

33,365

548

39,373

171,621

(4,767)

166,854

38,105

34,635

14,161

162

–

48,958

(574)

48,384

1,211

10,789

84,731

–

8

95,528

(119)

95,409

203

Total 
| $million

134,296

127,274

1,081

29,494

292,145

(5,170)

286,975

44,977

Total 
$million

143,759

132,257

710

39,381

316,107

(5,460)

310,647

39,519

Amortised cost

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Gross loans and advances to customers

Impairment provisions

Net loans and advances to customers

Net loans and advances to banks

Amortised cost

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

Gross loans and advances to customers

Impairment provisions

Net loans and advances to customers

Net loans and advances to banks

262

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileCredit quality by industry
Loans and advances 
This section provides an analysis of the Group’s amortised cost portfolio by industry on a gross, total credit impairment and  
net basis.

Stage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

2023

9,397

21,239

(8)

(8)

9,389

21,231

672

708

(22)

(16)

650

692

949

656

(535)

(436)

414

220

11,018

(565)

10,453

22,603

(460) 22,143

31,633

(13) 31,620

571

(1)

570

80

(77)

3

32,284

(91) 32,193

14,710

(8)

14,702

1,722

(36)

1,686

481

(178)

303

16,913

(222)

16,691

7,668

(15)

7,653

323

(7)

316

355

(262)

93

8,346

(284)

8,062

12,261

(30)

12,231

1,848

(129)

1,719

1,712

(1,191)

521

15,821

(1,350)

14,471

5,995

5,815

2,230

(4)

(3)

(2)

5,991

5,812

2,228

581

–

581

33,400

4,262

(6) 33,394

(4) 4,258

81,210

(8) 81,202

7,633

(104)

7,529

220

300

502

57

1,783

161

1,350

244

(10)

(21)

(8)

–

(5)

(3)

210

279

494

57

1,778

158

(5)

1,345

(65)

179

151

329

358

107

367

187

519

69

(84)

(298)

(326)

(58)

(33)

(70)

(123)

(50)

67

31

32

49

334

117

396

19

6,366

6,444

3,090

(98)

6,268

(322)

6,122

(336)

2,754

745

(58)

687

35,550

(44) 35,506

4,610

(77)

4,533

83,079

(136) 82,943

7,946

(219)

7,727

10,867

(188)

10,679

324

(77)

247

315

(165)

150

11,506

(430)

11,076

310

–

310

1

–

1

1

–

1

312

–

312

19,923

4,558

(22)

19,901

(7)

4,551

278

161

(10)

(5)

268

156

474

118

(340)

(94)

134

24

20,675

(372) 20,303

4,837

(106)

4,731

273,692

(430) 273,262

11,225

(420) 10,805

7,228 (4,320)

2,908

292,145 (5,170) 286,975

Amortised cost

Industry:

Energy

Manufacturing

Financing, insurance 
and non-banking 

Transport, telecom 
and utilities

Food and household 
products

Commercial  
real estate

Mining and 
quarrying

Consumer durables

Construction

Trading companies & 
distributors

Government

Other

Retail Products:

Mortgage

Credit Cards

Personal loans  
and other  
unsecured lending

Auto

Secured wealth 
products

Other

Net carrying value 
(customers)¹

1  

Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending held at amortised cost of $13,996 million 

263

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewStage 1

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Stage 2

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Stage 3

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

Gross 
balance 
$million

Total

Total 
credit 
impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
carrying 
amount 
$million

2022

10,959

20,990

(8)

10,951

(23) 20,967

818

1,089

(7)

(27)

811

1,062

1,324

777

(620)

(518)

704

259

13,101

(635)

12,466

22,856

(568) 22,288

34,915

(9) 34,906

774

(3)

771

195

(175)

20

35,884

(187) 35,697

14,273

(22)

14,251

2,347

(36)

2,311

669

(224)

445

17,289

(282)

17,007

7,841

(21)

7,820

695

(20)

675

418

(259)

159

8,954

(300)

8,654

12,393

(43)

12,350

3,217

(195)

3,022

1,305

(761)

544

16,915

(999)

15,916

5,482

6,403

2,424

2,205

42,825

4,684

(4)

(4)

(2)

5,478

6,399

2,422

(1)

2,204

(2) 42,823

(4)

4,680

85,859

(12) 85,847

6,912

(103)

6,809

10,652

(253)

10,399

501

–

501

19,269

6,632

(45)

19,224

(3)

6,629

537

420

407

170

603

278

996

155

215

1

235

86

(5)

(17)

(5)

(2)

(1)

(5)

(7)

(46)

(57)

–

(10)

(1)

532

403

402

168

602

273

989

109

158

1

225

85

248

358

495

122

168

312

556

59

296

–

407

136

(174)

(307)

(410)

(80)

(15)

(137)

(180)

(44)

(156)

–

(305)

(92)

74

51

85

42

153

175

376

15

140

–

102

44

6,267

7,181

3,326

(183)

6,084

(328)

(417)

6,853

2,909

2,497

43,596

(83)

2,414

(18) 43,578

5,274

(146)

5,128

87,411

7,126

(199)

(193)

87,212

6,933

11,163

502

(466)

10,697

–

502

19,911

6,854

(360)

(96)

19,551

6,758

295,219

(559) 294,660

13,043

(444)

12,599

7,845

(4,457)

3,388

316,107 (5,460) 310,647

Amortised cost

Industry:

Energy

Manufacturing

Financing, insurance 
and non-banking 

Transport, telecom 
and utilities

Food and household 
products

Commercial real 
estate

Mining and 
quarrying

Consumer durables

Construction

Trading companies & 
distributors

Government

Other

Retail Products:

Mortgage

Credit Cards

Personal loans  
and other  
unsecured lending

Auto

Secured wealth 
products

Other

Net carrying value 
(customers)¹

1  

Includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending held at amortised cost of $24,498 million 

Industry and Retail Products analysis of loans and advances by geographic region
This section provides an analysis of the Group’s amortised cost loan portfolio, net of provisions, by industry and region.

In the CCIB and Central and other items segment, our largest industry exposures are to Government, Financing, insurance and 
non-banking and Manufacturing with each constituting at least 8 per cent of CCIB and Central and other items loans and 
advances to customers.

Financing, insurance and non-banking industry clients are mostly investment-grade institutions and this lending forms part  
of the liquidity management of the Group. The Manufacturing sector group is spread across a diverse range of industries, 
including automobiles and components, capital goods, pharmaceuticals, biotech and life sciences, technology hardware  
and equipment, chemicals, paper products and packaging, with lending spread over 3,255 clients. 

The Mortgage portfolio continues to be the largest portion of the CPBB portfolio at $83.1 billion (31 December 2022: $87.4 billion), 
of which 96 per cent continues to be in Asia. Credit cards, personal loans and other unsecured lending increased to 15 per cent 
(31 December 2022: 14 per cent) of the CPBB portfolio, mainly in Asia due to the growth from Mox Bank and digital partnerships.

In Asia, the Financing, insurance and non-banking industry decreased by $1.9 billion to $22.8 billion (31 December 2022: 
$24.7 billion) while the CRE sector decreased by $2 billion to $11.2 billion (31 December 2022: $13.2 billion) due to exposure 
reductions. The Government sector decreased by $9.2 billion to $30.5 billion (31 December 2022: $39.7 billion) due to decreased 
lending to Korea.

264

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileAmortisecd cost

Industry:

Energy

Manufacturing

Financing, insurance and non-banking 

Transport, telecom and utilities

Food and household products

Commercial real estate

Mining and quarrying

Consumer durables

Construction

Trading companies and distributors

Government

Other

Retail Products:

Mortgages

Credit Cards

Personal loans and other  
unsecured lending

Auto

Secured wealth products

Other

Net loans and advances to customers

Net loans and advances to banks

2023

2022

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

4,143

16,828

22,771

12,122

4,856

11,176

3,856

5,033

1,803

527

30,487

3,401

79,517

7,449

9,426

295

18,774

4,671

237,135

35,417

3,986

1,077

829

2,650

1,726

623

375

429

333

109

4,778

584

1,183

278

1,565

17

987

60

2,324

4,238

8,593

1,919

1,480

2,672

2,037

660

618

51

241

548

10,453

22,143

32,193

16,691

8,062

14,471

6,268

6,122

2,754

687

35,506

4,533

2,243

82,943

–

85

–

7,727

11,076

312

542

20,303

–

4,731

21,589

3,106

28,251

286,975

6,454

44,977

6,250

17,388

24,674

10,841

4,160

13,179

3,785

5,860

1,775

2,281

39,713

3,636

83,954

6,642

9,056

469

17,876

6,676

258,215

22,058

2,278

1,267

761

3,567

2,566

598

390

461

625

101

3,759

702

1,388

291

1,541

33

1,048

82

21,458

3,929

3,938

3,633

10,262

2,599

1,928

2,139

1,909

532

509

32

106

790

12,466

22,288

35,697

17,007

8,654

15,916

6,084

6,853

2,909

2,414

43,578

5,128

1,870

–

87,212

6,933

100

–

627

–

30,974

13,532

10,697

502

19,551

6,758

310,647

39,519

Vulnerable, cyclical and high carbon sectors
Vulnerable and cyclical sectors are those that the Group considers to be most at risk from current economic stresses, including 
volatile energy and commodity prices, and we continue to monitor exposures to these sectors particularly carefully. 

Sectors are identified and grouped as per the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) system and exposure 
numbers have been updated to include all in-scope ISIC codes used for target setting among the high carbon sectors.

The maximum exposures shown in the table include Loans and Advances to Customers at Amortised cost, Fair Value through 
profit or loss, and committed facilities available as per IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments in $million. 

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

265

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewMaximum exposure 

Industry:

Automotive manufacturers¹
Aviation1,2

Of which : High Carbon Sector

Commodity Traders2
Metals & Mining1.2
Of which: Steel1
Of which: Coal Mining1
Of which: Aluminium1
Of which: Other Metals & Mining1

Shipping1
Construction2
Commercial Real Estate2

Of which: High Carbon Sector

Hotels & Tourism2
Oil & Gas1,2
Power1
Total3

Of which: Vulnerable and cyclical sectors
Of which: High carbon sectors4

Total Corporate, Commercial &  
Institutional Banking

Total Group

1   High carbon sectors 

2   Vulnerable and cyclical sectors

2023

Maximum  
on Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure 
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Net On 
Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure 
$million

Undrawn 
Commitments 
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Financial 
Guarantees 
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Net Off 
Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure 
$million

Total On & 
Off Balance 
Sheet Net 
Exposure 
$million

Collateral 
$million

3,564

1,775

1,330

7,406

4,589

1,596

29

526

2,438

5,964

2,853

14,533

7,498

1,680

6,278

5,411

54,053

38,880

34,634

65

974

974

303

307

193

9

9

96

3,557

448

6,363

3,383

715

894

1,231

14,857

9,983

10,411

3,499

801

356

7,103

4,282

1,403

20

517

2,342

2,407

2,405

8,170

4,115

965

5,384

4,180

39,196

28,897

24,223

3,791

1,794

944

2,591

3,373

601

51

338

2,383

2,261

2,753

4,658

1,587

1,339

7,845

3,982

34,387

24,842

23,783

538

668

615

6,281

1,218

358

99

188

573

291

5,927

311

112

227

6,944

732

23,137

21,511

10,450

4,329

2,462

1,559

8,872

4,591

959

150

526

2,956

2,552

8,680

4,969

1,699

1,566

14,789

4,714

57,524

46,353

34,233

7,828

3,263

1,915

15,975

8,873

2,362

170

1,043

5,298

4,959

11,085

13,139

5,814

2,531

20,173

8,894

96,720

75,250

58,456

130,405

32,744

97,661

331,952

125,760

206,192

104,437

182,299

63,183

167,620

265,281

74,278

256,577

462,769

3   Maximum On Balance sheet exposure include FVTPL portion of $955 million, of which Vulnerable sector is $821 million and High Carbon sector is $443 million 

4  Excluded Cement to the value of $671 million net of ECL under Construction

266

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile2022

Maximum  
On Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure  
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Net On 
Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure 
$million

Undrawn 
Commitments 
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Financial 
Guarantees 
(net of credit 
impairment) 
$million

Net Off 
Balance 
Sheet 
Exposure 
$million

Total On & 
Off Balance 
Sheet Net 
Exposure 
$million

Collateral 
$million

3,167

3,154

2,540

8,133

4,990

1,227

48

728

2,987

5,322

2,909

16,286

6,547

1,741

6,668

4,771

57,141

43,678

34,005

84

1,597

1,582

341

333

157

15

107

54

3,167

552

7,205

2,344

919

806

1,258

16,262

11,741

9,574

3,083

1,557

958

7,792

4,657

1,070

33

621

2,933

2,155

2,357

9,081

4,203

822

5,862

3,513

3,683

1,762

695

2,578

3,732

1,450

8

285

1,989

1,870

2,762

6,258

3,996

1,346

7,630

4,169

40,879

31,937

24,431

35,790

25,761

25,775

560

632

555

6,095

930

327

7

74

522

256

5,969

224

90

138

7,158

1,176

23,138

21,068

10,725

4,243

2,394

1,250

8,673

4,662

1,777

15

359

2,511

2,126

8,731

6,482

4,086

1,484

14,788

5,345

58,928

46,829

36,500

7,326

3,951

2,208

16,465

9,319

2,847

48

980

5,444

4,281

11,088

15,563

8,289

2,306

20,650

8,858

99,807

78,766

60,931

139,631

350,166

35,229

141,715

104,402

208,451

95,272

168,574

51,662

146,934

60,224

228,798

251,336

437,249

Industry:
Automotive manufacturers1
Aviation1,2,3

Of which : High Carbon Sector

Commodity Traders2
Metals & Mining1.2
Of which: Steel1
Of which: Coal Mining1
Of which: Aluminium1
Of which: Other Metals & Mining1

Shipping1
Construction2
Commercial Real Estate2

Of which: High Carbon Sector

Hotels & Tourism2
Oil & Gas1,2
Power1
Total4

Of which: Vulnerable and cyclical sectors
Of which: High carbon sectors5

Total Corporate, Commercial &  
Institutional Banking

Total Group

1   High carbon sectors 

2   Vulnerable and cyclical sectors

3   In addition to the aviation sector loan exposures, the Group owns $3.2 billion of aircraft under operating leases in 2022

4   Maximum On Balance sheet exposure include FVTPL portion of $1,251 million, of which Vulnerable sector is $1,072 million and High Carbon sector is $574 million 

5  Excluded Cement to the value of $719 million net of ECL under Construction

267

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewLoans and advances by stage

Stage 1

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

2023

Stage 2

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

Stage 3

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

Total

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

–

(2)

(1)

(2)

1,619

6,910

3,933

2,228

55

129

140

502

(1)

(1)

(8)

(8)

54

128

132

494

74

555

154

358

(15)

(504)

(88)

(326)

(30)

12,231

1,848

(129)

1,719

1,712

(1,191)

(2)

(4)

1,466

5,230

61

615

–

61

(15)

600

126

571

(25)

(147)

59

51

66

32

521

101

424

1,748

7,596

4,228

3,090

(16)

1,732

(507)

7,089

(97)

4,131

(336)

2,754

15,821

(1,350)

14,471

1,655

6,420

(27)

1,628

(166)

6,254

Gross 
Balance 
$million

1,619

6,912

3,934

2,230

12,261

1,468

5,234

33,658

(41) 33,617

3,350

(162)

3,188

3,550 (2,296)

1,254

40,558 (2,499) 38,059

Amortised Cost

Industry:

Aviation

Commodity Traders

Metals & Mining

Construction

Commercial  
Real Estate

Hotels & Tourism

Oil & Gas

Total

Total Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional Banking 120,886

(101) 120,785

7,902

(257) 7,645

5,508 (3,533)

1,975

134,296 (3,891) 130,405

Total Group

318,076

(438) 317,638

11,765

(430) 11,335

7,305 (4,326)

2,979

337,146 (5,194) 331,952

Stage 1

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

2022

Stage 2

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

(1)

(6)

(1)

(2)

2,376

7,181

4,183

2,422

573

138

475

407

–

(2)

(4)

(5)

573

136

471

402

155

689

257

497

(43)

12,350

3,217

(195)

3,022

1,305

(2)

(4)

1,446

5,464

108

708

(1)

(6)

107

702

206

919

Stage 3

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

(32)

(435)

(157)

(412)

(761)

(18)

(442)

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

Gross 
Balance 
$million

Total

Total 
Credit 
Impair-
ment 
$million

Net 
Carrying 
Amount 
$million

123

254

100

85

544

188

477

3,105

8,014

4,916

3,328

(33)

3,072

(443)

(162)

(419)

7,571

4,754

2,909

16,915

(999)

15,916

1,762

7,095

(21)

1,741

(452)

6,643

(59) 35,422

5,626

(213)

5,413

4,028 (2,257)

1,771

45,135

(2,529) 42,606

Amortised Cost

Industry:

Aviation¹

Commodity Traders

Metals & Mining

Construction

Commercial  
Real Estate

Hotels & Tourism

Oil & Gas

Total

Gross 
Balance 
$million

2,377

7,187

4,184

2,424

12,393

1,448

5,468

35,481

Total Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional Banking 126,261

(143)

126,118

11,355

(323)

11,032

6,143

(3,662)

Total Group

334,368

(568) 333,800

13,380

(447)

12,933

7,904

(4,471)

1  

In addition to the aviation sector loan exposures, the Group owns $3.2 billion of aircraft under operating leases in 2022

Loans and advances by region (net of credit impairment)

2,481

3,433

143,759

(4,128)

139,631

355,652 (5,486) 350,166

Industry:

Aviation

Commodity Traders

Metals & Mining

Construction

Commercial Real Estate

Hotel & Tourism

Oil & Gas

Total

2023

2022¹

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

Asia 
$million

Africa & 
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

Total 
$million

1,077

3,778

1,628

1,803

11,176

998

2,639

23,099

7

675

1,522

333

623

178

1,815

5,153

648

2,636

981

618

2,672

452

1,800

9,807

1,732

7,089

4,131

2,754

14,471

1,628

6,254

1,105

3,497

2,966

1,776

13,180

880

3,574

38,059

26,978

1,259

978

347

624

598

465

1,445

5,716

708

3,096

1,441

509

2,138

396

1,624

9,912

3,072

7,571

4,754

2,909

15,916

1,741

6,643

42,606

1  

In addition to the aviation sector loan exposures, the Group owns $3.2 billion of aircraft under operating leases in 2022

268

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileCredit quality – loans and advances

Amortised Cost

Credit Grade

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total Gross Balance

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total Credit Impairment

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Aviation 
Gross 
$million

Commodity 
Traders 
Gross 
$million

Construction 
Gross 
$million

Metals & 
Mining 
Gross 
$million

Commercial 
Real Estate 
Gross 
$million

2023

1,452

222

–

74

4,444

2,592

5

555

1,012

1,702

18

358

3,213

788

73

154

1,748

7,596

3,090

4,228

–

(1)

–

(15)

(16)

0.0%

0.5%

0.0%

(1)

(2)

–

(504)

(507)

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

(1)

(6)

(4)

(325)

(336)

0.1%

0.4%

22.2%

90.8%

10.9%

–

(1)

(8)

(88)

(97)

0.0%

0.1%

11.0%

57.1%

2.3%

2022

Hotel & 
Tourism 
Gross 
$million

1,090

439

–

126

Oil & Gas 
Gross 
$million

4,024

1,726

101

569

Total 
Gross 
$million

22,561

14,220

229

3,548

1,655

6,420

40,558

(1)

(1)

–

(25)

(27)

0.1%

0.2%

0.0%

19.8%

1.6%

(3)

(12)

(4)

(147)

(166)

0.1%

0.7%

4.0%

(26)

(162)

(16)

(2,295)

(2,499)

0.1%

1.1%

7.0%

25.8%

64.7%

2.6%

6.2%

7,326

6,751

32

1,712

15,821

(20)

(139)

–

(1,191)

(1,350)

0.3%

2.1%

0.0%

69.6%

8.5%

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Cover Ratio

20.3%

90.8%

0.9%

6.7%

Credit Grade

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total Gross Balance

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total Credit Impairment

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Cover Ratio

Aviation¹ 
Gross 
$million

Commodity 
Traders 
Gross 
$million

Construction 
Gross $million

Metals & 
Mining 
Gross 
$million

Commercial 
Real Estate 
Gross 
$million

Hotel & 
Tourism 
Gross 
$million

Oil & Gas 
Gross 
$million

1,437

1,413

100

155

3,105

–

(1)

–

(32)

(33)

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

20.6%

1.1%

4,419

2,894

12

689

8,014

(3)

(4)

(1)

(435)

(443)

0.1%

0.1%

8.3%

63.1%

5.5%

1,164

1,634

33

497

3,328

–

(3)

(4)

(412)

(419)

0.0%

0.2%

12.1%

82.9%

12.6%

3,425

1,208

26

257

4,916

–

(5)

–

(157)

(162)

0.0%

0.4%

0.0%

61.1%

3.3%

8,000

7,334

276

1,305

16,915

(25)

(129)

(84)

(761)

(999)

0.3%

1.8%

30.4%

58.3%

5.9%

1,047

494

15

206

1,762

(1)

(1)

(1)

(18)

(21)

0.1%

0.2%

6.7%

8.7%

1.2%

3,923

2,215

38

919

7,095

(1)

(7)

(2)

(442)

(452)

0.0%

0.3%

5.3%

48.1%

6.4%

Total 
Gross 
$million

23,415

17,192

500

4,028

45,135

(30)

(150)

(92)

(2,257)

(2,529)

0.1%

0.9%

18.4%

56.0%

5.6%

1  

In addition to the aviation sector loan exposures, the Group owns $3.2 billion of aircraft under operating leases in 2022

269

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review2

9

48

13

53

34

11

166

105

7

166

614

2022 

Expected  
Credit Loss 
$million

–

55

43

12

41

44

16

238

132

52

51

684

Maturity and expected credit loss for high-carbon sectors

2023 

Maturity Buckets¹

2023 

More than  
1 to 5 years 
$million

More than  
5 years 
$million

Expected  
Credit Loss 
$million

Sector

Automotive Manufacturers

Aviation

Cement

Coal Mining

Steel

Other Metals & Mining

Aluminium

Oil & Gas

Power

Shipping

Commercial Real Estate
Total balance1

Loans and 
advances 
(Drawn funding)
$million

3,566

1,339

719

42

1,649

2,151

537

6,444

5,516

5,971

7,664

35,598

Less than  
1 year 
$million

3,106

149

512

9

1,258

1,886

442

2,980

1,933

1,051

3,722

17,048

460

145

189

33

185

240

63

1,576

1,533

2,568

3,935

10,927

–

1,045

18

–

206

25

32

1,888

2,050

2,352

7

7,623

1  Excluded fair value of Other Metals & Mining of $321 million

2022 

Maturity Buckets¹

Sector

Automotive Manufacturers

Aviation

Cement

Coal Mining

Steel

Other Metals & Mining

Aluminium

Oil & Gas

Power

Shipping

Commercial Real Estate
Total balance2

1   Gross of credit impairment

Loans and 
advances  
(Drawn funding) 
$million

3,167

2,595

762

60

1,268

1,964

744

6,550

4,903

5,374

6,598

33,985

Less than  
1 year 
$million

2,450

118

661

2

1,080

1,660

528

3,100

1,615

918

2,568

14,700

More than  
1 to 5 years 
$million

More than  
5 years 
$million

717

749

63

41

180

281

114

1,734

1,279

2,567

3,949

11,674

–

1,728

38

17

8

23

102

1,716

2,009

1,889

81

7,611

2  Excluded fair value of Other Metals & Mining and Oil & Gas of $58 million

270

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileChina commercial real estate
The table below represents the on and off-balance sheet items that are exposed to China CRE by credit quality.

Further details can be found in the ‘Summary of Performance in 2023’ in pages 235 and 236.

Loans to customers

Off balance sheet

Total as at 31 December 2023

Loans to customers – By Credit quality

Gross

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3) 

Total as at 31 December 2023

Loans to customers – ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3) 

Total as at 31 December 2023

1   Rest of Group mainly includes Singapore

Loans to customers

Off balance sheet

Total as at 31 December 2022

Loans to customers – By Credit quality

Gross

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total as at 31 December 2022

Loans to customers – ECL

Strong

Satisfactory

Higher risk

Credit impaired (stage 3)

Total as at 31 December 2022

1   Rest of Group mainly includes Singapore

2023

China 
$million

Hong Kong 
$million

Rest of Group1
$million

584

42

626

33

339

8

204

584

–

(3)

–

(70)

(73)

1,821

82

1,903

–

619

–

1,202

1,821

–

(134)

–

(941)

(1,075)

2022

39

–

39

–

39

–

–

39

–

(12)

–

–

(12)

China 
$million

Hong Kong 
$million

Rest of Group1
$million

953

74

1,027

256

459

–

238

953

–

(9)

–

(37)

(46)

2,248

85

2,333

221

921

271

835

2,248

(19)

(110)

(83)

(559)

(771)

39

8

47

–

39

–

–

39

–

–

–

–

–

Total 
$million

2,444

124

2,568

33

997

8

1,406

2,444

–

(149)

–

(1,011)

(1,160)

Total 
$million

3,240

167

3,407

477

1,419

271

1,073

3,240

(19)

(119)

(83)

(596)

(817)

271

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewDebt securities and other eligible bills (audited)
This section provides further detail on gross debt securities and treasury bills.

The standard credit ratings used by the Group are those used by Standard & Poor’s or its equivalent. Debt securities held that 
have a short-term rating are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer. For securities that are unrated, the Group 
applies an internal credit rating, as described under the credit rating and measurement section on page 321.

Total gross debt securities and other eligible bills decreased by $11.4 billion to $160 billion (31 December 2022: $172 billion) due  
to action taken to manage liquidity, primarily in stage 1.

Stage 1 gross balance decreased by $7.8 billion to $158 billion (31 December 2022: $166 billion) of which $3.4 billion of the 
decrease was from unrated.

Stage 2 gross balance decreased by $3.6 billion to $2 billion (31 December 2022: $5 billion).

Stage 3 gross balance was broadly stable at $0.2 billion (31 December 2022: $0.1 billion).

Amortised cost and FVOCI

Stage 1

AAA

AA- to AA+

A- to A+

BBB- to BBB+

Lower than BBB-

Unrated

– Strong

– Satisfactory

Stage 2

AAA

AA- to AA+

A- to A+

BBB- to BBB+

Lower than BBB-

Unrated

– Strong

– Satisfactory

– Higher risk

Stage 3

Lower than BBB-

Unrated

Gross balance¹

Gross 
$million

158,314

61,920

34,244

38,891

13,098

1,611

8,550

7,415

1,135

1,860

98

22

81

499

893

267

217

50

–

164

72

92

160,338

2023

ECL 
$million

Net2
$million

(26)

158,288

(5)

(2)

(2)

(7)

(2)

(8)

(7)

(1)

(34)

–

–

–

(3)

(30)

(1)

–

(1)

–

(61)

(4)

(57)

(121)

61,915

34,242

38,889

13,091

1,609

8,542

7,408

1,134

1,826

98

22

81

496

863

266

217

49

–

103

68

35

Gross 
$million

166,103

73,933

42,327

29,488

7,387

1,047

11,921

11,760

161

5,455

21

40

17

2,605

2,485

287

26

–

261

144

67

77

2022

ECL 
$million

(25)

(10)

(4)

(2)

(1)

(2)

(6)

(6)

–

(90)

–

–

(1)

(16)

(71)

(2)

(2)

–

–

(106)

(55)

(51)

(221)

Net2
$million

166,078

73,923

42,323

29,486

7,386

1,045

11,915

11,754

161

5,365

21

40

16

2,589

2,414

285

24

–

261

38

12

26

171,481

160,217

171,702

1   Stage 3 gross includes $80 million (31 December 2022: $28 million) originated credit-impaired debt securities with impairment of $14 million (31 December 2022:  

$13 million) 

2   FVOCI instrument are not presented net of ECL. While the presentation is on a net basis for the table, the total net on-balance sheet amount is $160,263 million  

(31 December 2022: $171,640 million). Refer to the Analysis of financial instrument by stage table 

272

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileIFRS 9 expected credit loss methodology (audited) 

Approach for determining expected credit losses
Credit loss terminology

Component

Definition

Probability of default (PD) 

Loss given default (LGD) 

Exposure at default (EAD)

The probability that a counterparty will default, over the next 12 months from the reporting date 
(stage 1) or over the lifetime of the product (stage 2), incorporating the impact of forward-
looking economic assumptions that have an effect on Credit Risk, such as unemployment rates 
and GDP forecasts.
The PD estimates will fluctuate in line with the economic cycle. The lifetime (or term structure) 
PDs are based on statistical models, calibrated using historical data and adjusted to incorporate 
forward-looking economic assumptions.

The loss that is expected to arise on default, incorporating the impact of forward-looking 
economic assumptions where relevant, which represents the difference between the 
contractual cashflows due and those that the bank expects to receive.
The Group estimates LGD based on the history of recovery rates and considers the recovery of 
any collateral that is integral to the financial asset, taking into account forward-looking 
economic assumptions where relevant.

The expected balance sheet exposure at the time of default, taking into account expected 
changes over the lifetime of the exposure. This incorporates the impact of drawdowns of 
facilities with limits, repayments of principal and interest, and amortisation.

To determine the expected credit loss, these components  
are multiplied together: PD for the reference period (up to  
12 months or lifetime) x LGD x EAD and discounted to the 
balance sheet date using the effective interest rate as the 
discount rate.

IFRS 9 expected credit loss models have been developed for 
the Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) 
businesses on a global basis, in line with their respective 
portfolios. However, for some of the key countries, country-
specific models have also been developed.

The calibration of forward-looking information is assessed  
at a country or region level to take into account local 
macroeconomic conditions.

Retail expected credit loss models are country and product 
specific given the local nature of the CPBB business.

For less material retail portfolios, the Group has adopted less 
sophisticated approaches based on historical roll rates or  
loss rates:

•  For medium-sized retail portfolios, a roll rate model is 

applied, which uses a matrix that gives the average loan 
migration rate between delinquency states from period  
to period. A matrix multiplication is then performed to 
generate the final PDs by delinquency bucket over different 
time horizons.

•  For smaller retail portfolios, loss rate models are applied. 
These use an adjusted gross charge-off rate, developed 
using monthly write-off and recoveries over the preceding  
12 months and total outstanding balances.

•  While the loss rate models do not incorporate forward-

looking information, to the extent that there are significant 
changes in the macroeconomic forecasts an assessment 
will be completed on whether an adjustment to the 
modelled output is required.

For a limited number of exposures, proxy parameters or 
approaches are used where the data is not available to 
calculate the origination PDs for the purpose of applying the 
SICR criteria; or for some retail portfolios where a full history  
of LGD data is not available, estimates based on the loss 
experience from similar portfolios are used. The use of proxies 
is monitored and will reduce over time.

The following processes are in place to assess the ongoing 
performance of the models:

•  Quarterly model monitoring that uses recent data to 

compare the differences between model predictions and 
actual outcomes against approved thresholds.

•  Annual independent validations of the performance of 
material models by Group Model Valuation (GMV); an 
abridged validation is completed for non-material models.

Application of lifetime
Expected credit loss is estimated based on the period over 
which the Group is exposed to Credit Risk. For the majority of 
exposures this equates to the maximum contractual period. 
For retail credit cards and corporate overdraft facilities, 
however, the Group does not typically enforce the contractual 
period, which can be as short as one day. As a result, the 
period over which the Group is exposed to Credit Risk for these 
instruments reflects their behavioural life, which incorporates 
expectations of customer behaviour and the extent to which 
Credit Risk management actions curtail the period of that 
exposure. The average behavioural life for retail credit cards  
is between 3 and 6 years across our footprint markets.

The behavioural life for corporate overdraft facilities is  
24 months.

273

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewComposition of credit impairment provisions (audited)
The table below summarises the key components of the Group’s credit impairment provision balances at 31 December 2023 and 
31 December 2022.

31 December 2023

Modelled ECL provisions (base forecast)

Modelled impact of multiple economic scenarios

Total ECL provisions before management judgements

Includes: Model performance post model adjustments

Judgemental post model adjustments
Management overlays1

– China commercial real estate

– Other 

Total modelled provisions

Of which:  Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 3 non-modelled provisions

Total credit impairment provisions

31 December 2022

Modelled ECL provisions (base forecast)

Modelled impact of multiple economic scenarios

Total ECL provisions before management judgements

Includes: Model performance post model adjustments

Judgemental post model adjustments
Management overlays1

– China commercial real estate

– Other

Total modelled provisions

Of which: Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 3 non-modelled provisions

Total credit impairment provisions

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking  
$ million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking  
$ million

Ventures  
$ million

Central &  
other items  
$ million2

372

20

392

(3)

–

141

–

533

151

318

64

3,587

4,120

553

18

571

(28)

2

–

5

578

325

140

113

646

1,224

48

–

48

–

–

–

–

48

15

21

12

–

48

98

6

104

–

–

–

17

121

68

49

4

88

209

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking  
$ million

Consumer, 
Private &  
Business  
Banking  
$ million

Ventures  
$ million

Central &  
other items2 
$ million

505

38

543

(22)

–

173

9

725

194

411

120

3,702

4,427

556

6

562

(38)

44

–

37

643

413

118

112

664

1,307

12

–

12

–

–

–

–

12

10

1

1

–

12

194

6

200

–

–

–

–

200

34

100

66

129

329

Total  
$ million

1,071

44

1,115

(31)

2

141

22

1,280

559

528

193

4,321

5,601

Total  
$ million

1,267

50

1,317

(60)

44

173

46

1,580

651

630

299

4,495

6,075

1   $22 million (31 December 2022: $55 million) is in stage 1, $141 million (31 December 2022: $148 million) in stage 2 and $nil million (31 December 2022: $16 million)  

in stage 3

2   Includes ECL on cash and balances at central banks, accrued income, assets held for sale and other assets

274

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Model performance post model adjustments (PMA)
As part of normal model monitoring and validation 
operational processes, where a model’s performance 
breaches the monitoring thresholds or validation standards, 
an assessment is completed to determine whether a model 
performance post model adjustment is required to correct  
for the identified model issue. Model performance post  
model adjustments are approved by the Group Credit  
Model Assessment Committee and will be removed when  
the models are updated to correct for the identified  
model issue or the estimates return to being within the 
monitoring thresholds.

As at 31 December 2023, model performance post model 
adjustments have been applied for 5 models out of the total 
of 172 models. In aggregate, these post model adjustments 
reduce the Group’s impairment provisions by $31 million  
(2 per cent of modelled provisions) compared with a  
$60 million decrease at 31 December 2022. The most 
significant of these relates to an adjustment to decrease  
ECL for Korea Personal Loans as the IFRS 9 PD model is 
sensitive to the higher range of interest rates.

In addition to these model performance post model 
adjustments, separate judgemental post model and 
management adjustments have also been applied as  
set out on pages 279 and 280.

Model performance PMAs

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Total model performance PMAs

Key assumptions and judgements in determining expected 
credit loss 

Incorporation of forward-looking information 
The evolving economic environment is a key determinant  
of the ability of a bank’s clients to meet their obligations as 
they fall due. It is a fundamental principle of IFRS 9 that the 
provisions banks hold against potential future Credit Risk 
losses should depend, not just on the health of the economy 
today, but should also take into account potential changes  
to the economic environment. For example, if a bank were to 
anticipate a sharp slowdown in the world economy over the 
coming year, it should hold more provisions today to absorb 
the credit losses likely to occur in the near future.

To capture the effect of changes to the economic 
environment, the PDs and LGDs used to calculate ECL 
incorporate forward-looking information in the form of 
forecasts of the values of economic variables and asset  
prices that are likely to have an effect on the repayment 
ability of the Group’s clients.

The ‘base forecast’ of the economic variables and asset prices 
is based on management’s view of the five-year outlook, 
supported by projections from the Group’s in-house research 
team and outputs from a third-party model that project 
specific economic variables and asset prices. The research 
team takes consensus views into consideration, and senior 
management review projections for some core country 
variables against consensus when forming their view of the 
outlook. For the period beyond five years, management 
utilises the in-house research view and third-party model 
outputs, which allow for a reversion to long-term growth rates 
or norms. All projections are updated on a quarterly basis.

2023  
$ million

2022  
$ million

(3)

(28)

(31)

(22)

(38)

(60)

Forecast of key macroeconomic variables underlying  
the expected credit loss calculation and the impact on 
non-linearity
In the Base Forecast – management’s view of the most likely 
outcome –the pace of growth of the world economy is 
expected to slow marginally in the near term. Global GDP  
is forecast to grow by just below 3 per cent in 2024. World  
GDP growth averaged 3.7 per cent for the 10 years prior to 
COVID-19 (between 2010 and 2019). The world economy 
should be able to achieve a soft landing after the most 
aggressive monetary tightening cycle in years, although  
risks abound. The lagged impact of aggressive central  
bank tightening is likely to be felt most acutely in developed 
economies.

Lingering inflation and geopolitical developments are risks to 
the global soft-landing scenario. The ongoing war in Ukraine, 
conflicts in the Middle East, ongoing US-China tensions, and 
the November 2024 US election are key sources of geopolitical 
and political risk; they come against a backdrop of increasing 
global fragmentation. On the inflation front, it is unclear 
whether it can slow on a sustained basis. Core inflation has 
remained sticky in some markets, signalling persistent 
underlying pressures. Structural factors – including higher 
fiscal deficits, the cost of the climate transition and recent 
under-investment in fossil fuels – could keep inflation higher 
than during the pre-COVID period. Oil prices and geopolitical 
conflict are also sources of upside inflation risk.

While the quarterly Base Forecasts inform the Group’s 
strategic plan, one key requirement of IFRS 9 is that the 
assessment of provisions should consider multiple future 
economic environments. For example, the global economy 
may grow more quickly or more slowly than the Base Forecast, 
and these variations would have different implications for the 
provisions that the Group should hold today. As the negative 
impact of an economic downturn on credit losses tends to  
be greater than the positive impact of an economic upturn,  
if the Group sets provisions only on the ECL under the Base 
Forecast it might maintain a level of provisions that does not 
appropriately capture the range of potential outcomes.  
To address the inherent uncertainty in economic forecast,  
and the property of skewness (or non-linearity), IFRS 9 requires 
reported ECL to be a probability-weighted ECL, calculated 
over a range of possible outcomes.

275

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewTo assess the range of possible outcomes the Group simulates 
a set of 50 scenarios around the Base Forecast, calculates  
the ECL under each of them and assigns an equal weight of  
2 per cent to each scenario outcome. These scenarios are 
generated by a Monte Carlo simulation, which addresses the 
challenges of crafting many realistic alternative scenarios in 
the many countries in which the Group operates by means of 
a model, which produces these alternative scenarios while 
considering the degree of historical uncertainty (or volatility) 
observed from Q1 1990 to Q3 2023 around economic 
outcomes, the trends in each macroeconomic variable 
modelled and the correlation in the unexplained movements 
around these trends. This naturally means that each of the  
50 scenarios do not have a specific narrative, although 
collectively they explore a range of hypothetical alternative 
outcomes for the global economy, including scenarios that 
turn out better than expected and scenarios that amplify 
anticipated stresses.

The GDP graphs below illustrate the shape of the Base 
Forecast for key footprint markets in relation to prior periods’ 
actuals. The long-term growth rates are based on the pace  
of economic expansion expected for 2030. The tables below 
provide a summary of the Group’s Base Forecast for these 
markets. The peak/trough amounts show the highest and 
lowest points within the Base Forecast.

China’s GDP growth is expected to ease to 4.8 per cent in  
2024 from over 5 per cent in 2023. This reflects a continued 
contraction in the property sector, a negative contribution 
from foreign trade, and low consumer and business 
confidence. Similarly, Hong Kong is also facing several 
headwinds with its GDP growth expected to ease to  
2.9 per cent from 3.3 per cent in 2023. These headwinds 
include a weak property sector and elevated interest rates 
which will weigh on investment appetite for Hong Kong 
assets. Limited external demand from key markets will also 
weigh on exports. Growth in the US is expected to slow on the 
impact of tighter financial and credit conditions and as the 
impact of previous interest rate increases by the central bank 
feed through to the economy. For similar reasons, Eurozone 
growth is expected to remain weak in 2024. The uncertainty 
over the ongoing war in Ukraine, conflicts in the Middle East 
has hit global investor and business confidence. Growth in 
India is expected to ease to 6 per cent from 6.7 per cent in 
2023 due to impact from pre-election uncertainties, tighter 
lending conditions and global recession concerns.

In contrast, GDP growth for Singapore is expected to 
accelerate to just over 2.5 per cent in 2024 from 0.8 per cent 
last year. Favourable base effects may boost exports, despite 
the soft global growth outlook. The global electronics and 
semiconductor industry is showing signs of bottoming out. 
Although a strong rebound is not expected, inventory 
restocking may provide a small boost to Singapore’s 
electronics sector. Korea’s economic growth will also benefit 
from the turnaround in this key sector. GDP growth there  
is expected to reach 2.3 per cent in 2024 from 1.3 per cent  
last year. 

China GDP YoY%

Hong Kong GDP YoY%

Korea GDP YoY%

20

16

12

8

4

0

-4

-8

Actual

Forecast

Long-term growth

10

8

6

4

2

0

-2

-4

-6

-8

-10

Actual

Forecast

Long-term growth

Actual

Forecast

Long-term growth

7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
-4

15
Q1

16
Q1

17
Q1

18
Q1

19
Q1

20
Q1

21
Q1

22
Q1

23
Q1

24
Q1

25
Q1

26
Q1

27
Q1

28
Q1

15
Q1

16
Q1

17
Q1

18
Q1

19
Q1

20
Q1

21
Q1

22
Q1

23
Q1

24
Q1

25
Q1

26
Q1

27
Q1

28
Q1

15
Q1

16
Q1

17
Q1

18
Q1

19
Q1

20
Q1

21
Q1

22
Q1

23
Q1

24
Q1

25
Q1

26
Q1

27
Q1

28
Q1

Singapore GDP YoY%

India GDP YoY%

20

15

10

5

0

-5

-10

-15

Actual

Forecast

Long-term growth

30

20

10

0

-10

-20

-30

Actual

Forecast

Long-term growth

15
Q1

16
Q1

17
Q1

18
Q1

19
Q1

20
Q1

21
Q1

22
Q1

23
Q1

24
Q1

25
Q1

26
Q1

27
Q1

28
Q1

15
Q1

16
Q1

17
Q1

18
Q1

19
Q1

20
Q1

21
Q1

22
Q1

23
Q1

24
Q1

25
Q1

26
Q1

27
Q1

28
Q1

276

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileBase forecast1

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

Base forecast1

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

Base forecast1

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

China

Hong Kong

2023 year-end forecasts

GDP growth 
(YoY%)

Unemployment 
%

3-month 
interest rates 
%

House prices⁵ 
(YoY %)

GDP growth 
(YoY %)

Unemployment 
%

3-month 
interest rates 
%

House prices 
(YoY %)

5.4

4.8

4.5

4.3

4.0

4.3

5.7

3.8

0.6

7.7

4.1

4.1

4.0

4.0

3.9

4.0

4.1

3.8

3.3

4.4

2.0

1.7

1.8

2.0

2.2

2.1

2.5

1.7

0.8

3.8

(0.8)

3.9

5.6

4.5

4.4

4.6

7.2

1.5

(1.5)

12.0

3.3

2.9

2.5

2.3

2.4

2.5

3.8

1.5

(3.8)

8.2

3.0

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

1.4

6.4

4.8

4.6

4.1

3.5

2.5

3.4

5.0

2.3

0.3

8.3

(6.8)

2.1

3.8

2.8

2.7

2.8

4.6

(1.1)

(19.3)

25.5

Singapore

Korea

2023 year-end forecasts

GDP growth 
(YoY%)

Unemployment⁶ 
%

3-month 
interest rates 
%

House prices 
(YoY%)

GDP growth 
(YoY%)

Unemployment 
%

3-month 
interest rates 
%

House prices 
(YoY %)

0.8

2.6

3.1

3.3

2.8

2.9

3.8

1.9

(2.4)

8.5

2.7

2.8

2.8

2.8

2.8

2.8

2.9

2.8

1.7

3.8

4.1

3.8

3.3

2.8

2.4

2.9

4.1

2.3

0.6

5.9

6.8

(0.2)

0.4

2.9

3.9

2.2

3.9

(0.7)

(16.2)

19.2

1.3

2.3

2.5

2.4

2.2

2.3

2.6

2.0

(2.3)

7.0

2.7

3.3

3.3

3.1

3.0

3.1

3.5

3.0

1.4

5.8

3.8

3.5

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.7

3.1

0.7

6.3

(5.8)

3.3

5.0

3.5

2.4

3.3

5.3

(0.3)

(6.1)

12.5

2023 year-end forecasts

India

GDP growth 
(YoY%)

Unemployment  
%

3month 
interest rates  
%

House prices  
(YoY%)

Brent Crude  
$ pb

6.7

6.0

6.0

6.4

6.5

6.2

9.1

4.4

2.1

10.5

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

6.4

5.9

6.3

6.3

6.2

6.2

6.3

5.8

2.7

9.9

5.3

5.3

6.3

6.5

6.4

6.1

6.5

4.7

(0.5)

13.8

84.2

89.5

90.3

92.8

84.9

88.2

93.8

82.8

46.0

137.8

277

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewChina

Hong Kong

2022 year-end forecasts

GDP growth  
(YoY%)

Unemployment  
%

3-month 
interest rates  
%

House prices⁵  
(YoY%)

GDP growth  
(YoY%)

Unemployment  
%

3-month 
interest rates  
%

House prices  
(YoY%)

5.1

7.9

4.5

1.1

9.6

3.9

4.1

3.8

3.4

4.3

2.3

3.0

1.4

0.6

4.4

3.6

5.0

0.0

(3.4)

10.0

2.3

4.3

0.5

(3.8)

8.0

3.0

3.1

2.9

1.7

4.2

2.8

3.6

2.4

0.5

6.1

1.7

4.9

(8.4)

(22.0)

26.8

Singapore

Korea

2022 year-end forecasts

GDP growth  
(YoY%)

Unemployment⁶  
%

3-month 
interest rates  
%

House prices  
(YoY%)

GDP growth  
(YoY%)

Unemployment  
%

3-month 
interest rates  
%

House prices  
(YoY%)

2.7

3.7

1.7

(3.4)

8.6

3.0

3.2

3.0

2.1

4.5

3.1

4.7

2.4

0.8

5.6

2.8

4.7

(2.4)

(15.9)

20.4

2.2

2.5

1.8

(2.8)

7.0

3.1

3.3

3.0

1.1

4.9

2022 year-end forecasts

India

3.1

3.9

2.7

1.1

5.9

2.1

2.8

(0.4)

(5.4)

10.0

GDP growth  
(YoY%)

Unemployment  
%

3-month 
interest rates  
%

House prices  
(YoY%)

Brent crude  
$ pb

6.4

7.7

3.2

1.5

12.1

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

5.6

6.3

5.3

1.9

9.5

5.7

7.2

1.6

(1.1)

13.0

106.6

118.8

88.0

42.4

204.2

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

5-year average2

Quarterly peak

Quarterly trough

Monte Carlo
Low3
High4

1   Data presented are those used in the calculation of ECL. These may differ slightly to forecasts presented elsewhere in the Annual Report as they are finalised 

before the period end.

2   5 year averages reported cover Q1 2024 to Q4 2028 for the 2023 annual report. They cover Q1 2023 to Q4 2027 for the numbers reported for the 2022 annual report. 

3   Represents the 10th percentile in the range of economic scenarios used to determine non-linearity.

4   Represents the 90th percentile in the range of economic scenarios used to determine non-linearity.

5   A judgemental management adjustment is held in respect of the China commercial real estate sector as discussed on page 280.

6   Singapore unemployment rate covers the resident unemployment rate, which refers to citizens and permanent residents.

278

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileImpact of multiple economic scenarios
The final probability-weighted ECL reported by the Group is a simple average of the ECL for each of the 50 scenarios simulated 
using a Monte Carlo model. The Monte Carlo approach has the advantage that it generates many alternative scenarios that 
cover our global footprint. 

The total amount of non-linearity, calculated as the difference between the probability-weighted ECL calculated by the  
Monte Carlo model and the unweighted base forecast ECL, is $44 million (31 December 2022: $50 million). The CCIB and Central 
and other items portfolios accounted for $26 million (31 December 2022: $44 million) of the calculated non-linearity with the 
remaining $18 million (31 December 2022: $6 million) attributable to CPBB portfolios. As the non-linearity calculated for the  
CPBB portfolios at 31 December 2022 was relatively low, a judgemental post model adjustment of $34 million was applied. 
Subsequent stand-back analysis was completed during the first half of 2023 to benchmark the ECL non-linearity calculated 
using the Monte Carlo model, which confirmed that the calculated non-linearity for CPBB portfolios was appropriate and the 
judgemental post model adjustment was released.

The impact of multiple economic scenarios on stage 1, stage 2 and stage 3 modelled ECL is set out in the table below, together 
with the management overlay and other judgemental adjustments.

Total expected credit loss at 31 December 2023

Total expected credit loss at 31 December 2022

Management 
overlays and 
other 
judgemental 
adjustments 
$million

165

229

Multiple 
economic 
scenarios1
$million

44

84

Total  
modelled  
ECL2 

$million

1.280

1,580

Base forecast 
$million

1,071

1,267

1  

Includes judgemental post model adjustment of $nil million (31 December 2022: $34 million) relating to Consumer, Private and Business Banking

2  Total modelled ECL comprises stage 1 and stage 2 balances of $1,105 million (31 December 2022: $1,281 million) and $193 million (31 December 2022: $299 million)  

of modelled ECL on stage 3 loans

3 

Includes ECL on Assets held for sale of $37 million (31 December 2022: $10 million)

The average expected credit loss under multiple scenarios is 4 per cent (2022: 7 per cent) higher than the expected credit loss 
calculated using only the most likely scenario (the Base Forecast). Portfolios that are more sensitive to non-linearity include 
those with greater leverage and/or a longer tenor, such as Project and Shipping Finance portfolios. Other portfolios display 
minimal non-linearity owing to limited responsiveness to macroeconomic impacts for structural reasons, such as significant 
collateralisation as with the CPBB mortgage portfolios.

Judgemental adjustments
As at 31 December 2023, the Group held judgemental adjustments for ECL as set out in the table below. All of the judgemental 
adjustments have been determined after taking account of the model performance post model adjustments reported on 
page 275. They are reassessed quarterly and are reviewed and approved by the IFRS 9 Impairment Committee and will be 
released when no longer relevant.

31 December 2023

Judgemental post model adjustments

Judgemental management overlays:

– China CRE

– Other

Total judgemental adjustments

Judgemental adjustments by stage:

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

31 December 2022

Judgemental post model adjustments

Judgemental management overlays:

– China CRE

– Other

Total judgemental adjustments

Judgemental adjustments by stage:

Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking  
$ million

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Mortgages  
$ million

Credit Cards  
$ million

Other  
$ million

Total  
$ million

Central & 
other  
$ million

Total  
$ million

–

141

–

141

17

124

–

–

–

1

1

1

–

1

–

2

3

3

–

–

1

–

2

3

6

(3)

–

2

–

5

7

10

(3)

–

–

–

17

17

–

17

–

2

141

22

165

27

138

–

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking  
$ million

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Mortgages  
$ million

Credit Cards  
$ million

Other  
$ million

Total  
$million

Central & 
other  
$million

Total  
$million

–

173

9

182

37

136

9

3

–

2

5

1

3

1

11

–

5

16

5

9

2

30

–

30

60

39

17

4

44

–

37

81

45

29

7

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

44

173

46

263

82

165

16

279

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewJudgemental post model adjustments
As at 31 December 2023, judgemental post model 
adjustments to increase ECL by a net $2 million (31 December 
2022: $44 million increase) have been applied to certain CPBB 
models, primarily to adjust for temporary factors impacting 
modelled outputs. These will be released when these factors 
normalise. At 31 December 2022, $34 million of the increase in 
ECL related to multiple economic scenarios, which was fully 
released in the first half of 2023 (see ‘Impact of multiple 
economic scenarios’).

Judgemental management overlays 
China CRE 
The real estate market in China has now been in a downturn 
since late 2021 as evidenced by continued decline in sales,  
and investments in the sector. Liquidity issues experienced by 
Chinese property developers continued into 2023 with more 
developers defaulting on their obligations both offshore and 
onshore. During 2023, authorities on the mainland have 
introduced a slew of policies to help revive the sector and 
restore buying sentiments. This has helped stabilise the 
market to an extent in some cities, but demand and home 
prices remain muted overall. Continued policy relaxations, 
including those related to house purchase restrictions, 
completion support for eligible projects from onshore financial 
institutions, relaxation in mortgage rates, and further support 
for affordable housing, are key for reversing the continued 
decline in sales and investments and ensuring a stable outlook 
for 2024.

The Group’s loans and advances to China CRE clients was 
$2.4 billion at 31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: 
$3.2 billion). Client level analysis continues to be done, with 
clients being placed on purely precautionary or non-purely 
precautionary early alert, where appropriate, for closer 
monitoring. Given the evolving nature of the risks in the  
China CRE sector, a management overlay of $141 million 
(31 December 2022: $173 million) has been taken by estimating 
the impact of further deterioration to exposures in this sector. 
The decrease from 31 December 2022 was primarily driven  
by repayments and movement of some of the exposures  
to Stage 3.

Other
Overlays of $5 million (31 December 2022: $16 million) have 
also been applied in CPBB to capture macroeconomic 
environment challenges caused by sovereign defaults or 
heightened sovereign risk, the impact of which is not fully 
captured in the modelled outcomes. An overlay of $17 million 
(2022: nil) was applied in Central & Other due to a temporary 
market dislocation in the Africa and Middle East region. 

The remaining COVID-19 overlay in CPBB of $21 million that 
was held as at 31 December 2022 has been fully released in 
2023. The stage 3 overlay in CCIB of $9 million that was held as 
at 31 December 2022 following the Sri Lanka Sovereign default 
was also fully released in 2023.

Stage 3 assets
Credit-impaired assets managed by Stressed Asset Group 
(SAG) incorporate forward-looking economic assumptions  
in respect of the recovery outcomes identified and are 
assigned individual probability weightings per IFRS 9.  
These assumptions are not based on a Monte Carlo 
simulation but are informed by the Base Forecast.

Sensitivity of expected credit loss calculation to 
macroeconomic variables 
The ECL calculation relies on multiple variables and is 
inherently non-linear and portfolio-dependent, which implies 
that no single analysis can fully demonstrate the sensitivity  
of the ECL to changes in the macroeconomic variables.  
The Group has conducted a series of analyses with the aim of 
identifying the macroeconomic variables which might have 
the greatest impact on the overall ECL. These encompassed 
single variable and multi-variable exercises, using simple up/ 
down variation and extracts from actual calculation data,  
as well as bespoke scenario design assessments.

The primary conclusion of these exercises is that no individual 
macroeconomic variable is materially influential. The Group 
believes this is plausible as the number of variables used  
in the ECL calculation is large. This does not mean that 
macroeconomic variables are uninfluential; rather, that the 
Group believes that consideration of macroeconomics should 
involve whole scenarios, as this aligns with the multi-variable 
nature of the calculation.

The Group faces downside risks in the operating environment 
related to the uncertainties surrounding the macroeconomic 
outlook. To explore this, a sensitivity analysis of ECL was 
undertaken to explore the effect of slower economic 
recoveries across the Group’s footprint markets. Two downside 
scenarios were considered in particular to explore the current 
uncertainties over commodity prices. The first scenario, Global 
Stagflation, explores a temporary spike (relative to base) in 
commodity prices, inflation and interest rates in the near term 
from the ongoing war in Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle 
East. The second more severe scenario is based on the Bank of 
England’s most recent Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS), which 
explores a persistent rise in commodity prices, inflation and 
interest rates.

280

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileChina GDP

China unemployment

China property prices

Hong Kong GDP

Hong Kong unemployment

Hong Kong property prices

US GDP

Singapore GDP

India GDP

Crude oil 

Baseline

Global Stagflation

Five year 
average

Peak/Trough

Five year 
average

4.3

4.0

4.6

2.5

3.4

2.8

1.7

2.9

6.2

5.7 / 3.8

4.1 / 3.8

7.2 / 1.5

3.8 / 1.5

3.4 / 3.4

4.6 / (1.1)

2.3 / 0.8

3.8 / 1.9

9.1 / 4.4

3.7

5.3

4.4

1.8

5.4

1.6

1.4

2.7

4.9

Peak/Trough

6.2 / (0.8)

6.4 / 3.8

15.9 / (17.5)

5.6 / (1.4)

7.4 / 3.4

9.4 / (3.8)

2.7 / (1.3)

5.0 / (1.6)

6.6 / 0.6

88.2

93.8 / 82.8

95.3

152.9 / 82.8

ACS

Five year 
average

2.2

5.3

(5.5)

(0.6)

6.3

Peak/Trough

3.9 / (3.4)

5.7 / 4.6

9.2 / (16.3)

2.9 / (9.4)

7.5 / 3.9

(9.7)

6.2 / (22.5)

0.1

1.2

4.2

118

1.5 / (4.8)

5.9 / (8.7)

7.3 / (0.7)

147.9 / 83.6

Period covered from Q1 2024 to Q4 2028

Base (GDP, YoY%)

Global Stagflation

Difference from Base

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

China

Hong Kong

US

Singapore

India

4.8

2.9

1.4

2.6

6.0

4.5

2.5

1.5

3.1

5.5

4.3

2.3

1.8

3.3

6.5

4.0

2.4

1.9

2.8

6.4

3.8

2.2

1.9

2.6

6.6

1.5

0.9

0.0

0.3

2.6

1.6

(1.0)

0.2

0.6

3.9

4.8

1.7

1.8

3.7

5.6

5.7

5.0

2.6

4.8

6.5

4.8

2.4

2.4

4.0

5.7

(3.3)

(2.0)

(1.5)

(2.3)

(3.4)

(2.9)

(3.5)

(1.3)

(2.4)

0.5

(0.6)

0.0

0.4

(1.6)

(0.8)

1.7

2.5

0.7

2.0

0.1

1.0

0.2

0.5

1.3

(0.9)

Each year is from Q1 to Q4. For example 2024 is from Q1 2024 to Q4 2024.

Base (GDP, YoY%)

 ACS

Difference from Base

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

China

Hong Kong

US

Singapore

India

4.8

2.9

1.4

2.6

6.0

4.5

2.5

1.5

3.1

5.5

4.3

2.3

1.8

3.3

6.5

4.0

2.4

1.9

2.8

6.4

3.8

2.2

1.9

2.6

6.6

(0.9)

(5.3)

(1.7)

(3.8)

2.8

1.3

(3.5)

(1.5)

0.0

2.2

3.7

2.6

1.0

4.2

4.9

3.4

1.8

1.3

2.9

5.3

3.4

1.5

1.3

2.7

5.5

(5.6)

(3.2)

(0.5)

(0.6)

(0.4)

(8.1)

(6.0)

0.3

(0.6)

(0.7)

(3.2)

(6.4)

(3.2)

(2.9)

(0.8)

(0.6)

(0.6)

(3.1)

(3.3)

0.9

0.1

0.1

(1.6)

(1.1)

(1.2)

Each year is from Q1 to Q4. For example 2024 is from Q1 2024 to Q4 2024

The total modelled stage 1 and 2 ECL provisions (including 
both on and off-balance sheet instruments) would be 
approximately $153 million higher under the Global 
Stagflation scenario, and $489 million higher under the ACS 
scenario than the baseline ECL provisions (which excluded  
the impact of multiple economic scenarios and management 
overlays which may already capture some of the risks in these 
scenarios). Stage 2 exposures as a proportion of stage 1 and 2 
exposures would increase from 3.7 per cent in the base case  
to 4.1 per cent and 6.5 per cent respectively under the Global 
Stagflation and ACS scenarios. This includes the impact of 
exposures transferring to stage 2 from stage 1 but does not 
consider an increase in stage 3 defaults.

Under both scenarios, the majority of the increase in ECL  
in CCIB came from the main corporate and CRE portfolios.  
For the main corporate portfolios, ECL would increase by  
$20 million and $79 million for the Global stagflation and  
ACS scenarios respectively and the proportion of stage 2 
exposures would increase from 5.5 per cent in the base case  
to 5.9 per cent and 8.2 per cent respectively.

For the CPBB portfolios, most of the increase in ECL came from 
the unsecured retail portfolios, with the Taiwan and Korea 
Personal Loans impacted. Under the Global Stagflation and 
ACS scenarios, Credit card ECL would increase by $28 million 
and $66 million respectively, largely in the Singapore and 
Hong Kong portfolios and the proportion of stage 2 credit 
card exposures would increase from 1.5 per cent in the base 
case to 2.1 per cent and 3.3 per cent for each scenario 
respectively, with the Singapore portfolio most impacted. 
Mortgages ECL would increase by $1 million and $45 million  
for each scenario respectively, with portfolios in Hong Kong 
and Korea most impacted and the proportion of stage 2 
mortgages would increase from 1.2 per cent in the base  
case to 1.7 per cent and 14 per cent respectively, with the  
Hong Kong and Singapore portfolios most impacted.

There was no material change in modelled stage 3 provisions 
as these primarily relate to unsecured CPBB exposures  
for which the LGD is not sensitive to changes in the 
macroeconomic forecasts. There is also no material change 
for non-modelled stage 3 exposures as these are more 
sensitive to client specific factors than to alternative 
macroeconomic scenarios.

The actual outcome of any scenario may be materially 
different due to, among other factors, the effect of 
management actions to mitigate potential increases  
in risk and changes in the underlying portfolio.

281

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewGross as  
reported1 
$ million

ECL as  
reported2 
$ million

ECL  
Base case  
$ million

ECL Global 
Stagflation  
$ million 

ECL ACS  
$ million

Stage 1 modelled

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & Other items

Total stage 1 excluding management judgements

Stage 2 modelled

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & Other items

Total stage 2 excluding management judgements

Total Stage 1 & 2 modelled

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & Other items

Total excluding management judgements

Stage 3 exposures excluding other assets
Other financial assets3

ECL from management judgements

337,189

190,999

1,015

194,673

723,876

16,873

2,472

54

2,869

22,268

354.062

193,471

1,069

197,542

746,144

8,144

111,478

Total financial assets reported at 31 December 2023

865,766

134

315

15

35

499

194

143

21

21

379

328

458

36

56

878

4,499

59

165

5,601

124

306

15

32

477

184

134

21

18

357

308

440

36

50

834

136

355

15

40

546

234

167

21

19

441

370

522

36

59

987

164

455

15

50

684

333

263

21

22

639

497

718

36

72

1,323

1   Gross balances includes both on- and off- balance sheet instruments; allocation between stage 1 and 2 will differ by scenario

2   Includes ECL for both on- and off- balance sheet instruments

3   Includes cash and balances at central banks, Accrued income, Other financial assets; and Assets held for sale

Significant increase in credit risk (SICR)
Quantitative criteria
SICR is assessed by comparing the risk of default at the 
reporting date to the risk of default at origination. Whether  
a change in the risk of default is significant or not is assessed 
using quantitative and qualitative criteria. These criteria  
have been separately defined for each business and where 
meaningful are consistently applied across business lines.

Assets are considered to have experienced SICR if they have 
breached both relative and absolute thresholds for the 
change in the average annualised IFRS 9 lifetime probability 
of default (IFRS 9 PD) over the residual term of the exposure.

The absolute measure of increase in credit risk is used to 
capture instances where the IFRS 9 PDs on exposures are 
relatively low at initial recognition as these may increase by 
several multiples without representing a significant increase  
in credit risk. Where IFRS 9 PDs are relatively high at initial 
recognition, a relative measure is more appropriate in 
assessing whether there is a significant increase in credit  
risk, as the IFRS 9 PDs increase more quickly.

The SICR thresholds have been calibrated based on the 
following principles:

•  Stability – The thresholds are set to achieve a stable stage 2 

population at a portfolio level, trying to minimise the 
number of accounts moving back and forth between  
stage 1 and stage 2 in a short period of time

•  Accuracy – The thresholds are set such that there is a 
materially higher propensity for stage 2 exposures to 
eventually default than is the case for stage 1 exposures

•  Dependency from backstops – The thresholds are stringent 
enough such that a high proportion of accounts transfer to 
stage 2 due to movements in forward-looking IFRS 9 PDs 
rather than relying on backward-looking backstops such  
as arrears

•  Relationship with business and product risk profiles – the 
thresholds reflect the relative risk differences between 
different products, and are aligned to business processes

For CCIB clients the quantitative thresholds are a relative  
100 per cent increase in IFRS 9 PD and an absolute change  
in IFRS 9 PD of between 50 and 100 bps.

For Consumer and Business Banking clients, portfolio specific 
quantitative thresholds in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, 
UAE and Taiwan are applied for credit cards and one personal 
loan portfolio. The thresholds include relative and absolute 
increases in IFRS 9 PD with average lifetime IFRS 9 PD cut-offs 
for those exposures that are within a range of customer 
utilisation limits (for credit cards) and remaining tenor (for 
personal loans) and differentiate between exposures that  
are current and those that are 1 to 29 days past due. 

282

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileThe range of thresholds applied are:

Portfolio

Credit cards – Current

Credit cards – 1-29 days past due

Personal loans – Current

Personal loan – 1-29 days past due

Relative IFRS 9  
PD increase  
(%)

Absolute IFRS 9  
PD increase  
(%)

Customer 
utilisation  
(%)

Remaining  
tenor  
(%)

Average  
IFRS 9 PD  
(lifetime)

50% – 150%

3.4% – 9.3%

15% – 90%

100% – 210%

3.5% – 6.1%

25% – 67%

–

25%

3.5%

3%

–

–

–

–

4.15% – 11.6%

1.5% – 18.5%

70%

75%

2.8%

–

For all other Consumer and Business Banking portfolios, the 
quantitative SICR thresholds applied are a relative threshold 
of 100 per cent increase in IFRS 9 PD and an absolute change 
in IFRS 9 PD of between 100 and 350 bps depending on the 
product. Certain countries have a higher absolute threshold 
reflecting the lower default rate within their personal loan 
portfolios compared with the Group’s other personal loan 
portfolios.

Private Banking clients are assessed qualitatively, based  
on a delinquency measure relating to collateral top-ups or 
sell-downs.

Qualitative criteria
Qualitative factors that indicate that there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk include processes linked to 
current risk management, such as placing loans on non-purely 
precautionary early alert.

Backstop
Across all portfolios, accounts that are 30 or more days past 
due (DPD) on contractual payments of principal and/or 
interest that have not been captured by the criteria above  
are considered to have experienced a significant increase in 
credit risk.

Expert credit judgement may be applied in assessing SICR to 
the extent that certain risks may not have been captured by 
the models or through the above criteria. Such instances are 
expected to be rare, for example due to events and material 
uncertainties arising close to the reporting date.

CCIB clients
Quantitative criteria
Exposures are assessed based on both the absolute and the 
relative movement in the IFRS 9 PD from origination to the 
reporting date as described above.

To account for the fact that the mapping between internal 
credit grades (used in the origination process) and IFRS 9 PDs 
is non-linear (e.g. a one-notch downgrade in the investment 
grade universe results in a much smaller IFRS 9 PD increase 
than in the sub-investment grade universe), the absolute 
thresholds have been differentiated by credit quality at 
origination, as measured by internal credit grades being 
investment grade or sub-investment grade.

Qualitative criteria
All assets of clients that have been placed on early alert  
(for non-purely precautionary reasons) are deemed to have 
experienced a significant increase in credit risk.

An account is placed on non-purely precautionary early alert 
if it exhibits risk or potential weaknesses of a material nature 
requiring closer monitoring, supervision or attention by 
management. Weaknesses in such a borrower’s account, if 
left uncorrected, could result in deterioration of repayment 
prospects and the likelihood of being downgraded. Indicators 
could include a rapid erosion of position within the industry, 
concerns over management’s ability to manage operations, 
weak/deteriorating operating results, liquidity strain and 
overdue balances, among other factors.

All client assets that have been assigned a CG12 rating, 
equivalent to ‘Higher risk’, are deemed to have experienced  
a significant increase in credit risk. Accounts rated CG12 are 
primarily managed by relationship managers in the CCIB unit 
with support from SAG for certain accounts. All CCIB clients 
are placed in CG12 when they are 30 DPD unless they are 
granted a waiver through a strict governance process.

Consumer and Business Banking clients
Quantitative criteria
Material portfolios (defined as a combination of country and 
product, for example Hong Kong mortgages, Singapore credit 
cards, Taiwan personal loans) for which a statistical model 
has been built, are assessed based on both the absolute and 
relative movement in the IFRS 9 PD from origination to the 
reporting date as described previously in page 273. For these 
portfolios, the original lifetime IFRS 9 PD term structure is 
determined based on the original Application Score or Risk 
Segment of the client.

Qualitative and backstop criteria
Accounts that are 30 DPD that have not been captured by  
the quantitative criteria are considered to have experienced  
a significant increase in credit risk. For less material portfolios, 
which are modelled based on a roll-rate or loss-rate approach, 
SICR is primarily assessed through the 30 DPD trigger. In 
addition, SICR is also assessed for where specific risk elevation 
events have occurred in a market that are not yet reflected  
in modelled outcomes or in other metrics. This is applied 
collectively either to impacted specific products/customer 
cohorts or across the overall consumer banking portfolio in  
the affected market.

283

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewPrivate Banking clients
For Private Banking clients, SICR is assessed by referencing  
the nature and the level of collateral against which credit is 
extended (known as ‘Classes of Risk’).

Qualitative criteria
For all Private Banking classes, in line with risk management 
practice, an increase in credit risk is deemed to have occurred 
where margining or loan-to-value covenants have been 
breached.

For Class I assets (lending against diversified liquid collateral), 
if these margining requirements have not been met within  
30 days of a trigger, a significant increase in credit risk is 
assumed to have occurred.

For Class I and Class III assets (real-estate lending), a 
significant increase in credit risk is assumed to have occurred 
where the bank is unable to ‘sell down’ the applicable assets 
to meet revised collateral requirements within five days of  
a trigger.

Class II assets are typically unsecured or partially secured,  
or secured against illiquid collateral such as shares in private 
companies. Significant credit deterioration of these assets is 
deemed to have occurred when any early alert trigger has 
been breached.

Debt securities
Quantitative criteria
For debt securities originated before 1 January 2018, the bank 
is utilising the low Credit Risk simplified approach, where  
debt securities with an internal credit rating mapped to an 
investment grade equivalent are allocated to stage 1 and all 
other debt securities are allocated to stage 2. Debt securities 
originated after 1 January 2018 are assessed based on the 
absolute and relative movements in IFRS 9 PD from origination 
to the reporting date using the same thresholds as for 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking clients.

Qualitative criteria
Debt securities utilise the same qualitative criteria as the 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking client 
segments, including being placed on non-purely 
precautionary early alert or being classified as CG12.

Assessment of credit-impaired financial assets
Consumer and Business Banking clients
The core components in determining credit-impaired 
expected credit loss provisions are the value of gross charge-
off and recoveries. Gross charge-off and/or loss provisions are 
recognised when it is established that the account is unlikely 
to pay through the normal process. Recovery of unsecured 
debt post credit impairment is recognised based on actual 
cash collected, either directly from clients or through the sale 
of defaulted loans to third-party institutions. Release of credit 
impairment provisions for secured loans is recognised if the 
loan outstanding is paid in full (release of full provision), or the 
provision is higher than the loan outstanding (release of the 
excess provision).

CCIB and Private Banking clients
Credit-impaired accounts are managed by the Group’s 
specialist recovery unit, Stressed Asset Group (SAG), which is 
independent from its main businesses. Where a portion of 
exposure is considered not recoverable, a stage 3 credit 
impairment provision is raised. This stage 3 provision is the 
difference between the loan-carrying amount and the 
probability-weighted present value of estimated future cash 
flows, reflecting a range of scenarios (typically the Upside, 
Downside and Likely recovery outcomes). Where the exposure 
is secured by collateral, the values used will incorporate the 
impact of forward-looking economic information on the value 
recoverable collateral and time to realise the same.

The individual circumstances of each client are considered 
when SAR estimates future cashflows and the timing of future 
recoveries which involves significant judgement. All available 
sources, such as cashflow arising from operations, selling 
assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under 
guarantees, are considered. In any decision relating to the 
raising of provisions, the Group attempts to balance economic 
conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results of 
independent asset reviews.

Write-offs
Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of 
recovering a portion of an exposure against which an 
impairment provision has been raised, that amount will  
be written off.

Governance and application of expert credit judgement in 
respect of expected credit losses
The Group’s Credit Policy and Standards framework details 
the requirements for continuous monitoring to identify any 
changes in credit quality and resultant ratings, as well as 
ensuring a consistent approach to monitoring, managing  
and mitigating credit risks. The framework aligns with the 
governance of ECL estimation through the early recognition  
of significant deteriorations in ratings which drive stage 2  
and 3 ECL.

The models used in determining expected credit losses  
are reviewed and approved by the Group Credit Model 
Assessment Committee (CMAC), which is appointed by  
the Model Risk Committee. CMAC has the responsibility  
to assess and approve the use of models and to review  
all IFRS 9 interpretations related to models. CMAC also 
provides oversight on operational matters related to model 
development, performance monitoring and model validation 
activities, including standards and regulatory matters.

Prior to submission to CMAC for approval, the models are 
validated by GMV, a function which is independent of  
the business and the model developers. GMV’s analysis  
comprises review of model documentation, model design  
and methodology, data validation, review of the model 
development and calibration process, out-of-sample 
performance testing, and assessment of compliance  
review against IFRS 9 rules and internal standards.

284

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileA quarterly model monitoring process is in place that uses 
recent data to compare the differences between model 
predictions and actual outcomes against approved 
thresholds. Where a model’s performance breaches the 
monitoring thresholds, an assessment of whether a PMA is 
required to correct for the identified model issue is completed.

Key inputs into the calculation and resulting expected credit 
loss provisions are subject to review and approval by the IFRS 9 
Impairment Committee (IIC) which is appointed by the Group 
Risk Committee. The IIC consists of senior representatives from 
Risk, Finance, and Group Economic Research. It meets at least 
twice every quarter; once before the models are run to 
approve key inputs into the calculation, and once after the 
models are run to approve the expected credit loss provisions 
and any judgemental overrides that may be necessary.

The IFRS 9 Impairment Committee:

•  Oversees the appropriateness of all Business Model 

Assessment and Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) tests

•  Reviews and approves expected credit loss for financial 
assets classified as stages 1, 2 and 3 for each financial 
reporting period

•  Reviews and approves stage allocation rules and thresholds

•  Approves material adjustments in relation to expected 
credit loss for fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI) and amortised cost financial assets

•  Reviews, challenges and approves base macroeconomic 
forecasts and the multiple macroeconomic scenarios 
approach that are utilised in the forward-looking expected 
credit loss calculations

The IFRS 9 Impairment Committee is supported by an  
Expert Panel which also reviews and challenges the base  
case projections and multiple macroeconomic scenarios.  
The Expert Panel consists of members of Enterprise Risk 
Management (which includes the Scenario Design team), 
Finance, Group Economic Research and country 
representatives of major jurisdictions.

PMAs may be applied to account for identified weaknesses in 
model estimates. The processes for identifying the need for, 
calculating the level of, and approving PMAs are prescribed  
in the Credit Risk IFRS 9 ECL Model Family Standards, which 
are approved by the Global Head, Model Risk Management. 
PMA calculation methodologies are reviewed by GMV and 
submitted to CMAC as the model approver or the IIC. All PMAs 
have a remediation plan to fix the identified model weakness, 
and these plans are reported to and tracked at CMAC.

In addition, Risk Event Overlays account for events that are 
sudden and therefore not captured in the Base Case Forecast 
or the resulting ECL calculated by the models. All Risk Event 
Overlays must be approved by the IIC having considered the 
nature of the event, why the risk is not captured in the model, 
and the basis on which the quantum of the overlay has been 
calculated. Risk Event Overlays are subject to quarterly review 
and re-approval by the IIC and will be released when the risks 
are no longer relevant.

285

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewTraded Risk 
Traded Risk is the potential for loss resulting from activities 
undertaken by the Group in financial markets. Under the 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework, the Traded Risk 
Framework brings together Market Risk, Counterparty Credit 
Risk and Algorithmic Trading. Traded Risk Management  
is the core risk management function supporting market-
facing businesses, predominantly Financial Markets and 
Treasury Markets.

Market Risk (audited)
Market Risk is the potential for fair value loss due to adverse 
moves in financial markets. The Group’s exposure to Market 
Risk arises predominantly from the following sources:

•  Trading book: 

–  The Group provides clients with access to financial 

markets, facilitation of which entails the Group taking 
moderate Market Risk positions. All trading teams 
support client activity. There are no proprietary trading 
teams. Hence, income earned from Market Risk-related 
activities is primarily driven by the volume of client activity 
rather than risk-taking

•  Non-trading book:

–  The Treasury Markets desk is required to hold a liquid 
assets buffer, much of which is held in high-quality 
marketable debt securities

–  The Group has capital invested and related income 

streams denominated in currencies other than US dollars. 
To the extent that these income streams are not hedged, 
the Group is subject to Structural Foreign Exchange Risk 
which is reflected in reserves

A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
Market Risk management is provided in the Principal Risks 
section (page 323).

Daily value at risk (VaR at 97.5%, one day) (audited)

The primary categories of Market Risk for the Group are:

•  Interest Rate Risk: arising from changes in yield curves and 

implied volatilities on interest rate options

•  Foreign Exchange Rate Risk: arising from changes in 

currency exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign 
exchange options 

•  Commodity Risk: arising from changes in commodity prices 
and implied volatilities on commodity options; covering 
energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture

•  Credit Spread Risk: arising from changes in the price of debt 
instruments and credit-linked derivatives, driven by factors 
other than the level of risk-free interest rates 

•  Equity Risk: arising from changes in the prices of equities, 
equity indices, equity baskets and implied volatilities on 
related options

Market risk movements (audited)
Value at Risk (VaR) allows the Group to manage Market Risk 
across the trading book and most of the fair valued non-
trading books.

The average level of total trading and non-trading VaR  
in 2023 was $53.3 million, 1.5 per cent higher than 2022  
($52.5 million). The year end level of total trading and non-
trading VaR in 2023 was $44.5 million, 20.2 per cent lower  
than 2022 ($55.8 million), due to a reduction in non-trading 
positions.

For the trading book, the average level of VaR in 2023 was 
$21.5 million, 19.4 per cent higher than 2022 ($18.0 million). 
Trading activities have remained relatively unchanged,  
and client driven.

Trading1 and non-trading2

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

2023

2022

39.5

33.8

7.0

5.8

0.1

(32.9)

53.3

54.1

48.0

12.2

9.7

0.4

N/A

65.5

23.2

25.0

4.2

3.7

–

N/A

44.2

30.5

31.7

7.4

4.3

–

(29.4)

44.5

27.8

34.2

6.5

7.0

0.1

(23.1)

52.5

42.1

47.1

10.3

11.9

0.2

N/A

64.1

21.0

20.3

4.8

3.5

–

N/A

40.3

24.7

32.9

6.8

8.3

0.1

(17.0)

55.8

2023

2022

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

13.1

9.4

7.0

5.8

–

(13.8)

21.5

20.4

12.4

12.2

9.7

–

N/A

30.6

7.7

7.4

4.2

3.7

–

N/A

14.7

11.6

9.4

7.4

4.4

–

(11.5)

21.3

8.1

9.5

6.5

7.0

–

(13.1)

18.0

11.7

14.9

10.3

11.9

–

N/A

24.4

5.3

5.0

4.8

3.5

–

N/A

12.6

9.0

8.7

6.8

8.3

–

(11.0)

21.8

Interest Rate Risk

Credit Spread Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk

Commodity Risk

Equity Risk

Diversification effect

Total

Trading1

Interest Rate Risk

Credit Spread Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk

Commodity Risk

Equity Risk

Diversification effect

Total

286

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileNon-trading2

Interest Rate Risk

Credit Spread Risk

Equity Risk

Diversification effect

Total

2023

2022

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

34.2

28.3

0.1

(18.6)

44.0

43.6

40.1

0.4

N/A

53.4

19.7

21.5

–

N/A

32.0

23.9

24.4

–

(12.7)

35.6

26.3

28.8

0.1

(10.6)

44.6

44.5

37.8

0.2

N/A

52.5

18.1

18.7

–

N/A

35.1

23.5

29.2

0.1

(11.5)

41.3

The following table sets out how trading and non-trading VaR is distributed across the Group’s businesses:

Trading1 and non-trading2
Trading1
Macro Trading3

Global Credit 

XVA

Diversification effect

Total

Non-trading2
Treasury4

Global Credit

Listed Private Equity

Diversification effect

Total

2023

2022

Average 
$million

High 
$million

Low 
$million

Year End 
$million

53.3

65.5

44.2

44.5

Average 
$million

52.5

High 
$million

64.1

Low 
$million

40.3

Year End 
$million

55.8

13.8

12.8

4.8

(9.9)

21.5

43.4

3.9

0.1

(3.4)

44.0

20.2

18.2

7.0

N/A

30.6

50.2

13.6

0.4

N/A

53.4

9.2

8.5

3.4

N/A

14.7

31.1

2.0

0.0

N/A

32.0

15.4

10.1

4.5

(8.7)

21.3

34.9

4.0

0.0

(3.3)

35.6

12.8

10.1

3.9

(8.8)

18

38.7

3.4

0.1

2.4

44.6

17.4

15.7

5.0

N/A

24.4

47.5

5.0

0.2

N/A

52.5

10.2

4.2

2.4

N/A

12.6

29.7

2.3

–

N/A

35.1

16.9

8.4

4.6

(8.1)

21.8

40.3

3.5

0.1

(2.6)

41.3

1   The trading book for Market Risk is defined in accordance with the UK onshored Capital Requirements Regulation Part 3 Title I Chapter 3, which restricts the 

positions permitted in the trading book

2   The non-trading book VaR does not include syndicated loans

3   Macro Trading comprises the Rates, FX and Commodities businesses

4   Treasury comprises Treasury Markets and Treasury Capital Management businesses

Risks not in VaR 
In 2023, the main market risks not reflected in VaR were:

•  Basis risks for which the historical market price data is limited and is therefore proxied, giving rise to potential proxy basis risk 

that is not captured in VaR

•  Potential depeg risk from currencies currently pegged or managed, as the historical one-year VaR observation period does 

not reflect the possibility of a change in the currency regime, such as sudden depegging

•  Volatility skew risk due to movements in options volatilities at different strikes while VaR reflects only movements in at-the-

money volatilities

•  Deal contingent risk where a client is granted the right to cancel a hedging trade contingent on conditions not being met 

within a time window

Additional capital is set aside to cover such ‘risks not in VaR’.

287

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
 
 
 
Backtesting 
In 2023, there were five regulatory backtesting negative exceptions at Group level (in 2022 there were eight regulatory 
backtesting negative exceptions at Group level). Group exceptions occurred on:

•  16 March: After the US authorities put Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank into administration there were strong market 

reactions, including notable interest rate yield rises on 16 March

•  1 June: After announcement of planned potential economic reforms in Nigeria, there were sharp movements in the offshore 

Naira FX market in anticipation of Naira devaluation

•  12 June: After the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria was removed there were further sharp movements in the offshore 

Naira FX market

•  1 November and 3 November: After the Nigerian government announced on 30 October that it plans to target an exchange 

rate of 750 Naira per dollar, the onshore spot market became more volatile on low volumes.

The VaR model is currently being enhanced to increase its responsiveness to abrupt upturns in market volatility.

There have been five Group exceptions in the previous 250 business days. This is within the ‘amber zone’ applied internationally 
to internal models by bank supervisors (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Supervisory framework for the use of 
backtesting in conjunction with the internal models approach to market risk capital requirements, January 1996).

The graph below illustrates the performance of the VaR model used in capital calculations. It compares the 99 percentile profit 
and loss confidence level given by the VaR model with the hypothetical profit and loss of each day given the actual market 
movement without taking into account any intra-day trading activity.

2023 Backtesting chart
Internal model approach regulatory trading book at Group level
Hypothetical proﬁt and loss (P&L) versus VaR (99 per cent, one day)

Hypothetical P&L

Positive VaR at 99%

Negative VaR at 99%

Positive exceptions

Negative exceptions

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

-20

-40

-60

Jan 2023

Feb 2023

Mar 2023

Apr 2023 May 2023

Jun 2023

Jul 2023

Aug 2023

Sep 2023

Oct 2023

Nov 2023

Dec 2023

Trading loss days 

Number of loss days reported for Financial Markets trading book total product income1

2023

16

2022

15

1  

Includes credit valuation adjustment (CVA) and funding valuation adjustment (FVA), and excludes Treasury Markets business (non-trading), periodic valuation 
changes for Capital Markets, expected loss provisions, overnight indexed swap (OIS) discounting and accounting adjustments such as debit valuation 
adjustments

Average daily income earned from Market Risk-related activities1 (audited)
The average level of total trading daily income in 2023 was $12 million, 14 per cent lower than 2022 ($14 million). The decrease  
is largely attributable to lower income in Commodities in 2023 on the back of lower volatility and falling crude oil prices. 
Additionally, the decrease in FX business was on the back of lower cross-border flows and muted FX volatility.

The average level of total non-trading daily income in 2023 was -$0.7 million, 217 per cent lower than 2022 ($0.6 million).  
The decrease is primarily attributable to lower income from the Credit Solutions business.

Trading

Interest Rate Risk

Credit Spread Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk

Commodity Risk

Equity Risk

Total

288

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

4.5

1.2

5.5

0.8

–

12.0

5.0

1.4

6.3

1.3

–

14.0

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileNon-trading

Interest Rate Risk

Credit Spread Risk

Equity Risk

Total

$million

$million

(0.1)

(0.7)

0.1

(0.7)

–

0.6

–

0.6

1   Reflects total product income which is the sum of client income and own account income. Includes elements of trading income, interest income and non funded 
income which are generated from Market Risk-related activities. Rates, XVA and Treasury income are included under Interest Rate Risk whilst Credit Trading 
income is included under Credit Spread Risk

Structural foreign exchange exposures 
The table below sets out the principal structural foreign exchange exposures (net of investment hedges) of the Group.

Hong Kong dollar 

Renminbi 

Indian rupee

Singapore dollar

Korean won

Malaysian ringgit 

Taiwanese dollar

Euro

Bangladeshi Taka

Thai baht

UAE dirham

Pakistani rupee 

Indonesian rupiah

Other

2023 
$million

20221
$million

4,662

3,523

3,309

2,415

2,114

1,540

1,222

1,125

1,007

782

709

306

293

3,206

26,213

3,333

3,497

4,396

1,888

2,409

1,571

1,055

893

832

782

670

352

261

3,233

25,172

Derivative financial instruments Credit Risk mitigation 
The Group enters into master netting agreements, which in 
the event of default result in a single amount owed by or to 
the counterparty through netting the sum of the positive  
and negative mark-to-market values of applicable  
derivative transactions.

In addition, the Group enters into credit support annexes 
(CSAs) with counterparties where collateral is deemed a 
necessary or desirable mitigant to the exposure. Cash 
collateral includes collateral called under a variation margin 
process from counterparties if total uncollateralised mark-to-
market exposure exceeds the threshold and minimum transfer 
amount specified in the CSA. With certain counterparties, the 
CSA is reciprocal and requires us to post collateral if the overall 
mark-to-market values of positions are in the counterparty’s 
favour and exceed an agreed threshold.

1   Prior year has been represented to provide granular currency details

As at 31 December 2023, the Group had taken net investment 
hedges using derivative financial instruments to partly  
cover its exposure to the Hong Kong dollar of $5,603 million  
(31 December 2022: $6,236 million), Korean won of  
$2,884 million (31 December 2022: $3,330 million), Indian rupee 
of $1,809 million (31 December 2022: $620 million), Renminbi of 
$1,516 million (31 December 2022: $1,608 million), UAE dirham 
of $1,470 million (31 December 2022: $1,334 million), Singapore 
dollar of $1,047 million (31 December 2022: $1,608 million), 
Taiwanese dollar of $1,025 million (31 December 2022: $1,075 
million) and South African rand of $64 million (31 December 
2022: $nil million). An analysis has been performed on these 
exposures to assess the impact of a 1 per cent fall in the US 
dollar exchange rates, adjusted to incorporate the impacts of 
correlations of these currencies to the US dollar. The impact  
on the positions above would be an increase of $260 million 
(31 December 2022: $421 million). Changes in the valuation  
of these positions are taken to reserves. For analysis of the 
Group’s capital position and requirements, refer to the  
Capital Review (page 338).

Counterparty Credit Risk 
Counterparty Credit Risk is the potential for loss in the event  
of the default of a derivative counterparty, after taking into 
account the value of eligible collaterals and risk mitigation 
techniques. The Group’s counterparty credit exposures are 
included in the Credit Risk section.

289

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewLiquidity and Funding Risk 
Liquidity and Funding Risk is the risk that the Group may not 
have sufficient stable or diverse sources of funding to meet its 
obligations as they fall due.

The Group’s Liquidity and Funding Risk framework requires 
each country to ensure that it operates within predefined 
liquidity limits and remains in compliance with Group  
liquidity policies and practices, as well as local regulatory 
requirements.

The Group achieves this through a combination of setting  
Risk Appetite and associated limits, policy formation, risk 
measurement and monitoring, prudential and internal stress 
testing, governance and review. 

Despite the challenging macroeconomic environment, the 
Group has maintained resilience and retained a robust 
liquidity position. The Group continues to focus on improving 
the quality and diversification of its funding mix and remains 
committed to supporting its clients.

Group’s composition of liabilities and equity 31 December 2023

Primary sources of funding (audited)
The Group’s funding strategy is largely driven by its policy to 
maintain adequate liquidity at all times, in all geographic 
locations and for all currencies. This is done to ensure the 
Group can meet all of its obligations as they fall due. The 
Group’s funding profile is therefore well diversified across 
different sources, maturities and currencies.

The Group‘s assets are funded predominantly by customer 
deposits, supplemented with wholesale funding, which is 
diversified by type and maturity.

The Group maintains access to wholesale funding markets in 
all major financial centres in which it operates. This seeks to 
ensure that the Group has market intelligence, maintains 
stable funding lines and can obtain optimal pricing when 
performing cashflow management activities.

In 2023, the Group issued approximately $8.1 billion of 
securities, all in the form of senior debt, from its holding 
company (HoldCo) Standard Chartered PLC (2022 $5.2 billion 
of senior debt securities, $0.75 billion of subordinated debt 
securities and $1.25 billion of Additional Tier 1 securities). In the 
next 12 months, approximately $8.5 billion of the Group’s senior 
debt, subordinated debt and Additional Tier 1 securities in 
total are either falling due for repayment contractually or 
callable by the Group.

a n ks

D eriv a tiv e ﬁ n a n cial 

e n ts

m

in stru

D e b t s e c uritie s in iss u e

D e p o sits b y b

er a c c o u n ts

m

C u sto

O th er lia

bilitie s 
e d fu n d s
S u b ordin a te d lia
a n d o th er b orro

E q uity

bilitie s

w

4.3

6.8

8.9

65.0

7.4 1.5

6.1

100%

Geographic distribution of customer accounts 31 December 2023

 A sia

69.5

6.0

A fric a &
dle E a st
M id

eric a s

m

E uro p e & A

24.5

100%

Liquidity and Funding Risk metrics
The Group continually monitors key liquidity metrics, both  
on a country basis and consolidated across the Group.

The following liquidity and funding Board Risk Appetite 
metrics define the maximum amount and type of risk that the 
Group is willing to assume in pursuit of its strategy: liquidity 
coverage ratio (LCR), liquidity stress survival horizons, recovery 
capacity and net stable funding ratio (NSFR). In addition to 
the Board Risk Appetite, there are further limits that apply  
at Group and country level such as, external wholesale 
borrowing (WBE) and cross currency limits.

Liquidity buffer

Total net cash outflows

Liquidity coverage ratio

290

Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 
The LCR is a regulatory requirement set to ensure the Group 
has sufficient unencumbered high-quality liquid assets to 
meet its liquidity needs in a 30-calendar-day liquidity  
stress scenario.

The Group monitors and reports its liquidity positions under 
the Liquidity Coverage Ratio per PRA rulebook and has 
maintained its LCR above the prudential requirement.  
The Group maintained strong liquidity ratios despite a 
challenging macroeconomic and geopolitical environment.

At the reporting date, the Group LCR was 145 per cent 
(31 December 2022: 147 per cent), with a surplus to both 
Board-approved Risk Appetite and regulatory requirements.

Adequate liquidity was held across our footprint to meet all 
local prudential LCR requirements where applicable.

2023  
$million

185,643

128,111

145%

2022  
$million

177,037

120,720

147%

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileStress coverage 
The Group intends to maintain a prudent and sustainable 
funding and liquidity position, in all countries and  
currencies, such that it can withstand a severe but plausible 
liquidity stress.

Our approach to managing liquidity and funding is reflected 
in the Board-level Risk Appetite Statement which includes  
the following:

“The Group should have sufficient stable and diverse sources 
of funding to meet its contractual and contingent obligations 
as they fall due.”

The Group’s internal liquidity stress testing framework covers 
the following stress scenarios:

•  Standard Chartered-specific – Captures the liquidity  

impact from an idiosyncratic event affecting Standard 
Chartered only with the rest of the market assumed to be 
operating normally.

•  Market wide – Captures the liquidity impact from a 

market-wide crisis affecting all participants in a country, 
region or globally.

•  Combined – Assumes both Standard Chartered-specific 
and market-wide events affect the Group simultaneously 
and hence is the most severe scenario.

All scenarios include, but are not limited to, modelled outflows 
for retail and wholesale funding, off-balance sheet funding 
risk, cross-currency funding risk, intraday risk, franchise risk 
and risks associated with a deterioration of a firm’s credit 
rating. Concentration risk approach has been enhanced to 
capture single name and industry concentration.

Stress testing results show that a positive surplus was 
maintained under all scenarios at 31 December 2023, and 
respective countries were able to survive for a period of  
time as defined under each scenario. The results take into 
account currency convertibility and portability constraints 
while calculating the liquidity surplus at Group level.

Standard Chartered Bank’s credit ratings as at 31 December 
2023 were A+ with stable outlook (Fitch), A+ with stable 
outlook (S&P) and A1 with stable outlook (Moody’s). As of  
31 December 2023, the estimated contractual outflow of  
a three-notch long-term ratings downgrade is $1.1 billion.

External wholesale borrowing 
A risk limit is set to prevent excessive reliance on wholesale 
borrowing. Within the definition of wholesale borrowing, limits 
are applied to all branches and operating subsidiaries in the 
Group and as at the reporting date, the Group remained 
within the Risk Appetite.

Advances-to-deposits ratio
This is defined as the ratio of total loans and advances to 
customers relative to total customer deposits. An advances-
to-deposits ratio below 100 per cent demonstrates that 
customer deposits exceed customer loans as a result of  
the emphasis placed on generating a high level of funding 
from customers.

The Group’s advances-to-deposits ratio has decreased by  
4.1 per cent to 53.3 per cent, driven by an increase in customer 
deposits of 3 per cent and with a reduction of 5 per cent in 
customer loans and advances. Deposits from customers as at 
31 December 2023 are $486,666 million (31 December 2022: 
$473,383 million).

Total loans and advances to customers1,2
Total customer accounts3

Advances-to-deposits ratio

2023 
$million

259,481

486,666

53.3%

2022 
$million

271,897

473,383

57.4%

1   Excludes reverse repurchase agreement and other similar secured lending of $13,996 million and includes loans and advances to customers held at fair value 

through profit and loss of $7,212 million

2   Loans and advances to customers for the purpose of the advances-to-deposits ratio excludes $20,710 million of approved balances held with central banks, 

confirmed as repayable at the point of stress (31 December 2022: $20,798 million)

3   Includes customer accounts held at fair value through profit or loss of $17,248 million (31 December 2022: $11,706 million)

Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 
The NSFR is a PRA regulatory requirement that stipulates 
institutions to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to 
an assumed duration of their assets and off-balance sheet 
activities over a one-year horizon. It is the ratio between the 
amount of available stable funding (ASF) and the amount  
of required stable funding (RSF). ASF factors are applied to 
balance sheet liabilities and capital, based on their perceived 
stability and the amount of stable funding they provide. 
Likewise, RSF factors are applied to assets and off-balance 
sheet exposures according to the amount of stable funding 
they require. The regulatory requirements for NSFR are to 
maintain a ratio of at least 100 per cent. The average ratio  
for the past four quarters is 136 per cent.

291

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewLiquidity pool 
The liquidity value of the Group’s LCR eligible liquidity pool at the reporting date was $186 billion. The figures in the table below 
account for haircuts, currency convertibility and portability constraints per PRA rules for transfer restrictions, and therefore are 
not directly comparable with the consolidated balance sheet. A liquidity pool is held to offset stress outflows as defined in the 
LCR per PRA rulebook.

Level 1 securities

Cash and balances at central banks

Central banks, governments/public sector entities

Multilateral development banks and international organisations

Other

Total Level 1 securities

Level 2A securities

Level 2B securities

Total LCR eligible assets

Level 1 securities

Cash and balances at central banks

Central banks, governments/public sector entities

Multilateral development banks and international organisations

Other

Total Level 1 securities

Level 2A securities

Level 2B securities

Total LCR eligible assets

2023

Asia 
$million

Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

32,504

54,562

5,202

130

92,398

6,194

348

98,940

2,456

1,363

961

–

4,780

128

–

4,908

2022

46,715

15,843

10,754

1,161

74,473

6,946

376

81,795

Asia 
$million

Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

34,101

50,881

3,510

37

88,529

4,044

71

92,644

1,066

2,712

837

7

4,622

139

21

4,782

36,522

23,680

10,843

1,430

72,475

6,033

1,103

79,611

Total 
$million

81,675

71,768

16,917

1,291

171,651

13,268

724

185,643

Total 
$million

71,689

77,273

15,190

1,474

165,626

10,216

1,195

177,037

292

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileLiquidity analysis of the Group’s balance sheet (audited)
Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities 
The following table presents assets and liabilities by maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual 
maturity date as at the balance sheet date on a discounted basis. Contractual maturities do not necessarily reflect actual 
repayments or cashflows.

Within the tables below, cash and balances with central banks, interbank placements and investment securities that are fair 
valued through other comprehensive income are used by the Group principally for liquidity management purposes. 

As at the reporting date, assets remain predominantly short-dated, with 63 per cent maturing in less than one year. The less 
than six-month cumulative net funding gap improved by $35 billion as of 31 December 2023 compared to 31 December 2022.

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one 
year 
$million

Between 
one year 
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and 
undated 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

Total 
$million

2023

Assets

Cash and balances at  
central banks 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Loans and advances  
to banks1,2

Loans and advances  
to customers1,2
Investment securities1
Other assets1

63,752

–

–

–

–

–

–

6,153

69,905

12,269

10,632

6,910

3,611

2,921

4,650

6,038

3,403

50,434

28,814

23,384

10,086

4,929

5,504

1,583

2,392

1,098

77,790

86,695

12,187

17,611

55,009

28,999

31,729

25,492

17,131

1,286

15,392

18,993

409

14,537

25,987

20,590

24,244

587

67

26,545

44,835

93

95,829

345,486

50,168

10,300

217,147

62,082

Total assets

221,328

149,753

60,905

43,334

44,139

56,531

79,903

166,951

822,844

Liabilities 
Deposits by banks1,3
Customer accounts1,4

Derivative financial 
instruments
Senior debt5
Other debt securities in issue1

13,111

130

3,123

12,472

1,111

5,822

Other liabilities

14,929

26,447

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds

Total liabilities

Net liquidity gap

980

443,462

(222,134)

68

95,552

54,201

26,745

1,909

1,398

503

778

384,444

47,723

28,288

13,647

11,806

1,326

7,787

2,848

38,578

2

35,509

2,349

534,622

6,655

1,537

6,109

1,695

19

45,701

15,204

4,001

1,389

3,235

544

172

23,491

19,843

3,433

624

3,037

883

453

21,014

23,125

5,142

11,507

492

1,830

312

28,396

28,135

6,932

20,127

482

1,809

1,936

72,712

4,315

14,443

195

56,061

50,868

22,495

12,763

60,900

8,096

12,036

42,163

772,491

7,191

124,788

50,353

1   Loans and advances, investment securities, deposits by banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue include financial instruments held at fair value 

through profit or loss, see Note 13 Financial instruments 

2   Loans and advances include reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $97.6 billion

3   Deposits by banks include repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of $5.6 billion

4   Customer accounts include repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of $48.0 billion

5   Senior debt maturity profiles are based upon contractual maturity, which may be later than call options over the debt held by the Group

293

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewBetween 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one  
year 
$million

Between 
one year  
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and  
undated 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

Total 
$million

2022

49,097

–

–

–

–

–

–

9,166

58,263

15,558

12,030

8,352

4,446

3,602

6,026

8,410

5,293

63,717

24,135

15,293

11,595

4,971

4,138

2,608

1,022

687

64,449

96,351

14,175

15,210

214,526

58,605

26,008

31,276

143,212

29,733

402,069

15,820

204

2,758

19,857

2,004

472,445

(257,919)

2,042

49,769

15,810

342

5,504

24,725

105

98,297

44,915

27,751

23,364

1,341

12,540

13,024

181

13,444

12,891

698

19,150

22,805

89

33,413

41,217

96,476

357,730

52,756

206,240

23

20,705

72,403

35,162

34,773

50,678

84,085

185,083

69,523

819,922

2,245

25,110

8,645

509

8,732

1,616

871

15,961

5,002

963

7,316

521

22

46,879

25,524

248

30,882

4,280

349

15,216

4,102

711

2,935

503

25

23,841

10,932

1,432

7,830

6,795

5,855

1,088

902

1,882

25,784

24,894

144

2,451

7,904

19,673

870

1,043

2,045

34,130

49,955

7

36,823

1,823

520,229

5,784

12,086

268

10,296

69,862

40,343

29,471

59,463

7,384

13,715

37,648

769,906

147,435

50,016

Assets

Cash and balances at  
central banks 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Loans and advances  
to banks1,2

Loans and advances  
to customers1,2
Investment securities1
Other assets1

Total assets

Liabilities 
Deposits by banks1,3
Customer accounts1,4

Derivative financial 
instruments
Senior debt5
Other debt securities in issue1

Other liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds

Total liabilities

Net liquidity gap

1   Loans and advances, investment securities, other assets, deposits by banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue include financial instruments held at 

fair value through profit or loss, see Note 13 Financial instruments 

2   Loans and advances include reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of $90 billion

3   Deposits by banks include repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of $7.0 billion

4   Customer accounts include repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of $46.8 billion

5   Senior debt maturity profiles are based upon contractual maturity, which may be later than call options over the debt held by the Group

Behavioural maturity of financial assets and liabilities
The cashflows presented in the previous section reflect the cashflows that will be contractually payable over the residual 
maturity of the instruments. However, contractual maturities do not necessarily reflect the timing of actual repayments or 
cashflow. In practice, certain assets and liabilities behave differently from their contractual terms, especially for short-term 
customer accounts, credit card balances and overdrafts, which extend to a longer period than their contractual maturity.  
On the other hand, mortgage balances tend to have a shorter repayment period than their contractual maturity date. 
Expected customer behaviour is assessed and managed on a country basis using qualitative and quantitative techniques, 
including analysis of observed customer behaviour over time.

294

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileMaturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis (audited)
The following table analyses the contractual cashflows payable for the Group’s financial liabilities by remaining contractual 
maturities on an undiscounted basis. The financial liability balances in the table below will not agree with the balances reported 
in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all contractual cashflows, on an undiscounted basis, relating to 
both principal and interest payments. Derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ time 
bucket and not by contractual maturity.

Within the ‘More than five years and undated’ maturity band are undated financial liabilities, the majority of which relate to 
subordinated debt, on which interest payments are not included as this information would not be meaningful, given the 
instruments are undated. Interest payments on these instruments are included within the relevant maturities up to five years. 

Deposits by banks 

Customer accounts 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Debt securities in issue 

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities

Total liabilities

2023

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one 
year 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

26,759

1,921

1,417

513

790

385,361

48,140

28,763

14,049

12,190

Between 
one year 
and two 
years 
$million

1,328

8,118

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

2,848

39,000

More than 
five years 
and 
undated 
$million

Total 
$million

4

35,580

3,036

538,657

53,054

3,507

517

6,995

1,043

12,200

481,924

134

26,291

83,998

46

8,015

46

1,560

44

103

202

887

5,070

4,002

13,663

23,413

208

515

570

884

395

1,832

2,389

1,810

1,208

16,396

14,367

11,513

39,847

20,399

18,539

25,538

70,347

46,524

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between six 
months and 
nine months 
$million

2022

Between 
nine months 
and one  
year 
$million

Between 
one year  
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and  
undated 
$million

Deposits by banks 

Customer accounts 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Debt securities in issue 

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities

Total liabilities

One month 
or less 
$million

29,742

401,893

65,912

3,060

2,097

17,275

519,979

2,048

49,196

48

5,912

165

25,751

83,120

2,275

24,713

12

9,631

44

1,517

876

15,614

116

8,574

273

504

362

15,283

213

3,979

28

496

1,455

8,280

940

7,844

2,029

895

144

5,937

1,185

22,259

2,610

901

38,192

25,957

20,361

21,443

33,036

56,061

81,061

19,152

56,605

787,116

Total 
$million

36,910

8

2,591

523,507

1,436

18,465

14,004

9,669

46,173

69,862

79,724

21,250

57,008

788,261

295

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewInterest Rate Risk in the Banking Book 
The following table provides the estimated impact to a 
hypothetical base case projection of the Group’s earnings 
under the following scenarios:

•  A 50 basis point parallel interest rate shock (up and down) 
to the current market-implied path of rates, across all yield 
curves

•  A 100 basis point parallel interest rate shock (up and down) 

to the current market-implied path of rates, across all  
yield curves

These interest rate shock scenarios assume all other economic 
variables remain constant. The sensitivities shown represent 
the estimated change to a hypothetical base case projected 
net interest income (NII), plus the change in interest rate 
implied income and expense from FX swaps used to manage 
banking book currency positions, under the different interest 
rate shock scenarios.

The base case projected NII is based on the current market-
implied path of rates and forward rate expectations. The NII 
sensitivities below stress this base case by a further 50 or 
100bps. Actual observed interest rate changes will lag  
behind market expectation. Accordingly, the shocked NII 
sensitivity does not represent a forecast of the Group’s net 
interest income. 

The interest rate sensitivities are indicative stress tests and 
based on simplified scenarios, estimating the aggregate 
impact of an unanticipated, instantaneous parallel shock 
across all yield curves over a one-year horizon, including the 
time taken to implement changes to pricing before becoming 
effective. The assessment assumes that the size and mix of 
the balance sheet remain constant and that there are no 
specific management actions in response to the change in 
rates. No assumptions are made in relation to the impact on 
credit spreads in a changing rate environment. 

Significant modelling and behavioural assumptions are  
made regarding scenario simplification, market competition, 
pass-through rates, asset and liability re-pricing tenors, and 
price flooring. In particular, the assumption that interest rates 
of all currencies and maturities shift by the same amount 
concurrently, and that no actions are taken to mitigate the 
impacts arising from this are considered unlikely. Reported 
sensitivities will vary over time due to a number of factors 
including changes in balance sheet composition, market 
conditions, customer behaviour and risk management 
strategy. Therefore, while the NII sensitivities are a relevant 
measure of the Group’s interest rate exposure, they should  
not be considered an income or profit forecast.

Estimated one-year impact to earnings from  
a parallel shift in yield curves at the beginning  
of the period of:

+ 50 basis points

- 50 basis points

+ 100 basis points

- 100 basis points

Estimated one-year impact to earnings from  
a parallel shift in yield curves at the beginning  
of the period of:

+ 50 basis points

- 50 basis points

+ 100 basis points

2023

USD bloc 
$million

HKD bloc 
$million

SGD bloc 
$million

KRW bloc 
$million

CNY bloc 
$million

90

(150)

180

(280)

10

(30)

10

(40)

50

(50)

100

(100)

10

(20)

20

(40)

2022

30

(40)

60

(80)

USD bloc 
$million

HKD bloc 
$million

SGD bloc 
$million

KRW bloc 
$million

CNY bloc 
$million

80

(80)

20

(20)

40

(40)

50

(60)

30

(30)

Other 
currency 
bloc 
$million

160

(180)

320

(350)

Other 
currency 
bloc 
$million

150

(140)

Total 
$million

350

(470)

690

(890)

Total 
$million

370

(370)

160

40

90

100

50

300

740

As at 31 December 2023, the Group estimates the one-year 
impact of an instantaneous, parallel increase across all  
yield curves of 50 basis points to increase projected NII by 
$350 million. The equivalent impact from a parallel decrease 
of 50 basis points would result in a reduction in projected NII  
of $470 million. The Group estimates the one-year impact of 
an instantaneous, parallel increase across all yield curves of 
100 basis points to increase projected NII by $690 million.  
The equivalent impact from a parallel decrease of 100  
basis points would result in a reduction in projected NII of  
$890 million.

The benefit from rising interest rates is primarily from 
reinvesting at higher yields and from assets re-pricing faster 
and to a greater extent than deposits. NII sensitivity in falling 
rate scenarios has increased versus 31 December 2022, due  
to changes in modelling assumptions to reflect expected 
re-pricing activity on Retail and Transaction Banking current 
accounts and savings accounts in the current interest rate 
environment.

Over the course of 2023 the size of the interest rate swaps and 
HTC-accounted bond portfolios used to programmatically 
hedge the behavioural lives of structural equity and CASA 
balances increased from $31 billion to $47 billion. The 
portfolios had a weighted average maturity of 2.9 years, 
which reflects the behaviouralised lives of the rate-insensitive 
deposit and equity balances that they hedge, and a yield of 
3.1%, as at 31 December 2023.

296

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profilerisk and control management. Macro processes will provide  
a client-centric view and enable clearer accountability  
for delivery as well as management of risks in line with 
business objectives.

Operational and Technology risk is elevated in areas such  
as Information and Cyber Security, Data Management and 
Transaction Processing. Other key areas of focus are Change, 
Systems Health/Technology risk, Third Party risk, Resilience 
and Regulatory Compliance. Management has focused on 
addressing these areas, improving the sustainable operating 
environment and has initiated a number of programmes to 
enhance the control environment. The Group continues to 
monitor and manage Operational and Technology risks 
associated with the external environment such as  
geopolitical factors and the increasing risk of cyber-attacks. 
Digitalisation and inappropriate use of Artificial Intelligence, 
various regulatory expectations across our footprint and the 
changing technology landscape remain key emerging areas 
to manage, allowing the Group to keep pace with new 
business developments, whilst ensuring that risk and control 
frameworks evolve accordingly. The Group continues to 
strengthen its risk management to understand the full 
spectrum of risks in the operating environment, enhance  
its defences and improve resilience.

Operational and Technology risk events and losses
Operational losses are one indicator of the effectiveness and 
robustness of the non-financial risk control environment.

The Group’s profile of operational loss events in 2023 and 2022 
is summarised in the table below, which shows the distribution 
of gross operational losses by Basel business line.

Operational and Technology Risk
The Group defines Operational and Technology risk as the 
potential for loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
technology events, human error, or from the impact of 
external events (including legal risks). Operational and 
Technology risk may occur anywhere in the Group, including 
third-party processes.

Operational and Technology risk profile
Risk management practices help the business grow safely  
and ensure governance and management of Operational 
and Technology risk through the delivery and embedding of 
effective frameworks and policies, together with continuous 
oversight and assurance. Managing Operational and 
Technology risk makes the Group more efficient and enables  
it to offer better, sustainable service to its customers. The 
Group’s Operational and Technology Risk Type Framework 
(‘O&T RTF’) is designed to enable the Group to govern, 
identify, measure, monitor and test, manage and report on  
its Operational and Technology risks. The Group continues to 
ensure the O&T RTF supports the business and the functions in 
effectively managing risk and controls within risk appetite to 
meet their strategic objectives.

The Group has demonstrated progress on ensuring visibility  
of risks and risk management through implementation of a 
standardised risk taxonomy. Standardising the risk taxonomy 
enables improved risk aggregation and reporting as well as 
providing opportunities for simplifying the process of risk 
identification and assessment. A revised process universe 
along with taxonomies for causes and controls have been 
designed and will be implemented in 2024, with control 
categories supporting the streamlining and removal of 
duplicate controls, reducing complexity, and improving 

Distribution of Operational Losses by Basel business line 

Agency Services

Asset Management

Commercial Banking

Corporate Finance

Corporate Items

Payment and Settlements 

Retail Banking 

Retail Brokerage

Trading and Sales

1   Losses in 2022 have been restated to include incremental events recognised in 2023

The Group’s profile of operational loss events in 2023 and 2022 is also summarised by Basel event type in the table below.  
It shows the distribution of gross operational losses by Basel event type.

Distribution of Operational Losses by Basel event type

Business disruption and system failures

Clients’ products and business practices

Damage to physical assets

Employment practices and workplace safety

Execution delivery and process management

External fraud

Internal fraud

% Loss

2023

6.0%

3.6%

0.0%

0.6%

75.0%

14.6%

0.2%

1   Losses in 2022 have been restated to include incremental events recognised in 2023

Other principal risks 
Losses arising from operational failures for other principal and integrated risks are reported as operational losses. Operational 
losses do not include operational risk-related credit impairments.

297

% Loss

2023

1.8%

0.1%

8.4%

7.6%

35.5%

17.6%

20.3%

0.0%

8.5%

2022¹

3.0%

0.8%

8.9%

1.1%

2.5%

42.9%

25.5%

0.0%

15.2%

20221

3.5%

7.1%

0.0%

0.2%

79.6%

8.6%

0.9%

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewClimate Risk

Managing the financial and non-financial risks from climate change

Disclaimer

For the avoidance of doubt, this ‘Climate Risk’ section is subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward- Looking Statements’ 
section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding Data Limitations’ section provided under ‘Important Notices’ at 
page 519.

Credit Risk
We have developed a climate risk management framework, which provides a baseline level of effective risk mitigation.

Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Credit Risk
As of September 2023, we have assessed the physical risk for 79 per cent and transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB portfolio.

Physical Risk Measuring and Monitoring in CPBB
(as of September 2023)

Transition Risk Measuring and Monitoring in CPBB
(as of September 2023)

2%

98%

21%

79%

46%

54%

Overall
CPBB

Consumer
Mortgage

Business
Banking

77%

23%

Private
Banking

20%

80%

46%

42%

54%

58%

78%

70%

100%

22%

30%

CCPL

Overall
CPBB

Consumer
Mortgage

Business
Banking

Private
Banking

CCPL

Physical Risk Assessed

Physical Risk Not assessed

Transition Risk Assessed

Transition Risk Not assessed

For our secured portfolio, assessments are based on the underlying physical collateral for our residential and commercial 
portfolios where we continue to leverage Munich Re’s Risk Suite (Natural Hazards Edition) to measure acute and chronic 
physical risk impacting each asset. For our unsecured portfolios, such as credit cards and personal loans, we recognise that 
physical risk is likely to have a more pronounced second order impact that may indirectly affect our customers’ ability to repay. 
We have further expanded our scope of risk measurement and monitoring to cover these products in 2023, albeit using proxies 
based on the location of bank branches.

We assess the exposure concentrations to high physical risk across acute and chronic hazards quarterly, and report these at risk 
management committees at Group, Region and Country, with a stronger focus on flood risk and rising sea levels. During 2023, 
the physical risk profile across products and markets has remained stable, apart from slight variations in exposure to high flood 
risk levels due to enhancements in Munich Re’s flood risk model.

Assessment of Acute and Chronic Physical Risk for Top 10 Markets’ Exposures backed by Property Collateral, indicating 
Exposure Concentration Subjected to Very High Gross Risk (as of September 2023)

Physical risk event

Flood Risk
Sea-level rise 
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5)

Physical risk event

Flood Risk
Sea-level rise 
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5)

Physical risk event

Flood Risk
Sea-level rise 
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5)

Global

Korea

23%

Hong Kong

38%

Taiwan

7%

Q3-22

Q3-23
24.80% 24.20%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
14.00% 12.30%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
44.60% 44.90%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
11.90% 11.00%

Trend

2.10% 2.20%

0.01% 0.60%

3.40% 3.60%

0.04% 0.03%

India

5%

Singapore

18%

Malaysia

4%

UAE

1%

Q3-22

Q3-23
30.20% 22.30%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
3.50% 3.40%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
6.50% 5.30%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
29.50% 26.50%

Trend

1.10% 0.90%

0.08% 0.06%

0.20% 0.30%

36.80% 36.10%

Jersey

2%

Vietham

1%

China

2%

Q3-22
Q3-23
1.90% 1.60%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
63.90% 60.40%

Trend

Q3-22

Q3-23
67.70% 67.10%

Trend

–

–

–

1.80% 1.00%

8.30% 8.30%

Note: Movements are called out for markets showing a change of >5 per cent year-on-year change in flood risk exposure concentration.

298

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
Our key residential mortgage markets have not implemented minimum building energy efficiency standards. As such, in 2023 
we took an alternative approach towards assessing the transition risk impact on our borrowers, by quantifying the robustness  
of their repayment capability, rather than accounting for valuation related risks of property collateral. We used a combination 
of internal and external data, including results from our net zero financed emissions calculations and our initial analysis shows 
that the transition risk levels appear to be low across key residential mortgage markets. These results will be refined along with 
revisions in exposure concentrations, as the data landscape matures over time and as we improve upon the initial approach.

Approaches to Measure Transition Risk

Impact on collateral valuation

Impact on borrower repayment capability

Energy price  
increase

Minimum building 
enegy efficiency 
regulations

Retrofitting  
cost

Energy price  
increase

Retrofitting  
cost

Macroeconomic 
impacts

Transition Risk Ratings using SCB CPBB Approach, by Exposure Concentration (as of December 2022)

Very high

High

Medium

Low

Very Low

2% 2%

3%

2% 1%

4%

10%

13%

16%

9%

12%

Singapore

$9.4bn

Hong Kong

$32.3bn

Taiwan

$5.3bn

80%

77%

47%

23%

For the Jersey residential mortgage portfolio, we used EPC (Energy Performance Certificate) data to assess the energy efficiency 
distribution, with results indicating that more than 80 per cent of the portfolio is rated at C or better. 

Transition Risk Ratings for Residential Mortgages 
in Jersey using EPC Ratings by Exposure

EPC Ratings for Residential Mortgages in Jersey by Count  
(as of August 2023)

7% 0.3%

12%

Jersey

$0.3bn

17%

A

B

C

D

E

60%

9%

64%

9%

8%

3%

0%

4%

0%

1%

2%

3%

0%

0%

0%

0%

A

B

C

D

E

A

B

C

D

E

A

B

C

D

E

Prior to 2000

2000 - 2021

2022 onwards

We aim to continue to explore ways to enhance our assessment approaches across both secured and unsecured CPBB 
portfolios through improved methodologies and data. This will enable us to better assess the susceptibility to and readiness of 
our clients in managing climate-driven risks, whilst also enabling us to identify opportunities to assist them in their transition 
towards a low-carbon economy. Options we are considering include expanding the scope of our existing credit origination 
process to cover Climate-related considerations in segments such as Medium Enterprises.

299

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
 
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) Credit Risk
This section covers details of how we assess climate risk for our corporate clients, including insights gained from our client  
level assessments and progress made to further strengthen our framework for climate and credit related portfolio and risk 
management. The figure below outlines our process in assessing climate risk. 

5.  Controls and  
Assurance

Control Sample Testing

Independant Assurance

5.

1.

4.  Portfolio Management  

and Monitoring

Credit Underwriting Principles

Risk Appitite (%Black or Red)

High Climate Risk  
Clients Monitoring

4.

3.

1.  Identify Risks and  
Mitigation Plans

Climate risk questionaire (CRQ)

Data Gathering

Client Outreach

Scenario Analysis

2.

2. Analyzing the Risk

Climate Risk Assesment (BRAG)

Green

Amber

Red

Black

Time Horizon  
Impact

Mitigating  
Factors

3.  Evaluating the Risk

Business Credit Application

Review and Approval

BCA Analysis

Risk Trigers

Financial Impacts

Warning Signals

1. Identify risks and mitigation plans 
Our client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) aims to help assess the potential financial risks from climate change using 
quantitative and qualitative information. The assessment presents a consolidated view across five pillars of how exposed and 
ready for transition or adaptation our clients may be.

Governance  
& Disclosures

Gross  
Physical Risk

Physical Risk 
Adaptation

Gross 
Transition Risk

Transition Risk 
Mitigation

Intent, commitment 
and reporting
•  Reporting of  

Climate targets

•  Board responsibility 
and accountability

•  Management 
incentives to 
manage climate  
risk within the 
organisation

Exposure to acute  
and chronic events
•  Asset locations 

Mitigations to acute 
and chronic events
•  Assessment of 

Relative emissions  
for sector and region
•  Reliance on fossil 

exposed to physical 
risk events (Floods, 
Storms, Droughts 
etc)

client’s adaptation 
plans to its 
operating locations 
and supply chain

•  Model output to 

assess current and 
future risk to client’s 
operating location

•  Insurance coverage 
to protect against 
physical risk

fuel/carbon 
products

•  Policy 

environmental/
impact due to 
sovereign 
decarbonisation 
policy in sector

Decarbonisation plan 
and emission targets
•  Assess client’s plans 
and its credibility  
to transition its 
business and supply 
chain

•  Emissions reporting 
targets and plan to 
acheive them

•  Capex in low carbon 

•  Potential financial 

impact from various 
climate scenarios

technologies, 
internal carbon 
pricing scenarios

300

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
The CRQ helps us to form a view of the overall climate risk profile of our clients and supports the underlying themes that feed 
into our broader scenario analysis and corporate planning exercises. In 2023, we completed an exhaustive review of the CRQ 
based on historical data, including rationalising questions, introducing a methodological differentiation in assessing corporates 
against projects, introducing sector-specific questions, and building stronger linkages to our net zero and credible transition 
plan workstreams.

Coverage of our analysis
In 2023 we completed CRAs for c.4,100 clients, which is c.85-90 per cent of our corporate client limits and is a significant 
improvement from c.2,200 clients assessed in the year before.

How do different regions in our footprint compare? 
Overall, while the levels and consistency in the availability of climate information from public disclosures has increased, this is 
still a developing aspect in our markets, which highlights the importance of engaging our clients on this topic.

Client-level Climate Risk assessment scores by region

2023 YTD Assessment*

Asia

Africa & Middle East

Europe & Americas

Total

*   Data assessed is as of September 2023

Number of 
clients

Overall score 
across the  
five pillars

1. Governance & 
disclosures

2. Gross 
Physical Risk

3 Physical Risk 
adaptation

4. Gross 
Transition Risk

5. Transition 
RIsk Mitigation

2,709

409

1,018

4,136

46%

36%

64%

49%

44%

27%

75%

50%

69%

69%

78%

71%

27%

13%

53%

32%

48%

46%

50%

48%

41%

25%

65%

45%

•  We continue to see better transition risk mitigation and physical risk adaptation scores for corporates domiciled in Europe 
and Americas, where disclosure levels are highest and the plans to effectively manage climate risk are being put in place. 

•  Physical risk adaptation levels remain an area of risk for most of our markets, with the lowest absolute scores in Africa and the 

Middle East.

•  Asia constitutes c.65 per cent of our total volume of clients assessed in 2023 (2022: c.63 per cent) followed by Europe and 

Americas, which represents c.25 per cent of the clients and the largest increase in share (2022: 18 per cent)

Insights from these assessments for the pillars mentioned previously are provided below.

Governance and disclosures
We have seen a gradual increase in the number of clients reporting quantifiable climate change related commitments over 
2022 and 2023 driven by an improvement in climate risk transition plans being put in place across our markets but this does not 
necessarily come via ‘Carbon Disclosures Project’, which remains more a developing market disclosure across our client footprint. 
Key risk remains on management incentives linked to climate change; an area where we are actively engaging with clients.

Percentage of clients in scope

Has a quantiﬁable
climate policy or
commitment

Has board 
member with
climage oversight

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

Have management
incentives linked
to climate

2023

2022

Has TCFD-aligned
disclosures

Discloses to
CDP

2021

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

62%

58%

55%

55%

66%

49%

47%

29%

32%

37%

37%

24%

29%

29%

33%

301

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
Transition risk mitigation levels 
Over the last two years, there has been a material increase in both the number of clients putting in place a transition plan  
and those planning investments to move to low carbon technologies, driven by increasing regulatory pressure and enhanced 
transition risk commitments in some of our key markets. While the number of clients reporting Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions has  
not increased in the last two years, we have seen an increase in clients that report Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reduction targets. 
However, the ability to set quantifiable targets to achieve broader commitments is still lagging when looked at on an absolute 
basis and the scale of the transition needed.

Percentage of clients in scope

Reports 
Scope 1 & 2 
emissions

Reports 
Scope 3 
emissions

Has transition plan 
to meet current or 
future regulations

Has made plans
for investment in
low carbon
technologies

Has scope 1 & 2
reduction targets

Has scope 3 
reduction targets

Client performs
ﬁnancial transition
scenario analysis

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

2023
2022
2021

35%

31%

34%

17%

13%

21%

23%

71%

71%

68%

54%

52%

61%

61%

63%

43%
43%

54%

49%

50%

49%

Physical risk readiness 
Physical risk adaptation remains an area of concern and we have seen downward trends across our portfolio of clients due to 
an increase in the number of assessments (from c.2,200 - 4,100) captured in our coverage, which now better reflects our overall 
corporate portfolio. This reflects the nature of many of our footprint markets, where physical risk adaptation and associated 
levels of disclosures are in nascent stages. 

Percentage of clients in scope

42%

54%

50%

35%

34%

39%

32%

40%

39%

18%

24%

22%

Acknowledges
physical risk 

Assessed
physical risk 

Have taken
adaptation 
measures to 
date or made 
future plans to 

Estimates
a ﬁnancial 
impact

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

302

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
Transition risk – Gross Risk and Transition Plan levels for key sectors 
For four key sectors that have high transition risk i.e. Commercial Real Estate (CRE), O&G Producers, Metals and Mining 
Producers and Utilities, we have assessed the risk against the level of transition plans and how it varies across our key markets.

CRE: Companies across our key markets are close together 
with respect to their transition scores, reflecting the policy 
environment in the building sector, which is broadly similar 
across major markets. Key factors which determine the 
transition risk grading for a building are its location, which 
helps ascertain the intensity of the power grid supplying 
electricity to the asset, the property type, and its energy 
efficiency.

Power: Clients in the UAE are slightly behind some of their 
global peers, although this is driven in part by a lower level of 
disclosures and higher transition risk as a result of fossil fuel 
intensive business models. 

O&G: This sector has been gradually preparing for the 
transition to lower carbon intensive fuels over the last few 
years. While there is a lot more to do in terms of transitioning, 
the improved transition risk understanding and associated 
disclosures lead to on average better mitigation scores in  
this sector.

Mining: Almost 50 per cent of the Metals and Mining  
clients in our portfolio, ranging from Steel to Cement to 
Aluminium producers are based in China and India.  
Effective decarbonisation in this sector is reliant on the  
power grid decarbonising, improved energy efficiency in 
overall operations, including heating, as well as managing 
process level emissions.

CRE

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

M
k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
h
g
H

i

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
w
o
L

Utilities

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

M
k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
h
g
H

i

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
w
o
L

Gross Transition Risk

Gross Transition Risk

O&G Producer

Metals & Mining Producers

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

M
k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
h
g
H

i

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
w
o
L

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

M
k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
h
g
H

i

n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
w
o
L

Gross Transition Risk

Gross Transition Risk

 China   

 Hong Kong   

 India   

 Singapore   

 UK   

 USA   

 UAE   

 South Africa   

 Korea   

 Rest of Middle East   

 Europe

303

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Analysing the climate risk grading
Each client is assigned a climate risk grading (BRAG) 
computed based on the gross transition risk and transition risk 
mitigation. Owing to physical risk data being less robust, we 
have to date focused only on transition risk drivers to compute 
the climate risk grading. However, as highlighted in the section 
above, we have seen a steady improvement in the coverage 
of physical risk data in the last two years. During 2024, we plan 
to develop a methodology to incorporate both physical and 
transition risk drivers in the computation of BRAG which  
will holistically represent the extent of climate risk faced  
by a client. 

There are currently four types of BRAG ratings assigned to 
clients – black, red, amber, green. 

Black

Red

Amber

Green

 Clients are deemed to have very high 
exposure to Transition Risk with little or 
no mitigation plans

 Clients are deemed to have very high 
exposure to Transition Risk but with 
acceptable or good mitigation plans

 Clients are deemed to have high 
exposure to Transition Risk but with 
acceptable or good mitigation plans.

 Clients are deemed to have low or 
limited exposure to Transition Risk 

3. Evaluating the risk (linkage to credit process)
Once a climate risk grading is assigned to a client, the impacts 
from climate-related risks are integrated into the existing 
credit approval process qualitatively and/or quantitatively 
through inclusion within the business risk analysis and 
financial modelling. If the risks are deemed material and not 
adequately represented via the existing credit rating of the 
client, subjective warning signals may be added to influence 
the credit rating. Additionally, risk triggers are added to 
monitor risks that are not adequately mitigated and to seek 
additional information from the client where applicable.

4. Portfolio management and monitoring
Concentration of black and red graded clients remains within 
proposed Risk Appetite levels at 6 per cent within our key 
markets; some of the more developed markets have the 
highest proportion of green clients, which reflects the higher 
level of climate risk disclosures and governance established  
by companies in this region. Amongst our key markets, the 
UAE currently has the highest proportion of red and black 
clients, driven by a combination of clients that had fewer 
disclosures and high transition risk, particularly fossil fuel led 
utility providers.

During 2023 we have embedded qualitative and quantitative 
climate considerations into the Group’s credit underwriting 
principles for O&G, Mining, Shipping and CRE sectors for which 
we have industry specific origination teams. This included 
introducing portfolio level caps for black and red rated clients 
and lower preference for emission intensive transactions. It is 
important to note that underlying principles vary depending 
on the sector, to help steer the portfolio in the desired direction 
over the medium term, and also consider the Group’s 2030 
financed emission targets. We have also initiated work to 
assess risks to underlying collateral from physical and 
transition risk specifically for our CRE and Shipping portfolios.

A key strategic focus area going forward is to embed climate 
risk and net zero targets into business and credit decisions.  
To enable this, we have established a Net Zero Climate Risk 
Working Forum where discussions on account plans on high 
climate risk and net zero divergent clients are held.

Portfolio distribution across key markets

76.6%

81.73%

73.8%

56.1%

82.3%

74.4%

84.8%

74.49%

17.3%

5.4%

Total

16.74%

0.7%

1.52%

Singapore

21.1%

5.1%

India

39.1%

4.8%

UK

13.5%

4.2%

US

8.0%

16.1%
1.5%

UAE

11.9%

3.1%

0.2%

15.17%

6.45%
3.89%

Hong Kong

China

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

304

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
 
 
 
 
5. Controls and assurance
Independent control checks by first line of defence and 
assurance reviews by second line of defence on integrating 
climate risk within the credit process are carried out quarterly 
to improve the quality and effectiveness of assessing climate 
risk. The results of the assurance testing and steps to address 
gaps are periodically shared with impacted stakeholders and 
as part of governance updates to risk committees. 

Credibility of transition plans
We aim to actively manage our exposure by shifting to lower 
emissions-intensive clients and working closely with our 
existing clients to develop credible transition plans that are 
consistent with our net zero commitments. To help us identity 
such clients, we draw on our existing CRQ framework to 
finalise a methodology to assess the Credibility of Transition 
Plan (CTP) by analysing client commitments to transition  
their business to a low carbon economy. We leverage the  
data captured in the CRQ and assign a credibility rating to  
the clients’ transition plan based on an in-house scoring 
methodology that draws on the UK Transition Planning 
Taskforce and Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero 
guidance on net zero transition plans. 

The current methodology will be periodically reviewed as  
the level of client climate-related disclosure steps up across 
our footprint, to ensure it remains fit for purpose and in line 
with industry best practices, stakeholder expectations and 
regulatory requirements. The CTP has been embedded into 
the Version 3 CRQ that was implemented in January 2024.

Reputational and Sustainability Risk
Climate risk is considered within the Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk framework, for our corporate clients, 
through an assessment of a client’s ability to meet their own 
climate-related commitments, as well as meet the Group’s 
aim to reach net zero GHG emissions by 2050.

We have continued to perform additional client level due 
diligence for (i) clients covered by the Group’s net zero targets 
for high carbon sectors (O&G, Power, Steel, Aluminium, 
Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation and CRE), (ii) clients 
with a coal nexus2 as well as (iii) those that have been 
assessed at client level as high climate risk. The assessment 
focuses on three pillars at covering both client and transaction 
level aspects:

Of the case reviews completed, an increase in Reputational 
and Sustainability Risk rating was suggested for c.24 per cent 
of transactions compared to c.17 per cent in 2022. These 
consisted of companies in Coal Production, O&G, Mining,  
Steel and Cement sectors, primarily from the South East Asia 
region, looking to procure coal or other high carbon emitting 
products for manufacturing, production, or wholesale 
purposes. In addition, some entities with high temperature 
alignment scores and no clear transition plan were raised as 
having additional risk and rating increases recommended.

The above-mentioned due diligence is in addition to 
management of environmental and social risk arising from 
the Group’s client relationships and transactions. Further 
information is available in the Sustainability overview on 
pages 76 to 78 and Sustainability review on pages 125 to 129. 

Temperature alignment is one way to consider a company’s 
impact on climate change and an indicator of a client’s 
progress towards a net zero economy. It is calculated based 
on historic emission intensities and volume of hydrocarbons 
produced to produce a forward-looking temperature 
alignment score. We assessed the weighted average 
temperature alignment (WATA) projected to 2030 of 3,661 
corporate client entities (covering c.62 per cent of corporate 
client portfolio on a net nominal basis) by high carbon sector.

Client Level

Transaction Level

Temperature Alignment 
Temperature Alignment and 
Comparison to client peers

Credibility of Transition Plan 
Readiness and Robustness of  
transition strategy from client risk 
assesments

Net Zero Emissions Impact 
Influence on Net Zero alignment  
from both internal and regional  
context

2   As defined by the Group’s public Position Statement to only provide financial services to clients who by 

2030, are less than 5 per cent dependent on thermal coal (based on percentage revenue).

305

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewInsights
•  Portfolio average temperature alignment is 3.48⁰C. Compared to other sectors within our portfolio, O&G, CRE, Utilities and 

Construction have a higher temperature alignment given their dependence on high carbon emitting production.

•  Compared to 2022, there was an increase in sector temperature alignment scores across O&G and Construction sectors 
driven by improvements in both coverage of the corporate clients assessed and emission data coverage for our clients  
(due to reduced use of proxies). 

Weighted average temperature alignment (WATA) by client sectors (as of September 2023)

2021

2022

2023

%
8
6
4

.

%
0
6
3

.

)
C
°
(
A
T
A
W

5.0

4.5

4.0

3.5

3.0

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0.0

%
4
6
3

.

%
2
5
3

.

%
0
5
3

.

%
4
8
2

.

%
9
7
2

.

%
1
9
2

.

%
4
5
3

.

%
2
5
3

.

%
9
3
3

.

Utilities

O&G

Transportation
and Storage

CRE

Building
Products,
Construction
& Engineering

Consumer
Durables
& Apparel

Automobiles
& Components

Metals
& Mining

Technology
Hardware
& Equipment

Commodity
Traders

Others

Utilities

O&G

Transportation 
and Storage

Building 
Products, 
Construction & 
Engineering

CRE

Consumer 
Durables & 
Apparel

Automobiles & 
Components

Metals & 
Mining

Technology 
Hardware & 
Equipment

Commodity 
Traders

Asia

3.7°C

4.9°C

2.7°C

3.6°C

3.5°C

3.2°C

2.7°C

3.2°C

3.9°C

3.5°C

Others

3.6°C

Africa & 
Middle East

Europe & 
Americas

3.9°C

4.6°C

2.8°C

3.3°C

3.6°C

3.4°C

3.5°C

2.8°C

3.3°C

4.6°C

3.2°C

3.0°C

4.6°C

3.1°C

3.9°C

3.2°C

4.0°C

3.0°C

2.6°C

1.8°C

3.2°C

3.1°C

As part of our 2023 modelling roadmap, we initiated work on developing an in-house methodology to model temperature 
alignment for priority sectors (i.e. O&G, Steel and Automotive) as well as a sector-agnostic model to cover remaining corporate 
portfolios. This has helped to reduce reliance on third party modelling capabilities.

Temperature alignment is an emerging concept, and industry-wide standards on methodology are still evolving. We fully 
expect our approach to evolve in line with best practice. Client-level emissions are only available for c.55 per cent of corporate 
clients and sector average proxies are being used for the remainder. Improving such data gaps remains a key priority.

Country Risk
The Group uses a set of physical and transition risk rankings to identify the markets most vulnerable and least ready to adapt 
and mitigate climate-related physical and transition risks. 

•  The physical risk rankings are based on a set of publicly available scores such as ND-Gain Country Index and GermanWatch 

Climate Risk Index, as well as S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service. 

•  The transition risk rankings are based on an internally developed methodology which is a combination of climate and 

macroeconomic drivers.

306

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
Physical and Transition Risk rankings methodological deep dives

Assessing markets’ 
vulnerabilities to climate 
change and readiness to adapt

Gauging markets’ historical 
losses as a result of extreme 
weather events

Transition Risk

ND-Gain 
Country Index

German  
Watch Climate 
Risk Index

Physical Risk

S&P Global  
Rating

Moody’s  
Investor  
Services

Measuring markets’ exposure 
to extreme weather events

Measuring markets’ exposure 
to extreme weather events

n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
t
o
t
d
e
c
a
f
k
s
i
R

n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
t
o
t
y
t
i
l
i

b
A

n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T
s
s
o
r
G

s
r
o
t
c
a
f
k
s
i
R

k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

s
r
o
t
c
a
f
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

M

Reiliance on fossil 
fuel imports and 
exports

Carbon footprint of 
imports and efforts

Emission footprint 
per capita

Energy efficiency 
levels

Governments’ 
effectiveness in 
achieving targets

Governments’ fiscal 
flexibility to support 
the transition

Low-carbon energy 
production capacity

Imports of 
low-carbon 
technology products

Based on their aggregated physical and transition risk scores, sovereigns are split into decile-based buckets ranging from  
1 (low risk) to 10 (high risk). These rankings are a qualitative input to our internal Country Risk management process spanning 
annual sovereign credit grades and limits reviews, inputs to climate-related scenario analysis, and Risk Appetite.

Gross Country Risk (GCR) exposure distribution as of 30 September 2023 across Physical Risk categories

Bucket

Exposures %

1 (Best)

10.5

2

29.1

3

20.0

4

4.4

5

17.5

6

8.3

GCR exposure distribution as of 30 September 2023 across Transition Risk Categories

Bucket

Exposures %

1 (Best)

2.7

2

14.4

3

12.0

4

36.0

5

18.6

6

4.3

7

1.9

7

3.8

8

6.5

8

7.3

9 10 (Worst)

0.8

1.1

9 10 (Worst)

0.7

0.1

Physical and Transition Risk rankings distribution for key markets¹:
Key markets’ climate risk bucket allocation (as of Sept 2023) 

k
s
i
r
h
g
H

i

k
s
i
R

l

a
c
i
s
y
h
P

Mainland
China

Hong
Kong

Pakistan

India

Nigeria

UAE

South Korea

Singapore

USA

k
s
i
r

w
o
L

Low risk

Transition Risk

High risk

Bubble size represent markets’ GCR exposure

307

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insights
•  For both physical and transition risk, our exposure to 

high-risk countries (buckets 9 and 10) remains well below 
Risk Appetite.

Limitations
•  The computation inputs are based on latest available data 
which may be dated. Proxies have been used where data 
for the sovereign is not available.

•  The rankings are largely driven by the level of financial  
risk countries are exposed to and their ability to absorb 
these losses. As such, the rankings are largely dependent  
on countries’ development stage, economy-wide 
diversification, in-country inequalities and gross exposure  
to physical and transition risk shocks.

•  Additionally, we keep close track of transition risk events 
such as the establishment of the EU’s Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism (EU CBAM) and its potential 
impact on our key portfolios. Other markets with internal 
carbon pricing mechanisms (such as Singapore, South 
Korea, South Africa, etc) are also being monitored as  
part of country risk annual reviews. From a physical risk 
standpoint, the rise of El Niño season (expected to peak  
at the beginning of 2024) is likely to exacerbate climate 
conditions throughout the Group’s footprint regions and we 
continue to monitor these as part of our annual reviews.

•  The ranking uses equally spaced decile scores and provides 
the results in an ordinal manner. While the simplicity helps  
in adoption and provides the relative position of the 
sovereigns, other systems may provide more information.

Operational and Technology Risk
Climate risk primarily impacts Operational and Technology 
risk as it manifests when physical risk disrupts our properties, 
data centres and third party arrangements. Thus far, our focus 
has been on physical risks, and we aim to explore transition 
risk elements in 2024. We continue exploring enhancements 
to our control framework across impacted areas. Whilst 
Continuity Plans for third party arrangements have been 
enhanced to include climate risk related considerations, we 
are targeting to gather our material vendors’ operating site 
location data to assess their specific physical risk exposures, 
such that enhanced continuity plans can be developed. 

We continue to assess the physical risk vulnerabilities of our 
own operating locations on a regular basis. Furthermore, we 
have expanded the assessment of physical risk exposure at 
onboarding to include data centres.

Assessment of gross Physical Risk at our own operating locations (as of September 2023)

Physical Risk event

Flood (Acute)

Wildfire (Acute)

Storm (Acute)

Sea-level rise (Chronic)

Heat Stress (Chronic)

Number of operating locations

Time horizon

Scenario

2023

N/A

2100

2050

RCP 8.5

RCP 8.5

Insights
•  From an acute risk perspective, 20 per cent of the Group’s 
locations globally are subjected to flood risk, 14 per cent 
with storm risk and none at risk from wildfire. Given our 
footprint, a higher proportion (24 per cent for flood,  
18 per cent for storm) of the Group’s locations in Asia  
are subject to acute risks and 17 per cent of locations  
in Europe and Americas are subjected to flood risks. 

•  In the locations where weather events such as storms or 

cyclones are frequent, the buildings are built in 
consideration of these risks in line with regional standards.

•  From a chronic risk perspective, under RCP 8.5 for heat stress 
is at 26 per cent (35 per cent for AME, 24 per cent for Asia). 
Exposure to sea level rise remains below 5 per cent.

•  A broad range of mitigation options are considered,  
such as property insurance, operating a diversified  
location strategy, splitting delivery and therefore  
reducing concentration risk.

Asia

24%

0%

18%

1%

24%

714

AME

8%

0%

1%

5%

35%

239

E&A

17%

0%

6%

0%

0%

35

Global

20%

0%

14%

2%

26%

988

Traded Risk
We manage the climate risk of traded risk exposures through 
the stress-testing framework. Climate risks are incorporated  
in the scenarios monitored against the traded risk stress Risk 
Appetite, covering all fair value exposures in the trading and 
banking books. 

Climate-related stress scenarios are designed to include 
transition risk effects from climate change policies and  
shocks to markets due to supply and demand disruption  
from physical climate events. Three scenarios are currently  
in place: two physical and one transitional. The assumptions 
and results are subject to internal governance.

Our climate risk management for traded risk exposures is 
evolving and we are working closely with industry bodies and 
academics to better assess and monitor climate-related risks 
and opportunities.

308

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileTreasury Risk
From a capital perspective, climate risk considerations have 
been part of our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process submissions since 2019. Our approach for assessing 
climate risk impact on capital adequacy has improved from 
qualitative judgements to quantitative simulations with  
the availability of tools and greater understanding of  
our portfolio. 

As understanding of climate risk management and potential 
forward-looking scenarios develop, our approach and 
assessment will evolve, including using a wide range of 
scenario outcomes to determine any potential capital-related 
impact in the future.

From a liquidity risk perspective, we have started monitoring 
climate risk-related vulnerabilities and readiness of the top 
corporate client liquidity portfolios, leveraging the client 
outreach and data gathering exercise being undertaken on 
the asset side. The most recent exposure concentration in  
the ‘high transition risk and low readiness’ bucket is broadly 
comparable to what we see for our top corporate client 
exposures on the asset side. Liquidity providers with high 
transition risk and low readiness are from commodity  
traders and utilities sectors. The results of the analysis have 
been considered as part of our internal liquidity adequacy 
assessment process and we continue to monitor the profile.

Model Risk
Throughout 2023, we have been building our internal climate 
risk modelling capabilities to assess impacts from climate risk, 
through collaboration with various external vendors. These 
models have been independently validated by the second line 
of defence and approved by the Credit Model Assessment 
Committee, and were used to estimate climate impact on  
ECL for IFRS9. The amount of incremental ECL as a result of 
climate risk was below the Group’s materiality threshold  
and as such was not included as a quantitative post model 
adjustment. In future, the models will also be used for stress 
testing. The development of internal climate risk models  
has helped us to reduce reliance on external vendor models, 
and we will continue to enhance our internal capabilities  
by extending model coverage (e.g. to develop models to  
cover more portfolios, or to develop more granular sector-
specific models) and incorporating model enhancements 
recommended by internal and external stakeholders.

For the corporate portfolios, we developed transition risk 
models that adopt the microeconomic theory of demand and 
supply to determine price changes based on sustainability 
transition costs in different sectors of the economy. The model 
accounts for several key market dynamics, such as sensitivities 
with respect to price, revenue, cost, and profit due to changes 
in carbon prices. The model is calibrated at portfolio level, 
covering priority sectors that are carbon-intensive and a 
generic model that covers non-priority sectors.

For retail mortgages, an asset haircut model was developed 
to assess physical climate risk impact by estimating the 
devaluation of property values along different climate 
pathways. The model takes input from the current and 
prospective risk profile of a property, which captures the 
evolution of various hazard types, including river floods  
and storms.

For sovereigns, the climate adjusted Probability of Defaults  
is derived by considering benchmarks from the Cambridge 
Paper (Klusak et al., 2021) and incorporating the country  
risk rankings currently used by the Group, which covers both 
physical and transition risks.

Apart from models that are used to estimate ECL, we have 
also developed temperature alignment models that assess 
implied temperature rise scores for corporate counterparties. 
The model methodology is forward-looking and compares 
the forecasted emissions of a counterparty to relevant 
benchmark scenarios. The cumulative difference in emissions 
between the counterparty’s forecast and the benchmark 
scenarios is converted into a temperature score. The output 
from temperature alignment models will support internal 
climate risk management processes. We have also partnered 
with external vendors for a scenario expansion model which 
has been used to for NGFS Version 3 scenarios.

Assessing the resilience of our strategy using 
scenario analysis 
To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in the  
short, medium, and long-term we use scenario analysis to 
consider how risks and opportunities may evolve under 
different situations. Over two years, we have progressively 
strengthened our scenario analysis capabilities and 
developed our infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate 
climate risk into data, modelling, and analysis. We have 
expanded our portfolio coverage, built bespoke scenarios,  
and participated in several regulatory climate stress tests in 
2023, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) 
and the Central Bank United Arab Emirates stress tests.

Scenarios used at Standard Chartered
The table below summarises the climate risk scenarios used internally by the Group across risk types:

Risk Types

Scenario Family

Credit Risk – Corporate, Commercial 
and Institutional Banking (CCIB)

Network for Greening the Financial 
System (NGFS) Version 3

Credit Risk – CCIB

Bespoke (Tail and Base) 

Credit Risk – Consumer, Private and 
Business Banking (CPBB)

Intergovernmental Panel on  
Climate Change’s (IPCC) 
Representative concentration 
pathways (RCP) scenarios

Operational and Technology Risk

IPCC’s RCP 8.5 scenario

Reputational and  
Sustainability Risk

Traded Risk

NGFS Version 3

Bespoke (two Physical scenarios  
and one Transition scenario) 

Number of 
Scenarios

3

3

3

1

2

3

Risk Measure

ECL, RWA

ECL, RWA

Exposure Concentration to  
sea level rise risk

Physical Risk Concentration  
for sea level rise risk and heat 
stress to our own operations

Weighted Average 
Temperature Alignment

Stressed Loss

Refer  
Page no

311

311

298

308

305

308

309

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewIn addition to the internal scenarios, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited is responding to two HKMA mandated 
climate risk stress tests to (i) assess the impact on capital for short tenor scenarios across credit, traded and operational risks 
and (ii) a 30-year scenario based on NGFS Version 3 scenarios. The hybrid bespoke short-term five-year scenario has elements 
of a macro recession, transition, and physical risk events such as typhoons in Hong Kong, heatwave, and precipitation in China. 
We have used our existing stress testing models to model the credit risk impact with overlays provided for physical and 
transition risk using data on client transition mitigation readiness, climate adjusted asset level haircuts, assumptions on 
stranded assets for consumer mortgages and other available data. For Operational and Technology risk, we are assessing  
the impact of damage to our premises and business disruption.

Transition (T) and Physical (P) Risk scenarios 
We adapted the following scenarios for our CCIB portfolio:

Scenario Family

Scenario Name

Key Features

NGFS v3

Net Zero 2050 (T)

Delayed Transition (T)

Current Policies (P+T)

Bespoke

In-house Base Case (P+T)

‘Green Trade War’ Tail (T)

‘Migration’ Tail (P)

Global warming limited to 1.5°C through stringent climate policies and innovation
Global net zero CO2 emissions around 2050
Strong policies will be needed to limit warming to below 2°C
Annual emissions do not decrease until 2030

No additional policies beyond those currently implemented, along with slow 
technology change
Global temperature rises over 3 degrees by 2100

Credibility assessment of countries’ current sector targets in the short-term (2030) 
and a durability assessment of reduction commitments in the long-term (2050)
Delayed transition to a low-carbon economy and a lack of early climate action 
resulting in a 2.5°C temperature rise by 2100

Impact to global trade due to introduction of Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism 
leading to trade war escalation
Explores risks which are not addressed by NGFS scenarios and may emerge over a 
short-term horizon

Increasing severe acute weather events globally impact global food prices and drive 
migration and displacement

The scenarios used for CCIB clients are characterised by different levels of physical and transition risk, driven by various features 
in each scenario. 

Carbon price: increase in carbon price puts additional cost pressure on clients, squeezes the profit margin, and thus helps to 
determine level of potential credit losses.

Oil price: increase (or lack thereof) in oil price impacts on clients’ revenues and profitability and thus helps to determine level  
of potential credit losses.

Features of the NGFS and bespoke scenarios used in a Standard Chartered scenario analysis

Feature

Temperature rise

Carbon price ($2015/tCO²)

Oil price ($2015/boe)

Gas price change (vs 2020, %)

Power demand change (vs 2020, %)

GDP baseline change (vs 2020, %)

Net Zero  
2050

1.4°C

NGFS v3

Delayed 
Transition

1.6°C

124

487 

84

107

56%

52%

27%

120%

34%

111%

6

416 

94

118

43%

54%

35%

129%

36%

110%

Current  
policices

3°C+

6

7 

94

125

43%

80%

35%

106%

36%

118%

Bespoke Scenarios

Tail Risk 
(Physical)

Tail Risk 
(Transition)

NA 

61

70 

50

41

15%

-14%

20%

75%

-4%

-2%

NA

66

90 

50

41

15%

-14%

20%

75%

-5%

-5%

Year

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

2030

2050

310

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profile 
 
 
 
 
Physical risk scenarios
We adapted the following scenarios for our CPBB portfolio. The table below summarises acute and chronic hazards outputs we 
currently use in the Munich Re’s Location Risk Intelligence Platform tool.

Scenario Family

Scenario Name

Key Features

IPCC (2050, 2100)

RCP 2.6 (P)
RCP 4.5 (P)
RCP 8.5 (P)

Pathways of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and atmospheric concentrations, air 
pollutant emissions and land use to project their consequences for the climate system
Current and Projected Hazard scores from Munich Re model:
• Tropical cyclone zones
• River flood zones
• Sea level rise zones
• Heat stress index based on range of high-temperature indicators
• Precipitation stress index based on heavy- precipitation indicators
• Climatological index for wildfire hazard
• Drought stress index based on Standardised Precipitation- Evapotranspiration Index

Scenario analysis results for CCIB
We assessed the impact of climate-related risks on our corporate, sovereign, and financial institutions clients under different 
climate scenarios. This assessment, across the NGFS and bespoke scenarios, covered approximately 95 per cent of our CCIB 
portfolio for these clients, primarily reflective of the gross transition risks. While client-level transition plans were not factored 
into the modelling, they were referenced to draw additional insights for priority sectors.

Scenarios used in Standard Chartered Scenario Analysis¹:
Loan impairment for corporate portfolio

k
s
i
r
h
g
H

i

k
s
i
R
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
T

k
s
i
r

w
o
L

Low risk

Tail
Transition

Delayed
Transition

Tail
Physical

SCB
In-house

Net Zero
2050

Current
Policies

Physical Risk

High risk

1  The size of the bubble is indicative of the gross expected losses 
  assessed for 94% of our corporate portfolio

The loan impairment (LI) intensity which measures the level of gross ECL against the exposure at default (EAD) enables us to 
assess the relative size of our exposure subject to potential losses from climate risks. As the graph below illustrates, LI intensities 
do not go beyond 3 per cent during the forecast horizon for the climate scenarios considered in our scenario analysis. We expect 
our LI intensity to rise the most in the NGFS Net Zero 2050 scenario. This is reflective of the high transition risks noted by higher 
carbon prices, coupled with the needs for greater investment to move to a low carbon economy. The NGFS Delayed Transition 
scenario also projects high LI intensity reflecting that such delayed transition will be equally disruptive due to lower levels of 
innovations that limits the ability to decarbonise effectively, and rising carbon prices that squeeze profit margins. Relatively 
lower LI intensity observed in the NGFS Current Policies scenario reflects the nascent modelling capabilities on assessing the 
physical risk impact to client asset locations and second-order impacts, such as that on the supply chain.

311

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital review 
 
 
 
Among the bespoke scenarios, we expect our LI intensity to rise the most in the tail transition risk scenario. This is reflective of  
the potential risks to the global economy and subsequent increase in credit losses that may manifest due to the climate subsidy 
competition and introduction of carbon border adjustment mechanism. Overall, we believe that the level of potential credit 
losses can be mitigated by continuing to take necessary actions which the Group is already doing across sectors, engaging  
with our clients on this topic and supporting them in enhancing their climate transition plans.

Loan Impairment intensities for the NGFS and bespoke scenarios (December 2022 snapshot)

Current policies

Delayed transition

Net Zero 2050

SCB in-house

Tail Physical

Tail Transition

2.7%
to
0.7%

3.0%

2.5%

2.0%

1.5%

1.0%

0.5%

0%

2022

2026

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

LI Intensity is calculated as gross ECL over EAD

For corporate clients, we focused on the below sectors that have been identified as more vulnerable to potential climate 
impacts. As of December 2022, these sectors represented 55 per cent of our corporate portfolio.

Loan Impairment intensities for key corporate sectors for the NGFS and bespoke scenarios 

Long Term - 2050

Automobiles & Components

Construction

Consumer Durables & Apparel

CRE

Metal & Mining

O&G

Telecomms

Transportation

Utilities

Total portfolio

EAD

4%

7%

6%

8%

5%

11%

2%

9%

3%

100%

NGFS Net Zero  
2050

NGFS Delayed 
Transition

NGFS Current  
policices

Bespoke 
Baseline

Bespoke Tail 
Transition Risk

Bespoke Tail 
Physical Risk

Medium

Medium

Medium

Low

Medium

Medium

Medium

Low

Medium

Medium

High

Medium

High

Medium

Medium

High

Medium

Medium

Low

Medium

Low

Low

Low

Low

Low

Low

Low

Low

Medium

Low

Low

Low

Medium

Low

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

High

Low

High

Low

Low

Low

Low

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

Medium

Low

Low

Medium

Low

Medium

Low

Medium

As observed in the table above, O&G and transportation sectors are most impacted by a higher LI intensity level across the 
scenarios. Higher carbon prices, decrease in O&G demand characterised in the NGFS Net Zero 2050 and NGFS Delayed 
Transition scenario are the main drivers for higher LI levels for these sectors. The extreme phsycial and transition risk events 
occurring in the short term and their longer term second order impacts on the global economy result in the higher LI Intensity 
levels for these sectors in 2050.

312

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk profileAs more solution providers become available and banks start 
extensively using them to build internal understanding and 
capabilities, the transparency and sophistication of modelling 
methodologies and assumptions will increase. Despite these 
limitations, our intention is to focus on how climate risk 
management can inform portfolio management and support 
opportunity identification with clients on their transition and 
adaptation pathways. Work is under way to build capability 
from a people, process, and technology perspective to 
support stress tests at country level, including in-house 
training and a plan to implement the in-house models in  
the Group infrastructure.

The results are used to assess the impact of climate change 
on our portfolio and provide the management information  
to monitor stressed LI over the next five-year horizon under 
plausible and extreme climate scenarios. The results also  
form part of our Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs). Whilst 
further enhancements are required to improve our modelling 
capabilities, the results of scenario analysis have provided 
further validation to the actions we are taking as a Group in 
terms of our net zero ambitions and strategy and qualitative 
management actions in terms of improving the data quality 
and building in-house modelling expertise. The results have 
been subject to internal governance, including review and 
challenge by an expert panel and discussion at the Climate 
Risk Management Committee and Board Risk Committee.

Scenario analysis results for CPBB
As part of our internal climate scenario analysis for CPBB,  
we carried out physical risk assessments for rising sea levels  
for our top 10 retail mortgage markets. The concentration of 
the Group’s portfolio exposure exposed to extreme rising sea 
levels risk has been observed to remain stable at 2 per cent in 
the most extreme RCP 8.5 scenario. 

Further details on the metrics used in the climate scenario 
analysis for CPBB can be found in pages 298 and 299

We measured the impact of physical risk on ECL to the retail 
mortgage portfolio for four key markets (Hong Kong, China, 
Taiwan and Korea) as part of the HKMA stress test exercise. 
For our key residential mortgage markets, we have 
collaborated with our academic partner (Imperial College 
London) to develop an internal model for revaluating  
property valuations under different climate scenarios  
using the forward-looking risk indices from Munich Re.  
These revaluations are then used to inform haircuts on the 
property prices and arrive at climate adjusted ECL values  
for the mortgage book.

Limitations and next steps
Despite the efforts in gathering transition risk data relating to 
our CPBB credit portfolios, gaps still exist across our footprint 
markets, and we have not been able to run a forward-looking 
transition risk scenario for CPBB. We have a plan to address 
these data gaps by working with third parties, engaging 
clients to gather more information, and using appropriate 
proxies for remaining data gaps.

Many of the assumptions and methodologies that underpin 
the scenario analysis continue to rely significantly on nascent 
methodologies as well as a dependence on first generation 
models and data challenges. Many of these limitations are 
shared across the industry. Given the complexities of climate 
modelling, it should also be noted that the results do not 
include the real-world aspects such as the non-linear shifts 
and complex feedback loops. However, they are intended  
to provide a strategic direction of the sense of portfolio 
concentrations subject to potential climate losses.

313

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewEnterprise Risk Management Framework

Risk management is at the heart of banking, it is what we do. 
Managing risk effectively is how we drive commerce and 
prosperity for our clients and our communities, and it is how  
we grow sustainably and profitably as an organisation.

Strategic risk management 
The Group’s approach to strategic risk management includes 
the following:

•  Risk identification: impact analyses of risks that arise from 

the Group’s growth plans, strategic initiatives, and business 
model vulnerabilities are reviewed. This assesses how 
existing risks have evolved in terms of relative importance  
or whether new risks have emerged.

•  Risk Appetite: impact analysis is performed to assess if 

strategic initiatives can be achieved within RA and highlight 
areas where additional RA should be considered.

•  Stress testing: the risks highlighted during the strategy 
review and other risk identification processes are used  
to develop scenarios for enterprise stress tests. In order  
to ensure that the Group’s Strategy remains within the 
approved RA, the Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO) and 
Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO) recommend strategic 
actions based on the stress test results.

Roles and responsibilities 

Senior Managers Regime2 
Roles and responsibilities under the ERMF are aligned to the 
objectives of the Senior Managers Regime (SMR). The GCRO  
is responsible for the overall development and maintenance 
of the Group’s ERMF and for identifying material risks which 
the Group may be exposed to. The GCRO delegates effective 
implementation of the RTFs to Risk Framework Owners  
(RFO) who provide second line of defence oversight for their 
respective PRTs.

In addition, the GCRO is the senior manager responsible  
for the development of the Group’s Digital Assets Risk 
Assessment Approach, and management of Climate Risk.

Effective risk management is essential in delivering consistent 
and sustainable performance for all our stakeholders and is  
a central part of the financial and operational management 
of the Group. The Group adds value to clients and the 
communities in which they operate by balancing risk and 
reward to generate returns for shareholders.

The Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) enables 
the Group to manage enterprise-wide risks, with the objective 
of maximising risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our 
Risk Appetite (RA). The ERMF is embedded across the Group, 
including its branches and subsidiaries1, and is reviewed 
annually. The latest version is effective from January 2024.

Annual review 
In the 2023 review, the concepts of Integrated Risk Types (IRTs) 
and IRT Owner roles were discontinued. Oversight on IRTs,  
i.e. Climate Risk, Digital Assets and Third Party Risk, is  
provided through the Risk Type Frameworks (RTFs) and 
relevant dedicated policies. The subject matter experts as 
policy owners for these risks provide overall governance  
and a holistic view of how risks are monitored and managed 
across the Principal Risk Types (PRTs).

Risk culture
Risk culture encompasses our general awareness, attitudes, 
and behaviours towards risk, as well as how risk is managed  
at enterprise level. 

A healthy risk culture is one in which everyone takes personal 
responsibility to identify and assess, openly discuss, and  
take prompt action to address existing and emerging risks. 
We expect those in our control functions to provide oversight 
and challenge constructively, collaboratively, and in a timely 
manner. This effort is reflected in our valued behaviours, 
underpinned by our Code of Conduct and Ethics, and 
reinforced by how we hire, develop, reward our people, serve 
our clients, and contribute to communities around the world.

The risks we face constantly evolve, and we must always look 
for ways to manage them as effectively as possible. While 
unfavourable outcomes will occur from time to time, a healthy 
risk culture means that we react quickly and transparently.  
We can then take the opportunity to learn from our 
experience and improve our framework and processes.

1   The Group’s ERMF and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured 

Entities of the Group.

2   Senior managers refers to individuals designated as senior management functions under the FCA and PRA Senior Managers Regime.

314

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachThe Risk function 
The Risk function provides oversight and challenge on the 
Group’s risk management, ensuring that business is conducted 
in line with regulatory expectations. The GCRO directly 
manages the Risk function, which is independent from the 
origination, trading, and sales functions of the businesses. 
The Risk function is responsible for:

•  Determining the RA for approval by Group’s Management 

Team (GMT) and the Board.

•  Maintaining the ERMF, ensuring that it remains relevant  
and appropriate to the Group’s business activities, and  
is effectively communicated and implemented across  
the Group. 

•  Ensuring that risks are properly assessed, risk and return 
decisions are transparent and risks are controlled in 
accordance with the Group’s standards and RA. 

•  Overseeing and challenging the management of PRTs 

under the ERMF.

•  Ensuring that the necessary balance in making risk and 

return decisions is not compromised by short-term pressures 
to generate revenues through the independence of the  
Risk function.

In addition, the Risk function provides specialist  
capabilities relevant to risk management processes  
in the broader organisation.

The Risk function supports the Group’s strategy by building  
a sustainable ERMF that places regulatory and compliance 
standards, together with culture of appropriate conduct,  
at the forefront of the Group’s agenda. 

Our Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance (CFCC) 
function works alongside the Risk function within the ERMF  
to deliver a unified second line of defence.

Three lines of defence model 
The Group applies a three line of defence model to its 
day-to-day activities for effective risk management,  
and to reinforce a strong governance and control 
environment. Typically:

•  The businesses and functions engaged in or supporting 
revenue generating activities that own and manage the 
risks constitute the first line of defence.

•  The control functions, independent of the first line of 
defence, that provide oversight and challenge of risk 
management activities act as the second line of defence.

•  Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence providing 
independent assurance on the effectiveness of controls 
supporting the activities of the first and second line of 
defence functions.

Risk Appetite and profile 
The Group recognises the following constraints which 
determine the risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our 
strategy and the development of a sustainable business: 

•  Risk capacity is the maximum level of risk the Group can 

assume, given its current capabilities and resources, before 
breaching constraints determined by capital and liquidity 
requirements or the internal operational environment, or 
otherwise failing to meet the expectations of regulator and 
law enforcement agencies.

•  RA is defined by the Group and approved by the Board.  
It is the boundary for the risk that the Group is willing  
to undertake to achieve its strategic objectives and 
Corporate Plan. 

The Board is responsible for approving the RA Statements, 
which are underpinned by a set of financial and operational 
control parameters known as RA metrics and their associated 
thresholds. These directly constrain the aggregate risk 
exposures that can be taken across the Group.

The Group RA is reviewed at least annually to ensure that it is 
fit for purpose and aligned with strategy, with focus given to 
new or emerging risks.

Risk Appetite Framework
The Group RA is defined in accordance with risk  
management principles that inform our overall approach  
to risk management and our risk culture. We set RA to  
enable us to grow sustainably whilst managing our risks, 
giving confidence to our stakeholders.

The Group RA is supplemented by risk control tools such as 
granular-level limits, policies, standards, and other operational 
control parameters that are used to maintain the Group’s risk 
profile within approved RA.

Risk Appetite Statement 
The Group will not compromise compliance with its Risk 
Appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.

See Table 1 for the set of RA statements.

Risk identification and assessment 
Identification and assessment of potentially adverse risk 
events is an essential first step in managing the risks of any 
business or activity. To ensure consistency in communication, 
we use PRTs to classify our risk exposures. 

We also recognise the need to maintain a holistic  
perspective since: 

•  a single transaction or activity may give rise to multiple 

types of risk exposure;

•  risk concentrations may arise from multiple exposures that 

are closely correlated; and 

•  a given risk exposure may change its form from one risk 

type to another. 

315

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewStress tests are performed at the Group, country, business,  
and portfolio level under a wide range of risks and at varying 
degrees of severity. Unless specifically set by the regulator, 
scenario design is a bespoke process that aims to explore risks 
that can adversely impact the Group.

The Board delegates approval of the Bank of England (BoE) 
stress test submissions to the Board Risk Committee (BRC), 
which reviews the recommendations from the GRC. Based on 
the stress test results, the GCFO and GCRO can recommend 
strategic actions to the Board to ensure that the Group’s 
strategy remains within RA.

In addition, analysis is run at PRT level to assess specific risks 
and concentrations that the Group may be exposed to.  
These include qualitative assessments such as stressing of 
credit sectors or portfolios, measures such as Value at Risk 
(VaR) and multi-factor scenarios in Traded Risk and internal 
stressed liquidity metrics. Non-financial risk types are also 
stressed to assess the necessary capital requirements under 
the Operational & Technology RTF.

The Group has also undertaken a number of Climate Risk 
stress tests, both those mandated by regulators as well as 
management scenarios.

There are also sources of risk that arise beyond our own 
operations, such as the Group’s dependency on suppliers  
for the provision of services and technology.

As the Group remains accountable for risks arising from the 
actions of such third parties, failure to adequately monitor 
and manage these relationships could materially impact the 
Group’s ability to operate.

The Group maintains a dynamic risk-scanning process with 
inputs on the internal and external risk environment, as well  
as potential threats and opportunities from the business and 
client perspectives. The Group maintains a taxonomy of the 
PRTs, and risk sub-types; as well as the Topical and Emerging 
Risks (TERs) inventory that includes near-term as well as 
longer-term uncertainties. Risk assessments of planned 
growth and strategic initiatives against the Group’s RA is 
undertaken annually. 

The GCRO and the Group Risk Committee (GRC) regularly 
review reports on the risk profile for the PRTs, adherence  
to Group RA and the Group risk inventory, including TERs.  
They use this information to escalate material developments 
and make recommendations to the Board annually on any 
potential changes to our Corporate Plan.

Stress testing 
The objective of stress testing is to support the Group in 
assessing that it: 

•  does not have a portfolio with excessive risk concentration 
that could produce unacceptably high losses under severe 
but plausible scenarios; 

•  has sufficient financial resources to withstand severe but 

plausible scenarios;

•  has the financial flexibility to respond to extreme but 

plausible scenarios;

•  understands key business model risks and considers what 
kind of event might crystallise those risks – even if extreme 
and with a low likelihood of occurring;

•  Identify, as required, actions to mitigate the likelihood or 

impact of those events;

•  considers how the outcome of plausible stress events, 
including TERs, may impact availability of liquidity and 
regulatory capital; and

•  has set RA metrics at appropriate levels.

Enterprise stress tests incorporate Capital and Liquidity 
Adequacy Stress Tests, including recovery and resolution,  
as well as reverse stress tests.

316

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachPrincipal Risk Types
PRTs are those risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and have been formally defined in the Group’s ERMF. 
These risks are managed through distinct RTFs which are approved by the GCRO.

The PRTs and associated RA Statements are reviewed annually.

The table below shows the Group’s current PRTs.

Table 1: Principal Risk Types Definition and RA Statement 

Principal Risk Types

Definition

Risk Appetite Statement

Credit Risk

Traded Risk

Treasury Risk

Potential for loss due to failure of a counterparty to 
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group.

Potential for loss resulting from activities undertaken 
by the Group in financial markets.

Potential for insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding  
to support our operations, the risk of reductions in 
earnings or value from movements in interest rates 
impacting banking book items and the potential for 
losses from a shortfall in the Group’s pension plans.

Operational and 
Technology Risk

Potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, technology events, human error,  
or from the impact of external events (including  
legal risks).

Financial Crime 
Risk1 

Potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material 
financial loss or reputational damage resulting  
from the failure to comply with applicable laws  
and regulations relating to international sanctions, 
anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and 
corruption, and fraud.

The Group manages its credit exposures following the 
principle of diversification across products, geographies, 
client segments and industry sectors.

The Group should control its financial markets and 
activities to ensure that market and counterparty  
credit risk losses do not cause material damage to  
the Group’s franchise.

The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity 
and funding to support its operations, and an interest 
rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings  
or value from movements in interest rates impacting 
banking book items does not cause material damage  
to the Group’s franchise. In addition, the Group should 
ensure its pension plans are adequately funded. 

The Group aims to control operational and technology 
risks to ensure that operational losses (financial or 
reputational), including any related to conduct of 
business matters, do not cause material damage to  
the Group’s franchise.

The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and 
regulations related to Financial Crime, recognising  
that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be 
entirely avoided.

Compliance Risk

Potential for penalties or loss to the Group or for an 
adverse impact to our clients, stakeholders or to the 
integrity of the markets we operate in through a 
failure on our part to comply with laws, or regulations.

The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and 
regulations related to regulatory non-compliance; 
recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they 
cannot be entirely avoided.

Information and 
Cyber Security Risk

Risk to the Group’s assets, operations, and individuals 
due to the potential for unauthorised access, use, 
disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of 
information assets and/or information systems.

Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk

Potential for damage to the franchise (such as loss  
of trust, earnings or market capitalisation), because  
of stakeholders taking a negative view of the Group 
through actual or perceived actions or inactions, 
including a failure to uphold responsible business 
conduct as we strive to do no significant 
environmental and social harm through our client, 
third party relationships, or our own operations.

The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks to 
ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank material 
harm, business disruption, financial loss or reputational 
damage – recognising that whilst incidents are 
unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.

The Group aims to protect the franchise from material 
damage to its reputation by ensuring that any business 
activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed with  
the appropriate level of management and governance 
oversight. This includes a potential failure to uphold 
responsible business conduct in striving to do no 
significant environmental and social harm.

Model Risk

Potential loss that may occur because of decisions or 
the risk of mis-estimation that could be principally 
based on the output of models, due to errors in the 
development, implementation, or use of such models.

The Group has no appetite for material adverse 
implications arising from misuse of models or errors  
in the development or implementation of models;  
whilst accepting some model uncertainty.

1   Fraud forms part of the Financial Crime RA Statement but in line with market practice does not apply a zero-tolerance approach 

In addition to the PRTs, there is a RA statement for Climate Risk: “The Group aims to measure and manage financial and 
non-financial risks arising from climate change, and reduce emissions related to our own activities and those related to the 
financing of clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.”

317

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewERMF effectiveness reviews
The GCRO is responsible for annually affirming the 
effectiveness of the ERMF to the BRC via an effectiveness 
review. This review uses evidence-based self-assessments for 
all the RTFs and relevant policies. A top-down review and 
challenge of the results is conducted by the GCRO with all 
RFOs and an opinion on the internal control environment is 
provided by Group Internal Audit.

The ERMF effectiveness review enables measurement  
of year-on-year progress. The key outcomes of the 2023  
review are:

•  Continued focus on embedding the ERMF across the 

organisation.

•  Financial risks continue to be more effectively managed 

and the Group continues to make good progress in 
embedding non-financial risk management.

•  Other aspects of the ERMF, including the key risk 

committees and key supporting standards, are established.

•  Country-led self-assessments ensure adherence to the 

ERMF. Country and regional risk committees continue to 
play an active role in managing and overseeing material 
issues arising in countries.

Ongoing ffectiveness reviews allow for a structured approach 
to identify improvement opportunities and build plans to 
address them.

In 2024, the Group aims to further strengthen its risk 
management practices by improving the management of 
non-financial risks within its businesses, functions and across 
our footprint.

Executive and Board risk oversight

Overview 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management 
and is supported by five core Board level committees. The 
Board approves the ERMF based on the recommendation 
from the BRC, which also recommends the Group RA 
Statement for all PRTs. In addition, the Culture and 
Sustainability Committee oversees the Group’s culture  
and key sustainability priorities.

Board and Executive level risk committee governance 
structure 
The Committee governance structure below presents the  
view as of 2023.

Board of Directors

Board level committees

Board Risk 
Committee

Culture and 
Sustainability 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Governance 
and 
Nomination 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Group Risk Committee
The GRC, which derives its authority from the GCRO, is 
responsible for ensuring the effective management of risk 
throughout the Group in support of the Group’s strategy.  
The GCRO chairs the GRC, whose members are drawn  
from the Group Management Team. The GRC oversees  
the effective implementation of the ERMF for the Group, 
including the delegation of any part of its authorities to 
appropriate individuals or sub-committees.

Group Risk Committee sub-committees 
•  The Group Non-Financial Risk Committee (GNFRC), 

chaired by the Global Head, Risk, Functions and 
Operational Risk, governs the non-financial risks throughout 
the Group, in support of the ERMF and the Group’s strategy. 
The GNFRC also reviews the adequacy of the internal 
control system across in-scope PRTs.

•  The Group Financial Crime Risk Committee (GFCRC), 

chaired by the Group Head, CFCC, governs the Financial 
Crime Risk Type (excluding Fraud Risk and Secondary 
Reputational Risk arising from Financial Crime Risk).  
The GFCRC ensures that the Financial Crime Risk profile  
is managed within RA and policies.

318

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approach•  The Regulatory Interpretation Committee, co-chaired by 
the Global Head ERM and Group Head, Central Finance, 
provides oversight of material regulatory interpretations  
for the Capital Requirements Regulation (as amended by 
UK legislation), the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) 
rulebook and other relevant regulations impacting  
Group regulatory capital calculations and reporting.  
The areas and risk types in scope are credit risk, traded  
risk, operational risk, large exposures, leverage ratio  
and securitisation.

•  The Digital Assets Risk Committee, chaired by the Global 
Head, ERM, oversees effective risk management of the 
Digital Assets (DA) Risk profile of the Group. This includes 
providing oversight and subject matter expertise of DA Risk 
matters arising from DA-related activities across the PRTs.

Group Asset and Liability Committee 
The Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) is chaired 
by the GCFO. Its members are drawn principally from the 
Management Team. GALCO is responsible for determining 
the Group’s balance sheet strategy and for ensuring that,  
in executing the Group’s strategy, the Group operates within 
RA and regulatory requirements relating to capital, loss-
absorbing capacity, liquidity, leverage, Interest Rate Risk in the 
Banking Book (IRRBB), Banking Book Basis Risk and Structural 
Foreign Exchange Risk. It also monitors the structural impact 
of decisions around sustainable finance, net zero and climate 
risk. GALCO is also responsible for ensuring that internal and 
external recovery planning requirements are met.

•  The Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk 

Committee (GRRRC), chaired by the Group Head, CFCC, 
ensures the effective management of Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk across the Group. This includes providing 
oversight of matters arising from clients, products, 
transactions and strategic coverage-related decisions  
and matters escalated by the respective RFOs.

•  The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 9 
Impairment Committee, co-chaired by the Global Head 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Group Head, 
Central Finance, ensures the effective management of 
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) computations, as well as  
stage allocation of financial assets for quarterly  
financial reporting.

•  The Model Risk Committee, chaired by the Global Head, 

ERM, ensures the effective measurement and management 
of Model Risk in line with internal policies and RA.

•  The Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking 
(CCIB) Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer 
(CRO), CCIB and Europe and Americas, ensures the effective 
management of risk throughout CCIB in support of the 
Group’s strategy.

•  The Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Risk 

Committee, chaired by the CRO, CPBB, ensures the effective 
management of risk throughout CPBB in support of the 
Group’s strategy.

•  The Asia Risk Committee and the Africa and Middle East 
Risk Committee are chaired by the CRO for the respective 
region. These committees ensure the effective 
management of risk in the regions in support of the  
Group’s strategy.

•  The Investment Committee, chaired by representatives 
from the Risk function (CRO, Stressed Asset Group (SAG), 
Chief Credit Officer), ensures the optimised wind-down of 
the Group’s existing direct investment activities in equities, 
quasi-equities (excluding mezzanine), funds and other 
alternative investments (excluding debt/debt-like 
instruments). This includes equity or quasi-equity stakes 
obtained as a result of restructuring of distressed debt, 
non-core equities and limited partner investments in funds 
linked to CCIB and managed by the Credit and Portfolio 
Management. 

•  The SC Ventures (SCV) Risk Committee, chaired by the 

CRO, SCV, receives authority directly from the GCRO and 
oversees the effective management of risk throughout  
SCV and the portfolio of subsidiaries operating under SCV, 
in support of the Group’s strategy.

•  The Climate Risk Management Committee (CRMC), 

chaired by the Global Head, ERM, oversees the effective 
implementation of the Group’s Climate Risk Policy and 
workplan. This includes relevant regulatory requirements 
and covers Climate Risk related financial and non- 
financial risks.

319

Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewPrincipal risks

We manage and control our PRTs through 
distinct RTFs, policies and RA.

Credit Risk

The Group defines Credit Risk as the potential for loss 
due to failure of a counterparty to meet its agreed 
obligations to pay the Group.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group manages its credit exposures following 
the principle of diversification across products, 
geographies, client segments and industry sectors.

Roles and responsibilities
The Credit RTF for the Group are set and owned by the CROs 
for the respective business segments.

The Credit Risk control function is the second line of defence 
responsible for independent challenge, monitoring and 
oversight of the Credit Risk management practices of the  
first line of defence. In addition, they ensure that credit risks 
are properly assessed and transparent; and that credit 
decisions are controlled in accordance with the Group’s RA, 
credit policies and standards.

Mitigation
Segment-specific policies for CCIB and CPBB are in place for 
the management of Credit Risk. The Credit Policy for CCIB 
Client Coverage sets the principles that must be followed  
for the end-to-end credit process, including credit initiation, 
credit grading, credit assessment, product structuring, credit 
risk mitigation, monitoring and control, and documentation.

The CPBB Credit Risk Management Policy sets the  
principles for the management of CPBB segments, for 
end-to-end credit process including credit initiation, credit 
assessment, documentation and monitoring for lending  
to these segments.

The Group also sets out standards for the eligibility, 
enforceability, and effectiveness of Credit Risk mitigation 
arrangements. Potential credit losses from a given account, 
client or portfolio are mitigated using a range of tools, such  
as collateral, netting agreements, credit insurance, credit 
derivatives and guarantees.

Risk mitigants are also carefully assessed for their market 
value, legal enforceability, correlation, and counterparty risk  
of the protection provider.

Collateral is valued prior to drawdown and regularly 
thereafter as required, to reflect current market conditions,  
the probability of recovery and the period of time to realise 
the collateral in the event of liquidation. The Group also  
seeks to diversify its collateral holdings across asset classes 
and markets.

Where guarantees, credit insurance, standby letters of credit 
or credit derivatives are used as Credit Risk mitigation, the 
creditworthiness of the protection provider is assessed and 
monitored using the same credit approval process applied  
to the obligor.

Governance committee oversight
At Board level, the BRC oversees the effective management  
of Credit Risk. At the executive level, the GRC oversees and 
appoints sub-committees for the management of all risk 
types including Credit Risk – in particular the CCIB Risk 
Committee, CPBB Risk Committee, Asia Risk Committee,  
and Africa and Middle East Risk Committee. The GRC also 
receives reports from other key Group Committees such as  
the Standard Chartered Bank Executive Risk Committee  
(in relation to Credit Risk).

These committees are responsible for overseeing all risk 
profiles including Credit Risk of the Group within the respective 
business areas and regions. Meetings are held regularly, and 
the committees monitor all material Credit Risk exposures,  
as well as key internal developments and external trends, 
ensuring that appropriate action is taken where necessary.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Credit RTF is the formal mechanism of delegating  
Credit Risk authorities cascading from the GCRO, as the  
Senior Manager of the Credit Risk PRT. The delegation is to 
individuals such as the business segments’ CROs. Further 
delegation of credit authorities to individual credit officers 
may be undertaken based on risk-adjusted scales by customer 
type or portfolio.

Credit Risk authorities are reviewed at least annually to ensure 
that they remain appropriate. In CCIB Client Coverage, the 
individuals delegating the Credit Risk authorities perform 
oversight by reviewing a sample of the limit applications 
approved by the delegated credit officers periodically. In 
CPBB, where credit decision systems and tools (e.g. application 
scorecards) are used for credit decisioning, such risk models 
are subject to performance monitoring and periodic 
validation. Where manual or discretionary credit decisions  
are applied, the individuals delegating the Credit Risk 
authorities perform periodic quality control assessments  
and assurance checks.

320

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachMonitoring
The Group regularly monitors credit exposures, portfolio 
performance, external trends and emerging risks that  
may impact risk management outcomes. Internal risk 
management reports that are presented to risk committees 
contain information on key political and economic trends 
across major portfolios and countries, portfolio delinquency 
and loan impairment performance.

In CCIB Client Coverage, clients and portfolios are subject  
to additional review when they display signs of actual or 
potential weakness; for example, where there is a decline in 
the client’s position within the industry, financial deterioration, 
a breach of covenants, or non-performance of an obligation 
within the stipulated period. Such accounts are subject to a 
dedicated process overseen by the Credit Issues Committee  
in the relevant countries where client account strategies and 
credit grades are re-evaluated. In addition, remedial actions, 
including placing accounts on early alert for increased 
scrutiny, exposure reduction, security enhancement or exiting 
the account could be undertaken. Certain accounts could  
also be transferred into the control management of the SAG, 
which is our specialist recovery unit for CCIB Client Coverage 
that operates independently from our main business.

On an annual basis, senior members from Business and Risk 
participate in a more extensive portfolio review for certain 
corporate industry groups. In addition to a review of the 
portfolio information, this enhanced review (known as the 
industry portfolio review) incorporates industry outlook,  
key elements of business strategy, RA, credit profile and 
emerging/horizon risks. A condensed version of these  
industry portfolio reviews will also be shared with the CCIB  
Risk Committee.

Any material in-country developments that may impact 
sovereign ratings are monitored closely by the Country Risk 
Team. The Country Risk Early Warning system, a triage-based 
risk identification system, categorises countries based on  
a forward-looking view of possible downgrades and the 
potential incremental risk-weighted assets (RWA) impact.

For CPBB, exposures and collateral monitoring are performed 
at the counterparty and/or portfolio level across different 
client segments to ensure transactions and portfolio 
exposures remain within RA. Portfolio delinquency trends are 
also monitored. Accounts that are past due (or perceived as 
high risk but not yet past due) are subject to collections or 
recovery processes managed by a specialist independent 
function. In some countries, aspects of collections and 
recovery activities are outsourced. For discretionary lending 
portfolios, similar processes to those of CCIB client coverage 
are followed.

In addition, an independent Credit Risk Review team (part of 
ERM function), performs judgement-based assessments of  
the Credit Risk profiles at various portfolio levels. They focus  
on selected countries and segments through deep dives, 
comparative analysis, and review and challenge of the basis 
of credit approvals. The review ensures that the evolving 
Credit Risk profiles of CCIB and CPBB are well managed within 
RA and policies, through forward-looking mitigating actions 
where necessary.

Credit rating and measurement
All credit proposals are subject to a robust credit risk 
assessment. It includes a comprehensive evaluation of the 
client’s credit quality, including willingness, ability, and 
capacity to repay. The primary lending consideration is  
based on the client’s credit quality and the repayment 
capacity from operating cashflows for counterparties,  
and personal income or wealth for individual borrowers.  
The risk assessment gives due consideration to the client’s 
liquidity and leverage position.

Where applicable, the assessment includes a detailed 
analysis of the Credit Risk mitigation arrangements to 
determine the level of reliance on such arrangements as the 
secondary source of repayment in the event of a significant 
deterioration in a client’s credit quality leading to default. 
Client income, net worth, and the liquidity of asset by class  
are considered for overall risk assessment for wealth lending. 
The availability of Wealth Lending credit limits is subject to 
the availability of qualified collateral. 

Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgement 
and experience, in informing risk-taking and portfolio 
management decisions. We adopt the Advanced Internal 
Ratings Based (AIRB) approach under the Basel regulatory 
framework to calculate Credit Risk capital requirements.  
The Group has also established a global programme to assess 
capital requirements necessary to be implemented to meet 
the latest revised Basel III finalisation (referred to as Basel 3.1  
or Basel IV) regulations.

A standard alphanumeric Credit Risk grade system is used for 
CCIB Client Coverage. The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and 
some of the grades are further sub-classified. Lower numeric 
credit grades are indicative of a lower likelihood of default. 
Credit grades 1 to 12 are assigned to performing customers, 
while credit grades 13 and 14 are assigned to non-performing 
or defaulted customers.

CPBB internal ratings-based portfolios use application and 
behavioural credit scores that are calibrated to generate a 
probability of default. The Risk Decision Framework uses a 
credit rating system to define the portfolio/new booking 
segmentation, shape and decision criteria for the unsecured 
consumer business segment.

AIRB models cover a substantial majority of our exposures and 
are used in assessing risks at a customer and portfolio level, 
setting strategy, and optimising our risk-return decisions.  
The Model Risk Committee approves material internal 
ratings-based risk measurement models. Prior to review and 
approval, all internal ratings based models are validated in 
detail by an independent model validation team. Reviews  
are also triggered if the performance of a model deteriorates 
materially against predetermined thresholds during the 
ongoing model performance monitoring process, which  
takes place between the annual validations.

321

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCredit Concentration Risk
Credit Concentration Risk may arise from a single large 
exposure to a counterparty or a group of connected 
counterparties, or from multiple exposures across the portfolio 
that are closely correlated. Large exposure Concentration  
Risk is managed through concentration limits set for a 
counterparty or a group of connected counterparties based 
on control and economic dependence criteria. RA metrics  
are set at portfolio level and monitored to control 
concentrations, where appropriate, by industry, products, 
tenor, collateralisation level, top clients, and exposure to 
holding companies. Single name credit concentration 
thresholds are set by client group depending on credit grade, 
and by customer segment. For concentrations that are 
material at a Group level, breaches and potential breaches 
are monitored by the respective governance committees  
and reported to the GRC and BRC.

Credit impairment
ECL is determined for all financial assets that are classified  
as amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive 
income. ECL is computed as an unbiased, probability-
weighted provision determined by evaluating a range of 
plausible outcomes, the time value of money, and forward-
looking information such as critical global or country-specific 
macroeconomic variables. For more detailed information on 
macroeconomic data feeding into IFRS 9 ECL calculations, 
please refer to the Risk profile section (pages 273 to 285).

At the time of origination or purchase of a non-credit impaired 
financial asset (Stage 1), ECL represents cash shortfalls arising 
from possible default events up to 12 months into the future 
from the balance sheet date. ECL continues to be determined 
on this basis until there is a significant increase in the Credit 
Risk of the asset (Stage 2), in which case ECL is recognised for 
default events that may occur over the lifetime of the asset.  
If there is observed objective evidence of credit impairment or 
default (Stage 3), ECL continues to be measured on a lifetime 
basis. To provide the Board with oversight and assurance that 
the quality of assets originated are aligned to the Group’s 
strategy, there is a RA metric to monitor Stage 1 and Stage 2 
ECL from assets originated in the past 12 months.

For CCIB, in line with the regulatory guidelines, Stage 3 ECL is 
considered when an obligor is more than 90 days past due  
on any amount payable to the Group, or the obligor(s) has 
symptoms of unlikeliness to pay its credit obligations in full as 
they fall due. These credit-impaired accounts are managed  
by SAG.

In CPBB, loans to individuals and small businesses are 
considered credit-impaired as soon as any payment of  
interest or principal is 90 days overdue or they meet other 
objective evidence of impairment, such as bankruptcy, debt 
restructuring, fraud, or death. Financial assets are written off, 
in the amount that is determined to be irrecoverable, when 
they meet conditions set such that empirical evidence 
suggests the client is unlikely to meet their contractual 
obligations, or a loss of principal is reasonably expected.

Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries 
involves significant judgement and considers the assessment 
of matters such as future economic conditions and the value 
of collateral, for which there may not be a readily accessible 
market. The total amount of the Group’s impairment provision 
is inherently uncertain, being sensitive to changes in economic 
and credit conditions across the regions in which the Group 
operates. For further details on sensitivity analysis of ECL 
under IFRS 9, please refer to the Risk profile section (pages 273 
to 285).

322

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachTraded Risk

The Group defines Traded Risk as the potential for loss 
resulting from activities undertaken by the Group in 
financial markets.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group should control its financial markets and 
activities to ensure that market and counterparty 
credit risk losses do not cause material damage to 
the Group’s franchise.

Roles and responsibilities
The Traded RTF, which sets the roles and responsibilities in 
respect of Traded Risk for the Group, is owned by the Global 
Head, Traded Risk Management (TRM). The business,  
acting as first line of defence, is responsible for the  
effective management of risks within the scope of its  
direct organisational responsibilities set by the Board.

TRM is the second line control function that performs 
independent challenge, monitoring and oversight of the 
Traded Risk management practices of the first line of defence, 
predominantly Financial Markets and Treasury Markets.

Mitigation
The Traded RTF requires that Traded Risk limits be defined at 
a level appropriate to ensure that the Group remains within 
RA. All businesses incurring Traded Risk must comply with the 
Traded RTF. The Traded Risk Policy sets the principles that 
must be followed for the end-to-end traded risk management 
process, including limit setting, risk capture and measurement, 
limit monitoring and escalation, risk mitigation and stress 
testing. Policies and standards ensure that these Traded Risk 
limits are implemented. Policies are reviewed and approved 
by the Global Head, TRM periodically to ensure their  
ongoing effectiveness.

Governance committee oversight
At Board level, the BRC oversees the effective management  
of Traded Risk. At the executive level, the GRC delegates 
responsibilities to the CCIB Risk Committee to oversee the 
Traded Risk profile of the Group. For subsidiaries, the authority 
for setting Traded Risk limits is delegated from the local board 
to the local risk committee, Country CRO and Traded Risk 
managers. Meetings are held regularly, and the committees 
monitor all material Traded Risk exposures, as well as key 
internal developments and external trends, and ensure that 
appropriate action is taken.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Traded RTF is the formal mechanism which delegates 
Traded Risk authorities cascading from the GCRO, as the 
Senior Manager of the Traded Risk Type, to the Global Head, 
TRM who further delegates authorities to named individuals.

Traded Risk authorities are reviewed at least annually to 
ensure that they remain appropriate and to assess the quality 
of decisions taken by the authorised person. Key risk-taking 
decisions are made only by certain individuals with the skills, 
judgement, and perspective to ensure that the Group’s control 
standards and risk-return objectives are met.

Market Risk
The Group uses a VaR model to measure the risk of losses 
arising from future potential adverse movements in market 
rates, prices, and volatilities. VaR is a quantitative measure of 
Market Risk that applies recent historical market conditions to 
estimate the potential future loss in market value that will not 
be exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical confidence 
level. VaR provides a consistent measure that can be applied 
across trading businesses and products over time and can be 
set against actual daily trading profit and loss outcomes.

For day-to-day risk management, VaR is calculated as at the 
close of business, generally at UK time for expected market 
movements over one business day and to a confidence level 
of 97.5 per cent. Intra-day risk levels may vary from those 
reported at the end of the day.

The Group applies two VaR methodologies:

•  Historical simulation: this involves the revaluation of all 
existing positions to reflect the effect of historically 
observed changes in Market Risk factors on the valuation  
of the current portfolio. This approach is applied for general 
Market Risk factors and the majority of specific (credit 
spread) risk VaRs.

•  Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to 

historical simulation but with considerably more input risk 
factor observations. These are generated by random 
sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential 
variability and correlations of historically observed risk 
factor changes. This approach is applied for some of the 
specific (credit spread) risk VaRs in relation to idiosyncratic 
exposures in credit markets.

A one-year historical observation period is applied in  
both methods.

As an input to regulatory capital, trading book VaR is 
calculated for expected movements over 10 business days 
and to a confidence level of 99 per cent. Some types of  
Market Risk are not captured in the regulatory VaR measure, 
and these Risks not in VaR are subject to capital add-ons.

An analysis of VaR results in 2023 is available in the Risk profile 
section (pages 286 to 289).

323

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCounterparty Credit Risk
The Group uses a Potential Future Exposure (PFE) model to 
measure the credit exposure arising from the positive mark-to-
market of traded products and future potential movements  
in market rates, prices, and volatilities. PFE is a quantitative 
measure of Counterparty Credit Risk that applies recent 
historical market conditions to estimate the potential future 
credit exposure that will not be exceeded in a set time period 
at a confidence level of 97.5 per cent. PFE is calculated for 
expected market movements over different time horizons 
based on the tenor of the transactions.

The Group applies two PFE methodologies: simulation based, 
which is predominantly used, and an add-on based PFE 
methodology.

Underwriting
The underwriting of securities and loans is in scope of the RA 
set by the Group for Traded Risk. Additional limits approved  
by the GCRO are set on the sectoral concentration, and the 
maximum holding period. The Underwriting Committee, 
under the authority of the GCRO, approves individual 
proposals to underwrite new security issues and loans for  
our clients.

Monitoring
TRM monitors the overall portfolio risk and ensures that it is 
within specified limits and therefore RA. Limits are typically 
reviewed twice a year. Most of the Traded Risk exposures are 
monitored daily against approved limits. Traded Risk limits 
apply at all times unless separate intra-day limits have  
been set. Limit excess approval decisions are based on an 
assessment of the circumstances driving the excess and of  
the proposed remediation plan. Limits and excesses can only 
be approved by a Traded Risk manager with the appropriate 
delegated authority.

324

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachTreasury Risk

The Group defines Treasury Risk as the potential for 
insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding to support our 
operations, the risk of reductions in earnings or value 
from movements in interest rates impacting banking 
book items and the potential for losses from a shortfall 
in the Group’s pension plans.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group should maintain sufficient capital, 
liquidity and funding to support its operations, and 
an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions 
in earnings or value from movements in interest 
rates impacting banking book items does not 
cause material damage to the Group’s franchise.  
In addition, the Group should ensure its pension 
plans are adequately funded.

Roles and responsibilities
The Global Head, ERM is responsible for the RTF for Treasury 
Risk under the ERMF.

The Group Treasurer is supported by teams in Treasury and 
Finance to implement the Treasury RTF as the first line of 
defence and is responsible for managing Treasury Risk.

At Regional and Country level, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) 
supported by Regional and Country level Finance and 
Treasury teams are responsible for managing Treasury Risk  
as the first line of defence. Regional Treasury CROs and 
Country CROs for Treasury Risk (except Pension Risk) and 
Head of Pensions (for Pension Risk) are responsible for 
overseeing and challenging the first line of defence.

Liquidity and Funding Risk
At Group, regional and country level we implement various 
business-as-usual and stress risk metrics to monitor and 
manage liquidity and funding risk. This ensures that the Group 
maintains an adequate and well-diversified liquidity buffer,  
as well as a stable funding base, and that it meets its liquidity 
and funding regulatory requirements. The approach to 
managing risks and the RA is assessed annually through the 
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process. A funding 
plan is also developed for efficient liquidity projections to 
ensure that the Group is adequately funded in the required 
currencies, to meet its obligations and client funding needs. 
The funding plan is part of the overall Corporate Plan process 
aligning to the capital requirements.

Mitigation
The Group develops policies to address material Treasury 
Risks and aims to maintain its risk profile within RA. In order  
to do this, metrics are set against Capital Risk, Liquidity and 
Funding Risk and IRRBB. Where appropriate, RA metrics are 
cascaded down to regions and countries in the form of Limits 
and Management Action Triggers.

Capital Risk
In order to manage Capital Risk, strategic business, and 
capital plans (Corporate Plan) are drawn up covering a 
five-year horizon which are approved by the Board annually. 
The plan ensures that adequate levels of capital, including 
loss absorbing capacity, and an efficient mix of the different 
components of capital are maintained to support our strategy 
and business plans.

Treasury is responsible for the ongoing assessment of  
the demand for capital and the updating of the Group’s 
capital plan.

RA metrics including capital, leverage, Minimum Requirement 
for own funds and Eligible Liability (MREL) and double 
leverage are assessed within the Corporate Plan to ensure 
that the strategy can be achieved within risk tolerances.

Structural Foreign Exchange (FX) Risk
The Group’s structural FX position results from the Group’s 
non-US dollar investment in the share capital and reserves  
of subsidiaries and branches. The FX translation gains, or 
losses, are recorded in the Group’s translation reserves with  
a direct impact on the Group’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio.

The Group contracts hedges to manage its structural FX 
position in accordance with the RA, and as a result the  
Group has taken net investment hedges to partially cover  
its exposure to certain non-US dollar currencies to mitigate  
the FX impact of such positions on its capital ratios.

Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
This risk arises from differences in the repricing profile, interest 
rate basis, and optionality of banking book assets liabilities 
and off-balance sheet items. IRRBB represents an economic 
and commercial risk to the Group and its capital adequacy. 
The Group monitors IRRBB against the RA.

Pension Risk
Pension Risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an 
actuarially assessed shortfall in the Group’s pension plans. 
Pension obligation risk to a firm arises from its contractual or 
other liabilities to or with respect to an occupational pension 
plan or other long-term benefit obligation. For a funded plan 
it represents the risk that additional contributions will need to 
be made because of a future shortfall in the funding of the 
plan. Or, for unfunded obligations, it represents the risk that 
the cost of meeting future benefit payments is greater than 
currently anticipated. The Pension Risk position against RA 
metric is reported to the GRC. This metric is calculated as the 
total capital requirement (including both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A 
capital) in respect of Pension Risk, expressed as a number of 
basis points of RWA.

Recovery and Resolution Planning
In line with PRA requirements, the Group maintains a Recovery 
Plan which is a live document to be used by management in 
the event of stress in order to restore the Group to a stable 
and sustainable position. The Recovery Plan includes a set of 
recovery indicators, an escalation framework, and a set of 
management actions capable of being implemented during 
a stress. A Recovery Plan is also maintained within each  
major entity, and all recovery plans are subject to periodic 
fire-drill testing.

325

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewAs the UK resolution authority, the BoE is required to set  
a preferred resolution strategy for the Group. The BoE’s 
preferred resolution strategy is whole Group single point of 
entry bail-in at the ultimate holding company level (Standard 
Chartered PLC) and would be led by the BoE. In support of this 
strategy, the Group has been developing a set of capabilities, 
arrangements, and resources to achieve the required 
outcomes. Following the BoE’s first resolvability assessment 
and public disclosure for major UK firms in 2022, the second 
Resolvability Assessment Framework (RAF) cycle is under way. 
The Group submitted its Resolvability Assessment Report to 
the BoE and PRA on 6 October 2023 and is due to publish its 
resolvability public disclosure in June 2024.

Governance committee oversight
At the Board level, the BRC oversees the effective 
management of Treasury Risk. At the executive level, the 
GALCO ensures the effective management of risk throughout 
the Group in support of the Group’s strategy, guides the 
Group’s strategy on balance sheet optimisation and ensures 
that the Group operates within the RA and other internal  
and external requirements relating to Treasury Risk (except 
Pension Risk). The GRC and Regional Risk Committees provide 
oversight for Pension Risk.

Regional and country oversight resides with regional and 
country Asset and Liability Committees. Regions and  
countries must ensure that they remain in compliance with 
Group Treasury policies and practices, as well as local 
regulatory requirements.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The GCFO has responsibility for capital, funding, and  
liquidity under the SMR. The GCRO has delegated the RFO 
responsibilities associated with Treasury Risk to the Global 
Head, ERM. The Global Head, ERM delegates second line of 
defence oversight and challenge responsibilities to the 
Treasury CRO and Country CROs for Capital Risk, Liquidity  
and Funding Risk and IRRBB, and to Head of Pensions for 
Pension Risk.

Monitoring
On a day-to-day basis, Treasury Risk is managed by Treasury, 
Finance and Country CEOs. The Group regularly reports and 
monitors Treasury Risk inherent in its business activities and 
those that arise from internal and external events.

Internal risk management reports covering the balance sheet 
and the capital and liquidity position are presented to the 
relevant country Asset and Liability Committee. The reports 
contain key information on balance sheet trends, exposures 
against RA and supporting risk measures which enable 
members to make informed decisions around the overall 
management of the balance sheet.

In addition, an independent Treasury CRO as part of ERM 
reviews the prudency and effectiveness of Treasury  
Risk management.

Pension Risk is actively managed by the Head of Pensions and 
monitored by the Head of Country Risk, Scenario Analysis, 
Insurable and Pension Risk. The Head of Pensions ensures that 
accurate, complete, and timely updates on Pension Risk are 
shared with the Head of Country Risk, Scenario Analysis and 
Pension Risk, the Treasury CRO and the Global Head, ERM on 
a periodic basis.

326

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachOperational and Technology Risk

The Group defines Operational and Technology risk as 
the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or 
failed internal processes, technology events, human 
error, or from the impact of external events (including 
legal risks). 

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group aims to control operational and 
technology risks to ensure that operational losses 
(financial or reputational), including any related to 
conduct of business matters, do not cause material 
damage to the Group’s franchise.

Changes to Third Party Risk
With effect from January 2024, the Group has removed the 
IRT classification and formally included Third Party Risk as a 
sub risk under Operational and Technology Risk. Third Party 
Risk is defined as the potential for loss or adverse impact due 
to the failure to manage the onboarding, lifecycle and exit 
strategy of a third party. The Third Party Risk Management 
Policy and Standard, in conjunction with the respective  
PRT policies and standards, holistically set out the Group’s 
minimum controls requirements for the identification, 
mitigation and management of risks arising from the  
use of Third Parties.

Roles and responsibilities
The Operational and Technology RTF sets the roles and 
responsibilities in respect of Operational and Technology risk 
for the Group. The Operational and Technology RTF defines 
the Group’s Operational and Technology risk sub-types and 
sets standards for the identification, control, monitoring and 
treatment of risks. These standards are applicable across all 
PRTs and risk sub-types in the Operational and Technology 
RTF. The list of risk sub-types includes Execution Capability, 
Governance, Reporting and Obligations, Legal Enforceability, 
and Operational Resilience (including client service, change 
management, people management, safety and security,  
and technology risk).

The Operational and Technology RTF reinforces clear 
accountability for managing risk throughout the Group and 
delegates second line of defence responsibilities to identified 
SMEs. For each risk sub-type, the subject matter expert sets 
policies and standards for the organisation to comply with, 
and provides guidance, oversight, and challenge over the 
activities of the Group. They ensure that key risk decisions are 
only taken by individuals with the requisite skills, judgement, 
and perspective to ensure that the Group’s risk-return 
objectives are met.

Mitigation
The Operational and Technology RTF sets out the Group’s 
overall approach to the management of Operational  
and Technology risk in line with the Group’s Operational  
and Technology RA. This is supported by the Risk and  
Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) which defines roles and 
responsibilities for the identification, control, and monitoring 
of risks (applicable to all PRTs, risk sub-types and IRTs).

The RCSA is used to determine the design strength and 
reliability of each process, and requires:

•  the recording of processes run by client segments, products, 

and functions into a process universe;

•  the identification of potential failures in these processes and 

the related risks of such failures;

•  an assessment of the impact of the identified risks based on 

a consistent scale;

•  the design and monitoring of controls to mitigate prioritised 

risks; and

•  assessments of residual risk and timely actions for  

elevated risks.

Risks that exceed the Group’s Operational and Technology RA 
require treatment plans to address underlying causes.

Governance committee oversight
At Board level, the BRC oversees the effective management  
of Operational and Technology risk. At the executive level,  
the GRC is responsible for the governance and oversight of 
Operational and Technology risk for the Group. The GRC, 
supported by the GNFRC, monitors the Group’s Operational 
and Technology RA and relies on other key committees for  
the management of Operational and Technology risk.

Regional business segments and functional committees also 
provide governance oversight of their respective processes 
and related Operational and Technology risk. In addition, 
Country Non-Financial Risk Committees (CNFRCs) oversee  
the management of Operational and Technology Risk at the 
country (or entity) level. In smaller countries, the responsibilities 
of the CNFRC may be exercised directly by the Country Risk 
Committee (for branches) or Executive Risk Committee  
(for subsidiaries).

Decision-making authorities and delegation 
The GCRO has delegated the RFO responsibilities associated 
with the Operational and Technology RTF to the Global Head 
of Risk, Functions and Operational Risk (GHRFOR).

The Operational and Technology RTF is the formal 
mechanism through which the delegation of Operational  
and Technology Risk authorities is made. The GHRFOR places 
reliance on the respective SMEs for second line of defence 
oversight of the relevant Operational and Technology risk 
sub-types through the Operational and Technology RTF.

327

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewMonitoring
To deliver services to clients and to participate in the financial 
services sector, the Group runs processes which are exposed 
to Operational and Technology risks. The Group prioritises 
and manages risks which are significant to clients and to the 
financial services sectors. Control indicators are regularly 
monitored to determine the Group’s exposure to residual risk.

The residual risk assessments and reporting of events form  
the Group’s Operational and Technology Risk profile.  
The completeness of the Operational and Technology Risk 
profile ensures appropriate prioritisation and timeliness of  
risk decisions, including risk acceptances with treatment  
plans for risks that exceed acceptable thresholds.

The Board Risk Committee is informed on adherence to 
Operational and Technology RA through metrics reported for 
selected risks. These metrics are monitored, and escalation 
thresholds are devised based on the materiality and 
significance of the risk. These Operational and Technology RA 
metrics are consolidated on a regular basis and reported at 
relevant Group committees. This provides senior management 
with the relevant information to inform their risk decisions.

328

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachFinancial Crime Risk

The Group defines Financial Crime Risk as the potential 
for legal or regulatory penalties, material financial loss 
or reputational damage resulting from the failure to 
comply with applicable laws and regulations relating 
to international sanctions, anti-money laundering and 
anti-bribery and corruption, and fraud. 

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws 
and regulations related to financial crime, 
recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, 
they cannot be entirely avoided.

Governance committee oversight
Financial Crime Risk within the Group is governed by the 
GFCRC and the GNFRC for Fraud Risk.

The GFCRC is responsible for ensuring effective oversight for 
operational risk relating to Financial Crime Risk. Board Level 
oversight of Financial Crime risk is performed by the Audit 
Committee and the BRC.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Financial Crime RTF is the formal mechanism through 
which the delegation of Financial Crime Risk authorities is 
made. The Group Head, CFCC is the RFO for Financial Crime 
Risk under the Group’s ERMF. Certain aspects of Financial 
Crime Compliance, second line of defence oversight and 
challenge, are delegated within the CFCC function. Approval 
frameworks are in place to allow for risk-based decisions on 
client onboarding, potential breaches of sanctions regulation 
or policy, situations of potential money laundering (and 
terrorist financing), bribery and corruption or internal and 
external fraud.

Monitoring
The Group monitors Financial Crime Risk compliance against 
a set of RA metrics. These metrics are reviewed periodically 
and reported regularly to the GFCRC, GNFRC, BRC, GRC, and 
relevant Board committees.

Roles and responsibilities
The Group Head, CFCC has overall responsibility for Financial 
Crime Risk and is responsible for the establishment and 
maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet legal 
and regulatory obligations in respect of Financial Crime Risk. 
The Group Head, CFCC is the Group’s Compliance and 
Money-Laundering Reporting Officer and performs the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) controlled function and 
senior management function in accordance with the 
requirements set out by the FCA, including those set out in 
their handbook on systems and controls. As the first line of 
defence, the business process owners have responsibility for 
the application of policy controls and the identification and 
measurement of risks relating to financial crime. The business 
must communicate risks and any policy non-compliance to 
the second line of defence for review and approval following 
the model for delegation of authority.

Mitigation
There are four Group policies in support of the Financial  
Crime RTF:

•  Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy

•  Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist 

Financing Policy

•  Group Sanctions Policy

•  Group Fraud Risk Management Policy

The Group operates risk-based assessments and controls  
in support of its Financial Crime Risk programme, including 
(but not limited to):

•  Group Risk Assessment: the Group monitors enterprise-wide 
Financial Crime Risks through the CFCC Risk Assessment 
process consisting of Financial Crime Risk and Compliance 
Risk assessments. The Financial Crime Risk assessment is  
a Group-wide risk assessment undertaken annually to 
assess the inherent Financial Crime Risk exposures and  
the associated processes and controls by which these 
exposures are mitigated.

•  Financial Crime Surveillance: risk-based systems and 

processes to prevent and detect financial crime.

The strength of controls is tested and assessed through the 
Group’s Operational and Technology RTF, in addition to 
oversight by CFCC Assurance.

329

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCompliance Risk

The Group defines Compliance Risk as the potential for 
penalties or loss to the Group or for an adverse impact 
to our clients, stakeholders or to the integrity of the 
markets we operate in through a failure on our part  
to comply with laws, or regulations.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws 
and regulations related to regulatory non-
compliance; recognising that whilst incidents are 
unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.

Governance committee oversight
Both Compliance Risk and the risk of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations resulting from failed processes and 
controls are reported at the respective country, business, 
product, function, Risk and CFCC Non-Financial Risk 
Committees. Relevant matters, as required, are further 
escalated to the GNFRC and GRC. At Board level, oversight of 
Compliance Risk is primarily provided by the Audit Committee, 
and by the BRC for relevant issues.

Whilst not a formal governance committee, the CFCC 
Oversight Group provides oversight of CFCC risks including  
the effective implementation of the Compliance RTF. The 
Regulatory Change Oversight Forum provides visibility and 
oversight of material and/or complex large-scale regulatory 
change emanating from Financial Services regulators 
impacting Non-Financial Risks. The CFCC Policy Council 
provides oversight, challenge and direction to Compliance 
and FCC Policy Owners on material changes and positions 
taken in CFCC-owned policies, including issues relating to 
regulatory interpretation and Group’s CFCC RA.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Compliance RTF is the formal mechanism through  
which the delegation of Compliance Risk authorities is  
made. The Group Head, CFCC has the authority to delegate 
second line of defence responsibilities within the CFCC 
function to relevant and suitably qualified individuals.

Monitoring
The monitoring of controls designed to mitigate the risk of 
regulatory non-compliance in processes is governed in line 
with the Operational and Technology RTF. The Group has a 
monitoring and reporting process in place for Compliance 
Risk, which includes escalation and reporting to Risk and  
CFCC Non-Financial Risk Committee, GNFRC, GRC, BRC,  
and relevant Board committees.

Roles and responsibilities
The Group Head, CFCC as RFO for Compliance Risk provides 
support to senior management on regulatory and compliance 
matters by:

•  providing interpretation and advice on CFCC regulatory 

requirements and their impact on the Group; and

•  setting enterprise-wide standards for management  
of compliance risks through the establishment and 
maintenance of the Compliance RTF.

The Group Head, CFCC also performs the FCA controlled 
function and senior management function of Compliance  
Risk oversight in accordance with the requirements set out by 
the FCA. 

All activities that the Group engages in must be designed  
to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in the 
countries in which we operate. The CFCC function provides 
second line of defence oversight and challenge of the first  
line of defence risk management activities that relate to 
Compliance Risk. Where Compliance Risk arises, or could  
arise, from failure to manage another PRT or sub-type, the 
Compliance RTF outlines that the responsibility rests with the 
respective RFO or control function to ensure that effective 
oversight and challenge of the first line of defence can be 
provided by the appropriate second line of defence function.

Each of the assigned second line of defence functions have 
responsibilities, including monitoring relevant regulatory 
developments from Non-Financial Services regulators  
at both Group and country levels, policy development, 
implementation, and validation as well as oversight and 
challenge of first line of defence processes and controls.  
In addition, the remit of CFCC has been further clarified in 
2023 in relation to Compliance risk and the boundary of 
responsibilities with other PRTs.

Mitigation
The CFCC function is responsible for the establishment  
and maintenance of policies, standards and controls to  
ensure continued legal and regulatory compliance, and the 
mitigation of Compliance Risk. In this, the requirements of  
the Operational and Technology RTF are followed to ensure  
a consistent approach to the management of processes  
and controls. 

The deployment of technological solutions to improve 
efficiencies and simplify processes has continued in 2023. 
These include launch of a new Regulatory Change 
Management System for Group regulatory obligations 
management, and further enhancement of the Ask 
Compliance platform.

330

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachInformation and Cyber Security (ICS) Risk

The Group defines ICS Risk as the risk to the Group’s 
assets, operations, and individuals due to the potential 
for unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, 
modification, or destruction of information assets  
and/or information systems.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks  
to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank 
material harm, business disruption, financial  
loss or reputational damage - recognising that 
whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be 
entirely avoided.

Roles and responsibilities
The Group’s ICS RTF defines the roles and responsibilities  
of the first and second lines of defence in managing and 
governing ICS Risk across the Group. It emphasises business 
ownership and individual accountability.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The ICS RTF defines how the Group manages ICS Risk.  
The Group CISRO delegates authority to designated 
individuals through the ICS RTF, including at a business, 
function, region and country level.

The Group CISO is responsible for implementing ICS Risk 
Management within the Group, and to cascade ICS risk 
management into the businesses, functions and countries  
to comply with the ICS RTF, policy, and standards.

Monitoring
Group CISO performs a threat-led risk assessment to identify 
key threats, in-scope applications and key controls required to 
ensure the Group remains within RA.

The ICS Risk profiles of all businesses, functions and countries 
are consolidated to present a holistic Group-level ICS Risk 
profile for ongoing monitoring. Mandatory ICS learning, 
phishing exercises and role-specific training support 
colleagues to monitor and manage this risk.

During these reviews, the status of each risk is assessed 
against the Group’s controls to identify any changes to  
impact and likelihood, which affects the overall risk rating.

Group CISO and Group CISRO monitor the ICS Risk profile and 
ensure that breaches of RA are escalated to the appropriate 
governance committee or authority levels for remediation and 
tracking. A dedicated Group CISRO team supports this work 
by executing offensive security testing exercises, including 
vulnerability assessments and penetration tests, which show  
a wider picture of the Group’s risk profile, leading to better 
visibility on potential ‘in flight’ risks. The Group also tracks 
remediation of security matters identified by external reviews 
such as the  BoE CBEST Threat Intelligence-Led Assessment 
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s (HKMA) 
Intelligence-led Cyber Attack Simulation Testing (iCAST).

The Group Chief Transformation, Technology & Operations 
Officer (CTTO) has the first line of defence responsibility  
for ICS Risk and is accountable for the Group’s ICS strategy. 
The Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) leads  
the development and execution of the ICS strategy. The first 
line of defence also manages all key ICS Risks, breaches  
and risk treatment plans. ICS Risk profile, RA breaches and 
remediation status are reported at Board and Executive 
committees, alongside business, function and country 
governance committees.

The Group Chief Information Security Risk Officer (CISRO) 
function within Group Risk is the second line of defence and 
sets the framework, policy, standards, and methodology for 
assessing, scoring, and prioritising ICS Risks across the Group. 
The ICS Policy and standards are aligned to industry best 
practice models including the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology Cyber Security Framework and ISO 27001.   
This function has the responsibility for governance, oversight, 
and independent challenge of first line of defence’s pursuit of 
the ICS strategy. Group ICS Risk Framework Strategy remains 
the responsibility of the ICS RFO (RFO), delegated from the 
GCRO to the Group CISRO.

Mitigation
ICS Risk is managed through the ICS RTF, comprising a  
risk assessment methodology and supporting policy, 
standards, and methodologies. These are aligned to  
industry recommended practice. We undertake an annual  
ICS Effectiveness Review to evaluate ICS Risk management 
practices in alignment with the ERMF.

Governance committee oversight
The BRC oversees the effective management of ICS Risk.  
The GRC has delegated authority to the GNFRC to ensure 
effective implementation of the ICS RTF. The GRC and GNFRC 
are responsible for oversight of ICS Risk profile and RA 
breaches. Sub-committees of the GNFRC have oversight of 
ICS Risk management arising from the businesses, countries 
and functions.

331

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewReputational and Sustainability Risk

The Group defines Reputational and Sustainability  
Risk as the potential for damage to the franchise  
(such as loss of trust, earnings, or market capitalisation), 
because of stakeholders taking a negative view of the 
Group through actual or perceived actions or inactions, 
including a failure to uphold responsible business 
conduct as we strive to do no significant environmental 
and social harm through our client, third party 
relationships or our own operations.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group aims to protect the franchise from 
material damage to its reputation by ensuring  
that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed 
and managed with the appropriate level of 
management and governance oversight. This 
includes a potential failure to uphold responsible 
business conduct in striving to do no significant 
environmental and social harm.

Roles and responsibilities
The Global Head, ERM is responsible as RFO for Reputational 
and Sustainability Risk under the Group’s ERMF. 

Our Reputational and Sustainability RTF allocates 
responsibilities in a manner consistent with the three lines of 
defence model. 

In the first line of defence, the Chief Sustainability Officer 
(CSO) manages the overall Group Sustainability strategy and 
engagements. A dedicated Sustainable Finance solutions 
team is responsible for sustainable finance products and 
frameworks to help identify green and sustainable finance, 
and transition finance opportunities to aid our clients on their 
sustainability journey. The CSO team works with businesses  
to launch various sustainable finance products. Furthermore, 
the Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) team 
provides dedicated advisory and challenge to businesses  
on the management of environmental and social risks  
and impacts arising from the Group’s client relationships  
and transactions. 

In the second line of defence, the responsibility for 
Reputational and Sustainability Risk management is 
delegated to the Group Environmental, Social, and Corporate 
Governance (ESG) and Reputational Risk team, as well as 
CROs at region, country and client-business levels. They 
constitute the second line responsible to oversee and 
challenge the first line, which resides with the CEOs, business 
heads, product heads and function heads. The Group ESG 
and Reputational Risk team is responsible for establishing  
RA, framework and policies for managing Reputational  
and Sustainability risk, in line with emerging regulatory 
expectations across our markets.

Mitigation
In line with the principles of Responsible Business Conduct and 
Do No Significant Harm, the Group deems Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk to be driven by:

•  negative shifts in stakeholder perceptions, including  

shifts as a result of greenwashing claims, due to decisions 
related to clients, products, transactions, third parties and 
strategic coverage;

•  potential material harm or degradation to the natural 

environment (environmental) through actions/inactions  
of the Group; and

•  potential material harm to individuals or communities 
(social) risks through actions/inactions of the Group.

The Group’s Reputational Risk policy sets out the principal 
sources of Reputational Risk driven by negative shifts in 
stakeholder perceptions as well as responsibilities, control  
and oversight standards for identifying, assessing, escalating 
and effectively managing Reputational Risk. The assessment 
of risks associated with how individual client, transaction, 
product and strategic coverage decisions may affect 
perceptions of the organisation and its activities is based  
on explicit principles including, but not limited to, human  
rights and climate change. The assessment of stakeholder 
perception risk considers a variety of factors. Whenever 
potential for stakeholder concerns is identified, issues are 
subject to review and decision by both first and second lines  
of defence. 

The Group’s Sustainability Risk policy sets out the requirements 
and responsibilities for managing environmental and social 
risks for the Group’s clients, third parties and in our own 
operations. This includes management of greenwashing risks 
through the ongoing monitoring of Sustainable Finance 
products and transactions and clients throughout their 
lifecycle, from labelling to disclosures in line with emerging 
local and international regulatory obligations.

•  Clients are expected to adhere to the minimum regulatory 
and compliance requirements, including criteria from the 
Group’s Position Statements to sensitive sectors where 
environmental and social risks are heightened. The Group 
also defines the approach to certain specialist sectors 
where there are conflicting stakeholder views.

•  Third parties such as suppliers must comply with the Group’s 
Supplier Charter, which sets out the Group’s expectations  
on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, human rights, 
environmental, health and safety standards, labour and 
protection of the environment. The Group is committed to 
respecting universal human rights, and we assess our clients 
and suppliers against various international principles, as 
well as through our social safeguards.

•  Within our operations, the Group seeks to minimise its 

impact on the environment and have targets to reduce 
energy, water and waste. We are committed to becoming 
Net Zero in our own operations by 2025.

•  We rely on our frameworks to help the labelling of 
Sustainable Finance Use of Proceeds products and 
transactions as well as the classification of pureplay clients. 

Reputational and Sustainability Risk policies and standards 
are applicable to all Group entities. However, where local 
regulators impose additional requirements, these are 
complied with in addition to existing Group requirements.

332

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachDecision-making authorities and delegation
The Global Head, ERM delegates risk acceptance authorities 
for stakeholder perception risks to designated individuals in 
the first line and second line or to committees such as the 
GRRRC via risk authority matrices.

These risk authority matrices are tiered at country, regional, 
business segment or Group levels and are established for  
risks incurred in strategic coverage, clients, products, or 
transactions. For environmental and social risks, the ESRM 
team reviews and supports the risk assessments for clients 
and transactions and escalates to the Group ESG and 
Reputational Risk team as required.

Monitoring
Exposure to stakeholder perception risks arising from 
transactions, clients, products and strategic coverage is 
monitored through established triggers to prompt the  
right levels of appropriate risk-based consideration and 
assessment by the first line and escalations to the second  
line where necessary. Risk acceptance decisions and  
thematic trends are also reviewed on a periodic basis.

Exposure to Sustainability Risk is monitored through triggers 
embedded within the first line of defence processes.  
The Environmental and Social Risks are considered for  
clients and transactions via the environmental and social  
risk assessments and for vendors in our supply chain through 
the Modern Slavery questionnaires.

Furthermore, monitoring and reporting on the RA metrics 
ensures that there is appropriate oversight by the MT and 
Board over performance and breaches of thresholds across 
key metrics.

Governance committee oversight 
At Board level, the Culture and Sustainability Committee 
provides oversight for our Sustainability strategy while the BRC 
oversees Reputational and Sustainability Risk as part of the 
ERMF. The GRC provides executive level committee oversight 
and delegates the authority to ensure effective management 
of Reputational and Sustainability Risk to the GRRRC.

The GRRRC’s remit is to:

•  Challenge, constrain and, if required, stop business activities 
where Reputational and Sustainability risks are not aligned 
with the Group’s RA;

•  Make decisions on Reputational and Sustainability Risk 
matters assessed as high or very high based on the  
Group’s Reputational and Sustainability Risk Materiality 
Assessment Matrix, and matters escalated from the regions 
or client businesses;

•  Provide oversight of material Reputational and 

Sustainability Risk and/or thematic issues arising from  
the potential failure of other risk types;

•  Identify TERs, as part of a dynamic risk scanning process;

•  Monitor existing or new regulatory priorities.

The Sustainable Finance Governance Committee, appointed 
by the GRRRC, provides leadership, governance, and oversight 
for delivering the Group’s sustainable finance offering.  
This includes:

•  Reviewing and supporting the Group’s frameworks for 

Green and Sustainable Products, and Transition Finance  
for approval of GRRRC. These frameworks set out the 
guidelines for approval of products and transactions  
which carry the sustainable finance and/or transition 
finance label;

•  Decision-making authority on the eligibility of a sustainable 

asset for any RWA relief;

•  Approving sustainable finance and transition finance labels 
for products in addition to regular product management 
and governance;

•  Reviewing the reputational risks arising from greenwashing 
claims related to Sustainable Finance products and services.

The GNFRC has oversight of the control environment and 
effective management of Reputational Risk incurred when 
there are negative shifts in stakeholder perceptions of  
the Group due to failure of other PRTs. The regional and 
client-business risk committees provide oversight on the 
Reputational and Sustainability Risk profile within their  
remit. The CNFRC provides oversight of the Reputational  
and Sustainability Risk profile at a country level.

333

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewModel Risk 

The Group defines Model Risk as potential loss that 
may occur because of decisions or the risk of mis-
estimation that could be principally based on the 
output of models due to errors in the development, 
implementation, or use of such models.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group has no appetite for material adverse 
implications arising from misuse of models or errors 
in the development or implementation of models; 
whilst accepting some model uncertainty.

Roles and responsibilities
The Global Head, ERM is the RFO for Model Risk under  
the Group’s ERMF. Responsibility for the oversight and 
implementation of the Model RTF is delegated to the  
Global Head, Model Risk Management. 

The Model RTF sets out clear accountability and roles for 
Model Risk management through the three lines of defence 
model. First line of defence ownership of Model Risk resides 
with Model Sponsors, who are business or function heads  
and assign a Model Owner and provide oversight of Model 
Owner activities. Model Owners are accountable for the 
model development process, represent model users, are 
responsible for the overall model design process, coordinate 
the submission of models for validation and approval,  
and ensure appropriate implementation and use. Model 
Developers are responsible for the development of models 
and are responsible for documenting and testing the model  
in accordance with Policy requirements, and for engaging 
with Model Users. 

Second line of defence oversight is provided by Model Risk 
Management, which comprises Group Model Validation 
(GMV) to independently review and grade models, and the 
Model Risk Policy and Governance team, which provides 
oversight of model risk activities and reports to senior 
management via respective committees. 

The Group adopts an industry standard model definition as 
specified in the Group Model Risk Policy, together with a scope 
of applicability represented by defined model family types as 
detailed within the Model Risk Framework. Model Owners are 
accountable for ensuring that all models under their purview 
have been independently validated by GMV. Models are 
validated before use and then on an ongoing basis, with 
schedule determined by the perceived level of model risk 
associated with the model, or more frequently if there are 
specific regulatory requirements.

The Model Risk Framework is cascaded to in-scope  
countries by way of local addendum or local framework 
documentation, along with specific responsibilities of the 
Country Model RFO. In-scope countries are selected with 
reference to regulatory capital requirements with credit risk 
(AIRB), counterparty credit risk Internal Model Method (IMM), 
or market risk Internal Model Approach (IMA) permissions  
for use of models for regulatory capital calculations; and 
countries where regulators have stipulated specific model  
risk requirements. Additional criteria, including financial 
materiality, regulatory importance, presence of important 
business services or critical economic functions are  
also considered. 

The main responsibilities of Country Model RFO are to  
ensure model usage is correctly identified, a suitable local 
governance process is established, and fundamental model 
risk training is provided for respective country stakeholders. 

Based on respective levels of regulatory expectations 
regarding Model Risk, a tiering approach is adopted to 
provide appropriate risk-based levels of depth and rigour  
of the associated requirements.

Mitigation
The Model Risk policy and standards define requirements  
for model development and validation activities, including 
regular model performance monitoring. Any model issues or 
deficiencies identified through the validation process are 
mitigated through model monitoring, model overlays and/or 
a model redevelopment plan, which undergoes robust review, 
challenge, and approval. Operational controls govern all 
Model Risk-related processes, with regular risk assessments 
performed to assess appropriateness and effectiveness of 
those controls, in line with the Operational and Technology 
RTF, with remediation plans implemented where necessary.

Governance committee oversight
At Board level, the BRC exercises oversight of Model Risk within 
the Group. At the executive level, the GRC has appointed the 
Model Risk Committee to ensure effective measurement and 
management of Model Risk. Sub-committees such as the 
Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model 
Assessment Committee and Financial Crime Compliance 
Model Assessment Committee oversee their respective 
in-scope models and escalate material Model Risks to the 
Model Risk Committee. In parallel, business and function-level 
risk committees provide governance oversight of the models 
used in their respective processes.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Model RTF is the formal mechanism through which the 
delegation of Model Risk authorities is made.

The Global Head, ERM delegates authorities to designated 
individuals or Policy Owners through the Model RTF. The 
second line of defence ownership for Model Risk at country 
level is delegated to Country CROs at the applicable branches 
and subsidiaries.

The Model Risk Committee is responsible for approving 
models for use. Model approval authority is also delegated to 
the Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model 
Assessment Committee, Financial Crime Compliance Model 
Assessment Committee, and individual designated model 
approvers for less material models.

334

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachMonitoring
The Group monitors Model Risk via a set of RA metrics. 
Adherence to Model RA and any threshold breaches are 
reported to the BRC, GRC and Model Risk Committee.  
These metrics and thresholds are reviewed twice per year  
to ensure that threshold calibration remains appropriate,  
and the themes adequately cover the current risks.

Models undergo regular monitoring based on their level of 
perceived Model Risk, with monitoring results and breaches 
presented to Model Risk Management and delegated  
model approvers.

Model Risk Management produces Model Risk reports 
covering the model landscape, which include performance 
metrics, identified model issues and remediation plans.  
These are presented for discussion at the Model Risk 
governance committees on a regular basis.

335

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewClimate Risk (Oversight has moved to Reputational and Sustainability Risk  
with effect from January 2024)

With effect from January 2024, the Group has  
removed the IRT classification. Climate Risk is defined 
as the potential for financial loss and non-financial 
detriments arising from climate change and society’s 
response to it. We are developing methodologies to 
identify, measure and manage the physical and 
transition risks that we are exposed to through our  
own operations, our suppliers, our clients, and the 
markets we operate in.

Risk Appetite Statement
The Group aims to measure and manage financial 
and non-financial risks arising from climate 
change, and reduce emissions related to our own 
activities and those related to the financing of 
clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Global Head, ERM is supported by a Climate Risk team 
within the ERM function. The Global Head, ESG and 
Reputational Risk is responsible for executing the delivery  
of the Climate Risk workplan which will define decision-
making authorities and delegations across the Group.

Monitoring
The Climate RA Statement is approved and reviewed annually 
by the Board, following the recommendation of the BRC.

The Group has developed its first-generation Climate Risk 
reporting and Board/MT Level RA metrics and these will 
continue to be enhanced in 2024. Management information 
and RA metrics are also being progressively rolled out at the 
regional and country level. Management information is 
reviewed at a quarterly frequency and any breaches in RA  
are reported to the GRC and BRC.

Roles and responsibilities
The GCRO has the ultimate second line of defence and 
responsibility for Climate Risk, with support by the Global 
Head, ERM who has day-today oversight and central 
responsibility for second line of defence Climate Risk activities. 
As Climate Risk is embedded into the relevant PRTs, second 
line of defence responsibilities lie with those RFOs (at Group, 
regional and country level), with SME support from the central 
Climate Risk team.

Mitigation
We have completed c.4,100 Climate Risk Assessments  
(CRAs) in 2023 (c.85 - 90 per cent of the CCIB corporate 
portfolio limits), which measures transition risk of our clients. 
Concentration of Black and Red rated clients remain  
within proposed RA levels at 6 per cent. Linkages to Credit 
Underwriting Principles have been finalised for four sectors 
(Oil and Gas (O&G), Shipping, Commercial Real Estate (CRE) 
and Mining), including improved climate-related analysis, 
portfolio-level caps and additional data gathering measures. 
A key focus area going forward is to embed Climate Risk and 
net zero targets into business and credit decisions. To enable 
this, we have established a Net Zero Climate Risk Working 
Forum to facilitate discussions on account plans for high 
Climate Risk and net zero divergent clients. As of September 
2023, we have assessed physical risk for 79 per cent and 
transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB book. 

The focus for Operational and Technology Risk has been to 
assess physical risks for our properties and data centres, as 
well as third parties. Concentration of top corporate liquidity 
providers to high transition risk and low levels of mitigation is 
being monitored.

Governance committee oversight 
Board level oversight is exercised through the BRC, with 
regular updates on Climate Risk. At an executive level,  
the GRC has appointed the Climate Risk Management 
Committee (CRMC), which meets at least six times a year  
to oversee the implementation of Climate Risk workplans  
and monitoring the Group’s Climate Risk profile. 

In 2023, we have strengthened country and regional 
governance oversight for the Climate Risk profile across  
our key markets by cascading identified RA metrics,  
and rolling out climate risk management information.

336

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk reviewRisk management approachDigital Assets Risk

With effect from January 2024, the Group has removed 
the IRT classification. The Group recognises Digital 
Assets (DA) as an asset class which is managed under 
the ERMF. DA Risk is defined as the potential for 
regulatory penalties, financial loss and/or reputational 
damage to the Group resulting from DA-related 
activities arising from the Group’s businesses across 
clients, products, investments and projects.

Risk Appetite Statement
As DA Risk manifests through the various PRTs,  
the individual RA statements for each PRT take 
account of the risks specific to DAs.

Roles and responsibilities
Senior managers within the first line of defence are 
responsible for the overall management of DA risks, initiatives 
and exposures that may arise within their business segments.

The GCRO has the second line of defence responsibility for 
defining the Group’s framework for managing DA-related 
risks, through the Digital Assets Risk Management Approach 
(DARMA). The GCRO is supported by the Global Head, ERM 
and the Global Head, DA Risk Management, who have 
day-to-day responsibility for second line of defence oversight 
of the DARMA. As DA Risk management is embedded into  
the relevant PRTs, RFOs and dedicated SMEs across the PRTs 
have second line of defence responsibilities of DA Risks for 
their respective PRTs.

Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Global Head, ERM is supported by a centralised DA  
Risk team within the ERM Function and is responsible for  
the design and maintenance of the DARMA. Decision- 
making authorities and delegation are defined in the  
DA Policy, outlining the incremental responsibilities and  
the embedding of risk management within associated 
policies and risk artefacts.

The businesses are responsible for implementation of the 
DARMA and respective business governance forums,  
PRT RFOs and DA SMEs utilise decision-making authorities 
granted to them by their respective businesses, PRTs or in 
individual capacities to assess and approve DA activities  
and exposures that may give rise to risk.

Mitigation
The Group deploys a DA Risk management policy (DA Policy) 
to define the incremental risk management requirements for 
DA-related activities under the DARMA. The respective PRTs 
then include specific risk mitigation requirements within the 
relevant processes, policies and standards for their PRTs. DA 
Risk Assessments are conducted on certain higher-risk 
DA-related projects and products. These risk assessments 
detail the specific inherent risks, residual risks, controls and 
mitigants across the PRTs, and are reviewed and supported  
by the respective businesses, RFOs and DA SMEs. 

Governance committee oversight
Board level oversight is exercised through the BRC, and DA 
Risk updates are provided to the Board and BRC, as requested. 
At the executive level, the GRC oversees the risk management 
of DA. The GCRO has also appointed a dedicated DA  
Risk Committee (DRC) consisting of senior business 
representatives, RFOs and DA SMEs across the Group.  
The DRC meets a minimum of four times per year to review 
and assess the risk assessments related to DA Projects and 
Products, discuss development and implementation of the 
DARMA, and to provide structured governance around  
DA Risk. 

DA Risk follows prescribed robust risk management practices 
across the PRTs, with specific expertise applied from DA 
experts. Risk management practices are informed by the 
“Dear CEO” letters published by the PRA and the FCA in  
June 2018, with updated notices in June 2022. Further 
guidance from the recent publication of the BCBS d545 on  
the prudential treatment of crypto assets, which will be in 
effect from January 2025, has refined the risk management 
approach. DA is a developing area which will continue to 
mature and stabilise over time as the technology, together 
with its use in financial services and associated research, 
become more established. 

Monitoring
DA Risks are monitored through the existing Group RA metrics 
across the PRTs. In addition, specific DA Risk Management 
Monitoring level metrics are reviewed and monitored by the 
relevant individual PRTs. DA risk decisions relating to other 
PRTs are taken within the authorities for the respective PRT.

337

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewCapital review

The Capital review provides an analysis of the Group’s capital and leverage position,  
and requirements.

Capital summary
The Group’s capital, leverage and minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) position is  
managed within the Board-approved risk appetite. The Group is well capitalised with low leverage and high levels  
of loss-absorbing capacity. 

CET1 capital

Tier 1 capital

Total capital

Leverage ratio

MREL ratio

2023

14.1%

16.3%

21.2%

4.7%

33.3%

2022

14.0%

16.6%

21.7%

4.8%

32.1%

Risk-weighted assets (RWA) $million

244,151

244,711

The Group expects to manage CET1 capital dynamically 
within our 13-14 per cent target range, in support of our aim  
of delivering future sustainable shareholder distributions.

The Group’s MREL requirement as at 31 December 2023  
was 27.4 per cent of RWA. This is composed of a minimum 
requirement of 23.5 per cent of RWA and the Group’s 
combined buffer (comprising the capital conservation buffer, 
the G-SII buffer and the countercyclical buffer). The Group’s 
MREL ratio was 33.3 per cent of RWA and 9.6 per cent of 
leverage exposure at 31 December 2023.

During 2023, the Group successfully raised $8.1 billion of  
MREL eligible securities from its holding company, Standard 
Chartered PLC. Issuance was entirely in callable senior debt.

The Group is a G-SII, with a 1.0 per cent G-SII CET1 capital 
buffer. The Standard Chartered PLC G-SII disclosure is 
published at: sc.com/en/investors/financial-results. 

The Group‘s capital, leverage and MREL positions were all 
above current requirements and Board-approved risk 
appetite. For further detail see the Capital section in the 
Standard Chartered PLC Pillar 3 Disclosures for FY 2023.  
The Group’s CET1 capital increased 10 basis points to  
14.1 percent of RWA since FY2022. Profits, gains from the 
aviation leasing sale, movements in FVOCI and RWA 
optimisations were partly offset by distributions (including 
ordinary share buybacks of $2.0 billion during the year), 
impairments of the Group’s investment in Bohai, lower FX 
translation reserves and an increase in regulatory deductions.

The PRA updated the Group’s Pillar 2A requirement during  
Q4 2023. As at 31 December 2023 the Group’s Pillar 2A was  
3.8 percent of RWA, of which at least 2.1 per cent must be  
held in CET1 capital. The Group’s minimum CET1 capital 
requirement was 10.5 per cent at 31 December 2023. The UK 
countercyclical buffer increased to 2.0 per cent which impacts 
Group CET1 minimum requirement by approximately 8 basis 
points from July 2023.

The Group CET1 capital ratio at 31 December 2023 reflects  
the share buy-backs of $2 billion completed during the year. 
The CET1 capital ratio also includes an accrual for the FY 2023 
dividend. The Board has recommended a final dividend for 
FY 2023 of $560 million or 21 cents per share resulting in a  
full year 2023 dividend of 27 cents per share, a 50 percent 
increase on the 2022 dividend. In addition, the Board has 
announced a further share buy-back of $1 billion, the impact 
of this will reduce the Group’s CET1 capital by around 40 basis 
points in the first quarter of 2024.

338

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Capital reviewCapital base1 (audited)

CET1 capital instruments and reserves

Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts

Of which: share premium accounts
Retained earnings2

Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves)

Non-controlling interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1)

Independently audited year-end profits

Foreseeable dividends 

CET1 capital before regulatory adjustments

CET1 regulatory adjustments

Additional value adjustments (prudential valuation adjustments)

Intangible assets (net of related tax liability)

Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excludes those arising from temporary differences)

Fair value reserves related to net losses on cash flow hedges

Deduction of amounts resulting from the calculation of excess expected loss

Net gains on liabilities at fair value resulting from changes in own credit risk

Defined-benefit pension fund assets

Fair value gains arising from the institution’s own credit risk related to derivative liabilities

Exposure amounts which could qualify for risk weighting of 1,250%
Other regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital3

Total regulatory adjustments to CET1

CET1 capital

Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) instruments

AT1 regulatory adjustments

Tier 1 capital

Tier 2 capital instruments

Tier 2 regulatory adjustments

Tier 2 capital

Total capital

Total risk-weighted assets (unaudited)

1   Capital base is prepared on the regulatory scope of consolidation

2   Retained earnings includes IFRS9 capital relief (transitional) of nil (2022: $106 million)

3   Other regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital includes Insufficient coverage for non-performing exposures of nil (2022: $(29) million) 

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

5,321

3,989

24,930

9,171

217

3,542

(768)

42,413

(730)

(6,128)

(41)

(91)

(754)

(100)

(95)

(116)

(44)

–

(8,099)

34,314

5,512

(20)

39,806

11,965

(30)

11,935

51,741

244,151

5,436

3,989

25,154

8,165

189

2,988

(648)

41,284

(854)

(5,802)

(76)

564

(684)

63

(116)

(90)

(103)

(29)

(7,127)

34,157

6,504

(20)

40,641

12,540

(30)

12,510

53,151

244,711

339

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewMovement in total capital (audited)

CET1 at 1 January

Ordinary shares issued in the period and share premium

Share buy-back

Profit for the period

Foreseeable dividends deducted from CET1

Difference between dividends paid and foreseeable dividends

Movement in goodwill and other intangible assets

Foreign currency translation differences

Non-controlling interests

Movement in eligible other comprehensive income

Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability

Increase in excess expected loss

Additional value adjustments (prudential valuation adjustment)

IFRS 9 transitional impact on regulatory reserves including day one

Exposure amounts which could qualify for risk weighting of 1,250%

Fair value gains arising from the institution’s own credit risk related to derivative liabilities

Others

CET1 at 31 December

AT1 at 1 January

Net issuances (redemptions)

Foreign currency translation difference and others 

Excess on AT1 grandfathered limit (ineligible)

AT1 at 31 December

Tier 2 capital at 1 January

Regulatory amortisation

Net issuances (redemptions)

Foreign currency translation difference

Tier 2 ineligible minority interest

Recognition of ineligible AT1

Others

Tier 2 capital at 31 December

Total capital at 31 December

2023 
$million

34,157

–

(2,000)

3,542

(768)

(372)

(326)

(477)

28

464

35

(70)

124

(106)

59

(26)

50

2022 
$million

38,362

–

(1,258)

2,988

(648)

(301)

(1,410)

(1,892)

(12)

(1,224)

74

(104)

(189)

(146)

(67)

(30)

14

34,314

34,157

6,484

(1,000)

8

–

5,492

12,510

1,416

(2,160)

146

19

–

4

11,935

51,741

6,791

241

9

(557)

6,484

12,491

778

(1,098)

(337)

102

557

17

12,510

53,151

The main movements in capital in the period were:

•  CET1 capital increased by $0.2 billion as retained profits of $3.5 billion, movement in FVOCI of $0.6bn were partly offset  

by share buy-backs of $2.0 billion, distributions paid and foreseeable of $1.1 billion, foreign currency translation impact of  
$0.5 billion and an increase in regulatory deductions and other movements of $0.3bn.

•  AT1 capital decreased by $1.0 billion following the redemption of $1.0 billion of 7.75 per cent securities.

•  Tier 2 capital decreased by $0.6 billion due to the redemption of $2.2 billion of Tier 2 during the year partly offset by the 

reversal of regulatory amortisation and foreign currency translation impact.

340

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Capital reviewRisk-weighted assets by business

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & Other items

Total risk-weighted assets

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & Other items

Total risk-weighted assets

Risk-weighted assets by geographic region 

Asia

Africa & Middle East

Europe & Americas

Central & Other items

Total risk-weighted assets

Movement in risk-weighted assets 

2023

Credit risk 
$million

Operational risk 
$million

Market risk 
$million

102,675

42,559

1,885

44,304

191,423

18,083

8,783

35

960

27,861

2022

Credit risk 
$million

Operational risk 
$million

110,103

42,091

1,350

43,311

196,855

17,039

8,639

6

1,493

27,177

21,221

–

3

3,643

24,867

Market risk 
$million

16,440

–

2

4,237

20,679

2023 
$million

155,995

38,393

46,106

3,657

244,151

Total risk 
$million

141,979

51,342

1,923

48,907

244,151

Total risk 
$million

143,582

50,730

1,358

49,041

244,711

2022 
$million

150,816

40,716

50,174

3,005

244,711

At 31 December 2021

At 1 January 2022

Assets growth & mix

Asset quality

Risk-weighted assets efficiencies

Model Updates

Methodology and policy changes

Acquisitions and disposals

Foreign currency translation

Other, Including non-credit  
risk movements

At 31 December 2022

Assets growth & mix

Asset quality

Risk-weighted assets efficiencies

Model Updates

Methodology and policy changes

Acquisitions and disposals

Foreign currency translation

Other, Including non-credit  
risk movements

At 31 December 2023

Credit risk

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business 
Banking 
$million

Ventures
$million

Central & 
Other items  
$million

125,813

125,813

(13,213)

(4,258)

–

4,329

2,024

–

42,731

42,731

(985)

431

–

1,420

85

–

(4,883)

(1,591)

291

–

110,103

42,091

(4,424)

(391)

–

(597)

–

(1,630)

(386)

728

390

–

(151)

(196)

–

(303)

–

–

756

756

594

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,350

535

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Total 
$million

219,588

219,588

50,288

50,288

(10,033)

(23,637)

7,344

–

–

93

–

3,517

–

5,749

2,202

–

(3,376)

(9,850)

Operational 
risk 
$million

Market risk 
$million

Total risk 
$million

27,116

27,116

24,529

24,529

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(1,000)

1,500

–

–

271,233

271,233

(23,637)

3,517

–

4,749

3,702

–

(9,850)

(1,005)

(714)

61

(4,350)

(5,003)

43,311

196,855

27,177

20,679

244,711

1,183

2,684

(688)

(151)

–

–

(1,978)

2,683

(688)

(899)

(196)

(1,630)

(2,035)

(2,724)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

500

(800)

–

–

(1,978)

2,683

(688)

(399)

(996)

(1,630)

(2,724)

–

–

684

4,488

5,172

102,675

42,559

1,885

44,304

191,423

27,861

24,867

244,151

341

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewMovements in risk-weighted assets
RWA decreased by $0.6 billion, or 0.2 per cent from 
31 December 2022 to $244.2 billion. This was due to a decrease 
in Credit Risk RWA of $5.4 billion, an increase in Market Risk 
RWA of $4.2 billion and an increase in Operational Risk RWA 
of $0.7 billion.

Ventures 
Ventures is comprised of Mox Bank Limited, Trust Bank and  
SC Ventures. Credit Risk RWA increased by $0.5 billion, or  
39.7 per cent from 31 December 2022 to $1.9 billion from asset 
balance growth, mainly from SC Ventures.

Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking
Credit Risk RWA decreased by $7.4 billion, or 6.7 per cent from 
31 December 2022 to $102.7 billion mainly due to:

•  $4.4 billion decrease from changes in asset growth & mix  

of which:

Central & Other items
Central & Other items RWA mainly relate to the Treasury 
Markets liquidity portfolio, equity investments and current & 
deferred tax assets.

Credit Risk RWA increased by $1 billion, or 2.3 per cent from  
31 December 2022 to $44.3 billion mainly due to: 

–  $10.3 billion decrease from optimisation actions including 

reduction in lower returning portfolios

•  $2.7 billion increase due to deterioration in asset quality 

mainly from sovereign downgrades in Africa & Middle East

–  $5.9 billion increase from asset balance growth across the 

•  $1.2 billion increase from changes in asset growth & mix 

rest of the portfolio

•  $1.6 billion decrease from sale of Aviation business

•  $0.9 billion decrease from industry-wide regulatory changes 

to align IRB model performance

•  $2.0 billion decrease from foreign currency translation  

•  $0.7 billion decrease from RWA efficiencies  

•  $0.2 billion decrease from model changes in Treasury 

Markets

•  $0.4 billion decrease from foreign currency translation

•  $0.4 billion decrease from asset quality movements, 

reflecting client upgrades in Asia, Europe & Americas, 
partially offset by sovereign downgrades in Africa &  
Middle East 

•  $0.3 billion increase from model changes in Financial 

Markets and Lending

Consumer, Private & Business Banking
Credit Risk RWA increased by $0.5 billion, or 1.1 per cent from 
31 December 2022 to $42.6 billion mainly due to:

•  $0.7 billion increase from changes in asset growth and mix, 

mainly from Asia

•  $0.4 billion increase due to deterioration in asset quality 

mainly in Asia

•  $0.3 billion decrease from foreign currency translation 

•  $0.2 billion decrease from methodology change relating to 

an unsecured lending portfolio in Africa & Middle East 

•  $0.1 billion decrease from industry-wide regulatory changes 

to align IRB model performance 

Market Risk 
Total Market Risk RWA increased by $4.2 billion, or  
20.3 per cent from 31 December 2022 to $24.9 billion due to:

•  $2.4 billion increase in Standardised Approach (SA) RWA 
driven by higher Specific Interest Rate Risk relating to the 
traded credit portfolio, offset by lower net Structural  
FX positions

•  $2.1 billion increase in Internal Models Approach (IMA) RWA 
due to increased positions and increased market volatility

•  $0.5 billion increase in IMA RWA due to introduction of a 
new VaR model to address the rise in VaR backtesting 
exceptions in 2022

•  $0.8 billion decrease in IMA RWA due to reduction in the 
IMA multiplier with fewer VaR backtesting exceptions in 
2023 than in 2022

Operational Risk 
Operational Risk RWA increased by $0.7 billion, or 2.5 per cent 
from 31 December 2022 to $27.9 billion, mainly due to a 
marginal increase in average income as measured over a 
rolling three-year time horizon for certain products.

342

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Capital reviewLeverage ratio 
The Group’s UK leverage ratio, which excludes qualifying claims on central banks was 4.7 per cent, which is above the current 
minimum requirement of 3.7 per cent. The leverage ratio was 6 basis points lower than FY22. Tier 1 Capital decreased by 
$0.8 billion as CET1 capital increased by $0.2 billion and was more than offset by the redemption of $1 billion 7.75 per cent 
AT1 securities. Leverage exposure decreased by $7.2 billion benefiting from an increase in deduction for central bank claims of 
$19.6 billion, a decrease in securities financing transactions and add-on of $1.3 billion, partly offset by increase in Other Assets  
of $7.2 billion, Off-balance sheet items of $4.5 billion and Derivatives of $2 billion.

Leverage ratio 

Tier 1 capital

Derivative financial instruments

Derivative cash collateral

Securities financing transactions (SFTs)

Loans and advances and other assets

Total on-balance sheet assets
Regulatory consolidation adjustments1

Derivatives adjustments

  Derivatives netting

  Adjustments to cash collateral

  Net written credit protection

  Potential future exposure on derivatives

Total derivatives adjustments

Counterparty risk leverage exposure measure for SFTs

Off-balance sheet items

Regulatory deductions from Tier 1 capital

Total exposure measure excluding claims on central banks

Leverage ratio excluding claims on central banks (%)

Average leverage exposure measure excluding claims on central banks

Average leverage ratio excluding claims on central banks (%)

Countercyclical leverage ratio buffer

G-SII additional leverage ratio buffer

1  

Includes adjustment for qualifying central bank claims and unsettled regular way trades

2023 
$million

39,806

50,434

10,337

97,581

664,492

822,844

(92,709)

(39,031)

(9,833)

1,359

42,184

(5,321)

6,639

123,572

(7,883)

847,142

4.7%

853,968

4.6%

0.1%

0.4%

2022 
$million

40,641

63,717

12,515

89,967

653,723

819,922

(71,728)

(47,118)

(10,640)

548

35,824

(21,386)

15,553

119,049

(7,099)

854,311

4.8%

864,605

4.7%

0.1%

0.4%

343

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Risk review and Capital reviewFinancial statements

Financial statements

346  

Independent Auditor’s report

359  

 Consolidated income statement

360   

 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income

361  

 Consolidated balance sheet

362  

 Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity

363   Cash flow statement 

364  Company balance sheet

365 

 Company statement of changes  
in equity

366  

 Notes to the financial statements

[[Bolstering 
the client 
experience for 
affluent clients 
in Asia]] 

To enrich client experiences with 
holistic wealth advice for affluent 
clients, we opened two new Private 
Banking Centres in India as well as two 
Priority Private Centres for high-net-
worth (HNW) clients in Shanghai and 
Hong Kong. The hubs offer bespoke 
services to HNW and Ultra HNW 
clients and form part of our continuing 
growth in the affluent sector. We also 
introduced an enhanced Priority 
Private value proposition for HNW 
clients during the launch of the 
Shanghai centre. In addition to the 
new openings, we also renovated and 
rebranded 17 branches across Asia, 
the Middle East and Africa, creating 
additional Priority Centres.

Read more on our new centres in India at 
sc.com/privatebankingcentres

344

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

i

F
n
a
n
c
i
a

l
s
t
a
t
e
m
e
n
t
s

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

345

 
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the members of Standard Chartered PLC

Opinion
In our opinion:

•  the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC  

(the ‘Company’ or the ‘Parent Company’), its subsidiaries, 
interests in associates and jointly controlled entities 
(together with the Company, the ‘Group’) give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for 
the year then ended;

•  the Group financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with UK adopted International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union (EU IFRS);

•  the Company financial statements have been properly 

prepared in accordance with UK adopted IAS as applied in 
accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006; 
and

•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 

with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 

We have audited the financial statements of the Group  
and the Company for the year ended 31 December 2023 
which comprise:

Group

Company

Consolidated income 
statement for the year ended 
31 December 2023;

Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the 
year then ended;

Balance sheet as at 31 December 
2023;

Cash flow statement for the year 
then ended;

Consolidated balance sheet  
as at 31 December 2023;

Statement of changes in equity 
for the year then ended; and

Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity for the year 
then ended;

Related notes 1 to 40, where 
relevant to the financial 
statements, including material 
accounting policy information.

Consolidated cash flow 
statement for the year  
then ended;

Related notes 1 to 40 to  
the financial statements, 
including material accounting 
policy information;

Information marked as 
‘audited’ within the Directors’ 
remuneration report from 
page 182 to 216; and

Risk Review and Capital Review 
disclosures marked as ‘audited’ 
from page 232 to 343.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and UK adopted IAS  
and EU IFRS; and as regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, UK adopted IAS as applied in accordance with 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

346

Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of  
the financial statements section of our report. We believe  
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence
We are independent of the Group and the Company in 
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant  
to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including 
the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest 
entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements. 

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company 
and we remain independent of the Group and the Company 
in conducting the audit. 

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that 
the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in 
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. 
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group and 
Parent Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting included:

•  Performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could 

impact the going concern basis of accounting, including the 
impact of external risks such as geopolitical risk. 

•  Assessing the directors’ going concern assessment including 
the Group’s forecast capital, liquidity, and leverage ratios 
over the period of twelve months from 23 February 2024 to 
evaluate the headroom against the minimum regulatory 
requirements and the risk appetite set by the directors.

•  Engaging internal valuation and economic specialists to 

assess and challenge the reasonableness of assumptions 
used to develop the forecasts in the Corporate Plan and 
evaluating the accuracy of historical forecasting.

•  Assessing the Group’s funding plan and repayment plan for 
funding instruments maturing over the period of twelve 
months from 23 February 2024.

•  Understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings 

and actions.

•  Engaging internal prudential regulatory specialists to  

assess the results of management’s stress testing, including 
consideration of principal and emerging risks, on funding, 
liquidity, and regulatory capital.

•  Reviewing correspondence with prudential regulators and 
authorities for matters that may impact the going concern 
assessment; and

•  Evaluating the going concern disclosure included in note 1  

to the financial statements in order to assess that the 
disclosures were appropriate and in conformity with the 
reporting standards.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportBased on the work we have performed, we have not identified 
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions 
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt  
on the Group and Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern for a period of twelve months from 23 February 2024.

In relation to the Group and Parent Company’s reporting on 
how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in 
relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements 
about whether the directors considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors 
with respect to going concern are described in the relevant 
sections of this report. However, because not all future  
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is  
not a guarantee as to the Group and Company’s ability  
to continue as a going concern.

Overview of our audit approach

Audit scope •  We performed an audit of the complete financial 

• 

information of 10 components in 8 countries  
and audit procedures on specific balances for  
a further 17 components in 14 countries.
In addition to the above, the Primary Audit  
Team also performed full-scope audit  
procedures on components related to the  
Group consolidation process.

•  The components where we performed full or 
specific audit procedures accounted for 78%  
of the absolute profit before tax (PBT), 87%  
of absolute operating income and 94% of  
Total assets.

Key audit 
matters

•  Credit impairment 
•  Basis of accounting and impairment assessment 

of China Bohai Bank (interest in associate)

•  Privileged Access Management
• 

Impairment of goodwill and investments in 
subsidiary undertakings

•  Valuation of financial instruments held at  
fair value with higher risk characteristics 

Materiality •  Overall group materiality of $274m which 

represents 5% of Adjusted PBT.

An overview of the scope of the parent company 
and group audits

Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality  
and our allocation of performance materiality determine  
our audit scope for each component within the Group.  
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We took into account  
the size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and 
effectiveness of control environment, changes in the business 
environment and other factors such as the level of issues and 
misstatements noted in prior period when assessing the level 
of work to be performed at each component.

In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate 
quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial 
statements, of the 346 reporting units of the Group, we 
selected 66 reporting units which represent 27 components  
in 21 countries: Bahrain, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, India, 
Indonesia, Japan, Jersey, Kenya, Mainland China, Malaysia, 
Nigeria, Pakistan, Republic of Ireland, Republic of Korea, 
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, United 
Kingdom, United States of America, and Zambia.

The definition of a component is aligned with the structure  
of the Group’s consolidation system, typically these are  
either a branch, group of branches, group of subsidiaries  
(or associates), or a subsidiary.

We took a centralised approach to auditing certain processes 
and controls, as well as the substantive testing of specific 
balances. This included audit work over Group’s Global 
Business Services shared services centre (SSC), Commercial, 
Corporate and Institutional Banking SSC, Credit Impairment 
SSC and Technology, as well as certain other matters audited 
centrally by the Primary Audit Team.

Of the 27 components selected in 21 countries, we  
performed an audit of the complete financial information  
of 10 components (“full scope components”) which were 
selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For  
14 components (“specific scope components”) we performed 
audit procedures on specific accounts within that component 
that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact 
on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements 
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk  
profile. We also instructed 3 locations to perform specified 
procedures over certain aspects of credit impairment risk.

Full scope components

Specific scope components

Specified procedures 

Total

Group`s Absoulute PBT

Group’s Total assets

Group’s Absolute Operating Income

2023

62%

15%

1%

78%

2022

72%

10%

0%

82%

2023

87%

7%

0.10%

94%

2022

87%

8%

0%

95%

2023

72%

14%

1%

87%

2022

79%

10%

0%

89%

Of the remaining reporting units that together represent 22% 
of the Group’s absolute PBT, none are individually greater  
than 2.3% of the Group’s absolute PBT. For the components 
represented by these reporting units, we performed other 
procedures at the Group level which included: performing 
analytical reviews at the Group financial statement line item 
level, evaluating entity level controls, performing audit 
procedures on the centralised shared service centres, testing 
of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, 
inquiring with selected overseas EY teams on the outcome  
of prior year local statutory audits (where audited by EY) to 
identify any potential risks of material misstatement to the 
Group financial statements.

347

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsThe charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the 
work performed by our audit teams.

Absolute proﬁt before tax

62% Full scope components (2022: 72%)

15% Specific scope components (2022: 10%)

1% Specified procedures (2022: 0%)

22% Other procedures (2022: 18%)

Absolute operating income

Total assets

72% Full scope components (2022: 79%)

14% Specific scope components (2022: 10%)

1% Specified procedures (2022: 0%)

13% Other procedures (2022: 11%)

87% Full scope components (2022: 87%)

7% Specific scope components (2022: 8%)

0.1% Specified procedures (2022: 0%)

6% Other procedures (2022: 5%)

Changes from the prior year 
We assessed our 2023 audit scope with consideration of 
history or expectation of unusual or complex transactions  
and potential for material misstatements. We also kept our 
audit scope under review throughout the year. 

Three components in Cameroon, Republic of Ireland, and 
South Africa, which were included in prior year audit scope 
and assigned specific scope, were excluded from the Group 
audit scope in the current year based on our updated risk 
assessment. These components represent individually no 
more than 0.1% of Group absolute PBT, 0.4% of the Group’s 
absolute operating income and 0.3% of the Group’s Total 
assets respectively in the current year. No component which 
was full scope in the prior year, has been excluded from Group 
audit scope for the 2023 audit. 

For Germany, Australia, Ghana and Cameroon, the Primary 
Audit Team performed certain procedures centrally over the 
cash balances as at 31 December 2023. Taiwan, Malaysia, 
Indonesia, Pakistan and Kenya were full scope components  
in the prior year but were designated as specific scope 
components in the current year based on our updated  
risk assessment. 

In 2023, we assigned a specific scope to Bahrain and United 
Kingdom (Jersey) components that are significant based on 
risk, and specified procedures to Taiwan (Taipei Branch). 
These components were not in-scope in the prior year.

Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken  
at each of the components by us, as the primary audit 
engagement team (the “Primary Audit Team”), or by 
component auditors from other firms operating under our 
instruction. All of the direct components of the Group (full, 
specific or specified procedures) were audited by EY global 
network firms. There were two non-EY component teams 
auditing a single component in a single location, which were 
instructed by a direct component of the Group. 

Of the 10 full scope components, audit procedures were 
performed on 3 of these (including the audit of the Company) 
directly by the Primary Audit Team (EY London) in the  
United Kingdom. For 1 specific scope component, the audit 
procedures were performed by the Primary Audit Team. 
Where components were audited by the Primary Audit Team, 
this was under the direction and supervision of the Senior 
Statutory Auditor. For the 23 remaining components, where 
the work was performed by component auditors, we 
determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable  
us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. 

In addition to the above, the Primary Audit Team also 
performed full-scope audit procedures on components 
related to the Group consolidation process.

In addition, the Group has centralised processes and controls 
over key areas in its shared service centres. Members of the 
Primary Audit Team undertook direct oversight, review and 
coordination of our shared service centre audits. 

The Primary Audit Team continued to follow a programme  
of planned visits to component teams and shared service 
centres. During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were 
undertaken by the Primary Audit Team to the component 
teams in the following locations:

•  Bangladesh 

•  Hong Kong

•  India (including the shared services centre)

•  Indonesia

•  Mainland China

•  Malaysia (including the shared services centre)

•  Pakistan

•  Republic of Korea

•  Singapore (including the shared services centre)

•  United Arab Emirates

•  United States of America

These visits typically involved oversight of work undertaken  
at those locations, discussion of the audit approach and  
any issues arising from their work, meeting with local 
management, and reviewing relevant audit working papers 
on key risk areas.

348

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportOur audit effort in considering the impact of climate change 
on the financial statements was focused on evaluating 
whether management’s assessment of the impact of climate 
risk, physical and transition, their climate commitments, 
 and the significant judgements and estimates disclosed in 
note 1 have been appropriately reflected in the valuation of 
assets and liabilities, where these can be reliably measured, 
following the currently effective requirements of UK adopted 
IAS and EU IFRS. This was in the context of the Group’s  
process being limited, given that this is an emerging area,  
as a result of limitations in the data available and the 
availability of sophisticated models, and as the Group 
considers how it further embeds its climate ambitions into  
the planning process. 

As part of this evaluation, we performed our own risk 
assessment, supported by our climate change internal 
specialists, to determine the risks of material misstatement  
in the financial statements from climate change which 
needed to be considered in our audit. 

We also challenged the Directors’ considerations of  
climate change risks in their assessment of going concern  
and viability, and the associated disclosures. Where 
considerations of climate change were relevant to our 
assessment of going concern, these are covered by the 
procedures described above.

Based on our work, we have considered the impact of climate 
change on the financial statements to impact certain key 
audit matters. Details of our procedures and findings are 
included in our explanation of key audit matters below. 

In addition to the site visits, the Primary Audit Team interacted 
regularly with the component and SSC audit teams where 
appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed 
relevant working papers and deliverables to the Primary  
Audit Team, and were responsible for the scope and direction 
of the audit process.

The Primary Audit Team also undertook video conference 
meetings with component and SSC audit teams and 
management. These virtual meetings involved discussing  
the audit approach and any issues arising from their work,  
as well as performing remote reviews of key audit workpapers.

This, together with the procedures performed at Group level, 
gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group 
and Company financial statements.

Climate change 
Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate 
change will impact the economy, including the banking sector, 
and further how this may consequently impact the valuation 
of assets and liabilities held on bank balance sheets. The 
Group manages climate risk according to the characteristics 
of the impacted risk types and is embedding climate-risk 
considerations into relevant frameworks, including principal 
risk type frameworks, and processes. The assessment of the 
risk by the Group is explained on pages 336 and 298-313 in the 
“Risk review: Climate Risk” section, and on pages 90-133 in the 
“Sustainability review” section of the Annual Report, where the 
Group has also explained their climate commitments.

All of these disclosures form part of the “Other information,” 
rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures 
on these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of 
considering whether they are materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course 
of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated,  
in line with our responsibilities on “Other information”. 

In planning and performing our audit we assessed the 
potential impacts of climate change on the Group’s  
business and any consequential material impact on its 
financial statements. 

The Group has explained in the “Sustainability review” section 
of the Annual Report how they have reflected the impact of 
climate change in their financial statements, including how 
this aligns with their commitment to the aspirations of the 
Paris Agreement to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. 
Significant judgements and estimates relating to climate 
change are included in the section “Climate impact on the 
Group’s balance sheet” of note 1 to the financial statements. 
As stated in these disclosures, the Group has considered 
Climate to be an area of significant accounting estimate  
and judgement through the uncertainty of future events  
and the impact of that uncertainty on the Group’s assets  
and liabilities. The Group has concluded that whilst it is not 
currently quantitatively material, it considers climate to be 
qualitatively material.

349

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsKey audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not  
due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy,  
the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in  
the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.

Risk 

Our response to the risk

1. Credit Impairment 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 163); 
Accounting policies (page 380); Note 8 of the 
financial statements; and relevant credit risk 
disclosures (including pages 238 and 274)
At 31 December 2023, the Group reported total 
credit impairment balance sheet provision of 
$5,601 million (2022: $6,075 million). 
Management’s judgements and estimates are 
highly subjective as a result of the significant 
uncertainty associated with the estimation of 
expected future credit losses that are dependent 
upon several hard to estimate factors. 
Assumptions with increased complexity in 
respect of the timing and measurement of 
expected credit losses (ECL) include:
•  Staging – the determination of what 

constitutes significant increase in credit risk 
and consequent timely allocation of qualifying 
assets to the appropriate stage in accordance 
with IFRS 9;

•  Model output and adjustments – Accounting 
interpretations, modelling assumptions and 
data used to build and run the models that 
calculate the ECL, including the 
appropriateness, completeness and valuation 
of post-model adjustments applied to model 
output to address identified model 
deficiencies or risks not fully captured by the 
models;

•  Economic scenarios – Significant judgements 

involved in the determination of the 
appropriateness of economic variables, the 
future forecasting of these variables and the 
parameters used in the Monte Carlo 
Simulation. The assessment of non-linearity 
produced by the Monte Carlo simulation, the 
benchmarking of the output and the 
evaluation of the need for any Post Model 
adjustments; 

•  Management overlays – Appropriateness, 
completeness and valuation of risk event 
overlays to capture risks not identified by the 
credit impairment models, including the 
consideration of the risk of management 
override; and

•  Individually assessed ECL allowances 
– Measurement of individual provisions 
including the assessment of probability 
weighted recovery scenarios, exit strategies, 
collateral valuations, expected future 
cashflows and the timing of these cashflows.

We evaluated the design of controls relevant  
to the Group’s systems and processes over 
material ECL balances, including the 
judgements and estimates noted, involving  
EY specialists to assist us in performing our 
procedures where relevant. Based on our 
evaluation we selected the controls upon  
which we intended to rely and tested those  
for operating effectiveness. We increased the 
extent of our reliance on controls over model 
governance and in certain locations of the 
stage 3 exposures. 
We performed an overall stand-back 
assessment of the ECL allowance in total  
and by stage to determine if the ECL was 
reasonable. We considered the overall credit 
quality of the Group’s portfolios, risk profile,  
the impact of sovereign downgrades and 
challenges facing the China Commercial  
Real Estate sector. We performed peer 
benchmarking to the extent that this was 
considered relevant and investigated and 
sought explanations for any areas noted as 
being outliers. Our assessment also included the 
evaluation of the macroeconomic environment 
by considering trends in the economies and 
countries to which the Group is exposed. 
Staging – We evaluated the criteria used to 
determine significant increase in credit risk 
including quantitative backstops with the 
resultant allocation of financial assets to  
stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance with IFRS 9.  
We reperformed the staging distribution for  
a sample of financial assets and assessed  
the reasonableness of staging downgrades 
applied by management. 
To test the completeness of the identification of 
significant increase in credit risk, we challenged 
the risk ratings (including appropriate operation 
of quantitative backstops) for a sample of 
performing accounts and other accounts 
exhibiting risk characteristics such as financial 
difficulties, deferment of payment, late 
payment and watchlist. We also considered 
whether vulnerable and cyclical sectors (as 
defined on page 265 in the annual report) 
resulted in a significant increase in credit risk  
at a sector level. 

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

We highlighted the following 
matters to the Audit Committee:
•  We increased the extent of our 
reliance of controls over model 
governance and stage 3 
exposures in certain locations;

•  Our evaluation of the 

appropriateness of the 
significant increase in credit  
risk triggers, and the results of 
our sensitivity analysis and 
recalculation of the staging. 

•  Our assessment of the 

assumptions used to determine 
the Stage 3 ECL with a  
focus on sponsor and 
developers exposed to China 
Commercial Real Estate and  
the appropriateness of the 
management overlay applied 
to the sector’s modelled ECL; 

•  Our assessment of the 
completeness and 
measurement of post model 
adjustments and overlays.

•  Our assessment of the quantum 
of the non-linearity adjustment 
produced by the Monte Carlo 
model including the comparison 
to the non-linearity produced  
by running narrative discrete 
scenarios. 

•  Our assessment of the 

appropriateness of the Group’s 
models to generate the ECL and 
staging outcomes including the 
appropriateness and validity  
of the data used in the models 
and to generate the staging 
and consequent ECL.

•  Our evaluation of 

management’s enhanced 
modelling approach to the 
assessment of the potential 
impact on ECL from climate 
change; 

We concluded that 
management’s methodology, 
judgements and assumptions 
used in calculating credit 
impairment are materially  
in accordance with the  
accounting standard. 

350

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportRisk 

Our response to the risk

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

1. Credit Impairment continued
In 2023, the most material factors impacting the 
ECL were in relation to the China Commercial 
Real Estate (CRE) portfolio, sovereign 
downgrades impacted by dollar availability,  
the continuing impact of higher interest rates 
and inflation and geopolitical uncertainty.  
In addition, where relevant we considered the 
impact of climate on the impairment provisions. 
Overall, these factors were prevalent in the prior 
year, and consequently the risk of a material 
misstatement to the ECL remained consistent 
with that of the prior year. 

Modelled output and adjustments – We 
performed a risk assessment on models 
involved in the ECL calculation using EY 
independently determined quantitative and 
qualitative criteria to select a sample of  
models to test. Based on this risk assessment, 
we engaged our modelling specialists to 
evaluate a sample of ECL models by assessing 
the reasonableness of underpinning 
assumptions, inputs and formulae used.  
This included a combination of assessing the 
appropriateness of model design, formulae and 
algorithms, alternative modelling techniques 
and recalculating the Probability of Default, 
Loss Given Default and Exposure at Default 
parameters. Together with our modelling 
specialists, we also assessed material post-
model adjustments which were applied as  
a response to risks not fully captured by the 
models or for known model deficiencies.  
This included the completeness and 
appropriateness of these adjustments. 
In response to new or enhanced models 
implemented this year to address known 
weaknesses in previous models, we  
performed substantive testing procedures  
as defined by our model inherent risk 
assessment process, including code review  
and implementation testing. 
We did not rely on controls over model 
monitoring and therefore adopted a 
substantive approach comprising 
reperformance of model monitoring  
procedures for models classified as higher  
risk in accordance with our EY independent  
risk assessment.
To evaluate data quality, we agreed a sample 
of ECL calculation data points to source 
systems, including, among other data points, 
balance sheet data used to run the models.  
We also tested a sample of the ECL data points 
from the calculation engine through to the 
general ledger and disclosures. 
Economic scenarios – In collaboration with  
our economists and modelling specialists,  
we challenged the completeness and 
appropriateness of the macroeconomic 
variables used as inputs to the ECL models. 
Additionally, we involved our economic 
specialists to assist us in evaluating the 
reasonableness of the base forecast for sample 
of macroeconomic variables most relevant for 
the Group’s ECL calculation influenced by the 
above assessment. Procedures performed 
included benchmarking the forecast for a 
sample of macroeconomic variables to a 
variety of global external sources. We reviewed 
and challenged the appropriateness of the 
underlying coding and assumptions used in  
the Monte Carlo simulation.

351

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsRisk 

Our response to the risk

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

1. Credit Impairment continued

We assessed the reasonableness of the 
non-linearity impact on ECL allowances.  
We engaged our economists and modelling 
specialists, to assess and challenge the Group’s 
choice of discrete scenarios to benchmark  
the output from the Monte Carlo model and 
determine the sensitivity analysis as set out on 
page 280 in the annual report. This challenge 
included the choice of narrative scenarios  
and we independently challenged the output 
from these scenarios using independently 
determined EY weights for each scenario.  
We also performed a stand-back assessment 
by benchmarking the resulting non-linearity 
up-lift and overall ECL charge and provision 
coverage to peers.
Management overlays – We challenged the 
completeness and appropriateness of overlays 
used for risks not captured by the models. We 
focussed our challenge on China Commercial 
Real Estate, sovereign risks and the sustained 
impact of higher interest rates and inflation.  
Our procedures included assessing the need  
for management overlays, evaluating the 
assumptions and judgments used to determine 
each overlay taking current market conditions 
into account. We computed a range of EY 
independently determined outcomes for the 
China Commercial Real Estate overlay.
Individually assessed ECL allowances –  
Our procedures included challenging 
management’s forward-looking economic 
assumptions of the recovery outcomes 
identified, cashflow profile and timing, 
individual probability weightings for each 
scenario, and recalculating a sample of 
individually assessed provisions.
We also engaged our valuation specialists  
to test the value of the collateral used in 
management’s calculations. Our sample  
was based on quantitative thresholds and 
qualitative factors, including exposure to 
vulnerable sectors. We have independently 
assessed all material China CRE developers in 
Stage 3 including challenging the plausibility  
of the applied scenarios, the corresponding 
weights assigned to work out scenarios and 
engaging local EY Real Estate specialists  
to validate the collateral values. We also 
considered whether planned exit strategies 
were viable.

352

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportKey observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

On the basis of the evidence,  
we concluded that the Group 
continues to maintain significant 
influence over China Bohai Bank  
as at 31 December 2023.
We concluded that the Interest  
in Associate –China Bohai Bank 
balance was not materially 
misstated as at 31 December  
2023. Management’s carrying 
value for the investment in  
Bohai of $700 million is within  
EY`s independent range.
We concluded that the  
disclosures in the annual report 
appropriately reflect the  
sensitivity of the carrying value  
to reasonably possible changes  
in key assumptions in the  
valuation of the investment in 
China Bohai Bank.

Risk 

Our response to the risk

Basis of accounting
We evaluated the facts and circumstances  
that the Group presented to demonstrate that 
it exercises significant influence over China 
Bohai Bank, through Board representation, 
membership of Board Committees and sharing 
of technical advice.
Impairment testing
The Group impaired the value of the investment 
in China Bohai Bank by $850 million in 2023 
(2022: $308 million). This brings the cumulative 
impairment recorded in relation to the Group’s 
investment in China Bohai Bank to $1,458 million 
as at 31 December 2023. 
We assessed the appropriateness of the 
Group’s VIU methodology for testing the 
impairment of the investment in China Bohai 
Bank for compliance with the accounting 
standards. We tested the mathematical 
accuracy of the VIU model and engaged our 
valuation and modelling specialists to support 
the audit team in calculating an independent 
range for the VIU. 
We performed audit procedures to assess the 
reasonableness of the Group’s forecast of the 
future cashflows relating to Bohai, by evaluating 
management’s assessment, benchmarking  
the forecasts to broker reports published for 
comparable companies and challenging 
management with regard to the relevance  
and reliability of historical data, including an 
evaluation of the public disclosures by Bohai.
We assessed the appropriateness of disclosures 
in the annual report in relation to the impact  
of reasonably possible changes in key 
assumptions on the carrying value of the 
investment in China Bohai Bank.

2. Basis of accounting and 
impairment assessment of China 
Bohai Bank (Interest in Associate) 
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 163); 
Accounting policies (page 452); and Note 32 of 
the financial statements 
Interest in Associate – China Bohai Bank  
$700 million (2022: $1,421million). 
Other impairment – China Bohai Bank –  
$850 million (2022: $308 million).
At 31 December 2023, the Group’s share of China 
Bohai Bank’s market capitalisation was $282m 
lower than the carrying value of $700m. 
We focused on judgements and estimates, 
including the appropriateness of the equity 
accounting treatment under IAS 28 and  
the assessment of whether the investment  
was impaired.
Basis of accounting
The Group holds a 16.26% stake in China Bohai 
Bank and equity accounts for the investment as 
an associate, on the grounds that the Group is 
able to exercise significant influence over China 
Bohai Bank. 
IAS 28 states that if the entity holds, directly or 
indirectly, less than 20% of the voting power  
of the investee, it is presumed that the entity 
does not have significant influence, unless  
such influence can be clearly demonstrated. 
There is a risk that the equity accounting 
treatment may not be appropriate, if the  
Group cannot demonstrate that it exerts 
significant influence over China Bohai Bank. 
Impairment testing
At 31 December 2023, China Bohai Bank’s market 
capitalisation was significantly lower than the 
carrying value of the investment. In addition,  
the financial performance of China Bohai Bank 
deteriorated during 2023. These matters are 
indicators of impairment. 
Impairment of the investment in China Bohai 
Bank is determined by comparing the carrying 
value to the value-in-use (VIU). The VIU is 
modelled by reference to future cashflow 
forecasts (forecast profit, including a haircut  
for regulatory capital), discount rate and 
macroeconomic assumptions such as long-term 
growth rates.
The assumptions underpinning management’s 
assessment of China Bohai Bank’s VIU are 
subject to estimation uncertainty and 
consequently, there is a risk that if the 
judgements and assumptions are  
inappropriate, the investment in China  
Bohai Bank may be misstated.
The risk of the impairment has increased in  
the current year in the context of economic 
headwinds in Mainland China impacting the 
banking sector, as well as Bohai’s deteriorating 
financial performance. 

The risk in respect of significant influence has  
not changed compared to the prior year.

353

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsKey observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

We concluded that the goodwill 
balance as at 31 December 2023 
and the related disclosures, are 
not materially misstated. 
We concluded that the disclosures 
in the annual report appropriately 
reflect the sensitivity of the 
carrying value of goodwill to 
reasonably possible changes in 
key assumptions, noting that  
these downside scenarios could 
necessitate an adjustment to  
the carrying amount of goodwill  
in future. 
We also concluded that the 
investments in subsidiary 
undertakings balance reported in 
the Parent Company financial 
statements and the associated 
disclosures, are not materially 
misstated as at 31 December 2023. 

Risk 

Our response to the risk

We obtained an understanding of 
management’s process and evaluated the 
design of controls. Our audit strategy was  
fully substantive.
We assessed the appropriateness of the 
Group’s methodology for testing the 
impairment of goodwill and investments in 
subsidiary undertakings for compliance with 
accounting standards. 
For goodwill, we assessed the appropriateness 
of the cash generating units identified by 
management. 
We agreed the inputs in the VIU model to their 
source and tested the mathematical accuracy 
of the VIU model. We engaged EY specialists  
to support the audit team in assessing 
reasonableness of the regulatory haircut 
adjustment to future profitability forecasts  
and calculating an independent range for 
assumptions underlying the VIU calculations, 
such as the discount rate and long-term growth 
rate for each cash generating unit. 
We also reconciled the future profitability 
forecasts of each CGU to the Group’s  
approved Corporate Plan (‘the Plan’). We 
engaged our specialist team to determine  
the reasonableness of the forward 
macroeconomic inputs used in the Plan. 
We performed audit procedures to assess  
the reasonableness of the forecasts by 
understanding the Group Strategy, challenging 
key assumptions underpinning the Plan, 
assessing the feasibility of management 
actions necessary to achieve the Plan and 
testing the reliability of the Group’s historical 
forecasting by comparing with the actual 
performance.
We performed a stand back assessment to 
evaluate the appropriateness of the audit 
evidence obtained and our conclusion in 
relation to these estimates. 
We agreed the NAV of the subsidiaries to  
their carrying value to confirm impairment  
or reversal of impairment recognised in the 
Parent`s Company financial results. 
We assessed the appropriateness of disclosures 
for impairment of goodwill and investments in 
subsidiary undertakings in accordance with 
IAS 36.

3. Impairment assessment of 
goodwill and investments in 
subsidiary undertakings
a) Impairment of Goodwill: Accounting policies 
(page 424); and Note 17 of the financial 
statements. Refer to the Audit Committee 
Report (page 164).
b) Impairment of investments in subsidiary 
undertakings: Accounting policies (page 452); 
and Note 32 of the financial statements. Refer  
to the Audit Committee Report (page 164). 
At 31 December 2023, the Group reported a 
goodwill balance of $2,429 million (2022:  
$2,471 million). During the year no impairment 
was recognised for goodwill (2022: $14million).  
In the Parent Company financial statements, the 
investment in subsidiary undertakings balance 
was $60,791 million (2022: $60,975 million). 
On an annual basis, management is required  
to perform an impairment assessment for 
goodwill, and to assess for indicators of 
impairment in respect of investments in 
subsidiary undertakings. Where indicators of 
impairment are identified, the recoverable 
amount of the investment should be estimated. 
The impairment assessment of goodwill is 
performed by calculating a value in use (‘VIU’)  
as the recoverable amount of the related cash 
generating unit (‘CGU’). 
The Group identified indicators of impairment of 
investments in subsidiary undertakings, including 
macroeconomic and geopolitical factors which 
have an impact on the financial position and 
performance of the subsidiaries.
In assessing for indicators of impairment, among 
other procedures, management compares the 
Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) of the subsidiary to the 
carrying value of each direct subsidiary of the 
Parent Company. Where the net assets do not 
support the carrying value, the recoverable 
amount is estimated by determining the  
higher of VIU or fair value less cost to sell.
Where the recoverable amount is based on  
the VIU, this is modelled by reference to future 
cashflow forecasts (profit forecast including a 
regulatory capital haircut adjustment), discount 
rates and macroeconomic assumptions such  
as long-term growth rates.
There is a risk that if the judgements and 
assumptions underpinning the impairment 
assessments are inappropriate, then the 
goodwill and investments in subsidiaries 
balances may be misstated.
The level of risk remains consistent with the  
prior year.

354

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportRisk 

Our response to the risk

We evaluated the design and operating 
effectiveness of controls relating to the 
valuation of financial instruments, including 
independent price verification, model validation 
and approval, fair value adjustments, income 
statement analysis and reporting. 
Among other procedures, we engaged our 
valuation specialists to assist the audit team  
in performing the following testing on a 
risk-assessed sample basis: 
•  Test complex model-dependent valuations 
by independently revaluing Level 3 and 
complex Level 2 derivative financial 
instruments and debt securities in issue,  
in order to assess the appropriateness of 
models and the adequacy of assumptions 
and inputs used by the Group; 

•  Test valuations of other financial instruments 
with higher estimation uncertainty, such as 
unlisted equity investments, Level 3 loans at 
fair value, Level 3 debt and other financial 
instruments. We compared management’s 
valuation to our own independently 
developed range, where appropriate;
•  Assessed the appropriateness of pricing 
inputs as part of the Independent Price 
Verification process; and

•  Compared the methodology used for fair 
value adjustments to current market  
practice. We revalued a sample of valuation 
adjustments, compared funding and  
credit spreads to third party data and 
challenged the basis for determining illiquid 
credit spreads. 

Where differences between our independent 
valuation and management’s valuation were 
outside our thresholds, we performed additional 
testing to assess the impact on the valuation of 
financial instruments.
Throughout our audit procedures we 
considered the continuing uncertainty  
arising from the current macroeconomic 
environment. In addition, we assessed  
whether there were any indicators of  
aggregate bias in financial instrument  
marking and methodology assumptions. 

We evaluated the results of management’s 
remediation program and risk assessment  
for applications in our audit scope. 
We also tested IT controls (including IT 
compensating controls) where possible,  
and also performed additional IT substantive 
procedures to assess the impact of risks 
associated with the reported deficiencies,  
on the financial statements. 
We assessed the impact of the results of  
the above on our audit procedures over  
the financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2023.

4. Valuation of financial instruments 
held at fair value with higher risk 
characteristics
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 163); 
Accounting policies (page 390); and Note 13 of 
the financial statements.
At 31 December 2023, the Group reported 
financial assets measured at fair value of 
$301,976 million (2022: $282,263 million), and 
financial liabilities at fair value of $139,157 million 
(2022: $149,765 million), of which financial  
assets of $6,714 million (2022: $5,865 million)  
and financial liabilities of $2,960 million (2022:  
$1,878 million) are classified as Level 3 in the  
fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial instruments with 
higher risk characteristics involves the use of 
management judgement in the selection of 
valuation models and techniques, pricing inputs 
and assumptions and fair value adjustments.
A higher level of estimation uncertainty is 
involved for financial instruments valued using 
complex models, pricing inputs that have  
limited observability, and fair value adjustments, 
including the Credit Valuation Adjustment, 
Funding Valuation Adjustment, Debit Valuation 
Adjustment and Own Credit Adjustment.
We considered the following portfolios 
presented a higher level of estimation 
uncertainty:
Level 3 derivatives and debt securities in issue 
and a portfolio of Level 2 financial instruments 
whose valuation involves the use of complex 
models, and
Unlisted equity investments, loans at fair value, 
debt and other financial instruments classified  
in Level 3 with unobservable pricing inputs. 
The level of risk remains consistent with the  
prior year.

5. Privileged Access Management
IT General Controls (ITGCs) support the 
continuous operation of the automated and 
other IT dependent controls within the business 
processes related to financial reporting. Effective 
IT general controls are needed to ensure that IT 
applications process business data as expected 
and that changes are made in an appropriate 
manner.
During the 2020, 2021 and 2022 audits, a  
number of significant infrastructure privileged 
access management control deficiencies  
were identified by us. Similar deficiencies  
were identified by Group Internal Audit (GIA) 
and the predecessor auditor in 2018 and 2019.
The possibility of users gaining access  
privileges beyond those necessary to perform 
their assigned duties may result in breaches in 
segregation of duties, including inappropriate 
manual intervention, unauthorised changes to 
systems or programmes.
The risk has decreased in comparison  
to prior year due to management’s  
remediation program.

The key audit matters remain consistent from prior year.

Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee 

We concluded that assumptions 
used by management to estimate 
the fair value of financial 
instruments with higher risk 
characteristics and the recognition 
of related income were 
reasonable. We highlighted the 
following matters to the Audit 
Committee:
•  We did not identify material 
differences arising from our 
independent testing of complex 
model-dependent valuations; 

•  Fair values of derivative 

transactions, debt securities  
in issue, unlisted equity 
investments, Level 3 loans,  
Level 3 debt and other financial 
instruments valued using  
pricing information with  
limited observability were  
not materially misstated as at  
31 December 2023, based on  
the output of our independent 
calculations; and

•  Valuation adjustments in 

respect of credit, funding, own 
credit and other risks applied  
to derivative portfolios and  
debt securities in issue were 
appropriate, based on our 
analysis of market data and 
benchmarking of pricing 
information.

We communicated the results of 
our audit procedures to the Audit 
Committee throughout the audit, 
in respect of the effectiveness of 
privileged access management 
controls and explained the results 
of the additional audit procedures 
performed and noted an overall 
improvement in the control 
environment during the course  
of the year.
As a result of the procedures 
performed, we have reduced  
the risk that our audit has not 
identified a material error in the 
financial statements, related  
to infrastructure privileged  
access management, to an 
appropriate level.

355

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsOur application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and 
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified 
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. 

Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, 
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users  
of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for 
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.

We determined materiality for the Group to be $274 million 
(2022: $234 million), which is 5% (2022: 5%) of adjusted PBT. 
This reflects actual PBT adjusted for non-recurring items 
relating to restructuring and the impairment of China Bohai 
Bank. We believe that adjusted PBT provides us with most 
appropriate measure for the users of the financial statements, 
given the Group is profit making, it is consistent with the wider 
industry, it is the standard for listed and regulated entities  
and we believe it reflects the most relevant measure for  
users of the financial statements. We also believe that the 
adjustments are appropriate as they relate to material 
non-recurring items.

During our audit, we performed a reassessment of our initial 
materiality. This assessment resulted in higher final materiality 
calculated based on the actual financial performance of the 
Group for the year. There were no changes to the basis for 
materiality calculation from the planning stage.

Starting basis

•  Reported profit before tax – $5,093m

Adjustments

•  Add China Bohai Bank Impairment – $850m

•  Deduct Other restructuring – $460m

Materiality

•  Totals $5,483m Adjusted PBT

•  Materiality of $274m (5% of Adjusted PBT)

We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 
$247 million (2022: $210 million), which is 0.5% (2022: 0.4%) of 
the equity of the Parent Company. We believe that equity 
provides us with the most appropriate measure for the users 
of the Parent Company’s financial statements, given that the 
Parent Company is primarily a holding company.

356

Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account  
or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an 
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate  
of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds 
materiality.

On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our 
evaluation of the Group’s overall control environment, our 
judgement was that performance materiality was 50%  
(2022: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely $137m  
(2022: $117m). We have set performance materiality at this 
percentage based on a variety of risk assessment factors  
such as the expectation of misstatements, internal control 
environment considerations and other factors such as the 
global complexity of the Group.

Audit work at component locations for the purpose of 
obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement 
accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total 
performance materiality. The performance materiality set  
for each component is based on the relative scale and  
risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our 
assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.  
In the current year, the range of performance materiality 
allocated to components was $11.4 million to $26.2 million 
(2022: $8.8 million to $34.1 million). 

Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are 
considered as being clearly trivial.

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $14 million 
(2022: $11 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality,  
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 

We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both 
the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and 
in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming 
our opinion.

Other information 
The other information comprises the information included  
in the Annual Report and Accounts, including: the Strategic 
Report, Sustainability Review, Directors’ Report (other than 
those sections of the Directors Remuneration Report marked 
as audited), Risk Review and Capital Review (other than  
those sections marked as audited) and Supplementary 
Information, other than the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for  
the other information contained within the annual report. 

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover  
the other information and, except to the extent otherwise 
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form  
of assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in 
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears  
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material 
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are 
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material 
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based 
on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of the other information, we are 
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s report 
 
 
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of 
the audit:

•  the information given in the strategic report and the 

directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and 

•  Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable 

expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meets its liabilities set out on page 89;

•  Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable 

set out on page 217;

•  Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust 

assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out  
on page 221;

•  The section of the annual report that describes the review 
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control 
systems set out on pages 230 to 343; and

•  the strategic report and the directors’ report have been 

•  The section describing the work of the audit committee  

prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

set out on pages 162 to 167.

Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group 
and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in  
the course of the audit, we have not identified material 
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:

•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or

•  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 

law are not made; or

•  we have not received all the information and explanations 

we require for our audit.

Corporate Governance Statement
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to 
going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group  
and Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by the 
Listing Rules.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we  
have concluded that each of the following elements of the 
Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
during the audit:

•  Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness  
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and  
any material uncertainties identified set out on page 218;

•  Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the 

Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers 
and why the period is appropriate set out on pages 88  
and 89;

Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 229, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such 
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 
responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either 
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to 
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,  
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not  
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with  
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when  
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and  
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the  
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements. 

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered 
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with 
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, 
including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not 
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or  
intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.  
The extent to which our procedures are capable of  
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

357

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsHowever, the primary responsibility for the prevention and 
detection of fraud rests with both those charged with 
governance of the Company and management. 

•  We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 

frameworks that are applicable to the Group and 
determined that the most significant are those that  
relate to the reporting framework (UK-adopted IAS and  
EU IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Listing Rules, the Main Board Listing Rules of the Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange), regulations and supervisory requirements 
of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), FRC, FCA and 
other overseas regulatory requirements, including but not 
limited to regulations in its major markets such as Mainland 
China, Hong Kong, India, Republic of Korea, Singapore, the 
United Arab Emirates, the United State of America, and the 
relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates. In addition, we concluded that 
there are certain significant laws and regulations that may 
have an effect on the determination of the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and 
regulations relating to regulatory capital and liquidity, 
conduct, financial crime including anti-money laundering, 
sanctions and market abuse recognising the financial and 
regulated nature of the Group’s activities. 

•  We understood how the Group is complying with those 
frameworks by performing a combination of inquiries of 
senior management and those charged with governance 
as required by auditing standards, review of board  
and certain committee meeting minutes, gaining an 
understanding of the Group’s approach to governance, 
inspection of regulatory correspondence in the year and 
engaging with internal and external legal counsel. We  
also engaged EY financial crime and forensics specialists  
to perform procedures on areas relating to anti-money 
laundering, whistleblowing, and sanctions compliance. 
Through these procedures, we became aware of actual  
or suspected non-compliance. The identified actual or 
suspected non-compliance was not sufficiently significant 
to our audit that it would have resulted in it being identified 
as a key audit matter. 

•  We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial 

statements to material misstatement, including how fraud 
might occur by considering the controls that the Group  
has established to address risks identified by the entity,  
or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.  
Our procedures to address the risks identified also included 
incorporation of unpredictability into the nature, timing 
and/or extent of our testing, challenging assumptions and 
judgements made by management in their significant 
accounting estimates and journal entry testing.

•  Based on this understanding, we designed our audit 

procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws  
and regulations. Our procedures involved inquiries of  
the Group’s internal and external legal counsel, money 
laundering reporting officer, internal audit, certain senior 
management executives and focused testing on a sample 
basis, including journal entry testing. We also performed 
inspection of key regulatory correspondence from the 
principal regulatory authorities as well as review of board 
and committee minutes.

•  For instances of actual or suspected non-compliance with 
laws and regulations, which have a material impact on  
the financial statements, these were communicated by 
management to the Group audit engagement team and 
component teams (where applicable) who performed audit 
procedures such as inquiries with management, sending 
confirmations to external legal counsel, substantive testing 
and meeting with regulators. Where appropriate, we 
involved specialists from our firm to support the audit team. 

•  The Group is authorised to provide banking, insurance, 

mortgages and home finance, consumer credit, pensions, 
investments and other activities. The Group operates in the 
banking industry which is a highly regulated environment. 
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the 
experience and expertise of the Group audit engagement 
team, the component teams and the shared service centre 
teams to ensure that the team had the appropriate 
competence and capabilities, which included the use  
of specialists where appropriate. 

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit  
of the financial statements is located on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of  
our auditor’s report.

Other matters we are required to address 
•  Following the recommendation from the Audit Committee, 

we were re-appointed by the Company at the Annual 
General Meeting on 3 May 2023 to audit the financial 
statements for the year ending 31 December 2023 and 
subsequent financial periods. 

•  The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four  
years, covering the years ended 31 December 2020 to  
31 December 2023.

•  The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report  

to the Audit Committee.

Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken  
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.

David Canning-Jones (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor

London

23 February 2024

358

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsIndependent auditor’s reportConsolidated income statement 

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Interest income

Interest expense 

Net interest income

Fees and commission income

Fees and commission expense

Net fee and commission income

Net trading income

Other operating income

Operating income

Staff costs

Premises costs

General administrative expenses

Depreciation and amortisation

Operating expenses

Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year

Profit attributable to:

Non-controlling interests

Parent company shareholders 

Profit for the year

Earnings per share:

Basic earnings per ordinary share

Diluted earnings per ordinary share

The notes on pages 367 to 487 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Notes

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

32

10

29

12

12

2023 
$million

27,227

(19,458)

7,769

4,067

(815)

3,252

6,292

706

18,019

(8,256)

(422)

(1,802)

(1,071)

(11,551)

6,468

(508)

(1,008)

141

5,093

(1,631)

3,462

(7)

3,469

3,462

cents

108.6

106.2

2022 
$million

15,252

(7,659)

7,593

3,972

(859)

3,113

5,310

302

16,318

(7,618)

(401)

(1,708)

(1,186)

(10,913)

5,405

(836)

(439)

156

4,286

(1,384)

2,902

(46)

2,948

2,902

cents

85.9

84.3

359

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsConsolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income:

Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:

Own credit gains/(losses) on financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss

Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 

Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligations

Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations: 

Net loss taken to equity

Net gains on net investment hedges

Share of other comprehensive loss from associates and joint ventures

Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income:

Net valuation gain/(loss) taken to equity 

Reclassified to income statement

Net impact of expected credit losses

Cash flow hedges:

Net movements in cash flow hedge reserve

Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of taxation

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:

Non-controlling interests

Parent company shareholders

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Notes

2023 
$million

3,462

30

10

14

32

6

14

10

29

239

212

181

(47)

(107)

562

(734)

215

(7)

383

115

(48)

767

(129)

801

4,263

(38)

4,301

4,263

2022 
$million

2,902

(75)

(56)

(75)

41

15

(3,703)

(2,466)

512

(79)

(1,528)

207

118

(619)

152

(3,778)

(876)

(88)

(788)

(876)

360

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsFinancial statementsConsolidated balance sheet

As at 31 December 2023

Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial instruments
Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Investment securities
Other assets
Current tax assets
Prepayments and accrued income 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Goodwill and intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Deferred tax assets
Assets classified as held for sale
Total assets

Liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing
Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial instruments
Debt securities in issue
Other liabilities
Current tax liabilities
Accruals and deferred income 
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds
Deferred tax liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges 
Retirement benefit obligations
Liabilities included in disposal groups held for sale
Total liabilities 

Equity
Share capital and share premium account
Other reserves
Retained earnings
Total parent company shareholders’ equity
Other equity instruments
Total equity excluding non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests
Total equity
Total equity and liabilities

Notes

13,35
13
13,14
13,15
13,15
13
20
10

32
17
18
10
21

13
13
13,16
13
13,14
13,22
23
10

13,27
10
24
30
21

28

28

29

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

69,905
147,222
50,434
44,977
286,975
161,255
47,594
484
3,033
966
6,214
2,274
702
809
822,844

28,030
469,418
12,258
83,096
56,061
62,546
39,221
811
6,975
12,036
770
299
183
787
772,491

6,815
9,171
28,459
44,445
5,512
49,957
396
50,353
822,844

58,263
105,812
63,717
39,519
310,647
172,448
50,383
503
3,149
1,631
5,869
5,522
834
1,625
819,922

28,789
461,677
2,108
79,903
69,862
61,242
43,527
583
5,895
13,715
769
383
146
1,307
769,906

6,930
8,165
28,067
43,162
6,504
49,666
350
50,016
819,922

The notes on pages 367 to 487 form an integral part of these financial statements.

These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 February 2024 and signed 
on its behalf by:

José Viñals 
Group Chairman    

Bill Winters 
Group Chief Executive 

Diego De Giorgi
Group Chief Financial Officer

361

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Ordinary 
share 
capital 
and share 
premium 
account 
$million

Preference 
share 
capital 
and share 
premium 
account 
$million

Capital 
and 
merger 
reserves1
$million

Own 
credit 
adjust-
ment 
reserve 
$million

Fair 
value 
through 
other 
compre-
hensive 
income 
reserve 
– debt 
$million

Fair 
value 
through 
other 
compre-
hensive 
income 
reserve 
– equity 
$million

Cash- 
flow 
hedge 
reserve 
$million

Trans-
lation 
reserve 
$million

Retained 
earnings 
$million

Parent 
company 
share-
holders’ 
equity 
$million

Other 
equity 
instru-
ments 
$million

Non-
controlling 
interests 
$million

Total 
$million

5,528

1,494

17,246

(15)

103

249

(34) (5,744) 27,184

46,011

6,254

371 52,636

–

–

–

–

–

2,948

2,948

(48)

(1,219)

(43)

(530) (1,904)

82

(3,736)

As at 1 January 2022

Profit/(loss) for the year

Other comprehensive (loss)/income¹¹

Distributions

Other equity instruments issued,  
net of expenses

Redemption of other equity instruments

Treasury shares net movement

Share option expenses

Dividends on ordinary shares

Dividends on preference shares and  
AT1 securities

Share buyback3,4

Other movements

As at 31 December 2022

Profit/(loss) for the year

Other comprehensive income/(loss)¹¹

Distributions

Redemption of other equity instruments

Treasury shares net movement

Share option expenses

Dividends on ordinary shares

Dividends on preference shares and  
AT1 securities

Share buyback8,9

Other movements

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(92)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

92

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(115)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

115

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(203)

(203)

163

163

(393)

(393)

(401)

(401)

(1,258)

(1,258)

–

–

–

(46)

2,902

(42)

(3,778)

(31)

(31)

1,240

(999)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,240

(999)

(203)

163

(393)

(401)

(1,258)

125

195,6

31

9⁵

987

138

– (1,000)

– (1,000)

–

–

–

(7) 3,462

(31)

(26)

801

(26)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(189)

173

(568)

(452)

– (2,000)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(189)

(189)

173

173

(568)

(568)

(452)

(452)

– (2,000) (2,000)

125

65

18

8⁵

11010

136

5,436

1,494 17,338

(63) (1,116)

206

(564) (7,636) 28,067 43,162 6,504

350 50,016

–

–

–

–

–

3,469

3,469

163

426

124

655

(489)

(47)2

832

As at 31 December 2023

5,321

1,494 17,453

100

(690)

330

91

(8,113) 28,459 44,445

5,512

396 50,353

1 

Includes capital reserve of $5 million, capital redemption reserve of $337 million and merger reserve of $17,111 million 

2  Comprises actuarial gain on Group defined benefit schemes

3  On 18 February 2022, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buy-back of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases 

was $56 million, and the total consideration paid was $754 million, the buyback completed on 19 May 2022. The total number of shares purchased was 111,295,408, 
representing 3.61 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve 
account

4  On 1 August 2022, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases was 
$36 million, and the total consideration paid was $504 million. The total number of shares purchased was 73,073,837 representing 2.5 per cent of the ordinary 
shares in issue. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account 

5  Movement related to Translation adjustment and AT1 Securities charges

6  Movement mainly related to $21 million NCI on Power2SME Pte. Ltd. and $8 million on CurrencyFair Limited & $(9)million related to AT1 securities charges 

7  Movements primarily from non-controlling interest pertaining to Mox Bank Limited ($39 million), Trust Bank Singapore Limited ($47 million) , Zodia Markets 

Holdings Limited ($3 million) and Power2SME Pte. Ltd. ($9 million)

8  On 16 February 2023, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases 
was $58 million, and the total consideration paid was $1,000 million and the buyback completed on 29 September 2023. The total number of shares purchased 
was 116,710,492, representing 4.03 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue as at the commencement of the buyback. The nominal value of the shares was 
transferred from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account

9  On 28 July 2023, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases was 
$57 million, and the total consideration paid was $1,000 million and the buyback completed on 6 November 2023. The total number of shares purchased was 
112,982,802, representing 3.90 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue as at the commencement of the buyback. The nominal value of the shares was transferred 
from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account

10 Movements primarily from non-controlling interest pertaining to Mox Bank Limited ($48 million), Trust Bank Singapore Limited ($34 million) and Zodia Custody 

Limited ($28 million)

11  All the amounts are net of tax 

Note 28 includes a description of each reserve. 

The notes on pages 367 to 487 form an integral part of these financial statements.

362

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsFinancial statementsCash flow statement

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Group

Company

Notes

2023 
$million

2022 
(Restated) 
$million

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

5,093

4,286

4,269

Cash flows from operating activities:

Profit before taxation

Adjustments for non-cash items and other adjustments 
included within income statement

Change in operating assets³

Change in operating liabilities

Contributions to defined benefit schemes

UK and overseas taxes paid

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities:

Internally generated capitalised software

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Disposal of property, plant and equipment

Disposal of held for sale property, plant and equipment

Acquisition of investment associates, and joint 
ventures, net of cash acquired

Dividends received from subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures

Disposal of investment in subsidiaries, associates, 
and joint ventures, net of cash acquired² 

Purchase of investment securities

Disposal and maturity of investment securities

Net cash from/(used in) from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities:

Exercise of share options

Purchase of own shares

Cancellation of shares including share buyback

Premises and equipment lease liability principal payment

Issue of additional Tier 1 Capital, net of expenses

Redemption of Tier 1 Capital

Gross proceeds from issue of subordinated liabilities

Interest paid on subordinated liabilities

Repayment of subordinated liabilities

Proceeds from issue of senior debts

Repayment of senior debts

Interest paid on senior debts

Net cash inflow from non-controlling interest

Distributions and dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests, preference shareholders and AT1 Securities

Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders

Net cash from/(used in) financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year³

Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and 
cash equivalents

34

34

34

30

10

17

18

18

21

32

32

32

28

28

34

34

34

34

34

34

29

11,29

11

3,274

(14,458)

1,977

(81)

(1,367)

(5,562)

(1,124)

(159)

53

191

(47)

11

3,603

3,549

12,989

8,786

(80)

(821)

28,709

(1,096)

(835)

343

79

(26)

58

–

(229,302)

(280,952)

242,585

15,811

259,853

(22,576)

26

(215)

(2,000)

(234)

–

(1,000)

18

(563)

(2,160)

15,261

(6,471)

(1,145)

116

(478)

(568)

587

10,836

97,595

(796)

12

(215)

(1,258)

(269)

1,240

(999)

750

(667)

(1,848)

11,902

(7,838)

(845)

88

(432)

(393)

(772)

5,361

94,947

(2,713)

97,595

402

565

(258)

(966)

–

–

(257)

–

–

–

–

–

(2,847)

(3,819)

3,239

–

–

842

–

–

–

–

–

4,738

1,047

–

(423)

2,000

6,315

26

(215)

(2,000)

–

–

(1,000)

–

(545)

(2,160)

5,105

(2,037)

(434)

–

(452)

(568)

(4,280)

2,877

7,417

–

10,294

–

–

960

2,007

12

(215)

(1,258)

–

1,240

(999)

750

(619)

(1,800)

1,500

(2,980)

(506)

–

(401)

(393)

(5,669)

(3,919)

11,336

–

7,417

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year1,3

35

107,635

1   Comprises cash and balances at central banks $69,905 million (31 December 2022: $58,263 million), treasury bills and other eligible bills $5,931 million (31 December 

2022: $12,661 million), loans and advances to banks $11,879 million (31 December 2022: $10,144 million), loans and advances to customers $25,829 million (31 
December 2022: $24,586 million) investments $244 million (31 December 2022: $1,114 million) less restricted balances $6,153 million (31 December 2022: $9,173 million)

2 

Includes disposal of aviation finance leasing business ($3,570 million), sale of Metaco SA ($14 million), Cardspal Pte. Ltd. ($12 million) and Kozagi ($7 million)

3  Refer to note 34 and 35 for details of the restatement 

Interest received was $27,136 million (31 December 2022: $14,590 million), interest paid was $18,379 million (31 December 2022: 
$6,200 million).

363

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsCompany balance sheet

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Non-current assets

Investments in subsidiary undertakings

Current assets

Derivative financial instruments

Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss

Investment securities

Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings

Total current assets

Current liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings

Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss

Other creditors

Total current liabilities

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Total non-current liabilities

Total assets less liabilities

Equity

Share capital and share premium account

Other reserves

Retained earnings

Total shareholders’ equity

Other equity instruments

Total equity

Notes

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

32

39

39

39

39

39

39

39

39

28

28

60,791

60,975

80

19,425

6,944

10,294

36,743

1,104

–

16,704

650

18,458

18,285

79,076

17,142

9,248

26,390

52,686

6,815

17,409

22,952

47,176

5,510

52,686

61

15,358

8,423

7,417

31,259

1,343

2

12,842

423

14,610

16,649

77,624

13,891

11,239

25,130

52,494

6,930

17,271

21,791

45,992

6,502

52,494

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual 
statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. The Company profit for 
the period after tax is $4,205 million (31 December 2022: $471 million).

The notes on pages 367 to 487 form an integral part of these financial statements.

These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 February 2024 and signed 
on its behalf by:

José Viñals 
Group Chairman    

Bill Winters 
Group Chief Executive 

Diego De Giorgi
Group Chief Financial Officer

364

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsFinancial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Company statement of changes in equity 

For the year ended 31 December 2023

Share 
capital and 
share 
premium 
account 
$million

Capital  
and merger 
reserve1
$million

Own credit 
adjustment 
reserve 
$million

Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve 
$million

Retained 
earnings 
$million

Other equity 
instruments 
$million

As at 1 January 2022
Profit for the year2

Other comprehensive loss⁸

Other equity instruments issued, net of expenses

Treasury shares net movement

Share option expenses

Dividends on ordinary shares

Dividends on preference share and AT1 securities

Redemption of other equity instruments
Share buyback3,4
Other Movements5

As at 31 December 2022
Profit for the year2

Other comprehensive income⁸

Treasury shares net movement

Share option expenses

Dividends on ordinary shares

Dividends on preference share and AT1 securities

Redemption of other equity instruments
Share buyback6,7
Other Movements5

7,022

17,246

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(92)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

92

–

(14)

–

(5)

(12)

–

(36)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6,930

17,338

(19)

(48)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(115)

–

115

–

–

11

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

12

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

23,418

471

–

–

(203)

163

(393)

(401)

6,252

–

–

1,240

–

–

–

–

–

(999)

Total 
$million

53,912

471

(41)

1,240

(203)

163

(393)

(401)

(999)

(1,258)

3

(1,258)

(6)

21,791

4,205

–

(189)

170

(568)

(452)

9

6,502

52,494

–

–

–

–

–

–

4,205

23

(189)

170

(568)

(452)

–

(1,000)

(1,000)

(2,000)

(5)

–

8

(2,000)

3

As at 31 December 2023

6,815

17,453

(8)

(36)

22,952

5,510

52,686

1 

Includes capital reserve of $5 million, capital redemption reserve of $337 million and merger reserve of $17,111 million 

2 

Includes dividend received of $2,789 million (2022: $550 million) from Standard Chartered Holding Limited

3  On 18 February 2022, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share  

purchases was $56 million, and the total consideration paid was $754 million, the buyback completed on 19 May 2022. The total number of shares purchased  
was 111,295,408, representing 3.61 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the capital 
redemption reserve account

4  On 1 August 2022, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases was 
$37 million, and the total consideration paid was $504 million. The total number of shares purchased was 73,073,837 representing 2.5 per cent of the ordinary 
shares in issue. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account

5  Movement mainly related to AT1 securities charges

6  On 16 February 2023, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases 
was $58 million, and the total consideration paid was $1,000 million and the buyback completed on 29 September 2023. The total number of shares purchased 
was 116,710,492, representing 4.03 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue as at the commencement of the buyback. The nominal value of the shares was 
transferred from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account

7  On 28 July 2023, the Group announced the buyback programme for a share buyback of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. Nominal value of share purchases was 
$57 million, and the total consideration paid was $1,000 million and the buyback completed on 6 November 2023. The total number of shares purchased was 
112,982,802, representing 3.90 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue as at the commencement of the buyback. The nominal value of the shares was transferred 
from the share capital to the capital redemption reserve account

8  All the amounts are net of tax

Note 28 includes a description of each reserve. 

The notes on pages 367 to 487 form an integral part of these financial statements.

365

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsContents – Notes to the financial statements

Section

Basis of preparation

Performance/return

Assets and liabilities held at fair value

Financial instruments held at amortised cost

Other assets and investments

Funding, accruals, provisions, contingent 
liabilities and legal proceedings

Capital instruments, equity and reserves

Employee benefits

Scope of consolidation

Cash flow statement

Other disclosure matters

Note

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

Accounting policies

Segmental information

Net interest income

Net fees and commission

Net trading income

Other operating income

Operating expenses

Credit impairment

Goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other impairment

Taxation

Dividends

Earnings per ordinary share

Financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments

Loans and advances to banks and customers

Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other  
similar lending and borrowing

Goodwill and intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Leased assets

Other assets

Assets held for sale and associated liabilities

Debt securities in issue

Other liabilities

Provisions for liabilities and charges

Contingent liabilities and commitments

Legal and regulatory matters

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves

Non-controlling interests

Retirement benefit obligations

Share-based payments

Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates

Structured entities

Cash flow statement

Cash and cash equivalents

Related party transactions

Post balance sheet events

Auditor’s remuneration

Standard Chartered PLC (Company)

40

Related undertakings of the Group

Page

367

370

375

375

378

378

379

380

384

384

388

389

390

414

422

422

424

427

429

430

430

431

432

432

433

434

435

436

441

442

447

452

457

458

460

460

461

462

462

465

366

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statementsNotes to the financial statements

Significant accounting estimates and critical judgements
Significant accounting estimates and judgements represent 
those items which have a significant risk of causing a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets  
and liabilities within the next year. Significant accounting 
estimates and judgements are:

•  Expected credit loss calculations (Note 8) 

•  Financial instruments measured at fair value (Note 13)

•  Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures  

and associates – China Bohai associate accounting and 
impairment analysis (Note 32)

Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement
Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement do not 
meet the definition under IAS 1 of significant accounting 
estimates or critical accounting judgements, but the 
recognition of certain material assets and liabilities are 
based on assumptions and/or are subject to long-term 
uncertainties. The other areas of accounting estimate and 
judgement are:

•  Taxation (Note 10)

•  Goodwill impairment (Note 17)

•  Retirement benefit obligations (Note 30)

•  Share-based payments (Note 31)

Climate impact on the Group’s balance sheet
Climate, and the impact of climate on the Group’s balance 
sheet is considered as an area of significant accounting 
estimate and judgment through the uncertainty of future 
events and the impact of that uncertainty on the Group’s 
assets and liabilities. It is noted that although not currently 
quantitatively material, the Group considers climate to be 
qualitatively material to the Group.

The Group has assessed the impact of climate risk on the 
financial report. This is set out within the Sustainability 
Review chapter which incorporates the Group’s Climate-
related Financial Disclosures which align with the 
recommendations from the Task Force for Climate related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Further risk disclosure has been 
provided in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of 
the Annual Report where the Group has described how it 
manages climate risk as an Integrated Risk Type. 

1. Accounting policies 

Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements consolidate Standard 
Chartered PLC (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the Group) and equity account the Group’s 
interests in associates and jointly controlled entities. The 
parent company financial statements present information 
about the Company as a separate entity.

The Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting 
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). The 
Company financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting 
standards as applied in conformity with section 408 of  
the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 

There are no significant differences between UK-adopted 
international accounting standards and EU IFRS.

The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review 
form part of these financial statements:

a) Risk review: Disclosures marked as ‘audited’ from the  
start of the Credit Risk section (page 234) to the end of  
Other principal risks in the same section (page 297).

b) Capital review: Tables marked as ‘audited’ from the  
start of ‘CRD Capital base’ to the end of ‘Movement in  
total capital’, excluding ‘Total risk-weighted assets’  
(page 339 to 340).

Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company financial statements have 
been prepared on a going concern basis and under the 
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation  
of cash-settled share-based payments, fair value through 
other comprehensive income, and financial assets and 
liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit  
or loss.

The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
United States dollars ($), being the presentation currency  
of the Group and functional currency of the Company, and 
all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars, except 
when otherwise indicated.

Significant and other accounting estimates and judgement
In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and 
liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of 
uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the 
balance sheet date. The Group’s estimates and assumptions 
are based on historical experience and expectation of future 
events and are reviewed periodically. Further information 
about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty and judgement, are set 
out in the relevant disclosure notes for the areas set out 
under the relevant headings below:

367

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements1. Accounting policies continued

The areas of impact where judgements and the use of 
estimates have been applied were credit risk and the impact 
on lending portfolios; ESG features within issued loans and 
bonds; physical risk on our mortgage lending portfolio; and, 
the corporate plan, in respect of which forward looking  
cash flows impact the recoverability of certain assets, 
including of goodwill, deferred tax assets and investments  
in subsidiary undertakings. 

This assessment on the corporate loan portfolio was 
undertaken by considering the maturity profile of the loan 
portfolio which is majority shorter term. Transition risk, as our 
clients move to lower carbon emitting revenues, (either by 
virtue of legislation or changing end customer preference) is 
considered with reference to client transition pathways and 
manifests over a longer term than the maturity of the loan 
book (up to 2050). The setting of net zero targets for our high 
carbon sectors, which as of this annual report covers  
11 of the 12 high carbon sectors as mandated by the Net Zero 
Banking Alliance, manages transition risk. Net zero targets 
enable the portfolio managers to work with our clients on 
their transition, deploy capital to those clients which are 
engaged and have adequate transition pathways, and exit 
clients that refuse to work with the Group on moving from  
a high carbon present to a low carbon future. All of these 
actions manage the Group’s transition risk and engage 
clients before transition risk manifests itself into credit losses.

Physical risk is already included within the majority of our 
mortgage lending decisions, and we have applied scenario 
analysis against the pathways of different temperature 
additions and country policy scenarios. We also assess  
the impact of climate risk on the classification of financial 
instruments under IFRS 9, when Environmental, Sustainability 
or Governance (ESG) triggers may affect the cash flows 
received by the Group under the contractual terms of  
the instrument.

The Group Climate Risk team have performed a quantitative 
assessment of the impact of climate risk on the IFRS 9 ECL 
provision. This assessment has been performed across  
both the CCIB and CPBB portfolios. The Climate risk impact 
assessment on IFRS 9 business as usual ECL has been 
conducted based on newly developed internal climate risk 
models for four Corporate sectors (Oil and Gas, Power, Steel 
and Mining) and Sovereigns, whilst the top-down approach 
developed in 2022 was used for the remaining portfolios.  
The impact assessment resulted in a marginal ECL increase 
across CCIB and CPBB, which will not be recorded as an 
overlay for the 2023 year end.

The Group’s corporate plan has a 5 year outlook and 
considers the high carbon sectors the Group finances.  
The majority of the Group high carbon sector targets are 
production/physical intensities which allow continued levels 
of lending as long as the products the client produce have  
a decreasing carbon cost. For Coal Mining and Oil and Gas, 
these sectors have absolute targets which represent a 
decreasing carbon budget. Coal Mining is an immaterial 
book, whilst for Oil and Gas lending is being actively 
monitored towards lower carbon counterparties and 
technologies. The corporate plan is shorter term than many 
of the climate scenario outlooks but seeks to capture the 
nearer term performance as required by recoverability 
models. The Group has for the second time in the 2024 
corporate plan included anticipated ECL charges linked to 
climate for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Metals and Mining, 
Power and Transport excluding Aviation) over the 5 years. 
This addition of ECL has not in itself, impacted the 
recoverability of assets supported by discounted cash  
flow models (such as Value in Use) which utilise the 
Corporate plan.

The Group has further progressively strengthened its 
scenario analysis capabilities with the modelling of Climate 
Risk impact over a 30-year period across multiple dimensions 
including scenario data and pathways. This has been  
limited by availability of client-specific data, and modelling 
limitations which have required judgements to be made 
around scenarios chosen, regression and proxies used. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, our work to date, using 
certain assumptions and proxies, indicates that our business 
is resilient to all Network of Central Banks and Supervisors  
for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and bespoke 
scenarios that were explored.

The Group, although acknowledging the limitations of 
current data available, increasing sophistication of models 
evolving and nascent nature of climate impacts on internal 
and client assets, considers Climate Risk to have limited 
quantitative impact in the immediate term and as a 
longer-term risk will be addressed through its business 
strategy and financial planning as the Group implements  
its net zero journey.

IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements
As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation 
of the differences in accounting practices between UK-
adopted IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
is required to be disclosed. There would be no significant 
differences had these accounts been prepared in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.

368

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements1. Accounting policies continued

Comparatives
Certain comparatives have been restated in line with current 
year disclosures. Details of these changes are set out in the 
relevant sections and notes below:

•  Cash flow statement

•  Note 2 Segmental information

•  Note 12 Earnings per ordinary share

•  Note 34 Cash flow statement

•  Note 35 Cash and cash equivalents

New accounting standards adopted by the group 

There were no new accounting standards or interpretations 
that had a material effect on the Group’s Financial 
Statements in 2023. 

New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective
IAS 21 Amendment - Lack of Exchangeability 

The IAS 21 amendment was issued in August 2023 and is 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 
January 1, 2025. This amendment is not yet endorsed for use 
in the United Kingdom. The amendment provides guidance 
to specify when a currency is exchangeable and how to 
determine the exchange rate when it is not. The amendment 
requires disclosure of information that enables users of 
financial statements to understand the impact of a currency 
not being exchangeable. The Group will apply the IAS 21 
Amendment for annual reporting periods beginning on 
January 1, 2025 and is currently assessing the impact on  
the Group’s financial statements but do not expect this to  
be material. 

Going concern 
These financial statements were approved by the Board  
of directors on 23 February 2024. The directors have made 
an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a  
going concern. This assessment has been made having 
considered the current macroeconomic and geopolitical 
headwinds, including:

•  Review of the Group Strategy and Corporate Plan

•  An assessment of the actual performance to date, loan 
book quality, credit impairment, legal, regulatory and 
compliance matters, and the updated annual budget

•  Consideration of stress testing performed, including the 
Group Recovery Plan (RP) which include the application  
of stressed scenarios. Under the tests and through the 
range of scenarios, the results of these exercises and the 
RP demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital  
and liquidity to continue as a going concern and meet 
minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements

•  Analysis of the capital, funding and liquidity position of  

the Group, including the capital and leverage ratios, and 
ICAAP which summarises the Group’s capital and risk 
assessment processes, assesses its capital requirements 
and the adequacy of resources to meet them. Further, 
funding and liquidity was considered in the context of  
the risk appetite metrics, including the LCR ratio.

•  The Group’s Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ILAAP), which considers the Group’s liquidity 
position, its framework and whether sufficient liquidity 
resources are being maintained to meet liabilities as they 
fall due, was also reviewed

•  The level of debt in issue, including redemptions and 

issuances during the year, debt falling due for repayment 
in the next 12 months and further planned debt issuances, 
including the appetite in the market for the Group’s debt

•  A detailed review of all principal and emerging risks

Based on the analysis performed, the directors confirm they 
are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in business for a period of at least 12 months from 
23 February 2024. For this reason, the Group continues to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting for preparing 
the financial statements.

Changes in accounting policies
The Group has changed its accounting policy regarding  
the determination of the cost of its portfolio of Investment 
Securities held at amortised cost and Debt securities and 
other eligible bills, other than those included within financial 
instruments held at fair value through profit or loss. Refer to 
Note 13 Financial Instruments.

369

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements2. Segmental information

Basis of preparation
The analysis reflects how the client segments and geographic regions are managed internally. This is described as the 
Management View (on an underlying basis) and is principally the location from which a client relationship is managed, which 
may differ from where it is financially booked and may be shared between businesses and/or regions. In certain instances  
this approach is not appropriate and a Financial View is disclosed, that is, the location in which the transaction or balance  
was booked. Typically, the Financial View is used in areas such as the Market and Liquidity Risk reviews where actual  
booking location is more important for an assessment. Segmental information is therefore on a Management View unless 
otherwise stated.

Segments and regions
The Group’s segmental reporting is in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments and is reported consistently with the internal 
performance framework and as presented to the Group’s Management Team. 

Restructuring items excluded from underlying results
The Group’s reported IFRS performance is adjusted for certain items to arrive at alternative performance measures. These items 
include profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent, other 
infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business 
earnings for the period and items which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing 
consistent performance period by period. The alternative performance measures are not within the scope of IFRS and not a 
substitute for IFRS measures. These adjustments are set out below.

Restructuring losses of $14 million primarily relates to exits in AME and the Aviation finance business performance until actual 
disposal. The Group is also reclassifying the movements in the Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) into restructuring and  
other items.

Reconciliations between underlying and reported results are set out in the tables below:

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

2023

Net gain on 
businesses 
disposed of³
$million

Goodwill  
and other 
Impairment1
$million

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before 
impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Profit/(loss) before taxation

17,378

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

362

(415)

(53)

20

(28)

47

(14)

262

–

262

–

–

–

262

–

–

–

–

(850)

–

(850)

Underlying 
$million

Restructuring 
$million

2022²

Net gain on 
businesses 
disposed of 
$million

Goodwill  
and other 
Impairment1
$million

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before 
impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit/(loss) from associates and joint 
ventures

Profit/(loss) before taxation

15,762

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

494

(504)

(10)

–

(78)

(11)

(99)

20

–

20

–

–

–

20

–

–

–

–

(322)

–

(322)

DVA 
$million

17

–

17

–

–

–

17

DVA  
$million

42

–

42

–

–

–

42

Reported  
$million

18,019

(11,551)

6,468

(508)

(1,008)

141

5,093

Reported  
$million

16,318

(10,913)

5,405

(836)

(439)

156

4,286

1   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (31 December 2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate  

China Bohai Bank (Bohai)

2   Restructuring, DVA and other items for relevant periods in 2022 have been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance 

and (iii) DVA from underlying operating performance

3  Net gain on businesses disposed of includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business 

and a loss of $47 million in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

370

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements2. Segmental information continued

Underlying performance by client segment 

Operating income

External
Inter-segment
Operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation
Credit impairment
Other impairment
(Loss)/profit from associates and joint ventures
Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation
Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment⁴
DVA
Other items⁵
Reported profit/(loss) before taxation
Total assets 

Of which: loans and advances to customers

loans and advances to customers
loans held at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)2
Total liabilities

Of which: customer accounts3

Operating income

External
Inter-segment
Operating expenses
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation
Credit impairment
Other impairment
(Loss)/profit from associates and joint ventures
Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation
Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment⁴
DVA
Other items
Reported profit/(loss) before taxation
Total assets 

Of which: loans and advances to customers

loans and advances to customers
loans held at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)2

Total liabilities

Of which: customer accounts3

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

11,218
8,543
2,675
(5,627)

5,591
(123)
(32)
–
5,436
32
–
17
262
5,747
403,058
189,395
130,897

58,498
464,968
328,211

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

9,608
8,462
1,146
(5,193)

4,415
(425)
–
–
3,990
14
–
42
–
4,046
401,567
184,254
139,756

44,498
479,981
332,176

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

7,106
3,902
3,204
(4,261)

2,845
(354)
(4)
–
2,487
(60)
–
–
–
2,427
128,768
126,117
126,104

13
200,263
195,678

Consumer, 
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

5,969
4,942
1,027
(4,104)

1,865
(262)
(10)
–
1,593
(56)
–
–
–
1,537
133,956
130,985
130,957

28
185,396
180,659

2023

Ventures 
$million

156
157
(1)
(429)

(273)
(85)
(26)
(24)
(408)
(4)
–
–
–
(412)
4,009
1,035
1,035

–
3,096
2,825

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

(1,102)
4,776
(5,878)
(819)

(1,921)
34
(68)
118
(1,837)
18
(850)
–
–
(2,669)
287,009
28,939
28,939

–
104,164
7,908

2022¹

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

29
29
–
(336)

(307)
(16)
(24)
(16)
(363)
(1)
–
–
–
(364)
2,451
702
702

–
1,658
1,548

156
2,329
(2,173)
(776)

(620)
(133)
(5)
183
(575)
(56)
(322)
–
20
(933)
281,948
41,789
39,232

2,557
102,871
5,846

Total 
$million

17,378
17,378
–
(11,136)

6,242
(528)
(130)
94
5,678
(14)
(850)
17
262
5,093
822,844
345,486
286,975

58,511
772,491
534,622

Total 
$million

15,762
15,762
–
(10,409)

5,353
(836)
(39)
167
4,645
(99)
(322)
42
20
4,286
819,922
357,730
310,647

47,083
769,906
520,229

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2   Loans held at FVTPL includes $51,299 million (2022: $40,537 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

3   Customer accounts includes $17,248 million (2022: $11,706 million) of FVTPL and $47,956 million (2022: $46,846 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

4   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (31 December 2023: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate  

China Bohai Bank (Bohai)

5   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million  

in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

371

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements2. Segmental information continued

Operating income by client segment

Underlying operating income

Restructuring 

DVA

Other items²

Reported operating income

Underlying operating income

Restructuring 

DVA

Other items

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

11,218

291

17

262

11,788

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

9,608

436

42

–

7,106

45

–

–

7,151

Consumer, 
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

5,969

47

–

–

Reported operating income

10,086

6,016

2023

Ventures 
$million

156

–

–

–

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

(1,102)

26

–

–

Total 
$million

17,378

362

17

262

156

(1,076)

18,019

2022¹

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

29

–

–

–

29

156

11

–

20

187

Total 
$million

15,762

494

42

20

16,318

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million  

in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

Underlying performance by region 

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit/(loss) from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment1

DVA

Other items⁴

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

Total assets 

Of which: loans and advances to customers

loans and advances to customers

loans held at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)2

Total liabilities

Of which: customer accounts³

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,806

(1,571)

2023

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,397

(1,733)

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

746

(736)

1,235

91

(15)

–

1,311

(2)

–

26

(18)

1,317

54,140

25,870

22,774

3,096

40,612

33,059

(336)

19

(13)

–

(330)

32

–

7

263

(28)

253,410

63,216

30,784

32,432

181,417

124,543

10

6

(39)

(20)

(43)

53

–

–

(18)

(8)

9,389

–

–

–

88,894

–

Asia 
$million

12,429

(7,096)

5,333

(644)

(63)

114

4,740

(97)

(850)

(16)

35

3,812

505,905

256,400

233,417

22,983

461,568

377,020

Total 
$million

17,378

(11,136)

6,242

(528)

(130)

94

5,678

(14)

(850)

17

262

5,093

822,844

345,486

286,975

58,511

772,491

534,622

1   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (31 December 2023: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate  

China Bohai Bank (Bohai)

2   Loans held at FVTPL includes $51,299 million (2022: $40,537 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

3   Customer accounts includes $17,248 million (2022: $11,706 million) of FVTPL and $47,956million (2022: $46,846 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

4   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million  

in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

372

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements2. Segmental information continued

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit/(loss) before impairment losses  
and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit/(loss) from associates and joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation

Restructuring
Goodwill and other impairment2

DVA

Other items

Reported profit/(loss) before taxation

Total assets 

Of which: loans and advances to customers

loans and advances to customers

loans held at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)3

Total liabilities

Of which: customer accounts4

Asia 
$million

10,912

(6,675)

4,237

(790)

(10)

179

3,616

(46)

(308)

20

20

3,302

488,399

270,892

257,171

13,721

441,349

346,832

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,460

(1,551)

909

(119)

2

–

792

21

–

8

–

821

53,086

23,857

21,570

2,287

40,902

31,860

2022¹

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,303

(1,548)

755

78

1

–

834

(13)

–

14

–

835

268,960

62,981

31,906

31,075

219,701

141,537

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

87

(635)

(548)

(5)

(32)

(12)

(597)

(61)

(14)

–

–

(672)

9,477

–

–

–

67,954

–

Total 
$million

15,762

(10,409)

5,353

(836)

(39)

167

4,645

(99)

(322)

42

20

4,286

819,922

357,730

310,647

47,083

769,906

520,229

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (31 December 2023: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate  

China Bohai Bank (Bohai)

3   Loans held at FVTPL includes $51,299 million (2022: $40,537 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

4   Customer accounts includes $17,248 million (2022: $11,706 million) of FVTPL and $47,956million (2022: $46,846 million) of reverse repurchase agreements

5   Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million  

in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

Operating income by region

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items²

Asia 
$million

12,429

203

(16)

35

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,806

110

26

(18)

Reported operating income

12,651

2,924

Underlying operating income

Restructuring

DVA

Other items

Asia 
$million

10,912

304

20

20

 Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

2,460

140

8

–

2023

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,397

35

7

263

1,702

2022¹

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

2,303

35

14

–

Reported operating income

11,256

2,608

2,352

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

746

14

–

(18)

742

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

87

15

–

–

102

Total 
$million

17,378

362

17

262

18,019

Total 
$million

15,762

494

42

20

16,318

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2  Other items includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million  

in relation to a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

373

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements2. Segmental information continued

Additional segmental information (reported)

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

4,541

1,753

5,494

11,788

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

3,616

1,706

4,764

10,086

Asia 
$million

5,872

2,237

4,542

12,651

Asia 
$million

5,747

2,224

3,285

11,256

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

4,970

1,538

643

7,151

Consumer, 
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

3,969

1,524

523

6,016

2023

Ventures 
$million

81

43

32

156

2022

Ventures 
$million

18

8

3

29

2023

Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,584

509

831

2,924

(545)

553

1,694

1,702

2022

Africa &  
Middle East 
$million

Europe & 
Americas 
$million

1,299

526

783

2,608

2023

260

526

1,566

2,352

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

(1,823)

(82)

829

(1,076)

Central &  
other items 
(segment) 
$million

(10)

(125)

322

187

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

858

(47)

(69)

742

Central &  
other items 
(region) 
$million

287

(163)

(22)

102

Total 
$million

7,769

3,252

6,998

18,019

Total 
$million

7,593

3,113

5,612

16,318

Total 
$million

7,769

3,252

6,998

18,019

Total 
$million

7,593

3,113

5,612

16,318

Hong 
Kong 
$million

1,946

615

2,052

4,613

Hong 
Kong 
$million

1,843

658

1,235

3,736

Korea 
$million

China 
$million

Taiwan 
$million

Singapore 
$million

India 
$million

Indonesia 
$million

UAE 
$million

UK 
$million

US 
$million

684

171

216

520

149

487

1,071

1,156

154

182

214

550

937

576

929

654

221

330

2,442

1,205

110

53

78

241

390

81

330

801

(930)

18

1,277

365

170

441

263

874

2022

Korea 
$million

China 
$million

Taiwan 
$million

Singapore 
$million

India 
$million

Indonesia 
$million

UAE 
$million

UK 
$million

US 
$million

751

157

237

1,145

561

143

450

1,154

171

162

141

474

982

553

380

1,915

611

239

377

1,227

89

52

73

214

281

81

268

630

(189)

44

1,167

1,022

330

393

306

1,029

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

Net interest income

Net fees and commission income

Net trading and other income

Operating income

374

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements3. Net interest income

Accounting policy
Interest income for financial assets held at either fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised cost,  
and interest expense on all financial liabilities held at amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss using the effective  
interest method.

The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of 
the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial 
liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the 
financial instrument (for example prepayment options) but does not consider future credit losses. The calculation includes all 
fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs 
and all other premiums or discounts. For floating-rate financial instruments, periodic re-estimation of cash flows that reflect 
the movements in the market rates of interest alters the effective interest rate. Where the estimates of cash flows have  
been revised, the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reflect the actual and revised cash flows, 
discounted at the instruments original effective interest rate. The adjustment is recognised as interest income or expense  
in the period in which the revision is made as long as the change in estimates is not due to credit issues.

Interest income for financial assets that are either held at fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised  
cost that have become credit-impaired subsequent to initial recognition (stage 3) and have had amounts written off, is 
recognised using the credit adjusted effective interest rate. This rate is calculated in the same manner as the effective 
interest rate except that expected credit losses are included in the expected cash flows. Interest income is therefore 
recognised on the amortised cost of the financial asset including expected credit losses. Should the credit risk on a stage 3 
financial asset improve such that the financial asset is no longer considered credit-impaired, interest income recognition 
reverts to a computation based on the rehabilitated gross carrying value of the financial asset.

Balances at central banks

Loans and advances to banks 

Loans and advances to customers

Debt securities

Other eligible bills

Accrued on impaired assets (discount unwind)

Interest income

Of which: financial instruments held at fair value through other comprehensive income

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Interest expense on IFRS 16 lease liabilities

Interest expense

Net interest income

4. Net fees and commission

2023 
$million

2,833

2,095

15,518

5,005

1,596

180

27,227

3,445

796

14,292

3,367

951

52

19,458

7,769

2022 
$million

765

853

10,032

2,836

630

136

15,252

2,167

433

5,443

1,169

570

44

7,659

7,593

Accounting policy
The Group can act as trustee or in other Fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of 
individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions. The assets and income arising thereon are excluded from 
these financial statements, as they are not assets and income of the Group.

375

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements4. Net fees and commission continued
The Group applies the following practical expedients:

•  information on amounts of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) performance obligations at  
the end of the reporting period is not disclosed as almost all fee-earning contracts have an expected duration of less than 
one year

•  promised consideration is not adjusted for the effects of a significant financing component as the period between the Group 

providing a service and the customer paying for it is expected to be less than one year

•  incremental costs of obtaining a fee-earning contract are recognised upfront in ‘Fees and commission expense’ rather than 

amortised, if the expected term of the contract is less than one year

The determination of the services performed for the customer, the transaction price, and when the services are completed 
depends on the nature of the product with the customer. The main considerations on income recognition by product are as 
follows:

Transaction Banking
The Group recognises fee income associated with transactional trade and cash management at the point in time the service  
is provided. The Group recognises income associated with trade contingent risk exposures (such as letters of credit and 
guarantees) over the period in which the service is provided.

Payment of fees is usually received at the same time the service is provided. In some cases, letters of credit and guarantees 
issued by the Group have annual upfront premiums, which are amortised on a straight-line basis to fee income over the year. 

Financial Markets
The Group recognises fee income at the point in time the service is provided. Fee income is recognised for a significant non-
lending service when the transaction has been completed and the terms of the contract with the customer entitle the Group to 
the fee. This includes fees such as structuring and advisory fees. Fees are usually received shortly after the service is provided.

Syndication fees are recognised when the syndication is complete defined as achieving the final approved hold position.  
Fees are generally received before completion of the syndication, or within 12 months of the transaction date.

Securities services include custody services, fund accounting and administration, and broker clearing. Fees are recognised over 
the period the custody or fund management services are provided, or as and when broker services are requested. 

Wealth Management
Upfront consideration on bancassurance agreements is amortised straight-line over the contractual term. Commissions for 
bancassurance activities are recorded as they are earned through sales of third-party insurance products to customers.  
These commissions are received within a short time frame of the commission being earned. Target-linked fees are accrued 
based on percentage of the target achieved, provided it is assessed as highly probable that the target will be met.  
Cash payment is received at a contractually specified date after achievement of a target has been confirmed.

Upfront and trailing commissions for managed investment placements are recorded as they are confirmed. Income from these 
activities is relatively even throughout the period, and cash is usually received within a short time frame after the commission  
is earned.

Retail Products
The Group recognises most income at the point in time the Group is entitled to the fee, since most services are provided at the 
time of the customer’s request.

Credit card annual fees are recognised over the service period. In most of our retail markets there are circumstances under 
which fees are waived, income recognition is adjusted to reflect customer’s intent to pay the annual fee. The Group defers the 
fair value of reward points on its credit card reward programmes, and recognises income and costs associated with fulfilling the 
reward at the time of redemption.

Upfront bancassurance consideration amounts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contractual period to which the 
consideration relates.

376

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements4. Net fees and commission continued

Fees and commissions income

Of which:

Financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss

Trust and other fiduciary activities

Fees and commissions expense

Of which:

Financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss

Trust and other fiduciary activities

Net fees and commission

2023 
$million

4,067

1,374

508

2022 
$million

3,972

1,306

520

(815)

(859)

(169)

(52)

3,252

(303)

(49)

3,113

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Lending & Portfolio Management

Principal Finance

Wealth Management

Retail Products

Treasury

Others

Fees and commission income

Fees and commission expense

Net fees and commission

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Lending & Portfolio Management

Wealth Management

Retail Products

Treasury

Others

Fees and commission income

Fees and commission expense

Net fees and commission

2023

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other Items 
(segment) 
$million

1,142

576

566

882

141

(1)

–

–

–

–

2,164

(411)

1,753

32

25

7

–

6

–

1,225

592

–

2

1,857

(319)

1,538

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

32

–

35

67

(24)

43

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(15)

(6)

(21)

(61)

(82)

2022

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer  
Private &  
Business  
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central &  
other Items 
(segment) 
$million

1,143

594

549

958

124

–

–

–

–

2,225

(519)

1,706

32

25

7

–

5

1,127

582

–

(2)

1,744

(220)

1,524

–

–

–

–

–

–

12

–

8

20

(12)

8

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(5)

(12)

(17)

(108)

(125)

Total  
$million

1,174

601

573

882

147

(1)

1,225

624

(15)

31

4,067

(815)

3,252

Total 
$million

1,175

619

556

958

129

1,127

594

(5)

(6)

3,972

(859)

3,113

Upfront bancassurance consideration amounts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contractual period to which the 
consideration relates. Deferred income on the balance sheet in respect of these activities is $474 million (31 December 2022: 
$549 million). Following renegotiation of the contract in 2023, the life of the contract was extended for a further 3 years. 
Accordingly, the income will be earned evenly over a longer period for the next 8.5 years (31 December 2022: 6.5 years). For the 
twelve months ended 31 December 2023, $75 million of fee income was released from deferred income (31 December 2022: 
$84 million).

377

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements5. Net trading income

Accounting policy
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are 
recorded in net trading income in the period in which they arise. This includes contractual interest receivable or payable. 

When the initial fair value of a financial instrument held at fair value through profit or loss relies on unobservable inputs, the 
difference between the initial valuation and the transaction price is amortised to net trading income as the inputs become 
observable or over the life of the instrument, whichever is shorter. Any unamortised ‘day one’ gain is released to net trading 
income if the transaction is terminated.

Income is recognised from the sale and purchase of trading positions, margins on market making and customer business and 
fair value changes.

Net trading income

Significant items within net trading income include:

Gains on instruments held for trading¹

Gains on financial assets mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss

Gains/(losses) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 

Losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss

1  

Includes $299 million loss (31 December 2022: $365 million gain) from the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities

6. Other operating income

Other operating income includes:

Rental income from operating lease assets

Net loss on disposal of fair value through other comprehensive income debt instruments
Net (loss)/gain on disposal of amortised cost financial assets1
Net gain/(loss) on sale of businesses2

Dividend income 

Gain on sale of aircrafts

Others³

Other operating income

2023 
$million

6,292

4,625

4,270

10

(2,649)

2022 
$million

5,310

4,942

1,087

(6)

(677)

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

375

(115)

(94)

351

15

-

174

706

421

(207)

17

(1)

14

21

37

302

1  

Includes $47 million loss on sale of a portfolio of aviation loans 

2   2023 includes $309 million gain from the sale of the aviation finance leasing business, $18 million from sale of associate (Metaco SA), $16 million gain from sale of 

subsidiary ($9 million from Cardspal and $7 million from Kozagi) and $8 million gain from the sale of Jordan one of the AME regions exit markets

3   2023 mainly includes $59 million tax credit against Research & Development Expenditure, $38 million gain on disposal of premises, $21 million income from VISA 

sponsorship in Hong Kong, $10 million from gain on lease modification in Hong Kong and $16 million interest income from tax refund in India

378

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements7. Operating expenses

Staff costs:

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Other pension costs (Note 30)

Share-based payment costs (Note 31)

Other staff costs

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

6,459

233

431

226

907

8,256

6,014

210

390

199

805

7,618

Other staff costs include redundancy expenses of $106 million (31 December 2022: $79 million). Further costs in this category 
include training, travel costs and other staff-related costs.

Details of directors’ pay, benefits, pensions and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report (page 195).

Transactions with directors, officers and other related parties are disclosed in Note 36.

Premises and equipment expenses:

General administrative expenses:

UK bank levy

Provision for regulatory matters

Other general administrative expenses 

Depreciation and amortisation:

Property, plant and equipment:

Premises

Equipment

Operating lease assets

Intangibles:

Software 

Acquired on business combinations

Total operating expenses

2023 
$million

422

2022 
$million

401

111

–

1,691

1,802

315

103

27

445

625

1

1,071

11,551

102

14

1,592

1,708

326

123

202

651

531

4

1,186

10,913

Operating expenses include research expenditure of $996 million (31 December 2022: $946 million), which was recognized  
as an expense in the year

The UK bank levy is applied to chargeable equity and liabilities on the balance sheet of UK operations. Key exclusions  
from chargeable equity and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain 
sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting. The rates are 0.10 per cent for short-term liabilities and 0.05 per cent for 
long-term liabilities.

379

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements8. Credit impairment

Accounting policy
Significant accounting estimates and judgements 
The Group’s expected credit loss (ECL) calculations are outputs of complex models with a number of underlying assumptions. 
The significant judgements in determining expected credit loss include:

•  The Group’s criteria for assessing if there has been a significant increase in credit risk; 

•  Development of expected credit loss models, including the choice of inputs relating to macroeconomic variables;

•  Determining estimates of forward looking macroeconomic forecasts;

•  Evaluation of management overlays and post-model adjustments;

•  Determination of probability weightings for Stage 3 individually assessed provisions

The calculation of credit impairment provisions also involves expert credit judgement to be applied by the credit risk 
management team based upon counterparty information they receive from various sources including relationship managers 
and on external market information. Details on the approach for determining expected credit loss can be found in the credit 
risk section, under IFRS 9 Methodology (page 273). 

Estimates of forecasts of key macroeconomic variables underlying the expected credit loss calculation can be found within 
the Risk review, Key assumptions and judgements in determining expected credit loss (page 275).

Expected credit losses
An ECL represents the present value of expected cash shortfalls over the residual term of a financial asset, undrawn 
commitment or financial guarantee. 

A cash shortfall is the difference between the cash flows that are due in accordance with the contractual terms of the 
instrument and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive over the contractual life of the instrument.

Measurement
ECL are computed as unbiased, probability-weighted amounts which are determined by evaluating a range of reasonably 
possible outcomes, the time value of money, and considering all reasonable and supportable information including that 
which is forward-looking. 

For material portfolios, the estimate of expected cash shortfalls is determined by multiplying the probability of default (PD) 
with the loss given default (LGD) with the expected exposure at the time of default (EAD). There may be multiple default 
events over the lifetime of an instrument. Further details on the components of PD, LGD and EAD are disclosed in the Credit 
risk section. For less material Retail Banking loan portfolios, the Group has adopted less sophisticated approaches based on 
historical roll rates or loss rates. 

Forward-looking economic assumptions are incorporated into the PD, LGD and EAD where relevant and where they 
influence credit risk, such as GDP growth rates, interest rates, house price indices and commodity prices among others.  
These assumptions are incorporated using the Group’s most likely forecast for a range of macroeconomic assumptions. 
These forecasts are determined using all reasonable and supportable information, which includes both internally developed 
forecasts and those available externally, and are consistent with those used for budgeting, forecasting and capital planning. 

To account for the potential non-linearity in credit losses, multiple forward-looking scenarios are incorporated into the range 
of reasonably possible outcomes for all material portfolios. For example, where there is a greater risk of downside credit 
losses than upside gains, multiple forward-looking economic scenarios are incorporated into the range of reasonably 
possible outcomes, both in respect of determining the PD (and where relevant, the LGD and EAD) and in determining the 
overall ECL amounts. These scenarios are determined using a Monte Carlo approach centred around the Group’s most likely 
forecast of macroeconomic assumptions.

The period over which cash shortfalls are determined is generally limited to the maximum contractual period for which  
the Group is exposed to credit risk. However, for certain revolving credit facilities, which include credit cards or overdrafts,  
the Group’s exposure to credit risk is not limited to the contractual period. For these instruments, the Group estimates  
an appropriate life based on the period that the Group is exposed to credit risk, which includes the effect of credit risk 
management actions such as the withdrawal of undrawn facilities. 

For credit-impaired financial instruments, the estimate of cash shortfalls may require the use of expert credit judgement. 

380

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements8. Credit impairment continued

The estimate of expected cash shortfalls on a collateralised financial instrument reflects the amount and timing of cash 
flows that are expected from foreclosure on the collateral less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, regardless of 
whether foreclosure is deemed probable. 

Cash flows from unfunded credit enhancements held are included within the measurement of expected credit losses if they 
are part of, or integral to, the contractual terms of the instrument (this includes financial guarantees, unfunded risk 
participations and other non-derivative credit insurance). Although non-integral credit enhancements do not impact the 
measurement of expected credit losses, a reimbursement asset is recognised to the extent of the ECL recorded. 

Cash shortfalls are discounted using the effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or 
originated credit-impaired instruments (POCI)) on the financial instrument as calculated at initial recognition or if the 
instrument has a variable interest rate, the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.

Instruments

Location of expected credit loss provisions

Financial assets held at amortised cost

Financial assets held FVOCI – Debt instruments

Loan commitments

Financial guarantees

Loss provisions: netted against gross carrying value1
Other comprehensive income (FVOCI expected credit loss reserve)2 
Provisions for liabilities and charges3
Provisions for liabilities and charges3

1   Purchased or originated credit-impaired assets do not attract an expected credit loss provision on initial recognition. An expected credit loss provision will be 

recognised only if there is an increase in expected credit losses from that considered at initial recognition

2   Debt and treasury securities classified as fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) are held at fair value on the face of the balance sheet.  

The expected credit loss attributed to these instruments is held as a separate reserve within other comprehensive income (OCI) and is recycled to the profit 
and loss account along with any fair value measurement gains or losses held within FVOCI when the applicable instruments are derecognised

3   Expected credit loss on loan commitments and financial guarantees is recognised as a liability provision. Where a financial instrument includes both a loan 
(i.e. financial asset component) and an undrawn commitment (i.e. loan commitment component), and it is not possible to separately identify the expected 
credit loss on these components, expected credit loss amounts on the loan commitment are recognised together with expected credit loss amounts on  
the financial asset. To the extent the combined expected credit loss exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, the expected credit loss is 
recognised as a liability provision 

Recognition
12 months expected credit losses (stage 1) Expected credit losses are recognised at the time of initial recognition of a financial 
instrument and represent the lifetime cash shortfalls arising from possible default events up to 12 months into the future from 
the balance sheet date. Expected credit losses continue to be determined on this basis until there is either a significant 
increase in the credit risk of an instrument or the instrument becomes credit-impaired. If an instrument is no longer 
considered to exhibit a significant increase in credit risk, expected credit losses will revert to being determined on a 12-month 
basis.

Significant increase in credit risk (Stage 2) Significant increase in credit risk is assessed by comparing the risk of default of an 
exposure at the reporting date to the risk of default at origination (after taking into account the passage of time). Significant 
does not mean statistically significant nor is it assessed in the context of changes in expected credit loss. Whether a change 
in the risk of default is significant or not is assessed using a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, the weight of 
which depends on the type of product and counterparty. Financial assets that are 30 or more days past due and not 
credit-impaired will always be considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk. For less material portfolios 
where a loss rate or roll rate approach is applied to compute expected credit loss, significant increase in credit risk is primarily 
based on 30 days past due.

Quantitative factors include an assessment of whether there has been significant increase in the forward-looking probability 
of default (PD) since origination. A forward-looking PD is one that is adjusted for future economic conditions to the extent 
these are correlated to changes in credit risk. We compare the residual lifetime PD at the balance sheet date to the residual 
lifetime PD that was expected at the time of origination for the same point in the term structure and determine whether both 
the absolute and relative change between the two exceeds predetermined thresholds. To the extent that the differences 
between the measures of default outlined exceed the defined thresholds, the instrument is considered to have experienced 
a significant increase in credit risk (see page 282 to 284). 

Qualitative factors assessed include those linked to current credit risk management processes, such as lending placed on 
non-purely precautionary early alert (and subject to closer monitoring).

A non-purely precautionary early alert account is one which exhibits risk or potential weaknesses of a material nature 
requiring closer monitoring, supervision, or attention by management. Weaknesses in such a borrower’s account, if left 
uncorrected, could result in deterioration of repayment prospects and the likelihood of being downgraded. Indicators  
could include a rapid erosion of position within the industry, concerns over management’s ability to manage operations, 
weak/deteriorating operating results, liquidity strain and overdue balances among other factors.

381

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements8. Credit impairment continued

Credit-impaired (or defaulted) exposures (Stage 3) Financial assets that are credit-impaired (or in default) represent those that 
are at least 90 days past due in respect of principal and/or interest. Financial assets are also considered to be credit-impaired 
where the obligors are unlikely to pay on the occurrence of one or more observable events that have a detrimental impact  
on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event but instead 
the combined effect of several events may cause financial assets to become credit-impaired.

•  Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes observable data about the following events:

•  Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or borrower;

•  Breach of contract such as default or a past due event;

•  For economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, the lenders of the borrower have granted 
the borrower concession/s that lenders would not otherwise consider. This would include forbearance actions (page 257);

•  Pending or actual bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation to avoid or delay discharge of the borrower’s obligation/s;

•  The disappearance of an active market for the applicable financial asset due to financial difficulties of the borrower;

•  Purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount that reflects incurred credit losses

Lending commitments to a credit-impaired obligor that have not yet been drawn down are included to the extent that the 
commitment cannot be withdrawn. Loss provisions against credit-impaired financial assets are determined based on an 
assessment of the present value of expected cash shortfalls (discounted at the instrument’s original effective interest rate) 
under a range of scenarios, including the realisation of any collateral held where appropriate. The Group’s definition of 
default is aligned with the regulatory definition of default as set out in the UK’s onshored capital requirements regulations 
(Art 178).

Expert credit judgement
For Corporate & Institutional, Commercial and Private Banking, borrowers are graded by credit risk management on a credit 
grading (CG) scale from CG1 to CG14. Once a borrower starts to exhibit credit deterioration, it will move along the credit 
grading scale in the performing book and when it is classified as CG12 (which is a qualitative trigger for significant increase  
in credit risk (see page 283)the credit assessment and oversight of the loan will normally be performed by Stressed Assets 
Risk (SAR).

Borrowers graded CG12 exhibit well-defined weaknesses in areas such as management and/or performance but there is  
no current expectation of a loss of principal or interest in the likely scenario. Where the impairment assessment indicates  
that there will be a loss of principal on a loan in the likely scenario, the borrower is graded a CG14 while borrowers of other 
credit-impaired loans are graded CG13. Instruments graded CG13 or CG14 are regarded as stage 3.

For individually significant financial assets within stage 3, SAR will consider all judgements that have an impact on the 
expected future cash flows of the asset. These include: the business prospects, industry and geo political climate of  
the customer, quality of realisable value of collateral, the Group’s legal position relative to other claimants and any 
renegotiation/ forbearance/ modification options. The future cash flow calculation involves significant judgements  
and estimates. As new information becomes available and further negotiations/ forbearance measures are taken the 
estimates of the future cash flows will be revised, and will have an impact on the future cash flow analysis.

For financial assets which are not individually significant, such as the Retail Banking portfolio or small business loans, which 
comprise a large number of homogenous loans that share similar characteristics, statistical estimates and techniques are 
used, as well as credit scoring analysis.

Consumer and Business Banking clients are considered credit-impaired where they are more 90 days past due, or if the 
borrower files for bankruptcy or other forbearance programme, the borrower is deceased or the business is closed in the case 
of a small business, or if the borrower surrenders the collateral, or there is an identified fraud on the account. Additionally, if 
the account is unsecured and the borrower has other credit accounts with the Group that are considered credit-impaired,  
the account may be also be credit-impaired.

Techniques used to compute impairment amounts use models which analyse historical repayment and default rates over  
a time horizon. Where various models are used, judgement is required to analyse the available information provided and 
select the appropriate model or combination of models to use.

Expert credit judgement is also applied to determine whether any post-model adjustments are required for credit risk 
elements which are not captured by the models. 

Modified financial instruments
Where the original contractual terms of a financial asset have been modified for credit reasons and the instrument has not 
been derecognised (an instrument is derecognised when a modification results in a change in cash flows that the Group 
would consider substantial), the resulting modification loss is recognised within credit impairment in the income statement 
with a corresponding decrease in the gross carrying value of the asset. If the modification involved a concession that the 
bank would not otherwise consider, the instrument is considered to be credit-impaired and is considered forborne.

382

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements8. Credit impairment continued

Expected credit loss for modified financial assets that have not been derecognised and are not considered to be credit-
impaired will be recognised on a 12-month basis, or a lifetime basis, if there is a significant increase in credit risk. These assets 
are assessed (by comparison to the origination date) to determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk 
subsequent to the modification. Although loans may be modified for non-credit reasons, a significant increase in credit risk 
may occur. In addition to the recognition of modification gains and losses, the revised carrying value of modified financial 
assets will impact the calculation of expected credit losses, with any increase or decrease in expected credit loss recognised 
within impairment.

Forborne loans
Forborne loans are those loans that have been modified in response to a customer’s financial difficulties. Forbearance 
strategies assist clients who are temporarily in financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual repayment 
terms. Forbearance can be initiated by the client, the Group or a third-party including government sponsored programmes 
or a conglomerate of credit institutions. Forbearance may include debt restructuring such as new repayment schedules, 
payment deferrals, tenor extensions, interest only payments, lower interest rates, forgiveness of principal, interest or fees,  
or relaxation of loan covenants.

Forborne loans that have been modified (and not derecognised) on terms that are not consistent with those readily 
available in the market and/or where we have granted a concession compared to the original terms of the loans are 
considered credit-impaired if there is a detrimental impact on cash flows. The modification loss (see Classification and 
measurement – Modifications) is recognised in the profit or loss within credit impairment and the gross carrying value of  
the loan reduced by the same amount. The modified loan is disclosed as ‘Loans subject to forbearance – credit-impaired’.

Loans that have been subject to a forbearance modification, but which are not considered credit-impaired (not classified  
as CG13 or CG14), are disclosed as ‘Forborne – not credit-impaired’. This may include amendments to covenants within the 
contractual terms.

Write-offs of credit-impaired instruments and reversal of impairment
To the extent a financial debt instrument is considered irrecoverable, the applicable portion of the gross carrying value  
is written off against the related loan provision. Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been 
completed, it is decided that there is no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for credit impairment in the 
income statement. 

Loss provisions on purchased or originated credit-impaired instruments (POCI)
The Group measures expected credit loss on a lifetime basis for POCI instruments throughout the life of the instrument. 
However, expected credit loss is not recognised in a separate loss provision on initial recognition for POCI instruments as  
the lifetime expected credit loss is inherent within the gross carrying amount of the instruments. The Group recognises  
the change in lifetime expected credit losses arising subsequent to initial recognition in the income statement and the 
cumulative change as a loss provision. Where lifetime expected credit losses on POCI instruments are less than those at  
initial recognition, then the favourable differences are recognised as impairment gains in the income statement (and as 
impairment loss where the expected credit losses are greater).

Improvement in credit risk/curing
For financial assets that are credit-impaired (stage 3), a transfer to stage 2 or stage 1 is only permitted where the instrument  
is no longer considered to be credit-impaired. An instrument will no longer be considered credit-impaired when there is no 
shortfall of cash flows compared to the original contractual terms.

For financial assets within stage 2, these can only be transferred to stage 1 when they are no longer considered to have 
experienced a significant increase in credit risk.

Where significant increase in credit risk was determined using quantitative measures, the instruments will automatically 
transfer back to stage 1 when the original PD based transfer criteria are no longer met. Where instruments were transferred 
to stage 2 due to an assessment of qualitative factors, the issues that led to the reclassification must be cured before the 
instruments can be reclassified to stage 1. This includes instances where management actions led to instruments being 
classified as stage 2, requiring that action to be resolved before loans are reclassified to stage 1.

A forborne loan can only be removed from being disclosed as forborne if the loan is performing (stage 1 or 2) and a further 
two-year probation period is met. 

In order for a forborne loan to become performing, the following criteria have to be satisfied:

•  At least a year has passed with no default based upon the forborne contract terms

•  The customer is likely to repay its obligations in full without realising security

•  The customer has no accumulated impairment against amount outstanding (except for ECL)

Subsequent to the criteria above, a further two-year probation period has to be fulfilled, whereby regular payments are 
made by the customer and none of the exposures to the customer are more than 30 days past due.

383

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements8. Credit impairment continued

Net credit impairment on loans and advances to banks and customers

Net credit impairment on debt securities¹

Net credit impairment relating to financial guarantees and loan commitments

Net credit impairment relating to other financial assets

Credit impairment

1  

Includes impairment of $1 million (2022: $13 million) on originated credit-impaired debt securities

9. Goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other impairment

Accounting policy 
Refer to the below referenced notes for the relevant accounting policy.

Impairment of goodwill (Note 17)

Impairment of property, plant and equipment (Note 18)

Impairment of other intangible assets (Note 17)

Other¹

Property, plant and equipment and other impairment

Goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other impairment

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

606

(50)

(48)

–

508

743

122

(27)

(2)

836

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

12

112

884

1,008

1,008

14

50

12

363

425

439

1   Other includes $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank (Bohai), reflecting Bohai’s 
lower reported net profit in 2023 (compared to 2022), as well as banking industry challenges and property market uncertainties in Mainland China, that may 
impact Bohai’s future profitability

10. Taxation

Accounting policy
Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in each jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the 
period in which profits arise.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted as at the balance sheet date, and that are expected to apply when the related deferred 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.

Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. Where permitted, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset on an entity basis and 
not by component of deferred taxation.

Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to 
equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the current or deferred gain or loss.

Other accounting estimates and judgements
•  Determining the Group’s tax charge for the year involves estimation and judgement, which includes an interpretation of 
local tax laws and an assessment of whether the tax authorities will accept the position taken. These judgements take 
account of external advice where appropriate, and the Group’s view on settling with the relevant tax authorities.

•  The Group provides for current tax liabilities at the best estimate of the amount that is expected to be paid to the tax 

authorities where an outflow is probable. In making its estimates the Group assumes that the tax authorities will examine 
all the amounts reported to them and have full knowledge of all relevant information.

•  The recoverability of the Group’s deferred tax assets is based on management’s judgement of the availability of future 
taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets will be utilised. In preparing management forecasts the effect of 
applicable laws and regulations relevant to the utilisation of future taxable profits have been considered.

384

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements10. Taxation continued
The following table provides analysis of taxation charge in the year:

The charge for taxation based upon the profit for the year comprises:

Current tax:

United Kingdom corporation tax at 23.5 per cent (2022: 19 per cent):

Current tax charge on income for the year

Adjustments in respect of prior years (including double tax relief)

Foreign tax:

Current tax charge on income for the year

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Deferred tax:

Origination/reversal of temporary differences

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Tax on profits on ordinary activities

Effective tax rate

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

(48)

14

1,695

(11)

1,650

(22)

3

(19)

1,631

32.0%

48

–

1,216

5

1,269

144

(29)

115

1,384

32.3%

The tax charge for the year of $1,631 million (31 December 2022: $1,384 million) on a profit before tax of $5,093 million  
(31 December 2022: $4,286 million) reflects the impact of tax losses for which no deferred tax assets are recognised,  
non-deductible expenses, and non-creditable withholding taxes and other taxes. These are partly offset by tax exempt income.

Foreign tax includes current tax of $201 million (31 December 2022: $35 million) on the profits assessable in Hong Kong. Deferred 
tax includes origination or reversal of temporary differences of $nil million (31 December 2022: $51 million) provided at a rate of 
16.5 per cent (31 December 2022: 16.5 per cent) on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.

The Group will be in scope of the new Pillar Two global minimum tax rules which were substantively enacted in the UK on 
20 June 2023 to apply for periods commencing 1 January 2024. The IAS 12 exception to recognise and disclose information  
about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes has been applied. 

Based on an initial impact assessment undertaken in respect of historical financial data together with corporate plan data 
available, the Group’s exposure to Pillar Two income taxes are not expected to be material. The Group is closely monitoring 
developments to assess potential future implications and implementation efforts.

Tax rate: The tax charge for the year is higher than the charge at the rate of corporation tax in the UK, 23.5 per cent.  
The differences are explained below:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Tax at 23.5 per cent (2022: 19 per cent)

Lower tax rates on overseas earnings

Higher tax rates on overseas earnings

Tax at domestic rates applicable where profits earned

Non-creditable withholding taxes and other taxes¹

Tax exempt income

Share of associates and joint ventures

Non-deductible expenses

Bank levy

Non-taxable losses on investments²

Payments on financial instruments in reserves

Goodwill impairment

Deferred tax not recognised

Deferred tax rate changes

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years
Other items1

Tax on profit on ordinary activities

2023

$million

5,093

1,197

(330)

306

1,173

85

(131)

(14)

219

26

64

(68)

–

278

(1)

6

(6)

1,631

%

23.5

(6.5)

6.0

23.0

1.7

(2.6)

(0.3)

4.3

0.5

1.3

(1.3)

–

5.4

–

0.1

(0.1)

32.0

2022

$million

4,286

814

(122)

435

1,127

170

(69)

(27)

115

19

51

(56)

3

77

(9)

(24)

7

1,384

%

19.0

(2.8)

10.1

26.3

4.0

(1.6)

(0.6)

2.7

0.4

1.2

(1.3)

0.1

1.8

(0.2)

(0.6)

0.1

32.3

1  The comparatives have been reclassified by moving the effect of other taxes from Other items to Non-creditable withholding taxes and other taxes in order to 
provide more clarity to the reader. The 2022 comparatives have been reclassified as follows to align with the presentation in the current period: Non-creditable 
withholding taxes and other taxes from $90 million to $170 million, and Other items from $87 million to $7 million.

2 

 Non-taxable losses on investments includes $140 million (2022: $51 million) in respect of the tax impact of the impairment charge relating to the Group’s 
investment in its associate China Bohai Bank (Bohai).

385

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements10. Taxation continued 
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years: the Group’s tax charge, and effective tax rate in future years could be affected 
by several factors including acquisitions, disposals and restructuring of our businesses, the mix of profits across jurisdictions with 
different statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation and tax rates and resolution of uncertain tax positions.

The evaluation of uncertain tax positions involves an interpretation of local tax laws which could be subject to challenge by a 
tax authority, and an assessment of whether the tax authorities will accept the position taken. The Group does not currently 
consider that assumptions or judgements made in assessing tax liabilities have a significant risk of resulting in a material 
adjustment within the next financial year.

Tax recognised in other  
comprehensive income

Current tax 
$million

Deferred tax 
$million

Total 
$million

Current tax 
$million

Deferred tax 
$million

2023

2022

Items that will not be reclassified to 
income statement

Own credit adjustment

Equity instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income

Retirement benefit obligations

Items that may be reclassed 
subsequently to income statement

Debt instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income

Cashflow hedges

Total tax credit/(charge) recognised  
in equity

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(107)

(49)

(69)

11

(129)

(17)

(112)

(107)

(49)

(69)

11

(129)

(17)

(112)

(236)

(236)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Current tax: The following are the movements in current tax during the year:

Current tax comprises:

Current tax assets 

Current tax liabilities 

Net current tax opening balance

Movements in income statement

Movements in other comprehensive income 

Taxes paid 

Other movements

Net current tax balance as at 31 December

Current tax assets 

Current tax liabilities

Total 

15

8

27

(20)

152

63

89

167

2023 
$million

503

(583)

(80)

(1,650)

–

1,367

36

(327)

484

(811)

(327)

Total 

15

8

27

(20)

152

63

89

167

2022 
$million

766

(348)

418

(1,269)

–

821

(50)

(80)

503

(583)

(80)

Deferred tax: The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon 
during the year:

At  
1 January  
2023 
$million

Exchange  
& other 
adjustments 
$million

(Charge)/credit 
to profit 
$million

(Charge)/credit 
to equity 
$million

At  
31 December 
2023 
$million

(589)

334

212

(74)

61

89

5

2

36

(11)

65

236

(20)

(106)

(1)

(14)

(2)

(27)

2

–

16

84

(71)

(28)

(9)

–

(3)

–

–

(11)

7

134

19

–

–

–

(69)

(17)

(112)

(49)

11

–

–

(236)

(424)

286

97

(144)

27

(25)

(71)

4

43

139

(68)

Deferred tax comprises:

Accelerated tax depreciation

Impairment provisions on loans and advances 

Tax losses carried forward

Equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income

Cashflow hedges

Own credit adjustment

Retirement benefit obligations

Share-based payments

Other temporary differences

Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

386

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements10. Taxation continued

Deferred tax comprises:

Accelerated tax depreciation

Impairment provisions on loans and advances 

Tax losses carried forward

Equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income1

Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income1

Cashflow hedges

Own credit adjustment

Retirement benefit obligations

Share-based payments

Other temporary differences

Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

At  
1 January  
2022 
$million

Exchange  
& other 
adjustments 
$million

(Charge)/credit 
to profit 
$million

(Charge)/credit 
to equity 
$million

At  
31 December 
2022 
$million

(515)

351

263

(96)

(30)

–

(3)

27

32

30

59

(8)

(41)

16

(6)

5

–

–

(5)

–

(7)

(46)

(66)

24

(67)

1

23

–

–

–

4

(34)

(115)

–

–

–

27

63

89

8

(20)

–

–

167

(589)

334

212

(74)

61

89

5

2

36

(11)

65

1  2022 has been reclassified to separately disclose Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income and Debt instruments at fair value through 

other comprehensive income. No change in overall balance.

Deferred tax comprises assets and liabilities as follows:

Deferred tax comprises:

Accelerated tax depreciation

Impairment provisions on loans  
and advances 

Tax losses carried forward

Equity instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income1

Debt instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income1

Cashflow hedges

Own credit adjustment

Retirement benefit obligations

Share-based payments

Other temporary differences

Total 
$million

2023

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

Total 
$million

2022

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

(424)

286

97

(144)

27

(25)

(71)

4

43

139

(68)

3

282

49

(1)

29

12

(1)

13

9

307

702

(427)

(589)

4

48

(143)

(2)

(37)

(70)

(9)

34

(168)

(770)

334

212

(74)

61

89

5

2

36

(11)

65

1

339

90

–

45

85

(1)

15

5

255

834

(590)

(5)

122

(74)

16

4

6

(13)

31

(266)

(769)

1  2022 has been reclassified to separately disclose Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income and Debt instruments at fair value through 

other comprehensive income. No change in overall balance.

The recoverability of the Group’s deferred tax assets is based on management’s judgement of the availability of future taxable 
profits against which the deferred tax assets will be utilised. The Group’s total deferred tax assets include $97 million relating  
to tax losses carried forward, of which $48 million arises in legal entities with offsetting deferred tax liabilities. The remaining 
deferred tax assets on losses of $49 million are forecast to be recovered before expiry and within five years.

Sale of aircraft leasing business during the year, included within Other operating income, resulted in the disposal of $113 million 
of deferred tax assets relating to losses in Ireland held at 31 December 2022.

Unrecognised deferred tax

No account has been taken of the following potential deferred tax 
assets/(liabilities):

Withholding tax on unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries  
and associates

Tax losses

Held over gains on incorporation of overseas branches

Other temporary differences

Net 
2023 
$million

Gross 
2023 
$million

Net 
2022 
$million

Gross 
2022 
$million

(653)

2,242

(366)

397

(7,685)

9,326

(1,389)

1,516

(507)

1,980

(346)

544

(6,434)

8,231

(1,313)

1,991

387

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements11. Dividends

Accounting policy
The Board considers a number of factors prior to dividend declaration which includes the rate of recovery in the Group’s 
financial performance, the macroeconomic environment, and opportunities to further invest in our business and grow 
profitably in our markets.

Ordinary equity shares

2023

2022

Cents per share

$million

Cents per share

$million

2022/2021 final dividend declared and paid during the year

2023/2022 interim dividend declared and paid during the year

14

6

401

167

9

4

274

119

Dividends on ordinary equity shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, 
have been approved by the shareholders. Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share dividends set out above relate to the 
respective prior years.

2023 recommended final ordinary equity share dividend
The 2023 ordinary equity share dividend recommended by the Board is 21 cents per share. The financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 do not reflect this dividend as this will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of 
retained profits in the year ending 31 December 2024.

The dividend will be paid in either pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 17 May 2024 to shareholders on the UK 
register of members at the close of business in the UK on 8 March 2024.

Preference shares and Additional Tier 1 securities
Dividends on these preference shares and securities classified as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared.

Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares:

7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each

Floating rate preference shares of $5 each¹

Additional Tier 1 securities: fixed rate resetting perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

53

50

103

349

452

53

20

73

328

401

1   Floating rate is based on Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), average rate paid for floating preference shares is 6.62% (2022: 2.71%) 

388

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements12. Earnings per ordinary share

Earnings per share on an underlying basis differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share. Underlying earnings is 
profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature; amounts consequent to 
investment transactions driven by strategic intent; and other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant 
or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the year.

The table below provides the basis of underlying earnings.

Profit for the period attributable to equity holders

Non-controlling interest

Dividend payable on preference shares and AT1 classified as equity

Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders

Items normalised:

Restructuring

Goodwill and other impairment²

DVA

Net gains on sale of Businesses³

Tax on normalised items

Underlying profit

Basic – Weighted average number of shares (millions)

Diluted – Weighted average number of shares (millions)

Basic earnings per ordinary share (cents)

Diluted earnings per ordinary share (cents)

Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share (cents)

Underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share (cents)

2023 
$million

3,462

7

(452)

3,017

14

850

(17)

(262)

(21)

3,581

2,778

2,841

108.6

106.2

128.9

126.0

2022¹ 
$million

2,902

46

(401)

2,547

99

322

(42)

(20)

(3)

2,903

2,966

3,023

85.9

84.3

97.9

96.0

1   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance

2.   Goodwill and other impairment include $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank 

(Bohai)

3.   Includes the sale of the Aviation Finance business, of which there was a gain on sale of $309 million on the leasing business and a loss of $47 million in relation to  

a sale of a portfolio of Aviation loans

The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the basic 
weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares held in employees benefit trust. When calculating diluted 
earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all expected dilutive potential 
ordinary shares held in respect of Standard Chartered PLC totalling 56 million (2022: 52 million). The total number of share 
options outstanding, under schemes considered to be potentially dilutive, was 7 million (2022: 5 million). These options have 
strike prices ranging from $3.99 to $7.49.

Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2023 there were nil share options and awards 
which were anti dilutive.

The 188 million decrease (2022: 142 million decrease) in the basic weighted average number of shares is primarily due to the 
impact of the share buy-back programmes completed in the year.

389

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments

Classification and measurement

Accounting policy
Financial assets held at amortised cost and fair value through other comprehensive income
Debt instruments held at amortised cost or held at FVOCI have contractual terms that give rise to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) characteristics. 

In assessing whether the contractual cash flows have SPPI characteristics, the Group considers the contractual terms of the 
instrument. This includes assessing whether the financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or 
amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition. In making the assessment, the Group considers:

•  Contingent events that would change the amount and timing of cash flows

•  Leverage features

•  Prepayment and extension terms

•  Terms that limit the Group’s claim to cash flows from specified assets (e.g. non-recourse asset arrangements) 

•  Features that modify consideration of the time value of money – e.g. periodical reset of interest rates.

Whether financial assets are held at amortised cost or at FVOCI depends on the objectives of the business models under 
which the assets are held. A business model refers to how the Group manages financial assets to generate cash flow.

The Group makes an assessment of the objective of a business model in which an asset is held at the individual product 
business line, and where applicable within business lines depending on the way the business is managed and information  
is provided to management. Factors considered include:

•  How the performance of the product business line is evaluated and reported to the Group’s management

•  How managers of the business model are compensated, including whether management is compensated based on the 

fair value of assets or the contractual cash flows collected

•  The risks that affect the performance of the business model and how those risks are managed

•  The frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, the reasons for such sales and expectations about future  

sales activity.

The Group’s business model assessment is as follows:

Business model Business objective

Characteristics

Businesses

Products

Hold to 
collect

Intent is to originate 
financial assets and 
hold them to maturity, 
collecting the 
contractual cash flows 
over the term of the 
instrument

Hold to 
collect  
and sell

Business objective met 
through both hold to 
collect and by selling 
financial assets

Fair value 
through 
profit or loss

All other business 
objectives, including 
trading and managing 
financial assets on a  
fair value basis

•  Providing financing and 

•  Corporate Lending

•  Loans and advances

•  Financial Markets

•  Debt securities

•  Transaction Banking

•  Retail Lending

•  Treasury Markets 

(Loans and 
Borrowings)

•  Treasury Markets

•  Debt securities

originating assets to earn interest 
income as primary income stream

•  Performing credit risk 

management activities

•  Costs include funding costs, 

transaction costs and  
impairment losses

•  Portfolios held for liquidity needs; 
or where a certain interest yield 
profile is maintained; or that are 
normally rebalanced to achieve 
matching of duration of assets 
and liabilities

• 

Income streams come from 
interest income, fair value 
changes, and impairment losses

•  Assets held for trading

•  Financial Markets

•  Derivatives

•  Assets that are originated, 

•  All other business lines

•  Equity shares

purchased, and sold for profit 
taking or underwriting activity

•  Performance of the portfolio is 
evaluated on a fair value basis

• 

Income streams are from fair 
value changes or trading gains  
or losses

•  Trading portfolios

•  Financial Markets 

reverse repos

•  Financial Markets  

(FM Bond and Loan 
Syndication)

390

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Financial assets which have SPPI characteristics and that are held within a business model whose objective is to hold 
financial assets to collect contractual cashflows (hold to collect) are recorded at amortised cost. Conversely, financial  
assets which have SPPI characteristics but are held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cashflows and selling financial assets (Hold to collect and sell) are classified as held at FVOCI. Both hold to 
collect and hold to collect and sell business models involve holding financial assets to collect the contractual cashflows. 
However, the business models are distinct by reference to the frequency and significance that asset sales play in meeting the 
objective under which a particular group of financial assets is managed. Hold to collect business models are characterised  
by asset sales that are incidental to meeting the objectives under which a group of assets is managed. Sales of assets under 
a hold to collect business model can be made to manage increases in the credit risk of financial assets but sales for other 
reasons should be infrequent or insignificant. Cashflows from the sale of financial assets under a hold to collect and sell 
business model by contrast are integral to achieving the objectives under which a particular group of financial assets are 
managed. This may be the case where frequent sales of financial assets are required to manage the Group’s daily liquidity 
requirements or to meet regulatory requirements to demonstrate liquidity of financial instruments. Sales of assets under hold 
to collect and sell business models are therefore both more frequent and more significant in value than those under the hold 
to collect model.

Equity instruments designated as held at FVOCI
Non-trading equity instruments acquired for strategic purposes rather than capital gain may be irrevocably designated at 
initial recognition as held at FVOCI on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Dividends received are recognised in profit or loss. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of these instruments, including foreign exchange gains and losses,  
are recognised directly in equity and are never reclassified to profit or loss even on derecognition.

Mandatorily classified at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets and liabilities which are mandatorily held at fair value through profit or loss are split between two 
subcategories as follows:

Trading, including: 

•  Financial assets and liabilities held for trading, which are those acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the 

short-term

•  Derivatives

Non-trading mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss, including:

•  Instruments in a business which has a fair value business model (see the Group’s business model assessment) which are not 

trading or derivatives

•  Hybrid financial assets that contain one or more embedded derivatives

•  Financial assets that would otherwise be measured at amortised cost or FVOCI but which do not have SPPI characteristics

•  Equity instruments that have not been designated as held at FVOCI

•  Financial liabilities that constitute contingent consideration in a business combination

Designated at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through profit or loss when the designation eliminates or 
significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or 
liabilities on a different basis (‘accounting mismatch’).

Financial liabilities may also be designated at fair value through profit or loss where they are managed on a fair value  
basis or have an embedded derivative where the Group is not able to bifurcate and separately value the embedded 
derivative component.

Financial liabilities held at amortised cost
Financial liabilities that are not financial guarantees or loan commitments and that are not classified as financial liabilities 
held at fair value through profit or loss are classified as financial liabilities held at amortised cost.

Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that represents a market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are 
redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholder are classified as financial liabilities and are presented in 
other borrowed funds. The dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income statement as interest expense 
on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.

391

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments 
The Group issues financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments in return for fees. Financial guarantee contracts  
and any loan commitments issued at below-market interest rates are initially recognised at their fair value as a financial 
liability, and subsequently measured at the higher of the initial value less the cumulative amount of income recognised in 
accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and their expected credit loss provision. 
Loan commitments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss where that is the business model under which  
such contracts are held.

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on the basis of the individual financial instrument. However, 
when a group of financial assets and financial liabilities is managed on the basis of its net exposure to either market risk or 
credit risk, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis.

The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active markets are based on current prices. A market is regarded as 
active if transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information 
on an ongoing basis. If the market for a financial instrument, and for unlisted securities, is not active, the Group establishes 
fair value by using valuation techniques.

Initial recognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss, and held at fair value through 
other comprehensive income are initially recognised on the trade date (the date on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset). Loans and advances and other financial assets held at amortised cost are recognised on the settlement date 
(the date on which cash is advanced to the borrowers).

All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is normally the transaction price, plus directly attributable 
transaction costs for financial assets and liabilities which are not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.

In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of 
profits or losses at the time of initial recognition. However, these profits or losses can only be recognised when the valuation 
technique used is based solely on observable market data. Where the initially recognised fair value is based on a valuation 
model that uses unobservable inputs, the difference between the transaction price and the valuation model is not 
recognised immediately in the income statement but following the passage of time, or as the inputs become observable,  
or the transaction matures or is terminated.

Subsequent measurement
Financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost
Financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the  
effective interest method (see ‘Interest income and expense’). Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the 
income statement.

Where a financial instrument carried at amortised cost is the hedged item in a qualifying fair value hedge relationship,  
its carrying value is adjusted by the fair value gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.

Financial assets held at FVOCI
Debt instruments held at FVOCI are subsequently carried at fair value, with all unrealised gains and losses arising from 
changes in fair value (including any related foreign exchange gains or losses) recognised in other comprehensive income  
and accumulated in a separate component of equity. Foreign exchange gains and losses on the amortised cost are 
recognised in income. Changes in expected credit losses are recognised in the profit or loss and are accumulated in  
equity. On derecognition, the cumulative fair value gains or losses, net of the cumulative expected credit loss reserve,  
are transferred to the profit or loss. 

Equity investments designated at FVOCI are subsequently carried at fair value with all unrealised gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value (including any related foreign exchange gains or losses) recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in a separate component of equity. On derecognition, the cumulative reserve is transferred to 
retained earnings and is not recycled to profit or loss.

Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value, including contractual interest income or expense, recorded in the net 
trading income line in the profit or loss unless the instrument is part of a cash flow hedging relationship. 

392

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Derecognition of financial instruments
Financial assets which are subject to commercial refinancing where the loan is priced to the market with no payment related 
concessions regardless of form of legal documentation or nature of lending will be derecognised. Where the Group’s rights to 
the cash flows under the original contract have expired, the old loan is derecognised and the new loan is recognised at fair 
value. For all other modifications for example forborne loans or restructuring, whether or not a change in the cash flows is 
‘substantially different’ is judgemental and will be considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all the relevant 
facts and circumstances.

On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount 
allocated to the portion of the asset derecognised) and the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset 
obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive 
income is recognised in profit or loss except for equity instruments elected FVOCI (see above) and cumulative fair value 
adjustments attributable to the credit risk of a liability, that are held in other comprehensive income.

Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished. A financial liability is extinguished when the obligation  
is discharged, cancelled or expires and this is evaluated both qualitatively and quantitatively. However, where a financial 
liability has been modified, it is derecognised if the difference between the modified cash flows and the original cash flows  
is more than 10 per cent, or if less than 10 per cent, the Group will perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether  
the terms of the two instruments are substantially different.

If the Group purchases its own debt, it is derecognised and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and 
the consideration paid is included in ‘Other income’ except for the cumulative fair value adjustments attributable to the 
credit risk of a liability that are held in Other comprehensive income, which are never recycled to the profit or loss.

Modified financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities whose original contractual terms have been modified, including those loans subject 
to forbearance strategies, are considered to be modified instruments. Modifications may include changes to the tenor,  
cash flows and or interest rates among other factors.

Where derecognition of financial assets is appropriate (see Derecognition), the newly recognised residual loans are assessed 
to determine whether the assets should be classified as purchased or originated credit-impaired assets (POCI).

Where derecognition is not appropriate, the gross carrying amount of the applicable instruments is recalculated as the 
present value of the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate (or 
credit adjusted effective interest rate for POCI financial assets). The difference between the recalculated values and the 
pre-modified gross carrying values of the instruments are recorded as a modification gain or loss in the profit or loss.

Gains and losses arising from modifications for credit reasons are recorded as part of ‘Credit Impairment’ (see Credit 
Impairment policy). Modification gains and losses arising from non-credit reasons are recognised either as part of ‘Credit 
Impairment’ or within income depending on whether there has been a change in the credit risk on the financial asset 
subsequent to the modification. Modification gains and losses arising on financial liabilities are recognised within income. 
The movements in the applicable expected credit loss loan positions are disclosed in further detail in Risk Review.

393

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
The Group’s classification of its financial assets and liabilities is summarised in the following tables.

Assets at fair value

Non-trading 
mandatorily 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
$million

Total 
financial 
assets at  
fair value 
$million

Assets  
held at 
amortised 
cost 
$million

Total 
$million

Notes

Trading 
$million

–

2,265

6,930

16

9,997

52,776

2,721

–

74,689

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

282

71,850

98

219

6

72,455

14

15

16

15

16

20

21

48,333

2,101

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

78

–

–

78

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

69,905

69,905

2,265

7,212

81,847

52,952

2,940

6

147,222

50,434

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,265

7,212

81,847

52,952

2,940

6

147,222

50,434

–

44,977

44,977

–

–

–

1,738

1,738

286,975

286,975

13,996

13,996

103,328

103,328

56,935

160,263

992

992

104,320

104,320

–

–

–

–

–

56,935

38,140

701

992

161,255

38,140

701

Assets

Cash and balances at  
central banks¹

Financial assets held at fair 
value through profit or loss

Loans and advances  
to banks²

Loans and advances  
to customers²

Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Debt securities,  
alternative tier one  
and other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Derivative financial 
instruments

Loans and advances  
to banks²

of which – reverse 
repurchase agreements 
and other similar  
secured lending

Loans and advances  
to customers²

of which – reverse 
repurchase agreements 
and other similar  
secured lending

Investment securities

Debt securities,  
alternative tier one  
and other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Assets held for sale

Total at 31 December 2023

123,022

2,101

72,455

78

104,320

301,976

497,633

799,609

1   Cash and balances at central banks includes both cash held in restricted accounts and on demand or placements which are contractually due to mature 

overnight only. Other placements with central banks are reported as part of Loans and advances to customers

2   Further analysed in Risk review and Capital review (pages 230 to 343)

394

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Assets at fair value

Non-trading 
mandatorily 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
$million

Total 
financial 
assets at  
fair value 
$million

Assets  
held at 
amortised 
cost 
$million

Total 
$million

Notes

Trading 
$million

–

976

5,765

16

1,175

30,162

2,997

–

41,075

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

781

63,316

324

233

7

64,661

14

15

16

15

16

20

21

60,858

2,859

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

76

–

–

76

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

58,263

58,263

976

6,546

64,491

30,562

3,230

7

105,812

63,717

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

976

6,546

64,491

30,562

3,230

7

105,812

63,717

–

–

–

–

39,519

39,519

978

978

310,647

310,647

24,498

24,498

111,926

111,926

59,714

171,640

808

808

112,734

112,734

–

–

–

3

–

59,714

39,295

1,388

808

172,448

39,295

1,391

Assets

Cash and balances at  
central banks¹

Financial assets held at fair 
value through profit or loss

Loans and advances  
to banks²

Loans and advances  
to customers²

Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Debt securities,  
alternative tier one  
and other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Derivative financial 
instruments

Loans and advances  
to banks²

of which – reverse 
repurchase agreements 
and other similar  
secured lending

Loans and advances  
to customers²

of which – reverse 
repurchase agreements 
and other similar  
secured lending

Investment securities

Debt securities,  
alternative tier one  
and other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Assets held for sale

Total at 31 December 2022

101,933

2,859

64,661

79

112,734

282,266

508,826

791,092

1   Cash and balances at central banks includes both cash held in restricted accounts and on demand or placements which are contractually due to mature 

overnight only. Other placements with central banks are reported as part of Loans and advances to customers

2   Further analysed in Risk review and Capital review (pages 230 to 343)

395

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit  
or loss

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar  
secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Short positions

Other liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Repurchase agreements and other similar  
secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Other liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Liabilities included in disposal groups held for sale

Liabilities at fair value

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Total 
financial 
liabilities at 
fair value 
$million

Notes

Trading 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

Total 
$million

–

–

–

39

1,660

–

11,846

–

13,545

52,747

–

–

–

–

–

16

22

14

16

22

23

27

21

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,314

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

28,030

28,030

469,418

469,418

1,894

17,209

39,623

10,817

–

8

69,551

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,894

17,248

41,283

10,817

11,846

8

83,096

56,061

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

12,258

62,546

38,663

12,036

726

1,894

17,248

41,283

10,817

11,846

8

83,096

56,061

12,258

62,546

38,663

12,036

726

Total at 31 December 2023

66,292

3,314

69,551

139,157

623,677

762,834

Liabilities at fair value

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

Total 
financial 
liabilities at 
fair value 
$million

Notes

Trading 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

28,789

Total 
$million

28,789

461,677

461,677

–

–

–

–

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit  
or loss

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar  
secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Short positions

Other liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Repurchase agreements and other similar  
secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Other liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Liabilities included in disposal groups held for sale

–

–

–

29

–

–

6,847

–

6,876

65,316

–

–

–

–

5

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

4,546

–

–

–

–

–

16

22

14

16

22

23

27

21

1,066

11,677

51,706

8,572

–

6

73,027

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,066

11,706

51,706

8,572

6,847

6

79,903

69,862

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

5

2,108

61,242

42,915

13,715

1,230

1,066

11,706

51,706

8,572

6,847

6

79,903

69,862

2,108

61,242

42,915

13,715

1,235

Total at 31 December 2022

72,197

4,546

73,027

149,770

611,676

761,446

396

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Interest rate benchmark reform
During 2023, significant progress was made in support of LIBOR transition.

New LIBOR-referencing business had ceased and a full suite of Risk Free Rate-referencing derivative and cash products were 
standard offerings across the Group.

Having completed the remediation of all non-USD LIBOR exposures at the end of 2021 with no reliance on synthetic rates,  
the Programme focused on remediating legacy USD LIBOR stock ahead of the USD LIBOR cessation date (30 June 2023). 

The Group made significant progress towards completing its remediation of legacy exposures over the course of 2023.  
Clients with legacy USD LIBOR loans were engaged to remediate their contracts via active conversion to alternative rates,  
or other suitable transition mechanisms such as the inclusion of robust fallbacks. For derivatives, the Group adhered to the 
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol for all its trading entities and continued  
to engage clients to do the same or to negotiate remediation bilaterally. The Group also successfully participated in CCP 
conversion events, including both tranches of the London Clearing House (LCH) conversions for USD LIBOR and also the  
SGD/THB conversion, as well as the CME Eurodollar futures and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEX) USD LIBOR 
events. This significantly reduced our overall notional exposure to USD LIBOR, as centrally cleared derivatives and bilateral 
derivatives with fallbacks represented a substantial portion of the Group’s overall USD LIBOR notional exposure.

At 31 December 2023, a number of contracts remain subject to remediation but these are considered immaterial for the Group. 
The largest population of remaining exposures are syndicated loans, either on a standalone basis, or where the loans have 
been hedged with derivatives. These contracts currently operate under a synthetic USD LIBOR rate. 

Risks which the Group is exposed to due to LIBOR transition
The Group has largely mitigated all material adverse outcomes associated with the cessation of IBOR benchmarks, and these 
have not required a change to the Group’s risk management strategy. 

However, the Group will continue to focus on the un-remediated contracts, and manage the risks of the transition until  
fully complete. 

Particular attention will continue to be paid to: legal risk of any contracts that may remain outstanding after the end of 
synthetic LIBOR (currently scheduled for end of September 2024); conduct risk arising from continued remediation; financial  
and accounting risk in terms of the financial impact of IBOR transition for the outstanding contracts, and also financial 
instruments that may be affected by accounting issues such as accounting for contractual changes due to IBOR reform,  
fair value measurement and hedge accounting, as well as other risks inherent in the reform.

As at 31 December 2022 the Group had the following notional principal exposures to interest rate benchmarks that were subject 
to interest rate benchmark reform.

IBOR exposures by benchmark  
at 31 December 2022

Assets

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Debt securities, AT1 and other eligible bills

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other 
secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other 
borrowed funds

Derivatives – Foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Derivatives – Interest rate contracts

Swaps

Forward rate agreements and options

Exchange traded futures and options

Equity and stock index options

Credit derivative contracts

Total IBOR derivative exposure

Total IBOR exposure

Loan commitments off-balance sheet

USD LIBOR 
$million

GBP LIBOR 
$million

SGD SOR 
$million

THB FIX 
$million

Other IBOR 
$million

Total IBOR 
$million

145

21,395

2,843

24,383

332

3,066

671

1,211

–

5,280

135,145

671,534

22,067

31,922

49

3,974

864,691

894,354

2,798

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

420

15

435

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

34

–

–

–

34

2,273

959

7,512

10,998

–

–

–

46

9,831

10,266

14

9

–

–

129

12,095

12,129

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

145

21,815

2,858

24,818

332

3,100

671

1,211

–

5,314

138,377

690,044

22,076

31,922

49

4,149

886,617

916,749

2,812

397

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously. 

In practice, for credit mitigation, the Group is able to offset assets and liabilities which do not meet the IAS 32 netting criteria set 
out below. Such arrangements include master netting arrangements for derivatives and global master repurchase agreements 
for repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions. These agreements generally allow that all outstanding transactions with a 
particular counterparty can be offset but only in the event of default or other predetermined events. 

In addition, the Group also receives and pledges readily realisable collateral for derivative transactions to cover net exposure  
in the event of a default. Under repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements the Group pledges (legally sells) and obtains 
(legally purchases) respectively, highly liquid assets which can be sold in the event of a default. 

The following tables set out the impact of netting on the balance sheet. This comprises derivative transactions settled through 
an enforceable netting agreement where we have the intent and ability to settle net and which are offset on the balance sheet.

Gross amounts  
of recognised 
financial 
instruments 
$million

Impact of  
offset in the 
balance sheet 
$million

2023

Net amounts  
of financial 
instruments 
presented in the 
balance sheet 
$million

Related amount not offset  
in the balance sheet

Financial 
instruments 
$million

Financial 
collateral 
$million

Net amount 
$million

Assets 

Derivative financial instruments

99,929

(49,495)

50,434

(39,293)

(8,440)

Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending

At 31 December 2023

Liabilities

109,413

209,342

(11,832)

(61,327)

97,581

148,015

–

(97,581)

(39,293)

(106,021)

Derivative financial instruments

105,556

(49,495)

56,061

(39,293)

(10,337)

Repurchase agreements and other  
similar secured borrowing

At 31 December 2023

65,373

170,929

(11,832)

(61,327)

53,541

109,602

–

(39,293)

(53,541)

(63,878)

2,701

–

2,701

6,431

–

6,431

Gross amounts  
of recognised 
financial 
instruments 
$million

Impact of  
offset in the 
balance sheet 
$million

2022

Net amounts  
of financial 
instruments 
presented in the 
balance sheet 
$million

Related amount not offset  
in the balance sheet

Financial 
instruments 
$million

Financial 
collateral 
$million

Net amount 
$million

Assets 

Derivative financial instruments

120,799

(57,082)

63,717

(50,133)

(9,206)

Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending

At 31 December 2022

Liabilities

105,891

226,690

(15,924)

(73,006)

89,967

153,684

–

(50,133)

(89,967)

(99,173)

Derivative financial instruments

126,944

(57,082)

69,862

(50,133)

(12,515)

Repurchase agreements and other similar 
secured borrowing

At 31 December 2022

69,738

196,682

(15,924)

(73,006)

53,814

123,676

–

(50,133)

(53,814)

(66,329)

4,378

–

4,378

7,214

–

7,214

Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet comprises:

•  Financial instruments not offset in the balance sheet but covered by an enforceable netting arrangement. This comprises 

master netting arrangements held against derivative financial instruments and excludes the effect of over-collateralisation

•  Financial instruments where a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset may not have been sought, or may 

have been unable to obtain

•  Financial collateral comprises cash collateral pledged and received for derivative financial instruments and collateral bought 
and sold for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements respectively and excludes the effect of over-collateralisation

398

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss

Carrying balance aggregate fair value

Amount contractually obliged to repay at maturity

Difference between aggregate fair value and contractually obliged to repay at maturity

Cumulative change in fair value accredited to credit risk difference

2023 
$million

69,551

71,240

(1,689)

156

2022 
$million

73,027

74,138

(1,111)

(56)

The net fair value loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss was $2,649 million for the year 
(31 December 2022: net loss of $677 million).

Further details of the Group’s own credit adjustment (OCA) valuation technique is described later in this Note. 

Valuation of financial instruments 
The Valuation Methodology function is responsible for independent price verification, oversight of fair value and appropriate 
value adjustments and escalation of valuation issues. Independent price verification is the process of determining that the 
valuations incorporated into the financial statements are validated independent of the business area responsible for the 
product. The Valuation Methodology function has oversight of the fair value adjustments to ensure the financial instruments 
are priced to exit. These are key controls in ensuring the material accuracy of the valuations incorporated in the financial 
statements. The market data used for price verification (PV) may include data sourced from recent trade data involving 
external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers. The Valuation 
Methodology function performs an ongoing review of the market data sources that are used as part of the PV and fair value 
processes which are formally documented on a semi-annual basis detailing the suitability of the market data used for price 
testing. Price verification uses independently sourced data that is deemed most representative of the market the instruments 
trade in. To determine the quality of the market data inputs, factors such as independence, relevance, reliability, availability of 
multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider are taken into consideration. 

The Valuation and Benchmarks Committee (VBC) is the valuation governance forum consisting of representatives from Group 
Market Risk, Product Control, Valuation Methodology and the business, which meets monthly to discuss and approve the 
independent valuations of the inventory. For Principal Finance, the Investment Committee meeting is held on a quarterly basis 
to review investments and valuations.

Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The Group evaluates the significance of financial instruments and material accuracy of the valuations incorporated in the 
financial statements as they involve a high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty in determining the carrying 
values of financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.

•  Fair value of financial instruments is determined using valuation techniques and estimates (see below) which, to the extent 
possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs. Changes in the observability 
of significant valuation inputs can materially affect the fair values of financial instruments.

•  When establishing the exit price of a financial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group estimates valuation 

adjustments in determining the fair value (page 400).

•  In determining the valuation of financial instruments, the Group makes judgements on the amounts reserved to cater for 

model and valuation risks, which cover both Level 2 and Level 3 assets, and the significant valuation judgements in respect 
of Level 3 instruments (page 407).

•  Where the estimated measurement of fair value is more judgemental in respect of Level 3 assets, these are valued based 

on models that use a significant degree of non-market-based unobservable inputs.

399

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Valuation techniques 
Refer to the fair value hierarchy explanation – Level 1, 2 and 3 (page 402)

•  Financial instruments held at fair value

–  Debt securities – asset-backed securities: Asset-backed securities are valued based on external prices obtained from 

consensus pricing providers, broker quotes, recent trades, arrangers’ quotes, etc. Where an observable price is available  
for a given security, it is classified as Level 2. In instances where third-party prices are not available or reliable, the security  
is classified as Level 3. The fair value of Level 3 securities is estimated using market standard cash flow models with input 
parameter assumptions which include prepayment speeds, default rates, discount margins derived from comparable 
securities with similar vintage, collateral type, and credit ratings.

–  Debt securities in issue: These debt securities relate to structured notes issued by the Group. Where independent market 
data is available through pricing vendors and broker sources these positions are classified as Level 2. Where such liquid 
external prices are not available, valuations of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond 
spreads and credit spreads, and are classified as Level 3. These input parameters are determined with reference to the 
same issuer (if available) or proxies from comparable issuers or assets.

–  Derivatives: Derivative products are classified as Level 2 if the valuation of the product is based upon input parameters 
which are observable from independent and reliable market data sources. Derivative products are classified as Level 3  
if there are significant valuation input parameters which are unobservable in the market, such as products where the 
performance is linked to more than one underlying variable. Examples are foreign exchange basket options, equity  
options based on the performance of two or more underlying indices and interest rate products with quanto payouts.  
In most cases these unobservable correlation parameters cannot be implied from the market, and methods such as 
historical analysis and comparison with historical levels or other benchmark data must be employed.

–  Equity shares – private equity: The majority of private equity unlisted investments are valued based on earning multiples 
– Price-to-Earnings (P/E) or enterprise value to earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortisation (EV/EBITDA) 
ratios – of comparable listed companies. The two primary inputs for the valuation of these investments are the actual  
or forecast earnings of the investee companies and earning multiples for the comparable listed companies. To ensure 
comparability between these unquoted investments and the comparable listed companies, appropriate adjustments are 
also applied (for example, liquidity and size) in the valuation. In circumstances where an investment does not have direct 
comparables or where the multiples for the comparable companies cannot be sourced from reliable external sources, 
alternative valuation techniques (for example, discounted cash flow model or net asset value (‘NAV’) or option pricing 
model), which use predominantly unobservable inputs or Level 3 inputs, may be applied. Even though earning multiples  
for the comparable listed companies can be sourced from third-party sources (for example, Bloomberg), and those inputs 
can be deemed Level 2 inputs, all unlisted investments (excluding those where observable inputs are available, for example, 
over-the-counter (OTC) prices) are classified as Level 3 on the basis that the valuation methods involve judgements ranging 
from determining comparable companies to discount rates where the discounted cash flow method is applied.

–  Loans and advances: These primarily include loans in the FM Bond and Loan Syndication business which were not fully 
syndicated as of the balance sheet date and other financing transactions within Financial Markets, and loans and 
advances including reverse repurchase agreements that do not have SPPI cashflows or are managed on a fair value basis. 
These loans are generally bilateral in nature and, where available, their valuation is based on observable clean sales 
transactions prices or market observable spreads. If observable credit spreads are not available, proxy spreads based on 
comparables with similar credit grade, sector and region, are used. Where observable transaction prices, credit spreads 
and market standard proxy methods are available, these loans are classified as Level 2. Where there are no recent 
transactions or comparables, these loans are classified as Level 3.

–  Other debt securities: These debt securities include convertible bonds, corporate bonds, credit and structured notes. 

Where quoted prices are available through pricing vendors, brokers or observable trading activities from liquid markets, 
these are classified as Level 2 and valued using such quotes. Where there are significant valuation inputs which are 
unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product, these are classified as Level 3.  
The valuations of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.  
These input parameters are determined with reference to the same issuer (if available) or proxied from comparable  
issuers or assets .

•  Financial instruments held at amortised cost

The following sets out the Group’s basis for establishing fair values of amortised cost financial instruments and their 
classification between Levels 1, 2 and 3. As certain categories of financial instruments are not actively traded, there is a 
significant level of management judgement involved in calculating the fair values:

–  Cash and balances at central banks: The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their carrying amounts

–  Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: The aggregate fair values are calculated 
based on quoted market prices. For those notes where quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash flow 
model is used based on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity

–  Deposits and borrowings: The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on 
demand. The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted market  
prices is based on discounted cash flows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar Credit Risk and  
remaining maturity 

400

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

–  Investment securities: For investment securities that do not have directly observable market values, the Group utilises a 

number of valuation techniques to determine fair value. Where available, securities are valued using input proxies from the 
same or closely related underlying (for example, bond spreads from the same or closely related issuer) or input proxies from 
a different underlying (for example, a similar bond but using spreads for a particular sector and rating). Certain instruments 
cannot be proxies as set out above, and in such cases the positions are valued using non-market observable inputs. This 
includes those instruments held at amortised cost and predominantly relates to asset-backed securities. The fair value for 
such instruments is usually derived from proxy from internal assessments of the underlying cash flows 

–  Loans and advances to banks and customers: For loans and advances to banks, the fair value of floating rate placements 
and overnight deposits is their carrying amounts. The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits is based on 
discounted cash flows using the prevailing money market rates for debts with a similar Credit Risk and remaining maturity. 
The Group’s loans and advances to customers’ portfolio is well diversified by geography and industry. Approximately a 
quarter of the portfolio re-prices within one month, and approximately half re-prices within 12 months. Loans and advances 
are presented net of provisions for impairment. The fair value of loans and advances to customers with a residual maturity 
of less than one year generally approximates the carrying value. The estimated fair value of loans and advances with a 
residual maturity of more than one year represents the discounted amount of future cash flows expected to be received, 
including assumptions relating to prepayment rates and Credit Risk. Expected cash flows are discounted at current market 
rates to determine fair value. The Group has a wide range of individual instruments within its loans and advances portfolio 
and as a result providing quantification of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical

–  Other assets: Other assets comprise primarily cash collateral and trades pending settlement. The carrying amount of these 
financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are either short term in nature or 
re-price to current market rates frequently.

Fair value adjustments
When establishing the exit price of a financial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group considers adjustments to  
the modelled price which market participants would make when pricing that instrument. The main valuation adjustments 
(described further below) in determining fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows:

Bid-offer valuation adjustment

Credit valuation adjustment

Debit valuation adjustment

Model valuation adjustment

Funding valuation adjustment

Other fair value adjustments

Total

Income deferrals

Day 1 and other deferrals

Total

01.01.23 
$million

Movement 
during the year 
$million

31.12.23 
$million

01.01.22 
$million

Movement 
during the year 
$million

31.12.22 
$million

118

171

(112)

3

46

23

249

186

186

(3)

(52)

(17)

1

(13)

2

(82)

(77)

(77)

115

119

(129)

4

33

25

167

109

109

101

165

(70)

5

–

20

221

147

147

17

6

(42)

(2)

46

3

28

39

39

118

171

(112)

3

46

23

249

186

186

Note: Bracket represents an asset and credit to the income statement

•  Bid-offer valuation adjustment: Generally, market parameters are marked on a mid-market basis in the revaluation systems, 
and a bid-offer valuation adjustment is required to quantify the expected cost of neutralising the business’ positions through 
dealing away in the market, thereby bringing long positions to bid and short positions to offer. The methodology to calculate 
the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves netting between long and short positions and the grouping of risk 
by strike and tenor based on the hedging strategy where long positions are marked to bid and short positions marked to offer 
in the systems.

•  Credit valuation adjustment (CVA): The Group accounts for CVA against the fair value of derivative products. CVA is an 
adjustment to the fair value of the transactions to reflect the possibility that our counterparties may default and we may  
not receive the full market value of the outstanding transactions. It represents an estimate of the adjustment a market 
participant would include when deriving a purchase price to acquire our exposures. CVA is calculated for each subsidiary, and 
within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure and takes account of any collateral we may hold. 
The Group calculates the CVA by using estimates of future positive exposure, market-implied probability of default (PD) and 
recovery rates. Where market-implied data is not readily available, we use market-based proxies to estimate the PD. Wrong-
way risk occurs when the exposure to a counterparty is adversely correlated with the credit quality of that counterparty,  
and the Group has implemented a model to capture this impact for key wrong-way exposures. The Group also captures  
the uncertainties associated with wrong-way risk in the Group’s Prudential Valuation Adjustments framework.

401

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
•  Debit valuation adjustment (DVA): The Group calculates DVA adjustments on its derivative liabilities to reflect changes in  
its own credit standing. The Group’s DVA adjustments will increase if its credit standing worsens and conversely, decrease if  
its credit standing improves. For derivative liabilities, a DVA adjustment is determined by applying the Group’s probability  
of default to the Group’s negative expected exposure against the counterparty. The Group’s probability of default and loss 
expected in the event of default is derived based on bond and CDS spreads associated with the Group’s issuances and 
market standard recovery levels. The expected exposure is modelled based on the simulation of the underlying risk factors 
over the expected life of the deal. This simulation methodology incorporates the collateral posted by the Group and the 
effects of master netting agreements.

•  Model valuation adjustment: Valuation models may have pricing deficiencies or limitations that require a valuation 
adjustment. These pricing deficiencies or limitations arise due to the choice, implementation and calibration of the  
pricing model.

•  Funding valuation adjustment (FVA): The Group makes FVA adjustments against derivative products, including embedded 
derivatives. FVA reflects an estimate of the adjustment to its fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate 
funding costs or benefits that could arise in relation to the exposure. FVA is calculated by determining the net expected 
exposure at a counterparty level and then applying a funding rate to those exposures that reflect the market cost of funding. 
The FVA for uncollateralised (including partially collateralised) derivatives incorporates the estimated present value of the 
market funding cost or benefit associated with funding these transactions.

•  Other fair value adjustments: The Group calculates the fair value on the interest rate callable products by calibrating to a set 

of market prices with differing maturity, expiry and strike of the trades.

•  Day one and other deferrals: In certain circumstances the initial fair value is based on a valuation technique which differs  
to the transaction price at the time of initial recognition. However, these gains can only be recognised when the valuation 
technique used is based primarily on observable market data. In those cases where the initially recognised fair value is based 
on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not observable in the market, the difference between the transaction price 
and the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income statement. The difference is amortised to the income 
statement until the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated. Other deferrals primarily 
represent adjustments taken to reflect the specific terms and conditions of certain derivative contracts which affect the 
termination value at the measurement date.

In addition, the Group calculates own credit adjustment (OCA) on its issued debt designated at fair value, including structured 
notes, in order to reflect changes in its own credit standing. Issued debt is discounted utilising the spread at which similar 
instruments would be issued or bought back at the measurement date as this reflects the value from the perspective of a 
market participant who holds the identical item as an asset. OCA measures the difference between the fair value of issued  
debt as of reporting date and theoretical fair values of issued debt adjusted up or down for changes in own credit spreads  
from inception date to the measurement date. Under IFRS 9 the change in the OCA component is reported under other 
comprehensive income. The Group’s OCA reserve will increase if its credit standing worsens in comparison with the inception  
of the trade and, conversely, decrease if its credit standing improves. The Group’s OCA reserve will reverse over time as its 
liabilities mature.

Fair value hierarchy – financial instruments held at fair value
The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active markets are based on current prices. A market is regarded as 
active if transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on 
an ongoing basis. Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets 
for identical instruments held by the Group. Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor 
liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable 
inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs. Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis 
and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison with instruments that have characteristics similar to those of the 
instruments held by the Group.

Assets and liabilities carried at fair value or for which fair values are disclosed have been classified into three levels according to 
the observability of the significant inputs used to determine the fair values. Changes in the observability of significant valuation 
inputs during the reporting period may result in a transfer of assets and liabilities within the fair value hierarchy. The Group 
recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy when there is a significant change in either its principal market  
or the level of observability of the inputs to the valuation techniques as at the end of the reporting period.

•  Level 1: Fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets  

or liabilities.

•  Level 2: Fair value measurements are those with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for 

identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs 
are observable.

•  Level 3: Fair value measurements are those where inputs which could have a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation 

are not based on observable market data.

402

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
The following tables show the classification of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy:

Assets
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss

Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to customers
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending
Debt securities and other eligible bills
Of which:

Issued by central banks & governments
Issued by corporates other than financial institutions1
Issued by financial institutions1

Equity shares

Derivative financial instruments

Of which:

Foreign exchange
Interest rate
Credit
Equity and stock index options
Commodity

Investment securities

Debt securities and other eligible bills
Of which:

Issued by central banks & governments
Issued by corporates other than financial institutions1
Issued by financial institutions1

Equity shares
Other assets

Level 1 
$million

Level 2 
$million

Level 3 
$million

Total 
$million

–
–
–
27,055

23,465
4
3,586

2,386
954

129
37
–
–
788

2,265
5,252
79,484
24,635

6,557
4,062
14,016

370
49,400

42,414
6,293
438
73
182

55,060

48,196

47,225
820
7,015

199
–

18,983
3,236
25,977

6
–

–
1,960
2,363
1,262

–
346
916

184
80

25
6
47
2
–

72

51
–
21

787
6

2,265
7,212
81,847
52,952

30,022
4,412
18,518

2,940
50,434

42,568
6,336
485
75
970

103,328

66,259
4,056
33,013

992
6

Total financial assets at 31 December 2023

85,654

209,608

6,714

301,976

Liabilities
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss

Deposits by banks
Customer accounts
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing
Debt securities in issue
Short positions

Derivative financial instruments

Of which:

Foreign exchange
Interest rate
Credit
Equity and stock index options
Commodity
Other liabilities

–
–
–
–
7,152

1,560
15,970
41,283
9,776
4,591

749

55,116

122
46
–
–
581
–

45,314
8,262
945
147
448
–

334
1,278
–
1,041
103

196

10
5
162
19
–
8

1,894
17,248
41,283
10,817
11,846

56,061

45,446
8,313
1,107
166
1,029
8

Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2023

7,901

128,296

2,960

139,157

1  

Includes covered bonds of $7,509 million, securities issued by Multilateral Development Banks/International Organisations of $24,192 million and State-owned 
agencies and development banks of $7,564 million

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy that are subject to 
complex modelling techniques is $940 million and $288 million respectively.

There were no significant changes to valuation or levelling approaches during the year 31 December 2023.

There were no significant transfers of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 during 
the year 31 December 2023.

403

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsLevel 1 
$million

Level 2 
$million

Level 3 
$million

Total 
$million

13. Financial instruments continued

Assets

Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending

Debt securities and other eligible bills

Of which:

Issued by central banks & governments
Issued by corporates other than financial institutions1
Issued by financial institutions1

Equity shares

Derivative financial instruments

Of which:

Foreign exchange

Interest rate

Credit

Equity and stock index options

Commodity

Investment securities

–

–

3

14,702

14,086

91

525

3,024

892

139

33

–

–

720

955

4,741

62,490

14,707

4,734

3,452

6,521

24

62,781

54,020

7,351

410

98

902

Debt securities and other eligible bills

56,401

55,525

Of which:

Issued by central banks & governments
Issued by corporates other than financial institutions1
Issued by financial institutions1

Equity shares

Other assets

45,151

1,775

9,475

146

–

22,171

4,045

29,309

7

–

21

1,805

1,998

1,153

–

517

636

182

44

13

28

1

2

–

–

–

–

–

655

7

976

6,546

64,491

30,562

18,820

4,060

7,682

3,230

63,717

54,172

7,412

411

100

1,622

111,926

67,322

5,820

38,784

808

7

Total financial assets at 31 December 2022²

75,168

201,230

5,865

282,263

Liabilities

Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Short positions

–

–

–

–

4,085

778

10,734

51,706

8,121

2,722

Derivative financial instruments

642

69,099

Of which:

Foreign exchange

Interest rate

Credit

Equity and stock index options

Commodity

Other liabilities

101

29

–

–

512

–

56,710

10,020

899

191

1,279

–

288

972

–

451

40

121

12

12

42

55

–

6

1,066

11,706

51,706

8,572

6,847

69,862

56,823

10,061

941

246

1,791

6

Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2022²

4,727

143,160

1,878

149,765

1  

Includes covered bonds of $8,455 million, securities issued by Multilateral Development Banks/International Organisations of $11,438 million , and State-owned 
agencies and development banks of $9,211 million 

2  The above table does not include held for sale assets of $3 million and liabilities of $5 million. These are reported in Note 21 together with their fair value hierarchy

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy that are subject to 
complex modelling techniques is $888 million and $209 million respectively.

404

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Fair value hierarchy – financial instruments measured at amortised cost
The following table shows the carrying amounts and incorporates the Group’s estimate of fair values of those financial assets 
and liabilities not presented on the Group’s balance sheet at fair value. These fair values may be different from the actual 
amount that will be received or paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument. For certain instruments, the fair 
value may be determined using assumptions for which no observable prices are available.

Carrying value 
$million

Level 1 
$million

Level 2 
$million

Level 3 
$million

Total 
$million

Fair value

Assets

Cash and balances at central banks¹

Loans and advances to banks

of which – reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Loans and advances to customers

of which – reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Investment securities²

Other assets¹

Assets held for sale

At 31 December 2023

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured 
borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities¹

Liabilities held for sale

At 31 December 2023

Assets

Cash and balances at central banks¹

Loans and advances to banks

of which – reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Loans and advances to customers

of which – reverse repurchase agreements and other 
similar secured lending

Investment securities²

Other assets¹

Assets held for sale

At 31 December 2022

Liabilities

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured 
borrowing

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities¹

Liabilities held for sale

At 31 December 2022

69,905

44,977

1,738

286,975

13,996

56,935

38,140

701

497,633

28,030

469,418

12,258

62,546

12,036

38,663

726

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

101

101

–

–

–

31,255

11,119

–

54

69,905

44,921

1,738

53,472

13,827

54,419

38,140

541

–

–

–

226,211

169

33

–

59

69,905

44,921

1,738

279,683

13,996

54,452

38,140

701

261,398

226,303

487,802

28,086

460,224

12,258

30,859

336

38,663

672

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

28,086

460,224

12,258

62,114

11,455

38,663

726

613,526

623,677

42,428

571,098

Fair value

Carrying value 
$million

Level 1 
$million

Level 2 
$million

Level 3 
$million

Total 
$million

58,263

39,519

978

310,647

24,498

59,714

39,295

1,388

508,826

28,789

461,677

2,108

61,242

13,715

42,915

1,230

611,676

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

344

344

–

–

–

24,624

12,445

–

398

58,263

39,488

924

58,663

15,727

56,444

39,295

946

–

–

–

251,560

8,911

25

–

98

253,099

251,683

28,813

461,665

2,108

36,148

385

42,914

832

37,467

572,865

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

1

58,263

39,488

924

310,223

24,638

56,469

39,295

1,388

505,126

28,813

461,665

2,108

60,772

12,830

42,915

1,230

610,333

1   The carrying amount of these financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are short-term in nature or reprice to 

current market rates frequently

2   Includes Government bonds and Treasury bills of $19,422 million at 31 December 2023 and $17,943 million at 31 December 2022

405

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
The Group has changed its method of determining the cost of its portfolio of Investment Securities held at amortised cost and 
Debt securities and other eligible bills, other than those included within financial instruments held at fair value through profit or 
loss, from the weighted average cost method to the first-in-first-out method. This change in accounting policy will affect the 
calculation of gains or losses on derecognition of such instruments and the determination of the initial credit risk of these 
instruments, to better align with the IFRS 9 requirements for recognising and measuring impairment losses. The change was 
made prospectively for certain but not all securities and transactions. It is impracticable for the Group to determine the impact 
of this approach for each security and each transaction that was executed in previous periods. 

Loans and advances to customers by client segment¹

Corporate, Commercial &  
Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

At 31 December 2023

Corporate, Commercial &  
Institutional Banking

Consumer, Private & Business Banking

Ventures

Central & other items

At 31 December 2022

Carrying value

Stage 1 and 
stage 2 
$million

Stage 3  
$million

2023

Total 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

1,975

724

–

209

128,430

125,335

1,033

29,269

130,405

126,059

1,033

29,478

1,910

721

–

209

Fair value

Stage 1 and 
stage 2 
$million

125,841

120,701

1,032

29,269

Total 
$million

127,751

121,422

1,032

29,478

2,908

284,067

286,975

2,840

276,843

279,683

Carrying value

Stage 1 and  
stage 2 
$million

2022

Total 
$million

Stage 3 
$million

137,150

130,278

698

39,133

307,259

139,631

130,955

698

39,363

310,647

2,525

685

–

230

3,440

Stage 3 
$million

2,481

677

–

230

3,388

Fair value

Stage 1 and  
stage 2 
$million

137,187

131,679

696

37,221

Total 
$million

139,712

132,364

696

37,451

306,783

310,223

1   Loans and advances includes reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending: carrying value $13,996 million and fair value $13,996 million  

(31 December 2022: $24,498 million and $24,638 million respectively)

406

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Fair value of financial instruments

Level 3 Summary and significant unobservable inputs
The following table presents the Group’s primary Level 3 financial instruments which are held at fair value. The table also 
presents the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant unobservable 
inputs, the range of values for those inputs and the weighted average of those inputs:

Instrument
Loans and advances to 
customers
Reverse repurchase agreements 
and other similar secured lending
Debt securities, alternative tier 
one and other eligible securities

Value as at 
31 December 2023

Assets 
$million
1,960

Liabilities 
$million

Principal valuation  
technique

– Discounted cash flows

2,363

– Discounted cash flows

1,283

– Discounted cash flows

Government bonds and  
treasury bills
Equity shares (includes private 
equity investments)

51

971

Internal pricing model

– Discounted cash flows

– Comparable  

pricing/yield

Discounted cash flows
Option pricing model

Other assets
Derivative financial instruments 
of which:

6

– NAV

Foreign exchange

25

10 Option pricing model

Interest rate
Credit

Equity and stock index

Deposits by banks
Customer accounts

Discounted cash flows

6
47

2

–
–

5 Discounted cash flows
162 Discounted cash flows

19

Internal pricing model

334 Discounted cash flows
1,278 Discounted cash flows

Internal pricing model

Debt securities in issue

–

1,041 Discounted cash flows

Internal pricing model

Short positions
Other liabilities

Total

–
–

103 Discounted cash flows

8 Comparable  

pricing/yield

6,714

2,960

Significant unobservable 
inputs
Price/yield
Credit spreads
Repo curve
Price/yield
Price/yield
Recovery rates
Equity-Equity correlation
Equity-FX correlation
Price/yield

Range1
1.7% – 100%
0.1% – 1.0%
5.1% – 7.6%
(2.7)% – 10.3%
(14.0)% – 25.8%
0.1% – 1.0%

Weighted 
average2
12.0%
0.6%
6.3%
6.0%
10.1%
0.2%
44.1% – 100% 80.7%
(35.9)% – 45.5% 14.2%
17.7% – 21.8% 20.6%

EV/EBITDA multiples
EV/Revenue multiples
P/E multiples
P/B multiples
P/S multiples
Liquidity discount
Discount rates
Equity value based on 
EV/Revenue multiples
Equity value based on 
EV/EBITDA multiples
Equity value based on 
volatility
N/A

Foreign exchange 
option implied volatility
Interest rate curves
Foreign exchange 
curves
Interest rate curves
Credit spreads
Price/yield
Equity-Equity correlation
Equity-FX correlation
Credit spreads
Credit spreads
Interest rate curves
Price/yield
Equity-Equity correlation
Equity-FX correlation
Credit spreads
Price/yield
Interest rate curves
Equity-Equity correlation
Equity-FX correlation
Bond option implied 
volatility
Price/yield
EV/EBITDA multiples

13.8x – 15.6x
9.3x – 30.9x
10.6x – 51.8x
0.3x – 2.7x
0.2x – 1.6x
7.5% – 20.0%
9.2% – 35.6%
8.4x – 42.5x

14.9x
15.8x
45.7x
1.6x
0.3x
15.1%
17.0%
27.5x

3.1x – 3.1x

3.1x

21.0% – 65.0%

30.1%

N/A

N/A

0.5% – 51%

31.8%

3.6% – 5.8%
0.6% – 64.2%

3.8%
12.8%

3.6% – 8.6%
1.0% – 1.0%
1.7% – 16.3%

5.0%
1.0%
8.6%
44.1% – 100% 80.7%
(35.9)% – 45.5% 14.2%
1.9%
0.1% – 3.4%
1.2%
1.0% – 2.0%
6.1%
2.9% – 8.6%
4.8% – 15.2%
9.9%
44.1% – 100% 80.7%
(35.9)% – 45.5% 14.2%
1.1%
17.9%
4.4%
44.1% – 100% 80.7%
(35.9)% – 45.5% 14.2%
4.4%

0.3% – 1.6%
6.6% – 20.9%
2.9% – 5.3%

2.9% – 5.3%

7.1% – 7.1%
5.8x – 11.2x

7.1%
8.5x

1   The ranges of values shown in the above table represent the highest and lowest levels used in the valuation of the Group’s Level 3 financial instruments as  
at 31 December 2023. The ranges of values used are reflective of the underlying characteristics of these Level 3 financial instruments based on the market 
conditions at the balance sheet date. However, these ranges of values may not represent the uncertainty in fair value measurements of the Group’s Level 3 
financial instruments

2   Weighted average for non-derivative financial instruments has been calculated by weighting inputs by the relative fair value. Weighted average for  

derivatives has been provided by weighting inputs by the risk relevant to that variable. N/A has been entered for the cases where weighted average is not  
a meaningful indicator

407

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Value as at  
31 December 2022

Instrument

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

Principal valuation  
technique

Significant unobservable 
inputs

Range1

Weighted 
average2 

Loans and advances to banks

21

– Discounted cash flows Price/yield

Loans and advances  
to customers

Reverse repurchase 
agreements and other similar 
secured lending
Debt securities, alternative tier 
one and other eligible securities

Government bonds and 
treasury bills
Asset-backed securities
Equity shares (includes private 
equity investments)

1,805

1,998

1,152

–

1
837

Other assets
Derivative financial instruments 
of which:

Foreign exchange

Interest rate

Credit

Equity and stock index

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Debt securities in issue

Short position
Other liabilities

7

13

28

1

2

–

–

–

–
–

Credit spreads

– Discounted cash flows Price/yield

– Discounted cash flows Repo curve

Recovery rates

Price/yield
– Discounted cash flows Price/yield

– Discounted cash flows Price/yield

Recovery rates

– Discounted cash flows Price/yield
– Comparable pricing/

yield

EV/EBITDA multiples
EV/Revenue multiples
P/E multiples
P/B multiples
P/S multiples
Liquidity discount

Discounted cash flows Discount rates
Option pricing model

Equity value based on 
EV/Revenue multiples
Equity value based on 
EV/EBITDA multiples
Equity value based on 
volatility
N/A

– NAV

N/A
2.9%
0.3% – 18.2%
5.0% – 100%
2.3% – 8.0%

1.9%-7.2%
3.1%–48.5%
0.0% – 1.0%
N/A

6.8%
7.0x – 13.1x
8.2x – 23.2x
13.4x – 29.7x
0.3x – 3.3x
2.1x – 2.2x
10.0% – 29.7%
7.5% – 16.4%
4.8x – 76.1x

N/A
2.9%
5.3%
90.5%
6.2%

6.0%
7.1%
0.2%
N/A

6.8%
11.0x
12.9x
17.6x
1.3x
2.2x
17.5%
9.4%
32.9x

2.6x

2.6x

60.0%

60.0%

N/A

N/A

(21.0)% – 21.0%

(2.7)%

(4.6)% – 81.8%

15.9%

(2.1)% – 50.2%
N/A

12 Option pricing model

Discounted cash flows

12 Discounted cash flows
Option pricing model

Foreign exchange 
option implied volatility
Foreign exchange 
curves
Interest rate curves
Bond option implied 
volatility

42 Discounted cash flows Credit spreads

55 Internal pricing model

288 Discounted cash flows Credit spreads

972 Discounted cash flows Credit spreads

Internal pricing model

Discounted cash flows

451 Discounted cash flows Credit spreads

Price/yield

0.1% – 2.3%
Price/yield
7.2% – 9.7%
Equity-Equity correlation 30.0% – 96.0%
(70.0)% – 85.0%
Equity-FX correlation
0.9% – 3.4%
6.0%
0.9% – 19.1%
Equity-Equity correlation 30.0% – 96.0%
(70.0)% – 85.0%
Equity-FX correlation
Interest rate curves
N/A
3.1% – 22.9%
Price/yield
0.3% – 7.0%
Price/yield
6.8% – 12.4%
Equity-Equity correlation 30.0% – 96.0%
(70.0)% – 85.0%
Equity-FX correlation
6.8%
4.2x – 9.0x

EV/EBITDA multiples

Internal pricing model

40 Discounted cash flows Price/yield

6 Comparable pricing/

yield

10.6%
N/A

1.4%
7.2%
67.0%
37.0%
1.8%
6.0%
10.3%
67.0%
37.0%
N/A
17.8%
4.7%
9.1%
67.0%
37.0%
6.8%
6.1x

Total

5,865

1,878

1   The ranges of values shown in the above table represent the highest and lowest levels used in the valuation of the Group’s Level 3 financial instruments as  
at 31 December 2022. The ranges of values used are reflective of the underlying characteristics of these Level 3 financial instruments based on the market 
conditions at the balance sheet date. However, these ranges of values may not represent the uncertainty in fair value measurements of the Group’s Level 3 
financial instruments

2   Weighted average for non-derivative financial instruments has been calculated by weighting inputs by the relative fair value. Weighted average for  

derivatives has been provided by weighting inputs by the risk relevant to that variable. N/A has been entered for the cases where weighted average is not  
a meaningful indicator

408

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the valuation technique table:

•  Comparable price/yield is a valuation methodology in which the price of a comparable instrument is used to estimate the 
fair value where there are no direct observable prices. Yield is the interest rate that is used to discount the future cash flows  
in a discounted cash flow model. Valuation using comparable instruments can be done by calculating an implied yield (or 
spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a comparable instrument, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to derive a 
value for the instrument. The adjustment should account for relevant differences in the financial instruments such as maturity 
and/or credit quality. Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable instrument and the 
instrument being valued in order to establish the value of the instrument (for example, deriving a fair value for a junior 
unsecured bond from the price of a senior secured bond). An increase in price, in isolation, would result in a favourable 
movement in the fair value of the asset. An increase in yield, in isolation, would result in an unfavourable movement in the  
fair value of the asset

•  Correlation is the measure of how movement in one variable influences the movement in another variable. An equity 

correlation is the correlation between two equity instruments while an interest rate correlation refers to the correlation 
between two swap rates

•  Credit spread represents the additional yield that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the Credit Risk 

of an instrument

•  Discount rate refers to the rate of return used to convert expected cash flows into present value 

•  Equity-FX correlation is the correlation between equity instrument and foreign exchange instrument

•  EV/EBITDA multiple is the ratio of Enterprise Value (EV) to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation 

(EBITDA). EV is the aggregate market capitalisation and debt minus the cash and cash equivalents. An increase in EV/EBITDA 
multiple will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  EV/Revenue multiple is the ratio of Enterprise Value (EV) to Revenue. An increase in EV/Revenue multiple will result in a 

favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  Foreign exchange curves is the term structure for forward rates and swap rates between currency pairs over a specified 

period

•  Net asset value (NAV) is the value of an entity’s assets after deducting any liabilities

•  Interest rate curves is the term structure of interest rates and measures of future interest rates at a particular point in time

•  Liquidity discounts in the valuation of unlisted investments are primarily applied to the valuation of unlisted firms’ 

investments to reflect the fact that these stocks are not actively traded. An increase in liquidity discount will result in an 
unfavourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  Price-Earnings (P/E) multiple is the ratio of the market value of the equity to the net income after tax. An increase in P/E 

multiple will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  Price-Book (P/B) multiple is the ratio of the market value of equity to the book value of equity. An increase in P/B multiple will 

result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  Price-Sales (P/S) multiple is the ratio of the market value of equity to sales. An increase in P/S multiple will result in a 

favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm

•  Recovery rates is the expectation of the rate of return resulting from the liquidation of a particular loan. As the probability of 
default increases for a given instrument, the valuation of that instrument will increasingly reflect its expected recovery level 
assuming default. An increase in the recovery rate, in isolation, would result in a favourable movement in the fair value of  
the loan

•  Repo curve is the term structure of repo rates on repos and reverse repos at a particular point in time

•  Volatility represents an estimate of how much a particular instrument, parameter or index will change in value over time. 

Generally, the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be. 

409

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Level 3 movement tables – financial assets
The table below analyses movements in Level 3 financial assets carried at fair value.

Held at fair value through profit or loss

Investment securities

2023

Reverse 
repurchase 
agreements 
and other 
similar 
secured 
lending 
$million

Debt 
securities, 
alternative 
tier one and 
other 
eligible bills 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to customers 
$million

Equity 
shares 
$million

Other 
Assets 
$million

Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
$million

Debt 
securities, 
alternative 
tier one  
and other 
eligible bills 
$million

21

1,805

1,998

1,153

182

7

44

(35)

–

(35)

(107)

(292)

–

–

(107)

(304)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,784

(1,133)

(442)

(225)

206

1,960

5,902

(3,942)

(1,488)

–

–

2,363

12

–

–

–

1,082

(518)

(305)

(6)

148

1,262

4

–

5

(1)

–

–

–

8

(10)

–

–

–

184

(1)

–

–

(1)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

6

12

–

12

–

–

–

–

189

(115)

(25)

(27)

2

80

Equity 
shares 
$million

Total 
$million

655

5,865

–

–

–

–

(419)

–

(429)

10

101

100

108

(7)

61

108

(8)

9,069

(5)

(5,768)

–

(2,260)

(32)

(327)

7

454

787

6,714

–

–

–

–

–

(1)

–

(1)

21

(23)

–

(16)

91

72

Assets

At 1 January 2023

Total (losses)/gains 
recognised in  
income statement

Net interest income

Net trading income

Other operating income

Total (losses)/gains 
recognised in other 
comprehensive income 
(OCI)

Fair value through  
OCI reserve

Exchange difference

Purchases

Sales

Settlements
Transfers out1
Transfers in2

At 31 December 2023

Total unrealised (losses)/
gains recognised in  
the income statement, 
within net trading income, 
relating to change in fair 
value of assets held at  
31 December 2023

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

22

(22)

–

(21)

–

–

–

(3)

3

(1)

4

–

(12)

–

–

(9)

1   Transfers out includes loans and advances, debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills, equity shares and derivative financial instruments where the 

valuation parameters became observable during the period and were transferred to Level 1 and Level 2

2   Transfers in primarily relates to loans and advances, debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills, equity shares and derivative financial instruments 

where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year

410

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued
The table below analyses movements in Level 3 financial assets carried at fair value.

Held at fair value through profit or loss

Investment securities

2022

Reverse 
repurchase 
agreements 
and other 
similar 
secured 
lending 
$million

Debt 
securities, 
alternative 
tier one  
and other 
eligible bills 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to customers 
$million

Equity 
shares 
$million

Other 
Assets 
$million

Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
$million

9

1,357

1,566

349

186

26

(16)

–

(16)

–

–

–

–

55

(30)

(19)

–

22

21

(132)

–

(132)

–

–

–

–

1,605

(237)

(877)

(160)

249

1,805

2

–

2

–

–

–

–

7

–

7

–

–

–

–

6,438

(5,484)

(524)

–

–

1,063

(342)

(1)

–

77

4

–

4

–

–

–

–

2

(10)

–

–

–

1,998

1,153

182

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

8

(10)

–

(17)

–

7

90

30

–

30

–

–

–

–

118

(99)

(80)

(29)

14

44

Debt 
securities, 
alternative 
tier one  
and other 
eligible bills 
$million

Equity 
shares 
$million

Total 
$million

40

493

4,116

–

–

–

–

(1)

(1)

–

–

–

(39)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(8)

(1)

(7)

(105)

–

(105)

–

(9)

(2)

(7)

166

9,455

(6)

(6,218)

–

–

10

655

(1,540)

(206)

372

5,865

–

–

–

–

3

–

(2)

–

–

1

Assets

At 1 January 2022

Total (losses)/gains 
recognised in  
income statement

Net interest income

Net trading income

Other operating income

Total losses recognised in 
other comprehensive 
income (OCI)

Fair value through  
OCI reserve

Exchange difference

Purchases

Sales

Settlements
Transfers out1
Transfers in2

At 31 December 2022

Total unrealised gains/
(losses) recognised in  
the income statement, 
within net trading income, 
relating to change in fair 
value of assets held at  
31 December 2022

1   Transfers out includes loans and advances, other assets and derivative financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the 

period and were transferred to Level 1 and Level 2

2   Transfers in primarily relates to loans and advances, debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills and derivative financial instruments where the 

valuation parameters became unobservable during the year

411

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Level 3 movement tables – financial liabilities

At 1 January 2023

Total losses/(gains) recognised in income statement 
– net trading income

Issues

Settlements
Transfers out1
Transfers in2

At 31 December 2023

Total unrealised (gains)/losses recognised in the 
income statement, within net trading income, 
relating to change in fair value of liabilities held  
at 31 December 2023

Deposits  
by banks 
$million

Customer 
accounts 
$million

2023

Debt 
securities  
in issue 
$million

Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
$million

Short 
positions 
$million

Other 
liabilities 
$million

972

451

121

40

288

7

628

(6)

1,789

39

1,489

(585)

(1,491)

(1,218)

(4)

–

(9)

23

(85)

365

334

1,278

1,041

(52)

447

(312)

(11)

3

196

3

100

(40)

–

–

103

–

(21)

6

(47)

–

–

(62)

Deposits  
by banks 
$million

Customer 
accounts 
$million

2022

Debt 
securities  
in issue 
$million

Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
$million

Short 
positions 
$million

Other 
liabilities 
$million

Total 
$million

1,878

(6)

4,453

(3,646)

(110)

391

2,960

Total 
$million

1,653

(120)

3,399

(3,120)

(66)

132

1,878

(28)

6

3

–

–

(1)

–

8

1

5

–

–

–

–

6

–

At 1 January 2022

283

454

821

Total (gains)/losses recognised in income statement 
– net trading income

Issues

Settlements
Transfers out1
Transfers in2

At 31 December 2022

Total unrealised gains recognised in the income 
statement, within net trading income, relating  
to change in fair value of liabilities held at  
31 December 2022

(37)

447

(82)

1,818

(158)

815

(400)

(1,266)

(1,066)

(5)

–

288

–

48

972

(38)

77

451

94

155

179

(291)

(23)

7

121

–

(3)

140

(97)

–

–

40

(1)

(17)

(7)

(3)

–

1   Transfers out during the year primarily relates to bank deposits, customer accounts debt securities in issue, other liabilities and derivative financial instruments 

where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial liabilities

2   Transfers in during the year primarily relates to derivative financial instruments, customer accounts and debt securities in issue where the valuation parameters 

become unobservable during the year

412

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements13. Financial instruments continued

Sensitivities in respect of the fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities
Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs. The Group applies a 10 per cent increase or 
decrease on the values of these unobservable inputs, to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations. The 
percentage shift is determined by statistical analysis performed on a set of reference prices based on the composition of the 
Group’s Level 3 inventory as the measurement date. Favourable and unfavourable changes (which show the balance adjusted 
for input change) are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the 
unobservable parameters. The Level 3 sensitivity analysis assumes a one-way market move and does not consider offsets  
for hedges.

Held at fair value through profit or loss

Held at fair value through other comprehensive income

Net exposure 
$million

Favourable 
changes 
$million

Unfavourable 
changes 
$million

Net exposure 
$million

Favourable 
changes 
$million

Unfavourable 
changes 
$million

Financial instruments held at fair value 

Loans and advances

1,960

1,985

1,918

Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending

Debt securities, alternative tier one and 
other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Derivative financial instruments

Customers accounts

Deposits by banks

Short positions

Debt securities in issue

Other liabilities

At 31 December 2023

Financial instruments held at fair value 

Loans and advances

Reverse repurchase agreements and 
other similar secured lending

Asset backed securities

Debt securities, alternative tier one and 
other eligible bills

Equity shares

Other assets

Derivative financial instruments

Customers accounts

Deposits by banks

Short positions

Debt securities in issue

Other liabilities

At 31 December 2022

2,363

2,390

2,336

1,262

184

6

(116)

(1,278)

(334)

(103)

(1,041)

(8)

2,895

1,826

1,998

1

1,152

182

7

(77)

(972)

(288)

(40)

(451)

(6)

3,332

1,309

202

7

(75)

(1,191)

(334)

(101)

(966)

(7)

3,219

1,851

2,013

1

1,168

200

8

(44)

(934)

(283)

(39)

(419)

(5)

3,517

1,193

166

5

(157)

(1,365)

(334)

(105)

(1,115)

(9)

2,533

1,758

1,979

1

1,124

164

6

(109)

(1,010)

(293)

(41)

(482)

(7)

3,090

–

–

72

787

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

78

866

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

66

708

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

859

944

774

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

655

715

595

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

655

715

595

The reasonably possible alternatives could have increased or decreased the fair values of financial instruments held at fair 
value through profit or loss and those classified as fair value through other comprehensive income by the amounts disclosed 
below.

Financial instruments

Held at fair value through profit or loss

Fair value changes

Possible increase

Possible decrease

Fair value through other comprehensive income

Possible increase

Possible decrease

2023
$million

2022 
$million

324

(362)

85

(85)

185

(242)

60

(60)

413

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments

Accounting policy
Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation 
techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models, as appropriate. Where the initially recognised 
fair value of a derivative contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not observable in the market,  
it follows the same initial recognition accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities. All derivatives are carried 
as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.

Hedge accounting
Under certain conditions, the Group may designate a recognised asset or liability, a firm commitment, highly probable 
forecast transaction or net investment of a foreign operation into a formal hedge accounting relationship with a derivative 
that has been entered to manage interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks present in the hedged item. The Group applied 
the ‘Phase 1’ hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and the ‘Phase 
2’ amendments to IFRS in respect of interest rate benchmark reform. There are three categories of hedge relationships:

•  Fair value hedge: to manage the fair value of interest rate and/or foreign currency risks of recognised assets or liabilities  

or firm commitments

•  Cash flow hedge: to manage interest rate or foreign exchange risk of highly probable future cash flows attributable to  

a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction

•  Net investment hedge: to manage the structural foreign exchange risk of an investment in a foreign operation.

The Group assesses, both at hedge inception and on a quarterly basis, whether the derivatives designated in hedge 
relationships are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Hedges are considered  
to be highly effective if all the following criteria are met:

•  At inception of the hedge and throughout its life, the hedge is prospectively expected to be highly effective in achieving 

offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk

•  Prospective and retrospective effectiveness of the hedge should be within a range of 80–125%. This is tested using 

regression analysis

•  The regression co-efficient (R squared), which measures the correlation between the variables in the regression, is at  

least 80%.

In the case of the hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction must have a high probability of occurring and must 
present an exposure to variations in cash flows that are expected to affect reported profit or loss.

Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in  
net trading income, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the 
hedged risk. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a 
hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the remaining term  
to maturity of the hedged item. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. For financial assets classified as fair value through other comprehensive income,  
the hedge accounting adjustment attributable to the hedged risk is included in net trading income to match the  
hedging derivative.

Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedging 
instruments are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, accumulating in the cash flow hedge reserve within 
equity. These amounts are subsequently recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. Both the derivative fair value movement and any recycled amount are recorded in the ‘Cashflow hedges’ line 
item in other comprehensive income. 

The Group assesses hedge effectiveness using the hypothetical derivative method, which creates a derivative instrument to 
serve as a proxy for the hedged transaction. The terms of the hypothetical derivative match the critical terms of the hedged 
item and it has a fair value of zero at inception. The hypothetical derivative and the actual derivative are regressed to 
establish the statistical significance of the hedge relationship. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in the net trading income immediately.

If a cash flow hedge is discontinued, the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve is released to the income 
statement as and when the hedged item affects the income statement.

Should the Group consider the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur due to reasons, the cumulative gain 
or loss will be immediately reclassified to profit or loss.

Net investment hedge
Hedges of net investments are accounted for in a similar manner to cash flow hedges, with gains and losses arising on the 
effective portion of the hedges recorded in the line ‘Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations’ in other 
comprehensive income, accumulating in the translation reserve within equity. These amounts remain in equity until the  
net investment is disposed of. The ineffective portion of the hedges is recognised in the net trading income immediately.

414

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

The tables below analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of derivative financial 
instruments. Notional principal amounts are the amounts of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.

2023

2022

Derivatives

Foreign exchange derivative contracts:

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Interest rate derivative contracts:

Swaps

Forward rate agreements and options

Exchange traded futures and options

Credit derivative contracts

Equity and stock index options 

Commodity derivative contracts

Gross total derivatives 

Offset

Total derivatives 

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

3,628,067

1,145,702

4,773,769

4,841,616

313,253

5,154,869

325,051

281,130

8,671

117,436

10,660,926

–

10,660,926

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

30,897

11,671

42,568

53,735

2,057

55,792

39

485

75

970

99,929

(49,495)

50,434

32,601

12,845

45,446

55,241

2,520

57,761

47

1,107

166

1,029

105,556

(49,495)

56,061

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

3,154,440

1,168,026

4,322,466

3,516,310

98,465

3,614,775

324,702

249,082

6,788

90,952

8,608,765

–

8,608,765

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

38,162

16,010

54,172

62,001

2,214

64,215

279

411

100

1,622

120,799

(57,082)

63,717

39,376

17,447

56,823

64,005

2,880

66,885

258

941

246

1,791

126,944

(57,082)

69,862

The Group limits exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain 
market counterparties. As required by IAS 32, exposures are only presented net in these accounts where they are subject to  
legal right of offset and intended to be settled net in the ordinary course of business.

The Group applies balance sheet offsetting only in the instance where we are able to demonstrate legal enforceability of the 
right to offset (e.g. via legal opinion) and the ability and intention to settle on a net basis (e.g. via operational practice).

The Group may enter into economic hedges that do not qualify for IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, including derivatives 
such as interest rate swaps, interest rate futures and cross-currency swaps to manage interest rate and currency risks of the 
Group. These derivatives are measured at fair value, with fair value changes recognised in net trading income: refer to Market 
Risk (page 286).

Derivatives held for hedging
The Group enters into derivative contracts for the purpose of hedging interest rate, currency and structural foreign exchange 
risks inherent in assets, liabilities and forecast transactions. The table below summarises the notional principal amounts and 
carrying values of derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships at the reporting date.

Included in the table above are derivatives held for hedging purposes as follows:

2023

2022

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

Derivatives designated as  
fair value hedges:

Interest rate swaps

Currency swaps

Derivatives designated as  
cash flow hedges:

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts 

Currency swaps

Derivatives designated as net 
investment hedges:

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Total derivatives held for hedging

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

69,347

115

69,462

41,834

12,071

14,321

68,226

15,436

153,124

2,397

6

2,403

537

183

150

870

1,264

10

1,274

184

420

191

795

32

2,101

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

80,760

1,273

82,033

31,977

11,987

11,787

55,751

2,438

16

2,454

100

99

86

285

41

3,314

14,576

152,360

120

2,859

2,939

48

2,987

671

385

362

1,418

141

4,546

415

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

Fair value hedges 
The Group issues various long-term fixed-rate debt issuances that are measured at amortised cost, including some 
denominated in foreign currency, such as unsecured senior and subordinated debt (see Notes 22 and 27). The Group also holds 
various fixed rate debt securities such as government and corporate bonds, including some denominated in foreign currency 
(see Note 13). These assets and liabilities held are exposed to changes in fair value due to movements in market interest and 
foreign currency rates.

The Group uses interest rate swaps to exchange fixed rates for floating rates on funding to match floating rates received on 
assets, or exchange fixed rates on assets to match floating rates paid on funding. The Group further uses cross-currency swaps 
to match the currency of the issued debt or held asset with that of the entity’s functional currency. 

Hedge ineffectiveness from fair value hedges is driven by cross-currency basis risk and interest cashflows mismatch between 
the hedging instruments and underlying hedged items. The amortisation of fair value hedge adjustments for hedged items no 
longer designated is recognised in net interest income.

At 31 December 2023 the Group held the following interest rate and cross- currency swaps as hedging instruments in fair value 
hedges of interest and currency risk.

Hedging instruments and ineffectiveness

Interest rate1

Interest rate swaps – debt securities/subordinated  
notes issued

Interest rate swaps – loans and advances

Interest rate swaps – debt securities and other  
eligible bills
Interest and currency risk1

Cross-currency swaps – debt securities/subordinated 
notes issued

Cross-currency swaps – debt securities and other  
eligible bills

2023

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

Change in fair 
value used to 
calculate hedge 
ineffectiveness2
$million

Ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
$million

45,455

1,203

22,689

70

45

381

26

857

–

10

2,267

1

271

(20)

129

(459)

6

–

(2)

11

(199)

(4)

–

(17)

–

–

(21)

Total at 31 December 2023

69,462

1,274

2,403

1  

Interest rate swaps are designated in hedges of the fair value of interest rate risk attributable to the hedged item. Cross currency swaps are used to hedge  
both interest rate and currency risks. All the hedging instruments are derivatives, with changes in fair value including hedge ineffectiveness recorded within  
net trading income

2  This represents a (loss)/gains change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

Interest rate1

Interest rate swaps – debt securities/subordinated  
notes issued

Interest rate swaps – loans and advances

Interest rate swaps – debt securities and other  
eligible bills
Interest and currency risk1

Cross-currency swaps – debt securities/subordinated 
notes issued

Cross-currency swaps – debt securities and other  
eligible bills

Total at 31 December 2022

2022

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

41,772

1,117

112

68

37,871

2,258

72

1,201

82,033

–

16

2,454

Change in fair 
value used to 
calculate hedge 
ineffectiveness2
$million

Ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
$million

(3,020)

53

3,127

(260)

(9)

(109)

(7)

(1)

13

12

4

21

Liability 
$million

2,914

–

25

4

44

2,987

1  

Interest rate swaps are designated in hedges of the fair value of interest rate risk attributable to the hedged item. Cross currency swaps are used to hedge both 
interest rate and currency risks. All the hedging instruments are derivatives, with changes in fair value including hedge ineffectiveness recorded within net trading 
income

2  This represents a (loss)/gains change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

416

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

Hedged items in fair value hedges

2023

Carrying amount

Accumulated amount of fair value 
hedge adjustments included in the 
carrying amount

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

Change in the 
value used for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Cumulative 
balance of  
fair value 
adjustments 
from de-
designated 
hedge 
relationships2
$million

Debt securities /subordinated  
notes issued

Debt securities and other eligible bills

Loans and advances to customers

Total at 31 December 2023

–

46,156

21,473

1,183

22,656

–

–

46,156

–

(553)

(20)

(573)

2022

1,761

(273)

–

–

1,761

431

20

178

360

744

13

1,117

Carrying amount

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

–

42,702

36,028

1,051

37,079

–

–

42,702

Accumulated amount of fair value 
hedge adjustments included in the 
carrying amount

Asset 
$million

–

(2,075)

(65)

(2,140)

Liability 
$million

2,756

–

–

2,756

Cumulative 
balance of  
fair value 
adjustments  
from de-
designated 
hedge 
relationships2
$million

Change in fair 
value used for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

3,285

(3,101)

(54)

130

414

441

1

856

Debt securities /subordinated  
notes issued

Debt securities and other eligible bills

Loans and advances to customers

Total at 31 December 2022

1   This represents a gain/(loss) change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

2  This represents a credit/(debit) to the balance sheet value

Income statement impact of fair value hedges

Change in fair value of hedging instruments

Change in fair value of hedged risks attributable to hedged items

Net ineffectiveness (loss)/gain to net trading income

Amortisation gain to net interest income

2023 
Income/
(expense)
$million

2022 
Income/
(expense)
$million

(199)

178

(21)

232

(109)

130

21

141

Cash flow hedges
The Group has exposure to market movements in future interest cash flows on portfolios of customer accounts, debt securities 
and loans and advances to customers. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest 
flows, are projected on the basis of contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and 
defaults.

The hedging strategy of the Group involves using interest rate swaps to manage the variability in future cash flows on assets 
and liabilities that have floating rates of interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates. It also uses foreign exchange 
contracts and currency swaps to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in foreign 
currencies. This is done on both a micro basis whereby a single interest rate or cross-currency swap is designated in a separate 
relationship with a single hedged item (such as a floating-rate loan to a customer), and on a portfolio basis whereby each 
hedging instrument is designated against a group of hedged items that share the same risk (such as a group of customer 
accounts). Hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges is mainly driven by payment frequency mismatch between the hedging 
instrument and the underlying hedged item.

The hedged risk is determined as the variability of future cash flows arising from changes in the designated benchmark interest 
and/or foreign exchange rates.

417

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

Hedging instruments and ineffectiveness

2023

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

Change in  
fair value used 
to calculate  
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Ineffectiveness 
gain 
recognised in 
net trading 
income 
$million

Amount 
reclassified  
from reserves  
to net trading 
income 
$million

Gain  
recognised  
in OCI 
$million

41,834

184

537

612

609

12,071

14,321

68,226

420

191

795

183

150

870

104

185

901

103

183

895

3

1

2

6

–

–

–

–

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

2022

Change in  
fair value used 
to calculate 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Ineffectiveness 
(loss) 
recognised in 
net trading 
income 
$million

Amount 
reclassified 
from reserves  
to net trading 
income 
$million

(Loss)/gain 
recognised  
in OCI 
$million

31,977

100

671

(533)

(531)

11,987

11,787

55,751

99

86

285

385

362

1,418

(141)

421

(253)

(141)

426

(246)

(2)

–

(5)

(7)

–

–

–

–

2023

Change in  
fair value used 
for calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Cash flow  
hedge reserve 
$million

Cumulative 
balance in the 
cash flow hedge 
reserve from 
de-designated 
hedge 
relationships 
$million

(421)

(98)

(312)

(64)

–

(895)

(114)

(22)

134

–

–

(2)

2022

136

(15)

–

–

–

121

Change in  
fair value used  
for calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Cash flow  
hedge reserve 
$million

Cumulative 
balance in the 
cash flow hedge 
reserve from 
de-designated 
hedge 
relationships 
$million

244

(165)

315

(135)

(13)

246

(444)

(72)

(191)

(6)

–

(713)

108

((30)

(18)

–

–

60

Interest rate risk

Interest rate swaps

Currency risk

Forward foreign exchange 
contract

Cross-currency swaps

Total as at 31 December 2023

Interest rate risk

Interest rate swaps

Currency risk

Forward foreign exchange 
contract

Cross-currency swaps

Total as at 31 December 2022

Hedged items in cash flow hedges

Customer accounts

Debt securities and other eligible bills

Loans and advances to customers

Intragroup lending currency hedge

Intragroup borrowing currency hedge

Total at 31 December 2023

Customer accounts

Debt securities and other eligible bills

Loans and advances to customers

Intragroup lending currency hedge

Intragroup borrowing currency hedge

Total at 31 December 2022

1   This represents a gain/(loss) change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

418

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

Impact of cash flow hedges on profit and loss and other comprehensive income

Cash flow hedge reserve balance as at 1 January

Gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income on effective portion of changes in fair value  
of hedging instruments

Gain reclassified to income statement when hedged item affected net profit

Taxation charge relating to cash flow hedges

Cash flow hedge reserve balance as at 31 December

2023 
Income/
(expense) 
$million

(564)

895

(128)

(112)

91

2022 
Income/
(expense) 
$million

(34)

(246)

(373)

89

(564)

Net investment hedges
Foreign currency exposures arise from investments in subsidiaries that have a different functional currency from that of the 
presentation currency of the Group. This risk arises from the fluctuation in spot exchange rates between the functional currency 
of the subsidiaries and the Group’s presentation currency, which causes the value of the investment to vary.

The Group’s policy is to hedge these exposures only when not doing so would be expected to have a significant impact on the 
regulatory ratios of the Group and its banking subsidiaries. The Group uses foreign exchange forwards to manage the effect of 
exchange rates on its net investments in foreign subsidiaries.

Hedging instruments and ineffectiveness

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

2023

Change in  
fair value used 
to calculate 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Changes in  
the value of  
the hedging 
instrument 
recognised  
in OCI 
$million

Ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
$million

Amount 
reclassified 
from reserves  
to income 
$million

Derivative forward  
currency contracts2

15,436

32

41

215

215

–

–

Carrying amount

Notional 
$million

Asset 
$million

Liability 
$million

2022

Change in  
fair value used 
to calculate 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Changes in  
the value of  
the hedging 
instrument 
recognised  
in OCI 
$million

Ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
$million

Amount 
reclassified 
from reserves  
to income 
$million

Derivative forward  
currency contracts2

14,576

120

141

512

512

–

–

1   This represents a gain/(loss) change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

2  These derivative forward currency contracts have a maturity of less than one year. The hedges are rolled on a periodic basis

Hedged items in net investment hedges

Net investments

2023

Change in the 
value used for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Translation 
reserve 
$million

Balances 
remaining in the 
translation 
reserve from 
hedging 
relationships for 
which hedge 
accounting is no 
longer applied 
$million

(215)

(9)

–

2022

Change in the 
value used for 
calculating 
hedge 
ineffectiveness1
$million

Translation 
reserve 
$million

Balances 
remaining in the 
translation 
reserve from 
hedging 
relationships for 
which hedge 
accounting is no 
longer applied 
$million

Net investments

(512)

(21)

–

1   This represents a gain/(loss) change in fair value used for calculating hedge ineffectiveness

419

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements14. Derivative financial instruments continued

Impact of net investment hedges on other comprehensive income

Gains recognised in other comprehensive income

Maturity of hedging instruments

Fair value hedges
Interest rate swap

Notional

Cross-currency swap

Notional

Average fixed interest rate (to USD)

Average exchange rate

Cash flow hedges

Interest rate swap

Notional

Average fixed interest rate

Cross-currency swap

Notional

Average fixed interest rate

Average exchange rate

2023 
Income/
(expense) 
$million

215

2022 
Income/
(expense) 
$million

512

2023

More than  
one month  
and less than  
one year

Less than  
one month

One to  
five years 

More than  
five years

$million

3,242

9,789

41,545

14,771

$million

GBP
CNH

GBP/USD
CNH/USD

–

–
–

–
–

115

1.33%
3.17%

0.66
6.37

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
–

$million

2,129

27,634

11,664

407

5.10%

3.45%

4.70%

3.16%

USD

$million

HKD
KRO
USD
TWD
JPY

HKD/USD
KRO/USD
USD/HKD
TWD/USD
JPY/HKD

166

10,794

3,361

–
1.96%
–
(3.68)%
–

–
1,192.20
–
30.63
–

4.97%
3.58%
5.64%
0.77%
(0.07)%

7.83
1,320.69
0.13
31.53
17.86

0.21%
0.62%
–
0.81%
(0.05)%

7.85
1,284.82
–
32.22
18.09

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Notional

$million

2,194

9,877

Average exchange rate

Net investment hedges

Foreign exchange derivatives

Notional

Average exchange rate

420

BRL/USD
TWD/HKD
JPY/USD

–
–
130.49

5.17
3.81
136.05

$million

15,436

CNY/USD
KRW/USD
AED/USD
HKD/USD

7.12
1,283.25
3.67
7.80

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statementsFair value hedges

Interest rate swap

Notional

Cross-currency swap

Notional

Cash flow hedges

Interest rate swap

Notional

Average fixed interest rate

Cross-currency swap

Notional

Average fixed interest rate

Average exchange rate

14. Derivative financial instruments continued

2022

More than  
one month  
and less than  
one year

Less than  
one month

One to  
five years 

More than  
five years

$million

2,462

8,888

53,225

16,185

$million

Average fixed interest rate (to USD)

JPY

Average exchange rate

JPY/USD

–

–

–

1,109

164

(0.62)%

138.78

–

–

–

–

–

$million

HKD

USD

195

–

3.80%

16,465

14,819

498

0.35%

1.82%

1.34%

1.60%

–

1.29%

$million

45

8,466

2,650

626

HKD

KRO

USD

TWD

HKD/USD

KRO/USD

USD/HKD

TWD/USD

–

–

–

3.93%

3.26%

4.15%

(0.61)%

(1.38)%

–

3.83%

–

0.32%

0.21%

–

–

–

–

–

–

27.74

7.84

–

7.85

1,342.85

1,278.62

1,300.90

7.84

30.77

–

29.73

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Notional

$million

1,246

10,741

Average exchange rate

JPY/USD

135.18

133.26

Net investment hedges

Foreign exchange derivatives

Notional

Average exchange rate

$million

14,576

CNY/USD

KRW/USD

AED/USD

HKD/USD

6.71

1,296.95

3.67

7.83

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Interest rate benchmark reform
As at 31 December 2023, there are no derivative instruments designated in fair value or cash flow hedge accounting 
relationships that were linked to IBOR reference rates (31 December 2022: $65,769 million). 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

421

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements15. Loans and advances to banks and customers

Accounting policy
Refer to Note 13 Financial instruments for the relevant accounting policy.

Loans and advances to banks

Expected credit loss

Loans and advances to customers

Expected credit loss

Total loans and advances to banks and customers1

2023 
$million

45,001

(24)

44,977

292,145

(5,170)

286,975

331,952

2022 
$million

39,545

(26)

39,519

316,107

(5,460)

310,647

350,166

1  

Includes $3.6 billion (31 December 2022: $4.8 billion) of assets pledged as collateral. For more information, please refer to page 127 of Pillar 3 disclosures

The Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $17.2 billion (31 December 2022: $19.1 billion) and 
Hong Kong residents of $32.7 billion (31 December 2022: $35 billion).

Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographic region and client segment together with their related impairment 
provisions are set out within the Risk review and Capital review (pages 230 to 343).

16. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing

Accounting policy
The Group purchases securities (a reverse repurchase agreement – ‘reverse repo’) typically with financial institutions subject 
to a commitment to resell or return the securities at a predetermined price. These securities are not included in the balance 
sheet as the Group does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership, however they are recorded off-balance sheet as 
collateral received. Consideration paid (or cash collateral provided) is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost  
unless it is managed on a fair value basis or designated at fair value through profit or loss. In majority of cases through the 
contractual terms of a reverse repo arrangement, the Group as the transferee of the security collateral has the right to sell  
or repledge the asset concerned. 

The Group also sells securities (a repurchase agreement – ‘repo’) subject to a commitment to repurchase or redeem the 
securities at a predetermined price. The securities are retained on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially all  
the risks and rewards of ownership and these securities are disclosed as pledged collateral. Consideration received (or cash 
collateral received) is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost unless it is either mandatorily classified as fair 
value through profit or loss or irrevocably designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition. 

Repo and reverse repo transactions typically entitle the Group and its counterparties to have recourse to assets similar to 
those provided as collateral in the event of a default. Securities sold subject to repos, either by way of a Global Master 
Repurchase Agreement (GMRA), or through a securities sale and Total Return Swap (TRS) continue to be recognised on  
the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially the associated risks and rewards of the securities (the TRS is not 
recognised). The counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks or customer accounts, as appropriate. Assets sold 
under repurchase agreements are considered encumbered as the Group cannot pledge these to obtain funding.

Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending

Banks

Customers

Of which:

Fair value through profit or loss

Banks

Customers

Held at amortised cost

Banks

Customers

422

2023 
$million

32,286

65,295

97,581

81,847

30,548

51,299

15,734

1,738

13,996

2022 
$million

24,932

65,035

89,967

64,491

23,954

40,537

25,476

978

24,498

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements16. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing 
continued
Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities under usual and customary 
terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others. Amounts on such terms are:

Securities and collateral received (at fair value)

Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold (at fair value)

Amounts repledged/transferred to others for financing activities, to satisfy liabilities under sale  
and repurchase agreements (at fair value)

Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing

Banks

Customers

Of which:

Fair value through profit or loss

Banks

Customers

Held at amortised cost

Banks

Customers

2023 
$million

101,935

101,845

2022 
$million

124,989

123,759

34,154

44,628

2023 
$million

5,585

47,956

53,541

41,283

4,658

36,625

12,258

927

11,331

2022 
$million

6,968

46,846

53,814

51,706

5,737

45,969

2,108

1,231

877

The tables below set out the financial assets provided as collateral for repurchase and other secured borrowing transactions:

Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements

On-balance sheet

2023

Fair value 
through profit  
or loss 
$million

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
$million

Amortised cost 
$million

Off-balance 
sheet 
$million

Total 
$million

Debt securities and other eligible bills

4,993

8,157

10,181

–

23,331

Off-balance sheet

Repledged collateral received

At 31 December 2023

Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements

On-balance sheet

–

4,993

–

8,157

–

10,181

34,154

34,154

34,154

57,485

2022

Fair value 
through profit  
or loss 
$million

Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
$million

Amortised cost 
$million

Off-balance 
sheet 
$million

Total 
$million

Debt securities and other eligible bills

2,956

3,630

Off-balance sheet

Repledged collateral received

At 31 December 2022

–

2,956

–

3,630

4,917

–

4,917

–

11,503

44,628

44,628

44,628

56,131

423

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements17. Goodwill and intangible assets

Accounting policy
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in 
Investments in associates and joint ventures. Goodwill included in intangible assets is assessed at each balance sheet date 
for impairment and carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity 
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Detailed calculations are performed based on forecasting 
expected cash flows of the relevant cash-generating units (CGUs) and discounting these at an appropriate discount rate,  
the determination of which requires the exercise of judgement. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment 
testing. CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group which generates separate cash inflows and at which the goodwill  
is monitored for internal management purposes. These are equal to or smaller than the Group’s reportable segments (as set 
out in Note 2) as the Group views its reportable segments on a global basis. The major CGUs to which goodwill has been 
allocated are set out in the CGU table (page 425).

Other accounting estimates and judgements
The carrying amount of goodwill is based on the application of judgements including the basis of goodwill impairment 
calculation assumptions. Judgement is also applied in determination of CGUs.

Estimates include forecasts used for determining cash flows for CGUs, the appropriate long-term growth rates to use and 
discount rates which factor in country risk-free rates and applicable risk premiums. The Group undertakes an annual 
assessment to evaluate whether the carrying value of goodwill is impaired. The estimation of future cash flows and the  
level to which they are discounted is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgement and is subject to potential 
change over time.

Acquired intangibles
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets which are deemed separable and that arise from 
contractual or other legal rights are capitalised and included within the net identifiable assets acquired. These intangible 
assets are initially measured at fair value, which reflects market expectations of the probability that the future economic 
benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity and are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives (4 to  
16 years). At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment. In the event that an asset’s 
carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately to the 
recoverable amount.

Computer software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the 
specific software. 

Internally generated software represents substantially all of the total software capitalised. Direct costs of the development 
of separately identifiable internally generated software are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits 
attributable to the software will flow from its use. These costs include staff remuneration costs such as salaries, statutory 
payments and share-based payments, materials, service providers and contractors provided their time is directly 
attributable to the software build. Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately  
when incurred. Internally generated software is amortised over each asset’s useful life to a maximum of 10-years. On an 
annual basis software assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, including assessing for indicators of impairment. 
Indicators of impairment include loss of business relevance, obsolescence, exit of the business to which the software relates, 
technological changes, change in use of the asset, reduction in useful life, plans to reduce usage or scope.

For capitalised software that is internally generated, judgement is required to determine which costs relate to research 
(expensed) and which costs relate to development (capitalised). Further judgement is required to determine the technical 
feasibility of completing the software such that it will be available for use. Estimates are used to determine how the software 
will generate probable future economic benefits: these estimates include cost savings, income increases, balance sheet 
improvements, improved functionality or improved asset safeguarding. 

Software as a Service (SaaS) is a contractual arrangement that conveys the right to receive access to the supplier’s software 
application over the contract term. As such, the Group does not have control and as a result recognises an operating 
expense for these costs over the contract term. Certain costs, including customisation costs related to implementation of the 
SaaS may meet the definition of an intangible asset in their own right if it is separately identifiable and control is established. 
These costs are capitalised if it is expected to provide the Group with future economic benefits flowing from the underlying 
resource and the Group can restrict others from accessing those benefits.

424

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements17. Goodwill and intangible assets continued

2023

2022

Goodwill 
$million

Acquired 
intangibles 
$million

Computer 
software 
$million

Total 
$million

Goodwill 
$million

Acquired 
intangibles 
$million

Computer 
software1
$million

Total 
$million

Cost

At 1 January

Exchange translation differences

Additions

Impairment charge²

Disposals and amounts written off

Classified as held for sale

At 31 December

Provision for amortisation

At 1 January

Exchange translation differences

Amortisation
Impairment charge2

Disposals and amounts written off

Classified as held for sale

At 31 December

Net book value 

2,471

(24)

–

–

(18)¹

–

2,429

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,429

295

(12)

–

–

(5)¹

–

278

276

(12)

1

–

–

–

5,178

21

1,124

(151)

(4)

–

7,944

(15)

1,124

(151)

(27)

–

2,595

(108)

–

(14)

–

(2)

6,168

8,875

2,471

1,799

2,075

11

625

(39)

–

–

(1)

626

(39)

–

–

2,661

6,214

265

13

2,396

3,772

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,471

457

(26)

–

–

(136)

–

295

437

(29)

4

–

(136)

–

276

19

4,464

(22)

1,096

(7)

(348)

(5)

5,178

7,516

(156)

1,096

(21)

(484)

(7)

7,944

1,608

2,045

(11)

531

5

(331)

(3)

1,799

3,379

(40)

535

5

(467)

(3)

2,075

5,869

1 

Includes disposal of goodwill and other intangibles relating to aviation finance leasing business. These were classified as held for sale during 2023 and sold  
during the year

2  Computer software impairment includes $82.8 million (2022: nil) charge relating to write off on SaaS (Software as a Service) applications capitalised in  

previous years 

At 31 December 2023, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $3,331 million  
(31 December 2022: $3,331 million), of which Nil million was recognised in 2023 (31 December 2022: $14 million).

Outcome of impairment assessment
An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired. For the purposes of impairment 
testing, goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a CGU. Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount 
of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Indicators of impairment include changes in the economic performance 
and outlook of the region, including geopolitical changes, changes in market value of regional investments, large credit defaults 
and strategic decisions to exit certain regions. The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value in  
use (VIU). The calculation of VIU for each CGU is calculated using five-year cashflow projections and an estimated terminal 
value based on a perpetuity value after year five. The cashflow projections are based on forecasts approved by management 
up to 2028. The perpetuity terminal value amount is calculated using year five cashflows using long-term GDP growth rates.  
All cashflows are discounted using discount rates which reflect market rates appropriate to the CGU. Post-tax discount rates  
are used to calculate the VIU using the post-tax cashflows. The post-tax discount rate is subsequently grossed up to pre-tax 
discount rate. The calculated VIU using post-tax and pre-tax discount rate is the same.

The goodwill allocated to each CGU and key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and 
are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill. 

Cash-generating unit

Country CGUs

Asia

Hong Kong

Taiwan

Singapore

Africa & Middle East

Pakistan

Bahrain

Global CGUs

Global Private Banking

Corporate, Commercial &  
Institutional Banking

2023

2022

Goodwill 
$million

Pre-Tax Discount 
rates 
per cent

Long-term 
forecast GDP 
growth rates 
per cent

Goodwill 
$million

Pre-Tax Discount 
rates 
per cent

Long-term 
forecast GDP 
growth rates 
per cent

1,036

357

333

346

80

31

49

1,313

83

1,230

2,429

12.9

12.4

13.9

35.5

12.4

15.3

15.7

1.6

1.5

2.1

3.2

0.5

1.9

2.3

1,032

357

333

342

85

36

49

1,354

83

1,271

2,471

12.4

11.3

12.3

30.9

16.6

14.5

14.7

1.7

1.7

2.3

5.9

0.7

2.0

2.5

425

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements17. Goodwill and intangible assets continued

The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions for each CGU’s recoverable amount. Taiwan CGU is 
considered sensitive to the key variables and any individual movements on the estimates (cashflow, discount rate and GDP 
growth rate) up to the levels disclosed below would eliminate the current headroom.

2023

Sensitivities

GDP

Discount rate

Cash flow

Cash flow

Cash-
flow

Downside 
scenario

Extreme 
downside 
scenario

GDP -1% GDP -1%

DR +1% DR +1%

Base Case

+1%

-1%

+1%

-1%

+10% -10% +20% -20% -30% CF -10% CF -20%

CGU

Taiwan

Goodwill 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Pre-Tax 
Discount 
Rate

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

Head-
room 
$million

GDP

333

217

12.4% 1.53%

351

112

73

400

375

60

532

(97)

(254)

(138)

(267)

The table above represents reasonably possible scenarios that could occur if either; economic factors (which drive GDP rates 
and discount rates); country-specific cash flows; or a combination of both are different from the assumptions used in the 
goodwill impairment assessment at 31 December 2023.

For there to be no headroom, the pre-tax discount rate will need to increase by 2.02 per cent. Similarly, the GDP rates will need  
to decrease by 2.36 per cent and cashflows would need to decrease by 13.8 per cent.

Acquired intangibles
These primarily comprise those items recognised as part of the acquisitions of Union Bank (now amalgamated into Standard 
Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited), Hsinchu (now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited), Pembroke, 
American Express Bank and ABSA’s custody business in Africa. Maintenance intangible assets represent the value in the 
difference between the contractual right under acquired leases to receive aircraft in a specified maintenance condition at  
the end of the lease and the actual physical condition of the aircraft at the date of acquisition.

The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years. The constituents are as follows:

Acquired intangibles comprise:

Aircraft maintenance

Brand names

Customer relationships

Licenses

Net book value

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

–

1

12

13

5

1

1

12

19

426

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements 
18. Property, plant and equipment

Accounting policy
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 

Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and offices. Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to 
impairment testing. 

Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over 
their estimated useful lives, as follows: 

•  Owned premises  

•  Leasehold premises  

•  up to 50 years

•  up to 50 years

•  Leasehold improvements  

•  shorter of remaining lease term and 10 years

•  Equipment and motor vehicles 

•  three to 15 years

•  Aircraft 

•  Ships 

•  up to 18 years

•  up to 15 years

Where the Group is a lessee of a right-of-use asset, the leased assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and 
equipment with a corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities. The accounting policy for lease assets  
is set out in Note 19.

Cost or valuation

At 1 January 

Exchange translation differences 
Additions1

Disposals and fully depreciated assets 
written off

Classified as held for sale

As at 31 December

Depreciation

Accumulated at 1 January 

Exchange translation differences 

Charge for the year

Impairment charge

Attributable to assets sold, transferred  
or written off

Classified as held for sale

Accumulated at 31 December

Net book amount at 31 December

Premises 
$million

Equipment 
$million

2023

Operating  
lease assets 
$million

Leased  
premises  
assets 
$million

Leased 
equipment 
assets 
$million

1,773

(27)

45

(68)²

18

1,741

678

(21)

77

3

(47)²

2

692

1,049

840

(22)

114

4,420

–

–

(122)²

(4,420)³

–

810

575

(17)

99

–

–

–

1,185

1

27

–

(122)²

(1,213)³

–

535

275

–

–

–

1,652

(5)

286

(69)

–

1,864

730

(25)

238

9

(38)

–

914

950

29

(3)

1

(9)

–

18

24

(1)

4

–

(9)

–

18

–

Total 
$million

8,714

(57)

446

(4,688)

18

4,433

3,192

(63)

445

12

(1,429)

2

2,159

2,274

1.   Refer to the cash flow statement under cash flows from investing activities section for the purchase of property, plant and equipment during the year of  

$159 million on page 363

2.   Disposals for property, plant and equipment during the year of $53 million in the cash flow statement would include the gains and losses incurred as part of  

other operating income (Note 6) on disposal of assets during the year and the net book value disposed

3.   Includes disposal of assets from aviation finance leasing business and sale of vessels (refer note 32). 

427

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements18. Property, plant and equipment continued

Cost or valuation

At 1 January 

Exchange translation differences 
Additions1

Disposals and fully depreciated assets 
written off2

Transfers to assets held for sale

As at 31 December

Depreciation

Accumulated at 1 January 

Exchange translation differences 

Charge for the year

Impairment charge

Attributable to assets sold, transferred  
or written off2

Transfers to assets held for sale

Accumulated at 31 December

Net book amount at 31 December

Premises 
$million

Equipment 
$million

2022

Operating  
lease assets 
$million

Leased  
premises  
assets 
$million

Leased 
equipment  
assets 
$million

1,980

(90)

87

(142)

(62)

1,773

795

(39)

76

1

(125)

(30)

678

1,095

901

(65)

124

(102)

(18)

840

611

(39)

116

–

(101)

(12)

575

265

4,248

–

624

(452)

–

4,420

1,155

–

202

40

(212)

–

1,185

3,235

1,854

(111)

339

(425)

(5)

1,652

819

(33)

250

9

(313)

(2)

730

922

33

(4)

1

(1)

–

29

20

(3)

7

–

–

–

24

5

Total 
$million

9,016

(270)

1,175

(1,122)

(85)

8,714

3,400

(114)

651

50

(751)

(44)

3,192

5,522

1   Refer to the cash flow statement under cash flows from investing activities section for the purchase of property, plant and equipment during the year of 

$835 million on page 363

2   Disposals for property, plant and equipment during the year of $343 million in the cash flow statement would include the gains and losses incurred as part of  

other operating income (Note 6) on disposal of assets during the year and the net book value disposed

Operating lease assets
The operating lease assets subsection of property, plant and equipment refers to the Group’s aircraft operating leasing 
business, all leases related to which were disposed on 2 November 2023. As at 31 December 2022, this consisted of 99 
commercial aircraft of which 97 were narrow-bodies and 2 were wide-bodies. The leases were classified as operating leases  
as they did not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the assets. As at 31 December  
2022, these assets had a net book value of $3,235 million. Refer note 6 Other operating income for the disposal gain and the 
associated rental income, up to the date of their disposal. 

Under these leases up to the date of disposal, the lessee was responsible for the maintenance and servicing of the aircraft 
during the lease term while the Group receives rental income and assumes the risks of the residual value of the aircraft at the 
end of the lease. 

428

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements19. Leased assets

Accounting policy
Where the Group is a lessee and the lease is deemed in scope, it recognises a liability equal to the present value of lease 
payments over the lease term, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate applicable in the economic environment  
of the lease. The liability is recognised in ‘Other liabilities’. A corresponding right-of-use asset equal to the liability, adjusted  
for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, is recognised in ‘Property, plant and equipment’.  
The lease term includes any extension options contained in the contract that the Group is reasonably certain it will exercise.

The Group subsequently depreciates the right-of-use asset using the straight-line method over the lease term and  
measures the lease liability using the effective interest method. Depreciation on the asset is recognised in ‘Depreciation  
and amortisation’, and interest on the lease liability is recognised in ‘Interest expense’.

If a leased premise, or a physically distinct portion of a premise such as an individual floor, is deemed by management to be 
surplus to the Group’s needs and action has been taken to abandon the space before the lease expires, this is considered an 
indicator of impairment. An impairment loss is recognised if the right-of-use asset, or portion thereof, has a carrying value in 
excess of its value-in-use when taking into account factors such as the ability and likelihood of obtaining a subtenant.

The judgements in determining lease balances are the determination of whether the Group is reasonably certain that it will 
exercise extension options present in lease contracts. On initial recognition, the Group considers a range of characteristics 
such as premises function, regional trends and the term remaining on the lease to determine whether it is reasonably certain 
that a contractual right to extend a lease will be exercised. Where a change in assumption is confirmed by the local property 
management team, a remeasurement is performed in the Group-managed vendor system.

The estimates are the determination of incremental borrowing rates in the respective economic environments. The Group 
uses third-party broker quotes to estimate its USD cost of senior unsecured borrowing, then uses cross currency swap pricing 
information to determine the equivalent cost of borrowing in other currencies. If it is not possible to estimate an incremental 
borrowing rate through this process, other proxies such as local government bond yields are used.

The Group primarily enters lease contracts that grant it the right to use premises such as office buildings and retail branches.

Existing lease liabilities may change in future periods due to changes in assumptions or decisions to exercise lease renewal or 
termination options, changes in payments due to renegotiations of market rental rates as permitted by those contracts and 
changes to payments due to rent being contractually linked to an inflation index. In general the re-measurement of a lease 
liability under these circumstances leads to an equal change to the right-of-use asset balance, with no immediate effect on  
the income statement.

The total cash outflow during the year for premises and equipment leases was $283 million (2022: $310 million).

The right-of-use asset balances and depreciation charges are disclosed in Note 18. The lease liability balances are disclosed in 
Note 23 and the interest expense on lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 3.

Maturity analysis
The maturity profile for lease liabilities associated with leased premises and equipment assets is as follows: 

Other liabilities – lease liabilities

Other liabilities – lease liabilities

2023

One year  
or less  
$million

248

Between  
one year  
and two years  
$million

Between  
two years  
and five years 
$million

203

373

2022

One year  
or less  
$million

272

Between  
one year  
and two years  
$million

Between  
two years  
and five years  
$million

239

437

More than  
five years  
$million

410

More than  
five years  
$million

310

Total  
$million

1234

Total  
$million

1,258

429

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements20. Other assets
Other assets include:

Financial assets held at amortised cost (Note 13):

Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness (Note 23)¹
Cash collateral2

Acceptances and endorsements

Unsettled trades and other financial assets

Non-financial assets:

Commodities and emissions certificates3

Other assets

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

6,568

10,337

5,326

15,909

38,140

8,889

565

47,594

7,106

12,515

5,264

14,410

39,295

10,598

490

50,383

1   The Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notes issued

2   Cash collateral are margins placed to collateralize net derivative mark-to-market (MTM) positions

3   Physically held commodities and emission certificates are inventory that is carried at fair value less costs to sell, $5.1 billion (31 December 2022: $6 billion) are 

classified as Level 1 and $3.7 billion are classified as Level 2 (31 December 2022: $4.6 billion). For commodities, the fair value is derived from observable spot or  
short-term futures prices from relevant exchanges. 

21. Assets held for sale and associated liabilities

Accounting Policy
Upon reclassification property, plant and equipment are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. Financial instruments continue to be measured per the accounting policies in Note 13 Financial instruments.

The assets below have been presented as held for sale following the approval of Group management and the transactions are 
expected to complete in 2024.

Assets held for sale
The financial assets reported below are classified under Level 1 $101 million (31 December 2022: $345 million), Level 2 $541 million 
(31 December 2022: $946 million) and Level 3 $59 million (31 December 2022: $100 million).

Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss

Equity shares

Derivative financial instruments – Assets

Financial assets held at amortised cost

Cash and balances at central banks

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Debt securities held at amortised cost

Goodwill and intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Vessels

Others

Others

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

–

–

701

246

24

251

180

–

59

43

16

49

3

2

1

1,388

423

81

508

376

4

174

133

41

56

809

1,625

During the year, the aviation finance leasing business, which held 99 commercial aircraft, was classified as held for sale.  
The business was sold to AviLease for a consideration of $3,570 million, and the Group recorded a gain on sale of $309 million.  
In addition, vessels with a carrying value of $83 million were sold (2022: nil) and the Group exited Jordan as part of the exit of 
AME regions ($108 million carrying value, with a $8 million gain on sale).

430

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements21. Assets held for sale and associated liabilities continued

Liabilities held for sale
The financial liabilities reported below are classified under Level 1 $54 million (2022: $402million) and Level 2 $672 million  
(2022: $833 million).

Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss

Derivative financial instruments

Financial liabilities held at amortised cost

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts

Other liabilities

Provisions for liabilities and charges

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

–

726

3

723

51

10

787

5

5

1,230

17

1,213

64

8

1,307

22. Debt securities in issue 

Accounting policy
Refer to Note 13 Financial instruments for the relevant accounting policy.

Certificates  
of deposit  
of $100,000  
or more 
$million

2023

Other debt  
securities  
in issue 
$million

Debt securities in issue

15,533

47,013

Certificates  
of deposit  
of $100,000  
or more 
$million

2022

Other debt 
securities  
in issue 
$million

23,457

37,785

Total 
$million

62,546

Total 
$million

61,242

Debt securities in issue included within:

Financial liabilities held at fair value 
through profit or loss (Note13)

Total debt securities in issue

–

15,533

10,817

57,830

10,817

73,363

–

23,457

8,572

46,357

8,572

69,814

In 2023, the Company issued a total of $8.1 billion senior notes for general business purposes of the Group as shown below:

Securities

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2027 (callable 2026)

EUR 1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2031 (callable 2030)

HKD 784 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2026 (callable 2025)

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2034 (callable 2033)

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2027 (callable 2026)

$500 million floating-rate senior notes due 2027 (callable 2026)

$400 million floating-rate senior notes due 2028 (callable 2027)

$1,500 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2029 (callable 2028)

$750 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2030 (callable 2029)

$750 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2028 (callable 2027)

Total senior notes issued

$million

1,000

1,105

100

1,000

1,000

500

400

1,500

750

750

8,105

In 2022, the Company issued a total of $5.2 billion senior notes for general business purposes of the Group as shown below:

Securities

CNH 1,100 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2026 (callable 2025)

$1,250 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2028 (callable 2027)

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2026 (callable 2025)

$500 million floating-rate senior notes due 2026 (callable 2025)

SGD 255 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2033 (callable 2032)

HKD 800 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2025 (callable 2024)

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2025 (callable 2024)

$1,000 million fixed-rate senior notes due 2028 (callable 2027)

Total senior notes issued

$million

158

1,250

1,000

500

190

102

1,000

1,000

5,200

431

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements23. Other liabilities

Accounting policy
Refer to Note 13 Financial instruments for the relevant accounting policy for financial liabilities, Note 19 Leased assets for the 
accounting policy for leases, and Note 31 Share-based payments for the accounting policy for cash-settled share-based 
payments.

Financial liabilities held at amortised cost (Note 13)

Notes in circulation1
Acceptances and endorsements2
Cash collateral3
Property leases4
Equipment leases4

Unsettled trades and other financial liabilities

Non-financial liabilities

Cash-settled share-based payments

Other liabilities

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

6,568

5,386

8,440

1,054

4

17,211

38,663

102

456

7,106

5,264

9,206

1,029

8

20,302

42,915

81

531

39,221

43,527

1   Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $6,568 million (31 December 2022: $7,106 million) that are secured by the Government of Hong Kong SAR certificates  

of indebtedness of the same amount included in Other assets (Note 20) 

2   Includes early receipts of funds ($60m) from customer, whereas corresponding liability is due in Jan’24

3   Cash collateral are margins received against collateralize net derivative mark-to-market (MTM) positions

4   Other financial liabilities include the present value of lease liabilities, as required by IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019; refer to Note 19

24. Provisions for liabilities and charges

Accounting policy
The recognition and measurement of provisions for liabilities and charges requires significant judgement and the use of 
estimates about uncertain future conditions or events. 

Estimates include the best estimate of the probability of outflow of economic resources, cost of settling a provision and 
timing of settlement. Judgements are required for inherently uncertain areas such as legal decisions (including external 
advice obtained), and outcome of regulator reviews.

At 1 January

Exchange translation differences

(Release)/charge against profit

Provisions utilized
Transfer3

At 31 December 

Expected  credit 
loss for credit 
commitments1
$million

2023

Other  
provisions2
$million

Expected credit 
loss for credit 
commitments1
$million

Total 
$million

280

(5)

(48)

–

–

227

103

4

42

(71)

(6)

72

383

(1)

(6)

(71)

(6)

299

346

(39)

(27)

–

–

280

2022

Other  
provisions2
$million

107

(2)

69

(71)

–

103

Total 
$million

453

(41)

42

(71)

–

383

1   Expected credit loss for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers’ ability to meet 

their repayment obligations.

2   Other provisions consist mainly of provisions for legal claims and regulatory and enforcement investigations and proceedings.

3   Includes the provisions transferred to held for sale.

432

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements25. Contingent liabilities and commitments

Accounting policy
Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments
Financial guarantee contracts and any loan commitments issued at below-market interest rates are initially recognised at 
their fair value as a financial liability, and subsequently measured at the higher of the initial value less the cumulative amount 
of income recognised and their expected credit loss provision. Loan commitments may be designated at fair value through 
profit or loss where that is the business model under which such contracts are held. Notional values of financial guarantee 
contracts and loan commitments are disclosed in the table below. 

Financial guarantees, trade credits and irrevocable letters of credit are the notional values of contracts issued by the Group’s 
Transaction Banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date. Transaction 
Banking will issue contracts to clients and counterparties of clients, whereby in the event the holder of the contract is not 
paid, the Group will reimburse the holder of the contract for the actual financial loss suffered. These contracts have various 
legal forms such as letters of credit, guarantee contracts and performance bonds. The contracts are issued to facilitate  
trade through export and import business, provide guarantees to financial institutions where the Group has a local presence, 
as well as guaranteeing project financing involving large construction projects undertaken by sovereigns and corporates.  
The contracts may contain performance clauses which require the counterparty performing services or providing goods to 
meet certain conditions before a right to payment is achieved, however the Group does not guarantee this performance.  
The Group will only guarantee the credit of the counterparty paying for the services or goods.

Commitments are where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer 
under prespecified terms and conditions in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not and 
the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date; those instruments are included in these financial statements 
as commitments. Commitments and contingent liabilities are generally considered on demand as the Group may have to 
honour them, or the client may draw down at any time.

Capital commitments are contractual commitments the Group has entered into to purchase non-financial assets.

The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the 
balance sheet date. The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not 
represent amounts at risk. 

Financial guarantees and trade credits

Financial guarantees, trade credits and irrevocable letters of credit

Commitments

Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend

One year and over

Less than one year

Unconditionally cancellable

Capital Commitments

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

74,414

74,414

60,410

60,410

78,356

33,092

70,942

69,597

31,688

67,383

182,390

168,668

Contracted capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts

217

257

As set out in Note 26, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of certain legal and regulatory matters for which it is not 
practicable to estimate the financial impact as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes. 

433

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements26. Legal and regulatory matters

Accounting policy
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions and is subject to regulatory and enforcement 
investigations and proceedings from time to time. Apart from the matters described below, the Group currently considers 
none of the ongoing claims, investigations or proceedings to be individually material. However, in light of the uncertainties 
involved in such matters there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters currently not 
considered to be material may not ultimately be material to the Group’s results in a particular reporting period depending 
on, among other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter(s) and the results otherwise reported for  
such period.

Since 2014, the Group has been named as a defendant in a series of lawsuits that have been filed in the United States District 
Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York against a number of banks on behalf of plaintiffs who are, or are 
relatives of, victims of attacks in Iraq and Afghanistan. The plaintiffs in each of these lawsuits have alleged that the defendant 
banks aided and abetted the unlawful conduct of parties with connections to terrorist organisations in breach of the United 
States Anti-Terrorism Act. None of these lawsuits specify the amount of damages claimed. The Group continues to defend 
these lawsuits. 

In January 2020, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the City of Philadelphia in New York State Court against 45 
current and former directors and senior officers of the Group. It is alleged that the individuals breached their duties to the Group 
and caused a waste of corporate assets by permitting the conduct that gave rise to the costs and losses to the Group related to 
legacy conduct and control issues. In March 2021, an amended complaint was served in which Standard Chartered Bank and 
seven individuals were removed from the case. Standard Chartered PLC and Standard Chartered Holdings Limited remained  
as named “nominal defendants” in the complaint. In May 2021, Standard Chartered PLC filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. 
In February 2022, the New York State Court ruled in favour of Standard Chartered PLC’s motion to dismiss the complaint.  
The plaintiffs are pursuing an appeal against the February 2022 ruling. A hearing date for the plaintiffs’ appeal is awaited.

Since October 2020, four lawsuits have been filed in the English High Court against Standard Chartered PLC on behalf of more 
than 200 shareholders in relation to alleged untrue and/or misleading statements and/or omissions in information published by 
Standard Chartered PLC in its rights issue prospectuses of 2008, 2010 and 2015 and/or public statements regarding the Group’s 
historic sanctions, money laundering and financial crime compliance issues. These lawsuits have been brought under sections 
90 and 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. These lawsuits are at an early procedural stage.

Bernard Madoff’s 2008 confession to running a Ponzi scheme through Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (BMIS) gave 
rise to a number of lawsuits against the Group. BMIS and the Fairfield funds (which invested in BMIS) are in bankruptcy and 
liquidation, respectively. Between 2010 and 2012, five lawsuits were brought against the Group by the BMIS bankruptcy trustee 
and the Fairfield funds’ liquidators, in each case seeking to recover funds paid to the Group’s clients pursuant to redemption 
requests made prior to BMIS’ bankruptcy filing. The total amount sought in these cases exceeds USD 300 million, excluding  
any pre-judgment interest that may be awarded. The four lawsuits commenced by the Fairfield funds’ liquidators have been 
dismissed and the appeals of those dismissals by the funds’ liquidators are ongoing. 

As has been reported in the press, a number of Korean banks, including Standard Chartered Bank Korea, have sold equity-
linked securities (“ELS”) to customers, the redemption values of which are determined by the performance of various stock 
indices. Standard Chartered Bank Korea sold relevant ELS to its customers with a notional value of approximately USD900m. 
Due to the performance of the Hang Seng China Enterprise Index, it is anticipated that several thousand Standard Chartered 
Bank Korea customers may redeem their ELS at a loss. The value of Standard Chartered Bank Korea customers’ anticipated 
losses is subject to fluctuation as the ELS mature on various dates through 2026 and could total several hundred million USD. 
Standard Chartered Bank Korea may be faced with claims by customers and its regulator, the Financial Supervisory Service,  
to cover part or all of those anticipated losses and also may face regulatory penalties

The Group has concluded that the threshold for recording provisions pursuant to IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets is not met with respect to the above matters; however, the outcomes of these matters are inherently 
uncertain and difficult to predict.

In 2023, three legal cases concluded in which allegations of corruption had been made against the Group or its employees, 
none of which resulted in liability being established.

434

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements27. Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Subordinated loan capital – issued by subsidiary undertakings

$700 million 8.0 per cent subordinated notes due 2031 (callable 2026)¹
NPR2.4 billion fixed sub debt rate 10.3 per cent2,3

Subordinated loan capital – issued by the Company4

Primary capital floating rate notes:
$400 million floating rate undated subordinated notes5
$300 million floating rate undated subordinated notes (Series 2)5
$400 million floating rate undated subordinated notes (Series 3)5
$200 million floating rate undated subordinated notes (Series 4)5

£900 million 5.125 per cent subordinated notes due 2034

$2 billion 5.7 per cent subordinated notes due 2044

$2 billion 3.95 per cent subordinated notes due 2023

$1 billion 5.2 per cent subordinated notes due 2024

$750 million 5.3 per cent subordinated notes due 2043

€500 million 3.125 per cent subordinated notes due 2024

$1.25 billion 4.3 per cent subordinated notes due 2027

$1 billion 3.516 per cent subordinated notes due 2030 (callable 2025)

$500 million 4.886 per cent subordinated notes due 2033 (callable 2028)

£96.035 million 7.375 per cent Non-Cum Pref Shares (reclassed as Debt) – Other borrowings

£99.250 million 8.25 per cent Non-Cum Pref Shares (reclassed as Debt) – Other borrowings

$750 million 3.604 per cent fixed rate reset dated subordinated notes due 2033

€ 1 billion 2.5 per cent subordinated debt 2030

$1.25 billion 3.265 per cent subordinated notes due 2036

€1 billion 1.200 per cent fixed rate reset dated subordinated notes due 2031 (callable 2026)

Total for Group

1  

Issued by Standard Chartered Bank

2   Issued by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited

3   NPR refers to Nepalese Rupee

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

342

18

360

–

–

–

–

644

2,197

–

1,001

697

536

1,154

964

481

122

126

648

1,044

1,040

1,022

11,676

12,036

345

–

345

16

69

50

26

587

2,172

1,999

1,017

679

502

1,119

938

473

116

119

630

967

1,002

891

13,370

13,715

4   In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $11,945 million (2022: 13,684 million), with the difference on accout of hedge accounting achieved 

on a Group basis

5   These notes were subject to remediation under interest rate benchmark reform. Please refer to Note 13 for further information on this

Fixed rate subordinated debt

Floating rate subordinated debt

Total

Fixed rate subordinated debt

Floating rate subordinated debt

Total

USD 
$million

8,524

–

8,524

USD 
$million

10,372

161

10,533

EUR 
$million

2,602

–

2,602

EUR 
$million

2,360

–

2,360

2023

GBP 
$million

892

–

892

2022

GBP 
$million

822

–

822

NPR 
$million

18

–

18

NPR 
$million

–

–

–

Total 
$million

12,036

–

12,036

Total 
$million

13,554

161

13,715

Redemptions and repurchases during the year
Standard Chartered PLC exercised its right to redeem USD 2 billion 3.95 per cent subordinated notes 2023. Further to that 
outstanding balances of floating rate undated subordinate notes were redeemed during the year.

Issuance during the year
On 1st March 2023, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited issued NPR 2.4 billion 10.3 per cent fixed rate dated subordinated 
notes due 2028.

435

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves

Accounting policy
Securities which carry a discretionary coupon and have no fixed maturity or redemption date are classified as other equity 
instruments. Interest payments on these securities are recognised, net of tax, as distributions from equity in the period in 
which they are paid. 

Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group purchase the Company’s equity share capital, the 
consideration paid is deducted from the total shareholders’ equity of the Group and/or of the Company as treasury shares 
until they are cancelled. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in 
shareholders’ equity of the Group and/or the Company.

At 1 January 2022

Cancellation of shares including  
share buy-back

Additional Tier 1 equity issuance

Additional Tier 1 equity redemption

Number of 
ordinary  
shares 
millions

3,079

(184)

–

–

Ordinary  
share  
capital1
$million

1,539

(92)

–

–

Ordinary  
Share  
premium 
$million

3,989

Preference  
Share  
premium2
$million

Total share 
capital and  
share premium 
$million

Other  
equity 
instruments 
$million

1,494

7,022

6,254

–

–

–

–

–

–

(92)

–

–

At 31 December 2022

2,895

1,447

3,989

1,494

6,930

Cancellation of shares including  
share buy-back

Additional Tier 1 equity issuance

Additional Tier 1 redemption

At 31 December 2023

1  

Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 cents each

2   Includes preference share capital of $75,000

(230)

(115)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(115)

–

–

2,665

1,332

3,989

1,494

6,815

–

1,240

(990)

6,504

–

–

(992)

5,512

Share buy-back
On 16 February 2023, the Group announced the buy-back programme for a share buy-back of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. 
Nominal value of share purchases was $58 million, and the total consideration paid was $1 billion. The buy-back completed on 
29 September 2023. The total number of shares purchased was 116,710,492 representing 4.03 per cent of the ordinary shares in 
issue as at the commencement of the buy-back. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the 
capital redemption reserve account. 

On 28 July 2023, the Group announced the buy-back programme for a share buy-back of its ordinary shares of $0.50 each. 
Nominal value of share purchases was $57 million, and the total consideration paid was $1 billion. The buy-back completed on  
6 November 2023. The total number of shares purchased was 112,982,802 representing 3.90 per cent of the ordinary shares in 
issue as at the commencement of the buy-back. The nominal value of the shares was transferred from the share capital to the 
capital redemption reserve account.

The shares were purchased by Standard Chartered PLC on various exchanges not including the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

February 2023

March 2023

April 2023

May 2023

June 2023

July 2023

August 2023

September 2023

October 2023

November 2023

Number of 
ordinary shares

Highest  
price paid 
£

Lowest  
price paid 
£

9,522,684

48,672,024

9,521,811

10,662,964

15,515,223

10,388,883

22,896,567

40,542,727

52,084,775

9,885,636

7.99400

7.94600

6.58200

6.66000

6.92200

7.53200

7.60800

7.64800

7.66600

6.38400

7.41600

5.79000

6.10600

5.92800

6.36000

6.56400

7.10000

6.93600

6.04800

6.12600

Average  
price paid  
per share 
£

Aggregate  
price paid 
£

Aggregate  
price paid 
$

7.77508

74,039,628

89,017,672

7.07885

344,541,860

416,300,544

6.30837

6.28592

60,067,118

74,798,622

67,026,502

83,626,929

6.70601

104,045,286

131,601,470

6.81807

70,832,098

90,241,074

7.28931

166,900,079

211,996,912

7.35577

298,222,942

369,007,327

7.20829

375,442,209

457,218,216

6.23095

61,596,915

75,472,633

Ordinary share capital 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company does not have authorised share capital. The nominal value of each 
ordinary share is 50 cents.

During the period, nil shares were issued under employee share plans. 

436

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued

Preference share capital
At 31 December 2023, the Company has 15,000 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares in issue, with a premium of 
$99,995 making a paid up amount per preference share of $100,000. The preference shares are redeemable at the option of the 
Company and are classified in equity.

The available profits of the Company are distributed to the holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments 
made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of 
shares in issue. On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to  
any payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an 
amount equal to any dividends payable (on approval of the Board) and the nominal value of the shares together with any 
premium as determined by the Board. The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid up amount (which 
includes premium) at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares. The holders of the preference 
shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or 
where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.

Other equity instruments
The table provides details of outstanding Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible AT1 securities 
issued by Standard Chartered PLC. All issuances are made for general business purposes and to increase the regulatory capital 
base of the Group.

Issuance date

Nominal value

Proceeds net  
of issue costs

Interest 
rate1

Coupon payment dates2

First reset dates3

Conversion  
price per  
ordinary share

3 July 2019

SGD 750 million

USD 552 million 5.375%

3 April, 3 October each year

3 October 2024

SGD 10.909

26 Jun 2020

USD 1,000 million

USD 992 million

6%

26 January, 26 July each year

26 January 2026

USD 5.331

14 January 2021 USD 1,250 million

USD 1,239 million

4.75%

14 January, 14 July each year

14 July 2031

USD 6.353

19 August 2021

USD 1,500 million

USD 1,490 million

4.30% 19 February, 19 August each year

19 August 2028

USD 6.382

15 August 2022

USD 1,250 million

USD 1,239 million

7.75% 15 February, 15 August each year

15 February 2028

USD 7.333

1  

Interest rates for the period from (and including) the issue date to (but excluding) the first reset date

2   Interest payable semi-annually in arrears

3   Securities are resettable each date falling five years, or an integral multiple of five years, after the first reset date

Standard Chartered PLC redeemed $1,000m Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Contingent Convertible Securities on its first 
optional redemption date of 2 April 2023.

The AT1 issuances above are primarily purchased by institutional investors.

The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below:

•  The securities are perpetual and redeemable, at the option of Standard Chartered PLC in whole but not in part, on the first 

interest reset date and each date falling five years after the first reset date

•  The securities are also redeemable for certain regulatory or tax reasons on any date at 100 per cent of their principal amount 
together with any accrued but unpaid interest up to (but excluding) the date fixed for redemption. Any redemption is subject 
to Standard Chartered PLC giving notice to the relevant regulator and the regulator granting permission to redeem

•  Interest payments on these securities will be accounted for as a dividend. 

•  Interest on the securities is due and payable only at the sole and absolute discretion of Standard Chartered PLC, subject to 

certain additional restrictions set out in the terms and conditions. Accordingly, Standard Chartered PLC may at any time elect 
to cancel any interest payment (or part thereof) which would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date.

•  The securities convert into ordinary shares of Standard Chartered PLC, at a pre-determined price detailed in the table above, 
should the fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of the Group fall below 7.0 per cent. Approximately 859 million ordinary 
shares would be required to satisfy the conversion of all the securities mentioned above

The securities rank behind the claims against Standard Chartered PLC of (a) unsubordinated creditors, (b) which are expressed 
to be subordinated to the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Standard Chartered PLC but not further or otherwise; or (c) 
which are, or are expressed to be, junior to the claims of other creditors of Standard Chartered PLC, whether subordinated or 
unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the 
AT1 securities in a winding–up occurring prior to the conversion trigger.

437

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued

Reserves
The constituents of the reserves are summarised as follows:

•  The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on redenomination of share capital and share premium from  

sterling to US dollars in 2001. The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of share capital and preference 
shares redeemed

•  The amounts in the “Capital and Merger Reserve” represents the premium arising on shares issued using a cash box financing 
structure, which required the Company to create a merger reserve under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. Shares were 
issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the funding of Korea ($1.9 billion) and Taiwan ($1.2 billion) acquisitions, 
in 2008, 2010 and 2015 for the shares issued by way of a rights issue, primarily for capital maintenance requirements and for 
the shares issued in 2009 by way of an accelerated book build, the proceeds of which were used in the ordinary course of 
business of the Group. The funding raised by the 2008, 2010 and 2015 rights issues and 2009 share issue was fully retained 
within the Company. Of the 2015 funding, $1.5 billion was used to subscribe to additional equity in Standard Chartered Bank,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Apart from the Korea, Taiwan and Standard Chartered Bank funding, the merger 
reserve is considered realised and distributable.

•  Own credit adjustment reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value 

through profit or loss relating to own credit. On derecognition of applicable instruments the balance of any OCA will not be 
recycled to the income statement, but will be transferred within equity to retained earnings

•  Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) debt reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in 
respect of financial assets classified as FVOCI, net of expected credit losses. Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and 
are reclassified to the income statement when the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired. 

•  FVOCI equity reserve represents unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classified as FVOCI.  

Gains and losses are recorded in this reserve and never recycled to the income statement

•  Cash flow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for  

these types of hedges. Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassified to the income statement when the 
underlying hedged item affects profit and loss or when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur

•  Translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of  
the Group in foreign operations. Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve and are reclassified to  
the income statement when the underlying foreign operation is disposed. Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as 
hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment  
of the foreign operations

•  Retained earnings represents profits and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current  
and prior periods, together with the after tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions,  
own shares held (treasury shares) and share buy-backs

A substantial part of the Group’s reserves is held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local 
operations or to comply with local regulations. The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict  
the amount of reserves which can be remitted. In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided 
taxation liabilities might arise.

As at 31 December 2023, the distributable reserves of Standard Chartered PLC (the Company) were $14.7 billion (31 December 
2022: $13 billion). Distributable reserves of SC PLC were $14.7 billion, which are calculated from the Merger reserve and Retained 
Earnings with consideration for restricted items in line with sections 830 and 831 of the Companies Act 2006.

438

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued

Own shares 
Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited is the trustee of the 2004 Employee Benefit Trust (‘2004 Trust’) and Ocorian Trustees 
(Jersey) Limited has been the trustee of the 1995 Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘1995 Trust’). The 1995 Trust was closed 
on 30 June 2023 as all historical awards under this trust have been satisfied, and the 2004 Trust will be used to satisfy existing 
and future awards.

The 2004 Trust is used in conjunction with the Group’s employee share schemes and other employee share-based payments 
(such as upfront shares and fixed pay allowances). Group companies fund the 2004 Trust from time to time to enable the 
trustees to acquire shares in Standard Chartered PLC to satisfy these arrangements. 

Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.

Shares purchased during the period

Market price of shares purchased 
($million)

Shares held at the end of the period

Maximum number of shares held 
during the period

1995 Trust

2004 Trust

2023

2022

2023

2022

Total

2023

2022

–

–

–

–

–

–

29,069,539

30,203,531

29,069,539

30,203,531

237

218

237

218

28,095,542

27,525,624

28,095,542

27,525,624

28,893,930

27,976,046

Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any Standard Chartered PLC 
securities listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the period.

Dividend waivers
The trustees of the 2004 Trust, which holds ordinary shares in Standard Chartered PLC in connection with the operation of  
its employee share plans, have lodged standing instructions in relation to shares held by them that have not been allocated  
to employees, whereby any dividend is waived on the balance of ordinary shares and recalculated and paid at the rate of  
0.01p per share.

Changes in share capital and other equity instruments of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries 
The table below details the transactions in equity instruments (including convertible and hybrid instruments) of the Group’s 
subsidiaries, including issuances, conversions, redemptions, purchase or cancellation. This is required under the Hong Kong 
Listing requirements, appendix 16 paragraph 10.

Name and registered address 

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, 
EC2V 5DD, United Kingdom

Place of 
incorporation

Description of shares

Issued/(redeemed) 
capital

Issued/(redeemed) 
Shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

Standard Chartered I H Limited

United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares

Standard Chartered Holdings Limited

United Kingdom $2.00 Ordinary shares

$574,721,653 

$574,721,653 

574,721,653

287,360,826

Standard Chartered Strategic 
Investments Limited

United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares

SC Ventures Holdings Limited

United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares

Zodia Markets Holdings Limited

United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares

$45,886,520

$217,712,622

$5,580

The following companies have the 
address of 5th Floor, Holland House 1-4 
Bury Street, London, EC3A 5AW, United 
Kingdom

100

100

100

100

45,886,520

217,712,622

5,580

80.46

Zodia Holdings Limited

United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary-A 

shares

$18,300,000

18,300,000

100

The following companies have the 
address of Suites 508,509,15th floor, Al 
Sarab Tower, Adgm Square, Al Maryah 
Island, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates

Financial Inclusion Technologies Ltd

The following company has the address 
of 39/F, Oxford House,Taikoo Place,979 
king’s road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong

United Arab 
Emirates

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$13,500,000

13,500,000

100

Mox Bank Limited

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary shares

HKD1,212,100,000

121,210,000

68.29

439

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued

Place of 
incorporation

Description of shares

Issued/(redeemed) 
capital

Issued/(redeemed) 
Shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

Name and registered address 

The following company has the address 
of Second Floor, Indiqube Edge, Khata  
No. 571/630/6/4, Sy.No.6/4, Ambalipura 
Village, Varthur Hobli, Marathahalli 
Sub-Division, Ward No. 150, Bengaluru, 
560102, India.

Standard Chartered Research and 
Technology India Private Limited

India

INR10.00 A Equity 
shares

INR135,758,500

13,575,850

90.63

The following company has the address 
of Crescenzo, 6th Floor, Plot No 38-39 G 
Block , Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
East , Mumbai , Maharashtra, 400051, 
India

Standard Chartered Capital Limited

India

INR10.00 Equity shares

INR730,222,220

73,022,222

100

The following company has the address 
of StandardChartered@Chiromo, 
Number 48, Westlands Road, P. O. Box 
30003 – 00100, Nairobi, Kenya

Solvezy Technology Kenya Limited

Kenya

Tawi Fresh Kenya Limited

Kenya

The following companies have the 
address of 27, Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin, 
D02 TP23, Ireland

KES1,000.00 Ordinary 
shares

KES1,000.00 Ordinary 
shares

 KES237,228,000 

 237,228

KES505,560,000

505,560

100

100

Zodia Custody (Ireland) Limited

Ireland

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1,230,000

1,230,000

72.83

The following company has the address 
of 77 Robinson Road, #25-00 Robinson 77, 
068896, Singapore

Trust Bank Singapore Limited

Singapore

SGD Ordinary shares

SGD110,000,000

110,000,000

60

EX-26, Ground Floor, Bldg 16-Co Work, 
Dubai Internet City, Dubai, United  
Arab Emirates

Appro Onboarding Solutions FZ-LLC

The following company has the address 
of Part of Level 15, Standard Chartered 
Bank Building, Plot 8, Burj Downtown, 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates

United Arab 
Emirates

AED1,000.00 Ordinary 
shares

AED25,691,000

25,691

100

myZoi Financial Inclusion Technologies 
LLC

United Arab 
Emirates

AED1.00 Ordinary 
shares

AED25,000,000

25,000,000

100

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Building, 87 
Independance Avenue, Ridge, ACCRA, 
Greater ACCRA, GA-016-4621, Ghana

Solvezy Technology Ghana Ltd

Ghana

GHS Ordinary

GHS4,301,000

4,301,000

100

The following company has the address 
of 8th Floor, Makati Sky Plaza Building 
6788, Ayala Avenue San Lorenzo, City of 
Makati, Fourth District, National Capi, 
1223, Philippines

Standard Chartered Group Services, 
Manila Incorporated

The following company has the address 
of 1201 1-2, 15-16, 12/F, Unit No.1, Building 
No.1, No. 1 Dongsanhuan Zhong Road, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing, China

Standard Chartered Securities (China) 
Limited

440

Philippines

PHP1.00 Ordinary

PHP108,000,000

108,000,000

100

China

CNY Ordinary

CNY1,050,000,000

1,050,000,000

100

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued

Place of 
incorporation

Description of shares

Issued/(redeemed) 
capital

Issued/(redeemed) 
Shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

Name and registered address 

The following companies have the 
address of Raffles Place, #26-01 Republic 
Plaza, Singapore , 048619, Singapore

Autumn Life Pte. Ltd.

Audax Financial Technology Pte. Ltd

CashEnable Pte. Ltd.

Letsbloom Pte. Ltd

The following companies have the 
address of 9 Raffles Place, #26-01 
Republic Plaza, 048619 , Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

$ Ordinary-A shares

$2,650,000 

2,650,000

96.62

$ Ordinary-A shares

$94,300,000

94,300,000

$ Ordinary-A shares

$ Ordinary shares

$700,000

$4,599,999 

700,000

4,599,999

100

100

100

100

100

SCV Research and Development Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

$ Ordinary shares

SCV Master Holding Company Pte Ltd

Singapore

$ Ordinary shares

$8,000,000 

$25,700,000

8,000,000

25,700,000

The following companies have the 
address of 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 
068898, Singapore

Solv-India Pte Ltd

Singapore

$ Ordinary shares

$47,000,000

47,000,000

100

The following company has the address 
of 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, 
Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 
46200 Petaling Jaya , Selangor, Malaysia

Solv Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia

RM5.00 Ordinary 
shares

RM10,911,120 

2,182,224

90.6

Please see Note 22 Debt securities in issue for issuances and redemptions of senior notes.

Please see Note 27 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds for issuance and redemptions of subordinated liabilities 
and AT1 securities. 

Please see Note 40 Related undertakings of the Group for subsidiaries liquidated, dissolved or sold during the year.

29. Non-controlling interests

At 1 January 2022

Comprehensive income for the year

Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests

Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests

Distributions
Other increases1

At 31 December 2022

Comprehensive income for the year

Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests

Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests

Distributions
Other increases2

At 31 December 2023

$million

371

(88)

(42)

(46)

(31)

98

350

(38)

(31)

(7)

(26)

110

396

1.  Additional investment by non-controlling interests mainly in Mox Bank Limited ($39 million), Trust Bank Singapore Limited ($47 million), Zodia Markets Holdings 

Limited ($3 million), Power2SME Pte. Ltd. ($9 million)

2.  Additional investment by non-controlling interests mainly in Mox Bank Limited ($48 million), Trust Bank Singapore Limited ($34 million) and Zodia Custody Limited 

($28 million) 

441

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
30. Retirement benefit obligations

Accounting policy
The Group operates pension and other post-retirement benefit plans around the world, which can be categorised into 
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. 

•  For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a 

statutory or contractual basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid.

•  For defined benefit plans, which promise levels of payments where the future cost is not known with certainty:

–   the accounting obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method. 

–  Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders’ equity and presented in the statement of other 

comprehensive income in the period they arise. 

–  The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit liability for the year by applying the  
discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net  
defined benefit liability, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability during the year as a  
result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense, the cost of the accrual of new benefits, benefit 
enhancements (or reductions) and administration expenses met directly from plan assets are recognised in the  
income statement in the period in which they were incurred.

Other accounting estimates and judgements
There are many factors that affect the measurement of the retirement benefit obligations. This measurement requires  
the use of estimates, such as discount rates, inflation, pension increases, salary increases, and life expectancies which are 
inherently uncertain. The table below summarises how these assumptions are set: 

Assumption

Discount rate

Inflation

Detail

Determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high-quality 
corporate bonds (or, in countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, government bonds)  
of a currency and term consistent with the currency and term of the post-employment benefit 
obligations. This is the approach adopted across all our geographies. 

Where there are inflation-linked bonds available (e.g. United Kingdom and the eurozone), the Group 
derives inflation based on the market on those bonds, with the market yield adjusted in respect of 
the United Kingdom to take account of the fact that liabilities are linked to Consumer Price Index 
inflation, whereas the reference bonds are linked to Retail Price Index inflation. Where no inflation-
linked bonds exist, we determine inflation assumptions based on a combination of long-term 
forecasts and short-term inflation data.

Salary growth

Salary growth assumptions reflect the Group’s long-term expectations, taking into account future 
business plans and macroeconomic data (primarily expected future long-term inflation).

Demographic assumptions Demographic assumptions, including mortality and turnover rates, are typically set based on  

the assumptions used in the most recent actuarial funding valuation, and will generally use  
industry standard tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect recent historic experience and/or 
future expectations.

The sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in these assumptions is shown in the Note below.

Retirement benefit obligations comprise:

Defined benefit plans obligation

Defined contribution plans obligation

Net obligation

Retirement benefit charge comprises:

Defined benefit plans
Defined contribution plans1

Charge against profit (Note 7)

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

166

17

183

128

18

146

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

66

365

431

58

332

390

1   The Group during the year utilised, against defined contribution payments, $4 million forfeited pension contributions in respect of employees who left before their 

interests vested fully. The residual balance of forfeited contributions is $16 million

The Group operates over 60 defined benefit plans across its geographies, many of which are closed to new entrants who now 
join defined contribution arrangements. The aim of all these plans is, as part of the Group’s commitment to financial wellbeing 
for employees, to give employees the opportunity to save appropriately for retirement in a way that is consistent with local 
regulations, taxation requirements and market conditions. The defined benefit plans expose the Group to currency risk, interest 
rate risk, investment risk and actuarial risks such as longevity risk.

442

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements30. Retirement benefit obligations continued
The material holdings of government and corporate bonds shown partially hedge movements in the liabilities resulting from 
interest rate and inflation changes. Setting aside movements from other drivers such as currency fluctuation, the reduction in 
discount rates in most countries with material pension liabilities over 2023 has led to higher liabilities. This has been partly offset 
by increases in the value of bonds held as well as good performance of growth assets such as equities, leading to an increase in 
the pension deficit reported. These movements are shown as actuarial gains and losses in the tables below. Contributions into  
a number of plans in excess of the amounts required to fund benefits accruing have also partially offset the increase in the net 
deficit over the year.

The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries based on the most recent full 
actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December 2023.

UK Fund
The Standard Chartered Pension Fund (the ‘UK Fund’) is the Group’s largest pension plan, representing 53 per cent (31 December 
2022: 53 per cent) of total pension liabilities. The UK Fund is set up under a trust that is legally separate from the Bank (its formal 
sponsor) and, as required by UK legislation, at least one third of the trustee directors are nominated by members; the remainder 
are appointed by the Bank. The trustee directors have a fiduciary duty to members and are responsible for governing the UK 
Fund in accordance with its Trust Deed and Rules. 

The UK Fund was closed to new entrants from 1 July 1998 and closed to the accrual of new benefits from 1 April 2018: all UK 
employees are now offered membership of a defined contribution plan.

The financial position of the UK Fund is regularly assessed by an independent qualified actuary. The funding valuation as  
at 31 December 2020 was completed in December 2021 by the Scheme Actuary, T Kripps of Willis Towers Watson, using 
assumptions different from those below, and agreed with the UK Fund trustee. It showed that the UK Fund was 92% funded  
at that date, revealing a past service deficit of $162 million (£127 million). 

To repair the deficit, three annual cash payments each of $42 million (£32.9 million) were agreed, with the first of these paid  
in December 2021, and two further instalments to be paid in December 2022 and December 2023. However, the agreement 
allowed that, if the funding position improves to being at or near a surplus in future years, the payments due in 2022 and 2023 
will be reduced or eliminated. Based on the funding positions at the agreed measurement point of mid-year, no payment was 
made in December 2022, and a reduced payment of $8m (£6m) was made in December 2023. As part of the 2020 valuation,  
in order to provide security for future contributions an additional $64 million nominal gilts (£50 million) were purchased and 
transferred into the existing escrow account of $140 million gilts (£110 million), topping it up to $204 million. Under the terms of 
the 2020 valuation agreement, the USD8m payment made in December 2023 is deductible from the funds held in escrow. 

The Group has not recognised any additional liability under IFRIC 14, as the Bank has control of any pension surplus under the 
Trust Deed and Rules.

Virgin Media vs NTL Pension Trustees II Ltd
Following the June 2023 ruling in the case of Virgin Media vs NTL Pension Trustees II Limited, the Bank has considered the 
potential impact of this ruling on the UK Fund and is of the view that any potential impact is not expected to be material.

Overseas plans
The principal overseas defined benefit arrangements operated by the Group are in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan, 
United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the United States of America (US). Plans in Hong Kong, India, Korea, Taiwan and UAE remain 
open for the accrual of future benefits.

Key assumptions
The principal financial assumptions used at 31 December 2023 were: 

Discount rate

Price inflation

Salary increases

Pension increases

Post-retirement medical rate

2023

2022

UK Funded 
%

Overseas Plans1
%

Unfunded Plans2
%

UK Funded 
%

Overseas Plans1
%

Unfunded Plans2
%

4.6

2.5

n/a

2.3

1.2 – 4.9

2.0 – 2.9

3.5 – 4.5

2.9

3.1 – 7.4

2.0 – 5.0

4.0 – 8.5

0.0 – 2.3

8% in 2023 
reducing by 
0.5% per 
annum to  
5% in 2029

4.8

2.6

n/a

2.4

1.2 – 5.4

1.0 – 3.1

3.5 – 4.5

3.1

3.7 – 7.6

2.0 – 4.0

4.0 – 7.8

0.0 – 2.4

7% in 2022 
reducing by 
0.5% per 
annum to  
5% in 2026

1   The range of assumptions shown is for the funded defined benefit overseas plans in Hong Kong, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan, and the US. These comprise around  

75 per cent of the total liabilities of overseas funded plans.

2   The range of assumptions shown is for the main unfunded defined benefit plans in India, Korea, Thailand, UAE, UK and the US. They comprise around 95 per cent 

of the total liabilities of unfunded plans

The principal non-financial assumptions are those made for UK life expectancy. The UK mortality tables are S3PMA for males 
and S3PFA for females, projected by year of birth with the CMI 2019 improvement model with a 1.25% annual trend and initial 
addition parameter of 0.25%. Scaling factors of 92% for male pensioners, 92% for female pensioners, 92% for male dependants 
and 82% for female dependants have been applied. 

443

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements30. Retirement benefit obligations continued
The resulting assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund are that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 27 years 
(2022: 27 years) and a female member for 30 years (2022: 30 years) and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 29 years 
(2022: 29 years) and a female member for 32 years (2022: 32 years) after their 60th birthdays.

Both financial and non-financial assumptions can be expected to change in the future, which would affect the value placed  
on the liabilities. For example, changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below:

•  If the discount rate increased by 25 basis points the liability would reduce by approximately $35 million for the UK Fund  

|(2022: $30 million) and $20 million for the other plans (2022: $15 million)

•  If the rate of inflation increased by 25 basis points the liability, allowing for the consequent impact on pension and salary 

increases, would increase by approximately $20 million for the UK Fund (2022: $20 million) and $15 million for the other plans 
(2022: $15 million)

•  If the rate of salary growth relative to inflation increased by 25 basis points the liability would increase by nil for the UK Fund 

(2022: nil) and approximately $10 million for the other plans (2022: $10 million)

•  If longevity expectations increased by one year the liability would increase by approximately $35 million for the UK Fund 

(2022: $35 million) and $10 million for the other plans (2022: $10 million)

Although this analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected, it does provide an approximation of 
the sensitivity to the main assumptions. While changes in other assumptions would also have an impact, the effect would not 
be as significant.

Profile of plan obligations

Duration of the defined benefit obligation (in years)
Duration of the defined benefit obligation – 2022
Benefits expected to be paid from plans
Benefits expected to be paid during 2024
Benefits expected to be paid during 2025
Benefits expected to be paid during 2026
Benefits expected to be paid during 2027
Benefits expected to be paid during 2028
Benefits expected to be paid during 2029 to 2033

Funded plans

UK Fund

Overseas

 Unfunded  
plans

11
11

80
82
84
86
89
478

8
9

63
100
74
83
91
444

8
9

19
17
17
17
18
82

Fund values

At 31 December 2022
Equities
Government bonds 
Corporate bonds 
Hedge funds
Infrastructure
Property
Derivatives
Cash and equivalents
Others
Total fair value of assets1
At 31 December 2023
Equities
Government bonds 
Corporate bonds 
Hedge funds
Infrastructure
Property
Derivatives
Cash and equivalents
Others
Total fair value of assets1

UK Fund 

Overseas plans

Quoted assets 
$million

Unquoted assets 
$million

Total assets 
$million

Quoted assets 
$million

Unquoted assets 
$million

Total assets 
$million

2
206
309
–
– 
–
2
 257
 7
 783

2
443
 360
 –
–
 –
 2
 66
7
 880

–
–
82
14
177
126
–
–
4
403

–
–
113
9
166
84
5
–
2
379

2
206
391
14
177
126
2
257
11
1,186

2
443
473
9 
166
84
7
66
9 
1,259 

 223
 160
 116
–
–
–
 –
 35
–
 534

 160
 173
179
–
–
–
–
37
–
549

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
221
63
284

– 
–
–
–
–
–
–
166
145
311

223
160
116
–
–
–
–
256 
63
818

160 
173 
179
–
–
–
–
203
145 
 860

1   Self-investment is monitored closely and is less than $1 million of Standard Chartered equities and bonds for 2023 (31 December 2022: <$1 million). Self-investment 
is only allowed where it is not practical to exclude it – for example through investment in index-tracking funds where the Group is a constituent of the relevant 
index

444

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30. Retirement benefit obligations continued

At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Funded plans

Funded plans

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas Plans 
$million

Unfunded Plans 
$million

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas Plans 
$million

Unfunded Plans 
$million

Total fair value of assets

Present value of liabilities

Net pension plan asset/(obligation)

1,259

(1,219)

 40

 860

(877) 

 (17)

N/A

 (189)

(189) 

 1,186

 (1,138)

 48

818

(817) 

1

N/A

(177) 

(177) 

The pension cost for defined benefit plans was:

2023
Current service cost1
Past service cost and curtailments2
Settlement cost3

Interest income on pension plan assets

Interest on pension plan liabilities

Total charge to profit before deduction of tax
Net (gain)/losses on plan assets4

(Gains)/losses on liabilities

Total (gains)/losses recognised directly in statement of comprehensive 
income before tax

Deferred taxation

Total (gains) /losses after tax

Funded plans

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas plans 
$million

Unfunded plans 
$million

Total 
$million

–

8

–

(57)

56

7

(18)

30

12

(1)

11

39

–

2

(43)

41

39

(52)

79

27

(10)

17

11

1

–

–

8

20

–

8

8

–

8

50

9

2

(100)

105

66

(70)

117

47

(11)

36

1  

Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $1 million and actuarial losses of $2 million that are immediately recognised through P&L in line with 
the requirements of IAS 19. 

2   Includes the cost of discretionary pension increases paid to UK pensioners as well as small past service costs in relation to Hong Kong

3   Termination benefits paid from the pension plan in Indonesia

4   The actual return on the UK Fund assets was a gain of $75 million and on overseas plan assets was a gain of $95 million

Funded plans

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas plans 
$million

Unfunded plans 
$million

Total 
$million

2022
Current service cost1
Past service cost and curtailments2

Interest income on pension plan assets

Interest on pension plan liabilities

Total charge to profit before deduction of tax
Net (gains)/losses on plan assets3

(Gains)/ losses on liabilities 

Total losses/(gains) recognised directly in statement of comprehensive 
income before tax

Deferred taxation

Total (gains)/losses after tax

–

–

(34)

33

(1)

486

(453)

33

7

40

47

2

(32)

31

48

113

(143)

(30)

13

(17)

6

–

–

5

11

–

(44)

(44)

–

(44)

1  

Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $ 1 million (2021: $ 1 million)

2   Includes various small costs and gains from plan amendments and settlements in India, Kenya, Mauritius, South Korea and Sri Lanka

3   The actual return on the UK Fund assets was a loss of $452 million and on overseas plan assets was a loss of $82 million

53

2

(66)

69

58

599

(640)

(41)

20

(21)

445

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements30. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movement in the defined benefit pension plans deficit during the year comprise:

Surplus/(deficit) at January 2023

Contributions
Current service cost1

Past service cost and curtailments

Settlement costs and transfers impact

Net interest on the net defined benefit asset/liability

Actuarial gains/(losses)
Assets held for sale3

Exchange rate adjustment

Surplus/(deficit) at 31 December 2023²

Funded plans

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas plans 
$million

Unfunded plans 
$million

Total 
$million

48

8

–

(8)

–

1

(12)

–

3

40

1

59

(39)

–

(2)

2

(27)

(7)

(4)

(17)

(177)

14

(11)

(1)

–

(8)

(8)

6

(4)

(189)

(128)

81

(50)

(9)

(2)

(5)

(47)

(1)

(5)

(166)

1  

Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $1 million (31 December 2022: $1 million)

2   The deficit total of $166 million is made up of plans in deficit of $260 million (31 December 2022: $248 million) net of plans in surplus with assets totalling $94 million 

(31 December 2022: $120 million)

3   “Assets held for sale” is an adjustment relating to plans in Cameroon, Cote D’Ivoire and Zimbabwe which is required due to these countries being excluded in the 

opening and closing assets and liabilities, but included in the profit and other comprehensive income items shown.

Funded plans

UK Fund 
$million

Overseas plans 
$million

Unfunded plans 
$million

Surplus/(deficit) at January 2022

Contributions
Current service cost1

Past service cost and curtailments

Settlement costs and transfers impact

Net interest on the net defined benefit asset/liability

Actuarial gains/(losses)
Assets held for sale3

Exchange rate adjustment

Surplus/(deficit) at 31 December 2022²

88

–

–

–

–

1

(33)

–

(8)

48

(44)

67

(47)

(2)

–

1

30

(4)

–

1

Total 
$million

(192)

80

(53)

(2)

–

(3)

41

(2)

3

(236)

13

(6)

–

–

(5)

44

2

11

(177)

(128)

1  

Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $1 million (31 December 2021: $1 million)

2   The deficit total of $128 million is made up of plans in deficit of $248 million (31 December 2021: $355 million) net of plans in surplus with assets totalling $120 million 

(31 December 2021: $163 million)

3   Assets held for sale includes funded and unfunded plans in Cameroon, Cote D’Ivoire, Jordan and Zimbabwe

The Group’s expected contribution to its defined benefit pension plans in 2024 is $53 million.

At 1 January
Contributions1
Current service cost2

Past service cost and curtailments

Settlement costs

Interest cost on pension plan liabilities

Interest income on pension plan assets
Benefits paid out2
Actuarial gains/(losses)3
Assets held for sale4

Exchange rate adjustment

At 31 December

Assets 
$million

2,004

82

–

–

–

–

100

(161)

70

(7)

31

2023

Obligations 
$million

(2,132)

(1)

(50)

(9)

(2)

(105)

–

161

(117)

6

(36)

2,119

(2,285)

Total 
$million

(128)

81

(50)

(9)

(2)

(105)

100

–

(47)

(1)

(5)

(166)

Assets 
$million

2,942

81

–

–

(5)

–

66

(176)

(599)

(18)

(287)

2022

Obligations 
$million

(3,134)

(1)

(53)

(2)

5

(69)

–

176

640

16

290

Total 
$million

(192)

80

(53)

(2)

–

(69)

66

–

41

(2)

3

2,004

(2,132)

(128)

1  

Includes employee contributions of $1 million (31 December 2022: $1 million) 

2   Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $1 million (31 December 2022: $1 million) 

3   Actuarial gain on obligation comprises of $50 million loss (31 December 2022: $708 million gain) from financial assumption changes, $1 million loss (31 December 

2022: $9 million gain) from demographic assumption changes and $66 million loss (31 December 2022: $77 million loss) from experience

4   “Assets held for sale” is an adjustment relating to plans in Cameroon, Cote D’Ivoire and Zimbabwe which is required due to these countries being excluded in the 

opening and closing assets and liabilities, but included in the profit and other comprehensive income items shown.

446

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements31. Share-based payments 

Accounting policy
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee 
services (measured by the fair value of the awards granted) received in exchange for the grant of the shares and awards  
is recognised as an expense. For deferred share awards granted as part of an annual performance award, the expense  
is recognised over the period from the start of the performance period to the vesting date. For example, the expense for 
three-year awards granted in 2024 in respect of 2023 performance, which vest in 2025-2027, is recognised as an expense  
over the period from 1 January 2023 to the vesting dates in 2025-2027. For all other awards, the expense is recognised over  
the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.

For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the shares and awards at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions  
(for example, profitability and growth targets). The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices,  
if available, at the date of grant. In the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments is estimated using an 
appropriate valuation technique, such as a binomial option pricing model. Non-market vesting conditions are included in 
assumptions for the number of shares and awards that are expected to vest.

At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares and awards that are expected to vest.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment 
to equity over the remaining vesting period. Forfeitures prior to vesting attributable to factors other than the failure to satisfy 
service conditions and non-market vesting conditions are treated as a cancellation and the remaining unamortised charge  
is debited to the income statement at the time of cancellation. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when awards in the form of options  
are exercised. 

Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and a liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid 
amounts, with any changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in the income statement until the awards are 
exercised. Where forfeitures occur prior to vesting that are attributable to factors other than a failure to satisfy service 
conditions or market-based performance conditions, the cumulative charge incurred up to the date of forfeiture is credited  
to the income statement. 

Other accounting estimates and judgements
Share-based payments involve judgement and estimation uncertainty in determining the expenses and carrying values of 
share awards at the balance sheet date.

•  LTIP awards are determined using an estimation of the probability of meeting certain metrics over a three-year 

performance period using the Monte Carlo simulation model.

•  Deferred shares are determined using an estimation of expected dividends.

•  Sharesave Plan valuations are determined using a binomial option-pricing model.

The Group operates a number of share-based arrangements for its executive directors and employees. Details of the share-
based payment charge are set out below.

Deferred share awards

Other share awards

Total share-based payments²

1   No forfeiture during the year

2023¹

2022¹

Cash  
$million

Equity  
$million

Total 
$million

Cash  
$million

Equity  
$million

Total  
$million

34

19

53

103

70

173

137

89

226

16

20

36

92

71

163

108

91

199

2 The total Share based payments charge during the year includes costs relating to Business ventures. Business ventures are established as separate legal entities 

with their own employee share ownership plans (ESOP) to attract and incentivise talent. ESOPs have been set up with share based payment charges recorded in 
2023 with $14 million in Cash settled and $3 million equity settled deferred awards spread across 11 entities

447

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements31. Share-based payments continued

2021 Standard Chartered Share Plan (the ‘2021 Plan’) and 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan (the ‘2011 Plan’) 
The 2021 Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2021 and is the Group’s main share plan, replacing the 2011 Plan for new 
awards from June 2021. It may be used to deliver various types of share awards to employees and former employees of the 
Group, including directors and former executive directors: 

•  Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards: granted with vesting subject to performance measures. Performance measures 
attached to awards granted previously include: relative total shareholder return (TSR); return on tangible equity (RoTE)  
(with a Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) underpin); and strategic measures. Each measure is assessed independently over a 
three-year period. LTIP awards have an individual conduct gateway requirement that results in the award lapsing if not met.

•  Deferred awards are used to deliver: 

–  the deferred portion of variable remuneration, in line with both market practice and regulatory requirements. These awards 

vest in instalments on anniversaries of the award date specified at the time of grant. Deferred awards are not subject  
to any plan limit. This enables the Group to meet regulatory requirements relating to deferral levels, and is in line with 
market practice.

–  replacement buy-out awards to new joiners who forfeit awards on leaving their previous employers. These vest in the 

quarter most closely following the date when the award would have vested at the previous employer. This enables the 
Group to meet regulatory requirements relating to buy-outs, and is in line with market practice. In line with similar plans 
operated by our competitors, these awards are not subject to an annual limit and do not have any performance measures.

Under the 2021 Plan and 2011 Plan, no grant price is payable to receive an award. The remaining life of the 2021 Plan during 
which new awards can be made is eight years. The 2011 Plan has expired and no further awards will be granted under this plan.

Valuation – LTIP awards
The vesting of awards granted in 2023, 2022 and 2021 is subject to relative TSR performance measures, achievement of a 
strategic scorecard and satisfaction of RoTE (subject to a capital CET1 underpin). The vesting of awards also have additional 
conditions under strategic measures related to targets set for sustainability linked to business strategy. The fair value of the 
relative TSR component is calculated using the probability of meeting the measures over a three-year performance period, 
using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The value of the remaining components is based on the expected performance  
against the RoTE and strategic measures in the scorecard and the resulting estimated number of shares expected to vest  
at each reporting date. These combined values are used to determine the accounting charge. 

No dividend equivalents accrue for the LTIP awards made in 2023, 2022 or 2021 and the fair value takes this into account, 
calculated by reference to market consensus dividend yield.

Grant date

Share price at grant date (£)

Vesting period (years)

Expected divided yield (%)

Fair value (RoTE) (£)

Fair value (TSR) (£)

Fair value (Strategic) (£)

2023

2022

13–March

14–March

7.40

3–7

3.1

4.88

3–7

3.4

1.91, 1.85

1.24, 1.20

1.08, 1.04

0.70, 0.68

2.54, 2.46

1.65, 1.60

Valuation – deferred shares 
The fair value for deferred awards which are not granted to material risk takers is based on 100 per cent of the face value of the 
shares at the date of grant as the share price will reflect expectations of all future dividends. For awards granted to material risk 
takers in 2023, the fair value of awards takes into account the lack of dividend equivalents, calculated by reference to market 
consensus dividend yield.

Deferred share awards – variable remuneration

Grant date

Share price at grant date (£)

18 September

7.43

2023

19 June

6.75

13 March

7.40

Vesting period (years)

1-3 years

1-5 years

3-7 years

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

N/A

3.0

–

Fair value  
(£)

7.43

6.51

–

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

3.3

Fair value  
(£)

6.75

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

3.1

Fair value  
(£)

7.4

3.3, 3.3

6.23, 5.83

3.1, 3.1

6.85, 6.65

–

–

3.1, 3.1, 3.1, 3.1

6.65, 6.75,  
6.35, 6.16

448

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements31. Share-based payments continued

Grant date

Share price at grant date (£)

09 November

5.62

2022

20 June

6.04

14 March

4.88

Vesting period (years)

1-3 years

1-5 years

3-7 years

Deferred share awards – buy-outs

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

N/A

3.4

–

5.62

5.17

–

N/A

3.4, 3.4

Fair value  
(£)

6.04

5.56, 5.56

Expected 
dividend yield 
(%)

N/A

N/A, 3.4,  
3.4, 3.4

Fair value  
(£)

4.88

4.88, 4.48,  
4.41, 4.34

–

–

3.4,3.4,3.4 4.48, 4.13, 3.99

Grant date

Share price at grant date (£)

20-Nov

6.60

18-Sep

7.43

19-Jun

6.75

13-Mar

7.40

2023

Vesting period (years)

Expected 
dividend 
yield  
(%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield  
(%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield  
(%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield  
(%)

Fair value  
(£)

3 months

4 months

6 months

7 months

9 months

10 months

1 year

2 years

3 years

4 years

5 years

3.0

3.0

3.0

6.54

6.49

6.44

3.0 6.25, 6.30, 
6.35, 6.39

3.0 6.12, 6.16, 
6.21

3.0 5.94, 5.98, 
6.03

3.0

5.76

3.0

3.0

3.0

7.38

7.32

7.27

3.0 7.06, 7.11, 
7.16, 7.22

3.0 6.85, 6.9,  
6.95, 7.01

3.0 6.65, 6.7, 
6.8

2022

3.3

3.3

6.7

3.1

7.34

6.64

3.3 6.48, 6.59

3.3 6.18, 6.38, 
6.43, 6.54

3.3 5.98, 6.18, 
6.33

3.3 5.98, 5.79, 
6.13

3.1

7.12, 7.18

3.1 6.91, 6.96

3.1 6.70, 6.75

3.1 6.50, 6.55

3.1

6.35

Grant date

28 November

09 November

Share price at grant date (£)

5.90

5.62

20 June

6.04

14 March

4.88

Vesting period (years)

Expected 
dividend 
yield (%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield (%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield (%)

Fair value  
(£)

Expected 
dividend 
yield (%)

Fair value  
(£)

4 months

1 year

1.4 years

2 years

2.4 years

3 years

4 years

5 years

6 years

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

5.71

5.52

5.34

5.16

4.99

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

5.56

5.44

5.38

5.26

5.2

5.08

4.92

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

5.84

5.65

5.46

5.28

5.11

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

3.4

4.72

4.56

4.41

4.27

4.13

3.99

449

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements31. Share-based payments continued

All Employee Sharesave Plans
Sharesave Plans
The 2013 Sharesave Plan expired in May 2023 and a new 2023 Sharesave Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2023. Under the 2023 Sharesave Plan, employees may open a savings contract. Employees can save up 
to £250 per month over three years to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20 per cent on the share 
price at the date of invitation (the ‘option exercise price’), after which they have a period of six months to exercise the option. 
There are no performance measures attached to options granted under the Sharesave Plans and no grant price is payable to 
receive an option. In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible to operate Sharesave plans, typically due  
to securities law and regulatory restrictions. In these countries, where possible, the Group offers an equivalent cash-based 
alternative to its employees. 

The remaining life of the 2023 Sharesave Plan during which new awards can be made is ten years. The 2013 Sharesave Plan  
has expired and no further awards will be granted under this plan.

Valuation – Sharesave:
Options under the Sharesave plans are valued using a binomial option-pricing model. The same fair value is applied to all 
employees including executive directors. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are  
as follows:

All Employee Sharesave Plan (Sharesave)

Grant date

Share price at grant date (£)

Exercise price (£)

Vesting period (years)

Expected volatility (%)

Expected option life (years)

Risk-free rate (%)

Expected dividend yield (%)

Fair value (£)

2023

2022

18 September 28 November

7.35

5.88

3

36.7

3.5

4.48

3.0

3.05

5.80

4.23

3

39.3

3.33

3.21

3.4

2.08

The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, or three years prior to grant. The expected life  
is the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of  
a term consistent with the assumed option life. The expected dividend yield is calculated by reference to market consensus 
dividend yield.

Limits
An award shall not be granted under the 2021 Plan in any calendar year if, at the time of its proposed grant, it would cause the 
number of Standard Chartered PLC ordinary shares allocated in the period of 10 calendar years, ending with that calendar year, 
under the 2021 Plan and under any other discretionary share plan operated by Standard Chartered PLC to exceed such number 
as represents 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Standard Chartered PLC in issue at that time.

An award shall not be granted under the 2021 Plan or 2023 Sharesave Plan in any calendar year if, at the time of its proposed 
grant, it would cause the number of Standard Chartered PLC ordinary shares allocated in the period of 10 calendar years ending 
with that calendar year, under the 2021 Plan or 2023 Sharesave Plan and under any other employee share plan operated by 
Standard Chartered PLC to exceed such number as represents 10 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Standard Chartered 
PLC in issue at that time.

An award shall not be granted under the 2021 Plan or 2023 Sharesave Plan in any calendar year if, at the time of its proposed 
grant, it would cause the number of Standard Chartered PLC ordinary shares which may be issued or transferred pursuant to 
awards then outstanding under the 2021 Plan or 2023 Sharesave Plan as relevant to exceed such number as represents 10 per 
cent of the ordinary share capital of Standard Chartered PLC in issue at that time.

The number of Standard Chartered PLC ordinary shares which may be issued pursuant to awards granted under the 2021  
Plan in any 12-month period must not exceed such number as represents 1 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Standard 
Chartered PLC in issue at that time. The number of Standard Chartered PLC ordinary shares which may be issued pursuant to 
awards granted under the 2023 Sharesave Plan in any 12-month period must not exceed such number as represents 1 per cent  
of the ordinary share capital of Standard Chartered PLC in issue at that time.

Standard Chartered PLC has been granted waivers from strict compliance with Rules 17.03A, 17.03B(1), 17.03E and 17.03(18) of the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. Details are set out in the market announcements 
made on 30 March 2023. . In relation to the waiver of strict compliance with Note 1 to 17.03(18), in 2023 no changes to the Plan 
rules have been proposed and therefore the Board has not been required to exercise its discretion.

450

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements31. Share-based payments continued

Reconciliation of share award movements for the year ending 31 December 2023

Outstanding at 1 January 2023
Granted2,3

Lapsed

Exercised

Outstanding at 31 December 2023

Discretionary¹

LTIP

Deferred  
shares

Sharesave

 11,339,951

46,449,040

17,109,519 

2,142,057

21,668,459

5,668,325

(1,911,931)

(1,231,514)

(1,407,502)

(622,695)

(19,817,781)

(4,468,125)

10,947,382

47,068,204

16,902,217

Total number of securities available for issue under the plan

10,947,382

47,068,204

16,902,217

Percentage of the issued shares this represents as at 31 December 2023

0.41

1.76

0.63

Exercisable as at 31 December 2023

Range of exercise prices (£)³

Intrinsic value of vested but not exercised options ($ million)

Weighted average contractual remaining life (years)

Weighted average share price for awards exercised during the period (£)

–

–

–

7.59

6.94

685,077

2,482,392

–

5.81

8.11

 7.04 

3.14 – 5.88

11.08

2.30

 6.65 

Weighted 
average 
Sharesave 
exercise price  
(£)

3.81 

–

4.14

3.75

4.49

 4.49

3.16

1.  Granted under the 2021 Plan and 2011 Plan. Employees do not contribute to the cost of these awards.

2.   2,134,238 (LTIP) granted on 13 March 2023, 6,501 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2023, 1,318 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 1 September 
2023; 20,828,385 (Deferred shares) granted on 13 March 2023, 121,314 (Deferred shares) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2023, 338,583 (Deferred shares) 
granted on 19 June 2023, 235,186 (Deferred shares) granted on 18 September 2023, 52,082 (Deferred shares) granted as a notional dividend on 1 September 2023, 
92,909 (Deferred shares) granted on 20 November 2023; 5,668,325 (Sharesave) granted on 18 September 2023 under the 2023 Sharesave Plan.

3.   For Sharesave granted in 2023 the exercise price is £5.88 per share, a 20% discount from the average of the closing prices over the five days to the invitation date 

of 21 August 2023. The closing share price on 18 August 2023 was £7.214

Reconciliation of share award movements for the year ending 31 December 2022

Outstanding at 1 January 2022
Granted2,3

Lapsed

Exercised

Outstanding at 31 December 2022

Total number of securities available for issue under the plan

Percentage of the issued shares this represents as at 31 December 2022

Exercisable as at 31 December 2022

Range of exercise prices (£)³

Intrinsic value of vested but not exercised options ($ million)

Weighted average contractual remaining life (years)

Weighted average share price for awards exercised during the period (£)

Discretionary¹

LTIP

Deferred  
shares

Sharesave

11,627,751

39,718,654

16,897,075

3,066,288

25,037,706

5,777,197

(2,927,828)

(1,121,849)

(2,700,678)

(426,260)

(17,185,471)

(2,864,075)

11,339,951

46,449,040

 11,339,951

 46,449,040

0.39

–

–

0.02

7.88

5.09

1.60

1,191,693

–

8.93

8.25

 4.93 

17,109,519

 17,109,519

0.59

1,699,772

3.14 – 5.13

2.59

2.27

 5.94 

Weighted 
average 
Sharesave 
exercise price  
(£)

3.95

–

4.29

5.03

3.81

 3.81

4.96

–

1.   Granted under the 2021 Plan and 2011 Plan. Employees do not contribute to the cost of these awards.

2.   3,048,826 (LTIP) granted on 14 March 2022, 14,989 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2022, 2,473 (LTIP) granted as a notional dividend on 8 August 
2022, 23,434,127 (Deferred shares) granted on 14 March 2022, 77,479 (Deferred shares) granted as a notional dividend on 1 March 2022, 584,322 (Deferred shares) 
granted on 20 June 2022, 43,918 (Deferred shares) granted as a notional dividend on 8 August 2022, 771,103 (Deferred shares) granted on 9 November 2022, 
126,757 (Deferred shares) granted on 28 November 2022 under the 2021 Plan. 5,777,197 (Sharesave) granted on 28 November 2022 under the 2013 Sharesave Plan.

3.   For Sharesave granted in 2022 the exercise price is £4.23 per share, a 20% discount from the closing price on 1 November 2022. The closing price on 1 November 

2022 was £5.282

451

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements32. Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 

Accounting policy
Associates and joint arrangements
The Group did not have any contractual interest in joint operations. 

Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially 
recognised at cost. The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition  
(net of any accumulated impairment loss). 

The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, 
and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in reserves. The cumulative 
post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses 
in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables,  
the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate 
or joint venture.

Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the associates and joint ventures. At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether 
there is any objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates and joint ventures. Such evidence includes a 
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the Group’s investment in an associate or joint venture below its cost, 
among other factors.

Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The Group applies judgement in determining if it has control, joint control or significant influence over subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates respectively. These judgements are based upon identifying the relevant activities of counterparties, 
being those activities that significantly affect the entities returns, and further making a decision of if the Group has control 
over those entities, joint control, or has significant influence (being the power to participate in the financial and operating 
policy decisions but not control them). 

These judgements are at times determined by equity holdings, and the voting rights associated with those holdings. 
However, further considerations including but not limited to board seats, advisory committee members and specialist 
knowledge of some decision-makers are also taken into account. Further judgement is required when determining if the 
Group has de-facto control over an entity even though it may hold less than 50% of the voting shares of that entity. 
Judgement is required to determine the relative size of the Group’s shareholding when compared to the size and dispersion 
of other shareholders. 

Impairment testing of investments in associates and joint ventures, and on a Company level investments in subsidiaries is 
performed if there is a possible indicator of impairment. Judgement is used to determine if there is objective evidence of 
impairment. Objective evidence may be observable data such as losses incurred on the investment when applying the  
equity method, the granting of concessions as a result of financial difficulty, or breaches of contracts/regulatory fines of the 
associate or joint venture. Further judgement is required when considering broader indicators of impairment such as losses  
of active markets or ratings downgrades across key markets in which the associate or joint venture operate in. 

Impairment testing is based on estimates including forecasting the expected cash flows from the investments, growth rates, 
terminal values and the discount rate used in calculation of the present values of those cash flows. The estimation of future 
cash flows and the level to which they are discounted is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgement.

Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. 

In the Company’s financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are held at cost less 
impairment and dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, if any. Inter-company transactions, 
balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group accounts.

Investments in subsidiary undertakings

As at 1 January
Additions1
Disposal2

As at 31 December

2023 
$million

60,975

1,566

(1,750)

60,791

2022 
$million

60,429

1,545

(999)

60,975

1  

Includes internal Additional Tier 1 Issuances of $992 million by Standard Chartered Bank and $575 million additional investment in Standard Chartered Holdings 
Limited (31 December 2022: Additional Tier 1 issuances of $1 billion by Standard Chartered Bank and $500 million by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd)

2   Includes redemption of Additional Tier1 capital of $1 billion by Standard Chartered Bank (31 December 2022: Additional Tier1 capital of $1 billion by Standard 

Chartered Bank)

452

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements32. Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued

At 31 December 2023, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held except for Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited, and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: 

Country and place of incorporation or registration

Main areas of operation

Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales

United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, Asia Pacific, 
Americas and, through Group companies, Africa

Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong

Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited, Singapore

Singapore

Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Korea

Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited, China¹

Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited, Taiwan

Standard Chartered Bank AG, Germany

Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia

Korea

China

Taiwan

Germany

Malaysia

1   Under PRC law, registered as Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited

Country and place of incorporation or registration

Main areas of operation

Standard Chartered Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited, 
Thailand

Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited, Pakistan

Thailand

Pakistan

Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited, Botswana

Botswana

Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited, Kenya

Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited, Nepal

Standard Chartered Bank Ghana PLC, Ghana

Mox Bank Limited, Hong Kong

Kenya

Nepal

Ghana

Hong Kong

A complete list of subsidiary undertaking is included in Note 40.

Group interest  
in ordinary  
share capital  
%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Group interest  
in ordinary  
share capital  
%

99.87

98.99

75.83

74.32

70.21

69.42

68.29

The Group does not have any material non-controlling interest except as listed above, which contribute $35 million  
(31 December 2022: $(6.2) million) of the (loss)/Profit attributable to non-controlling interest and $290 million (31 December 2022: 
$261 million) of the equity attributable to non-controlling interests. 

During 2023 the Group disposed of its investments in Pembroke Group Limited (Isle of Man), Pembroke Aircraft Leasing Holdings 
Limited and Pembroke Aircraft Leasing (Tianjin) Limited (China). The carrying amount was composed of Property, plant and 
equipment of $3,249 million, Goodwill and intangible assets of $23 million, Other assets of $124 million and Other liabilities of 
$292 million. The principal activity of these subsidiaries was the aviation finance leasing business. In Q1 2023, the aviation 
finance leasing business was classified as held for sale and was subsequently sold on 2nd November 2023 for a total 
consideration of $3,570 million. The gain on sale of the business was $309 million. In addition the Group disposed of its wholly 
owned subsidiaries Cardspal Pte. Ltd. and Kozagi during 2023. The gain on sale of Cardspal Pte. Ltd. and Kozagi comprised  
$12 million and $7 million, respectively.

While the Group’s subsidiaries are subject to local statutory capital and liquidity requirements in relation to foreign exchange 
remittance, these restrictions arise in the normal course of business and do not significantly restrict the Group’s ability to access 
or use assets and settle liabilities of the Group. 

The Group does not have significant restrictions on its ability to access or use its assets and settle its liabilities other than those 
resulting from the regulatory framework within which the banking subsidiaries operate. These frameworks require banking 
operations to keep certain levels of regulatory capital, liquid assets, exposure limits and comply with other required ratios.  
These restrictions are summarised below:

Regulatory and liquidity requirements
The Group’s subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum capital, leverage ratios, liquidity and exposure ratios which therefore 
restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute cash or other assets to the parent company.

453

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements32. Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued
The subsidiaries are also required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities in the countries in 
which they operate. At 31 December 2023, the total cash and balances with central banks was $70 billion (31 December 2022: 
$58 billion) of which $6 billion (31 December 2022: $9 billion) is restricted. 

Statutory requirements 
The Group’s subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits to the 
parent company, generally to maintain solvency. These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to remit dividends to the 
Group. Certain subsidiaries are also subject to local exchange control regulations which provide for restrictions on exporting 
capital from the country other than through normal dividends.

Contractual requirements
The encumbered assets in the balance sheet of the Group’s subsidiaries are not available for transfer around the Group. 

Share of profit from investment in associates and joint ventures comprises:

Loss from investment in joint ventures

Profit from investment in associates

Total

Interests in associates and joint ventures

As at 1 January

Exchange translation difference

Additions¹

Share of profits

Dividend received⁴

Disposals
Impairment2

Share of FVOCI and Other reserves
Other movements3

As at 31 December

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

(13)

154

141

2023 
$million

1,631

16

64

141

(11)

–

(872)

(7)

4

966

(7)

163

156

2022 
$million

2,147

(232)

26

156

(58)

(1)

(336)

(79)

8

1,631

1  

Includes $17 million non-cash consideration (Intellectual Property – right to use) from SBI Zodia Custody Co. Ltd

2   Impairment mainly relates to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank (Bohai) $850million and CurrencyFair Limited (Zai) $21 million

3  Movement related to CurrencyFair Limited

4 

Include distribution ($7 million) in cash from Ascenta IV

During 2023 the Group disposed of its 13.09% share of investment in associate Metaco SA for a total consideration of $18 million. 
The entire amount was recognised as gain on sale. 

A complete list of the Group’s interest in associates is included in Note 40. The Group’s principal associates are:

Associate

China Bohai Bank

CurrencyFair Limited Exchange Ireland

Nature of 
activities

Main areas of 
operation

Banking

 Banking

China

 Ireland

Group interest in 
ordinary share 
capital %

16.26

43.42

The Group’s ownership percentage in China Bohai Bank is 16.26%.

Although the Group’s investment in China Bohai Bank is less than 20 per cent , it is considered to be an associate because of the 
significant influence the Group is able to exercise over its management and financial and operating policies. This influence is 
exercised through Board representation and the provision of technical expertise to Bohai. The Group applies the equity method 
of accounting for investments in associates. 

Bohai has a statutory year end of 31 December, but publishes its year-end financial statements after the Group. As it is 
impracticable for Bohai to prepare financial statements sooner, the Group recognises its share of Bohai’s earnings on a three-
month lag basis. Therefore, the Group recognised its share of Bohai’s profits and movements in other comprehensive income  
for the 12 months ended 30 September 2023 in the Group’s consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2023, respectively.

There have been significant developments since 2022, which have required an impairment to the Group’s carrying amount of 
the investment in Bohai. These events include Bohai’s lower reported net profit in 2023 (compared to 2022) as well as banking 
industry challenges and property market uncertainties in Mainland China, that may impact Bohai’s future profitability.

If the Group did not have significant influence over Bohai, the investment would be measured at fair value rather than the 
current carrying value, which is based on the application of the equity method as described in the accounting policy note.

454

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements32. Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued

Impairment testing
At 31 December 2023, the listed equity value of Bohai is below the carrying amount of the Group‘s investment in associate.  
As a result, the Group assessed the carrying value of its investment in Bohai for impairment and concluded that an impairment 
of $850 million was required in 2023 (2022: $308 million impairment). Total impairment is recorded in the ‘Goodwill, property, 
plant and equipment and other impairment’ line in the Consolidated Income Statement, under Central & other items segment. 
The carrying value of the Group’s investment in Bohai of $700 million (2022: $1,421 million) represents the higher of the value  
in use and fair value less costs to sell. The financial forecasts used in the VIU calculation reflects Group management’s best 
estimate of Bohai’s future earnings considering the significant developments explained above. 

Bohai

VIU
Carrying amount1
Market capitalisation2

2023  
$million

2022  
$million

700
700
418

1,421
1,421
685

1   The Group’s 16.26% share in the net assets less other equity instruments which the Group does not hold

2   Number of shares held by the Group multiplied by the quoted share price at 31 December

Basis of recoverable amount
The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of Bohai, determined as the higher of VIU and fair 
value less costs to sell, with its carrying amount.

The value in use (‘VIU’) is calculated using a dividend discount model (‘DDM’), which estimates the distributable future 
cashflows to the equity holders, after adjusting for regulatory capital requirements, for a 5-year period, after which a terminal 
value (‘TV’) is calculated based on the ‘Gordon Growth’ model. The key assumptions in the VIU are as follows:

•  Short to medium term projections are based on Group management’s best estimates of future profits available to ordinary 
shareholders and have been determined with reference to the latest published financial results and historical performance  
of Bohai

•  The projections use available information and include normalised performance over the forecast period, inclusive of: (i) asset 

growth assumptions based on the long-term GDP growth rate for Mainland China; (ii) ECL assumptions using Bohai’s 
historical reported ECL, based on the proportion of ECL from loans and advances to customers and financial investments 
measured at amortised cost and FVOCI. This was further adjusted for banking industry challenges and property market 
uncertainties; (iii) Net Interest Margin (NIM) increases from 2025 with reference to third party market interest rate forecasts  
in China; (iv) Net fee income estimated according to the latest available performance of Bohai and contribution of the 
constituent parts (trading and fee income) ; and (v) Effective Tax Rate (ETR) based on Bohai’s historical reported results  
for the short term projection, updated, for the medium and long term to a more conservative view

•  The discount rate applied to these cash flows was estimated with reference to transaction and broker data in the local 

Chinese market, cross-checked to the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which includes a long term risk-free rate, beta  
and company risk premium assumptions for Bohai

•  A long-term GDP growth rate for Mainland China is used to extrapolate the expected short to medium term earnings to 

perpetuity to derive a terminal value; and

•  Capital maintenance ratio consists of a capital haircut taken in order to estimate Bohai’s target regulatory capital 

requirements over the forecast period. This haircut takes into account movements in risk weighted assets (RWA) projected 
based on the historical proportion of RWA to total assets and the total capital required (Core CET 1 and Minimum Core CET 1 
ratios), including required retained earnings over time to meet the target capital ratios. RWA projection is adjusted to reflect 
management’s best estimates for the impact of implementing Basel 3.1, effective 1 January 2024 in China.

The VIU model was refined during 2023 to include a projected summary balance sheet and more granular income statement 
assumptions for each period. While it is impracticable for the Group to estimate the impact on future periods, the key changes 
to the 2023 model are summarised as follows:

•  Asset growth rates, net interest income margin and ECL assumptions were applied to the relevant balance sheet lines to 

produce the profit and loss forecasts for each period 

•  RWAs were modelled as a percentage of total assets, to reflect the potential capital impact(s) of regulatory changes  

(e.g., Basel 3.1) in each period. For the purposes of the VIU for 31 December 2023, it was assumed that the minimum CET 1 ratio 
is 8.0% (2022: 7.5%) over the forecast and terminal periods

•  Consistent with the model updates explained above, net fee income was modelled separately from net interest income.

Prior to its use, the 2023 VIU model was calibrated using the 2022 modelled assumptions.

455

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements32. Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued
The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation are as follows: 

Pre-tax discount rate
Long term GDP growth rate
Total assets growth rate
RWA as percentage of total assets
Net interest margin
Net fee income growth rate
Expected credit losses as a percentage of customer loans
Expected credit losses as a percentage of financial investments measured at amortised cost and FVOCI
Effective tax rate
Capital maintenance ratio3

2023  
per cent

13.68
 4.00 
 4.00 
 63.87–67.06 
 1.21–1.48 
 4.00 
 0.80-1.24
 0.35-0.67 
12.02–16.00²
 8.28 

2022  
per cent

13.03
4.00
N/A1
N/A1
1.50–1.84
N/A1
 0.90-1.45
N/A1
16.00
8.06

1  These assumptions were not explicitly modelled in 2022, therefore no comparative figures are presented

2   Bohai’s latest available effective tax rate (12.02%) was only used for the first year of the cash flows. Thereafter, 16.00% was applied, consistent with previous 

periods

3  Core CET 1 reported by Bohai

The table below discloses sensitivities to the key assumptions of Bohai, according to management judgement of reasonably 
possible changes. Changes were applied to every cash flow year on an individual basis. The percentage change to the 
assumptions reflects the level at which management assess the reasonableness of the assumptions used and their impact  
on the Value in Use.

Sensitivities

Discount Rate

Long term GDP growth rate¹

Total assets growth rate

RWA as percentage of total assets

Net interest margin

Net fee income

Expected credit losses as a percentage of customer loans

Expected credit losses as a percentage of financial investments measured at amortised 
cost and FVOCI

Effective tax rate

Capital maintenance ratio

1  Changes in long term GDP growth rate applied only to the calculation of the terminal value

2  Market capitalisation of Bohai at 31 December 2023 was used as impairment floor

Key assumption change

Increase  
Headroom/
(Impairment)  
$ million

Decrease 
Headroom/
(Impairment)  
$ million

basis points

 100 

 100 

 100 

 100 

 10 

 100 

10

 10 

 100 

 50 

(126) 

135 

 41 

(26) 

 452 

53

(275)

(131) 

(25) 

(199)

 169 

(100) 

(40) 

26 

(282)²

 (51) 

275

131

25 

 199 

The following table sets out the summarised financial statements of China Bohai Bank prior to the Group’s share of the 
associate’s profit being applied:

Total assets

Total liabilities

Operating income1
Net profit1
Other comprehensive income1

1   This represents twelve months of earnings (1 October to 30 September)

30 Sep 2023 
$million

30 Sep 2022 
$million

246,212

230,101

236,396

220,662

3,640

811

(38)

3,958

1,186

(457)

456

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements33. Structured entities

Accounting policy
Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the structured entity 
indicates the Group has power over the contractual relevant activities of the structured entity, is exposed to variable returns, 
and can use that power to affect the variable return exposure.

In determining whether to consolidate a structured entity to which assets have been transferred, the Group takes into 
account its ability to direct the relevant activities of the structured entity. These relevant activities are generally evidenced 
through a unilateral right to liquidate the structured entity, investment in a substantial proportion of the securities issued  
by the structured entity or where the Group holds specific subordinate securities that embody certain controlling rights.  
The Group may further consider relevant activities embedded within contractual arrangements such as call options which 
give the practical ability to direct the entity, special relationships between the structured entity and investors, and if a single 
investor has a large exposure to variable returns of the structured entity.

Judgement is required in determining control over structured entities. The purpose and design of the entity is considered, 
along with a determination of what the relevant activities are of the entity and who directs these. Further judgements are 
made around which investor is exposed to and absorbs the variable returns of the structured entity. The Group will have to 
weigh up all of these facts to consider whether the Group, or another involved party is acting as a principal in its own right or 
as an agent on behalf of others. Judgement is further required in the ongoing assessment of control over structured entities, 
specifically if market conditions have an effect on the variable return exposure of different investors.

Interests in consolidated structured entities: A structured entity is consolidated into the Group’s financial statements where the 
Group controls the structured entity, as per the determination in the accounting policy above. The following table presents the 
Group’s interests in consolidated structured entities.

Aircraft and ship leasing

Principal and other structured finance

Total 

2023  
$million

52

353

405

2022 
$million

3,531

330

3,861

Interests in unconsolidated structured entities: Unconsolidated structured entities are all structured entities that are not 
controlled by the Group. The Group enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of 
business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities. This is predominantly within the CCIB 
business segment. An interest in a structured entity is contractual or non-contractual involvement which creates variability of 
the returns of the Group arising from the performance of the structured entity.

The table below presents the carrying amount of the assets recognised in the financial statements relating to variable interests 
held in unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss relating to those interests and the total assets of  
the structured entities. Maximum exposure to loss is primarily limited to the carrying amount of the Group’s on-balance sheet 
exposure to the structured entity. For derivatives, the maximum exposure to loss represents the on-balance sheet valuation and 
not the notional amount. For commitments and guarantees, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential 
future losses.

2023

2022

Asset-
backed 
securities 
$million

Lending 
$million

Structured 
finance 
$million

Principal 
Finance 
funds 
$million

Other 
activities 
$million

Total 
$million

Asset-
backed 
securities 
$million

Lending 
$million

Structured 
finance 
$million

Principal 
Finance 
funds 
$million

Other 
activities 
$million

Total 
$million

Group’s interest – 
assets

Financial assets held 
at fair value through 
profit or loss

Loans and advances/
Investment securities 
at amortised cost

Investment securities 
(fair value through 
other comprehensive 
income)

Other assets

Total assets 

Off-balance sheet

Group’s maximum 
exposure to loss

Total assets of 
structured entities

954

269

143

137

–

1,503

851

–

–

136

–

987

17,795

15,105

13,353

2,443

–

–

–

–

34

21,192

15,374

13,530

–

8,869

6,691

–

–

–

137

–

190 46,443

18,696

21,667

14,261

–

246 54,870

–

–

2,443

2,248

34

–

–

–

190 50,423

21,795

21,667

20 15,580

–

9,675

–

–

14,261

8,710

–

8

144

93

–

–

2,248

8

246

58,113

–

18,478

21,192

24,243

20,221

137

210 66,003

21,795

31,342

22,971

237

246

76,591

191,627

15,374

31,806

250

1,688 240,745

177,194

17,925

35,732

291

1,828 232,970

457

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements33. Structured entities continued
The main types of activities for which the Group utilises unconsolidated structured entities cover synthetic credit default swaps 
for managed investment funds (including specialised Principal Finance funds), portfolio management purposes, structured 
finance and asset-backed securities. These are detailed as follows:

•  Asset-backed securities (ABS): The Group also has investments in asset-backed securities issued by third-party sponsored  
and managed structured entities. For the purpose of market making and at the discretion of ABS trading desk, the Group  
may hold an immaterial amount of debt securities from structured entities originated by credit portfolio management.  
This is disclosed in the ABS column above.

•  Portfolio management (Group sponsored entities): For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group purchased credit 
protection via synthetic credit default swaps from note-issuing structured entities. This credit protection creates credit risk 
which the structured entity and subsequently the end investor absorbs. The referenced assets remain on the Group’s balance 
sheet as they are not assigned to these structured entities. The Group continues to own or hold all of the risks and returns 
relating to these assets. The credit protection obtained from the regulatory-compliant securitisation only serves to protect 
the Group against losses upon the occurrence of eligible credit events and the underlying assets are not derecognised  
from the Group’s balance sheet. The Group does not hold any equity interests in the structured entities, but may hold an 
insignificant amount of the issued notes for market making purposes. This is disclosed in the ABS section above. The proceeds 
of the notes’ issuance are typically held as cash collateral in the issuer’s account operated by a trustee or invested in AAA-
rated government-backed securities to collateralise the structured entities swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the 
principal to investors at maturity. The structured entities reimburse the Group on actual losses incurred, through the use of the 
cash collateral or realisation of the collateral security. Correspondingly, the structured entities write down the notes issued by 
an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of seniority. All funding is committed for the life of these vehicles and 
the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the vehicles’ liquidity position. The Group has reputational risk in respect of 
certain portfolio management vehicles and investment funds either because the Group is the arranger and lead manager or 
because the structured entities have Standard Chartered branding. 

•  Corporate Lending: Corporate Lending comprises secured lending in the normal course of business to third parties through 

structured entities. 

•  Structured finance: Structured finance comprises interests in transactions that the Group or, more usually, a customer has 

structured, using one or more structured entities, which provide beneficial arrangements for customers. The Group’s exposure 
primarily represents the provision of funding to these structures as a financial intermediary, for which it receives a lender’s 
return. The transactions largely relate to real estate financing and the provision of aircraft leasing and ship finance.

•  Principal finance Fund: The Group’s exposure to Principal Finance Funds represents committed or invested capital in 

unleveraged investment funds, primarily investing in pan-Asian infrastructure, real estate and private equity.

•  Other activities: Other activities include structured entities created to support margin financing transactions, the refinancing 

of existing credit and debt facilities, as well as setting up of bankruptcy remote structured entities. 

In the above table, the Group determined the total assets of the structured entities using following bases: 

•  Asset Backed Securities, Principal Finance, and Other activities are based on the published total assets of the structured 

entities.

•  Lending and Structured Finance are estimated based on the Group’s loan values to the structured entities

34. Cash flow statement

Adjustment for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement

Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities

Interest expense on subordinated liabilities

Interest expense on senior debt securities in issue

Other non-cash items

Pension costs for defined benefit schemes

Share-based payment costs

Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit 
risk provisions

Dividend income from subsidiaries

Other impairment

Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Loss on disposal of FVOCI and AMCST financial assets

Depreciation and amortisation

Fair value changes taken to Income statement

Foreign Currency revaluation

Profit from associates and joint ventures

Total

458

Group

Company

2023 
$million

(704)

951

2,068

(578)

61

219

508

–

1,008

(31)

209

1,071

(1,666)

299

(141)

3,274

2022 
$million

237

570

794

(12)

58

199

836

–

439

(62)

190

1,186

(365)

(365)

(156)

2023 
$million

–

632

1,434

8

–

–

–

2022 
$million

–

615

696

301

–

–

–

(4,738)

(1,047)

–

–

–

–

(202)

19

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,549

(2,847)

565

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements34. Cash flow statement continued

Change in operating assets

Decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments

(Increase)/decrease in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares 
held at fair value through profit or loss1
(Increase)/decrease in loans and advances to banks and customers1

Net decrease/(increase) in prepayments and accrued income

Net decrease/(increase) in other assets

Total

Group

Company

2023 
$million

13,061

(29,477)

(787)

82

2,663

(14,458)

2022  
(Restated) 
$million

(11,873)

9,067

14,381

(1,056)

2,470

12,989 

2023 
$million

(19)

(4,068)

–

–

268

(3,819)

2022 
$million

259

289

–

–

(806)

(258)

1   Decrease in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through profit or loss for 2022 has been restated by $(821) million and the decrease  

in loans and advances to banks and customers for 2022 has been restated by $14,355 million (refer note 35)

Change in operating liabilities

(Decrease)/increase in derivative financial instruments

Net increase/(decrease) in deposits from banks, customer  
accounts, debt securities in issue, Hong Kong notes in circulation  
and short positions

Increase in accruals and deferred income

Net decrease in other liabilities

Total

Disclosures

Subordinated debt (including accrued interest):

Opening balance 

Proceeds from the issue

Interest paid

Repayment

Foreign exchange movements

Fair value changes from hedge accounting

Accrued interest and others

Closing balance

Senior debt (including accrued interest):

Opening balance 

Proceeds from the issue

Interest paid

Repayment

Foreign exchange movements

Fair value changes from hedge accounting

Accrued interest and others

Closing balance

Group

2023 
$million

(13,629)

17,877

1,106

(3,377)

1,977

2022
$million

17,145

(9,259)

1,381

(481)

8,786

Company

2023 
$million

(239)

4,479

153

(1,154)

3,239

2022
$million

1,004

106

4

(2,080)

(966)

Group

2023 
$million

Company

2022 
$million

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

13,928

18

(563)

(2,160)

146

311

536

12,216

32,288

15,261

(1,145)

(6,471)

(21)

119

1,319

41,350

16,885

750

(667)

(1,848)

(338)

(1,502)

648

13,928

29,904

11,902

(845)

(7,838)

(729)

(1,051)

945

32,288

13,895

–

(545)

(2,160)

146

271

516

12,123

14,080

5,105

(434)

(2,037)

(2)

188

618

17,518

16,395

750

(619)

(1,800)

(337)

(1,098)

604

13,895

16,981

1,500

(506)

(2,980)

(431)

(1,014)

530

14,080

459

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements35. Cash and cash equivalents

Accounting policy
Cash and cash equivalents includes: 

•  Cash and balances at central banks’, except for restricted balances; and 

•  Other balances listed in the table below, when they have less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition,  
are not subject to contractual restrictions, are subject to insignificant changes in value, are highly liquid and are held for  
the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments. This includes products such as treasury bills and other eligible bills, 
short-term government securities, loans and advances to banks (including reverse repos), and loans and advances to 
customers (placements at central banks), which are held for appropriate business purposes.

Cash and balances at central banks’ includes both cash held in restricted accounts and on demand or placements which  
are contractually due to mature overnight only. Other placements with central banks are reported as part of ‘Loans and 
advances to customers’.

Following a reassessment of the nature and purpose of balances held with central banks, customers and banks, the Group’s 
cash and cash equivalents balance for 31 December 2022 and 1 January 2022 has been restated. The following balances have 
been identified by the Group as being cash and cash equivalents based on the criteria described above.

Cash and balances at central banks 

Less: restricted balances

Treasury bills and other eligible bills 

Loans and advances to banks 

Loans and advances to customers

Investments

Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 

Total

Group

Company

2023 
$million

69,905

(6,153)

5,931

11,879

25,829

244

–

107,635

2022  
(Restated) 
$million

58,263

(9,173)

12,661

10,144

24,586

1,114

–

97,595

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

10,294

10,294

7,417

7,417

The Group’s cash and cash equivalents balance for 31 December 2022 has been restated to increase the balance by $8,876 
million as balances with central banks that met the cash and cash equivalents definition were originally included in loans and 
advances to customers ($24,586 million) but not included in cash and cash equivalents and there were balances included  
in cash and cash equivalents related to loans and advances to banks ($10,414 million), treasury bills and other eligible bills 
($5,275 million) as well as Investments ($21 million) that did not meet the cash and cash equivalents definition. The cash  
and cash equivalents balance at the beginning of the year for 2022 has also been restated to decrease the balance by  
$4,659 million. On the 2022 cash flow statement for Group, the change in operating assets has also been restated by  
$13,534 million as a result of these changes.

36. Related party transactions 

Directors and officers
Details of directors’ remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report.

IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.  
Key management comprises non-executive directors, executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC, the Court directors  
of Standard Chartered Bank and the persons discharging managerial responsibilities (PDMR) of Standard Chartered PLC.

Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind

Share-based payments

Bonuses paid or receivable

Termination benefits

Total

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

42

26

5

-

73

39

26

4

1

70

Transactions with directors and others
At 31 December 2023, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and the Listing Rules of the 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited (Hong Kong Listing Rules) about loans to directors were as follows:

2023

2022

Number

$million

Number

$million

4

–

3

–

Directors1

1   Outstanding loan balances were below $50,000

460

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements36. Related party transactions continued
The loan transactions provided to the directors of Standard Chartered PLC were a connected transaction under Chapter 14A of 
the Hong Kong Listing Rules. It was fully exempt as financial assistance under Rule 14A.87(1), as it was provided in our ordinary 
and usual course of business and on normal commercial terms.

As at 31 December 2023, Standard Chartered Bank had in place a charge over $68 million (31 December 2022: $89 million) of 
cash assets in favour of the independent trustee of its employer financed retirement benefit scheme.

Other than as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts, there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements 
outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules  
of the UK Listing Authority or the Hong Kong Listing Rules.

Details of non-revenue transactions with Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited are set out on page 220.

Company
The Company has received $1,469 million (31 December 2022: $1,012 million) of net interest income from its subsidiaries.  
The Company issues debt externally and lends proceeds to Group companies.

The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on  
its debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for 
non-payment of the coupon interest. 

2023

Standard 
Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) 
Limited 
$million

Standard 
Chartered Bank 
$million

Others1
$million

Standard 
Chartered Bank 
$million

2022

Standard 
Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) 
Limited 
$million

10,208

62

20,524

30,794

–

1,104

1,104

60

12

4,775

4,847

–

–

–

25

–

1,070

1,095

–

–

–

6,860

47

18,787

25,694

2

1,283

1,285

141

–

4,469

4,610

–

61

61

Others1
$million

255

–

526

781

–

–

–

Assets

Due from subsidiaries

Derivative financial instruments

Debt securities

Total assets 

Liabilities

Due to subsidiaries

Derivative financial instruments

Total liabilities

1   Others include Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited, Standard Chartered Holdings Limited and Standard Chartered I H Limited

Associate and joint ventures
The following transactions with related parties are on an arm’s length basis:

Assets

Loans and advances

Financial Assets held at FVTPL

Derivative assets

Total assets 

Liabilities

Deposits

Other Liabilities

Total liabilities

Loan commitments and other guarantees¹

1   The maximum loan commitments and other guarantees during the period were $113 million (2022: $164 million)

2023 
$million

2022 
$million

–

14

12

26

959

2

 961

113

20

18

38

610

19

629

164

37. Post balance sheet events
On 11 January 2024, Standard Chartered PLC issued $1.5 billion 6.097 per cent Fixed Rate Reset Notes due 2035. On 19 January 
2024, Standard Chartered PLC issued SGD 335 million 4.00 per cent Fixed Rate Reset Notes due 2030

A share buy-back for up to a maximum consideration of $1 billion has been declared by the directors after 31 December 2023. 
This will reduce the number of ordinary shares in issue by cancelling the repurchased shares.

A final dividend for 2023 of 21 cents per ordinary share was declared by the directors after 31 December 2023.

461

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements38. Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is included within other general administration expenses. The amounts paid by the Group to their 
principal auditor, Ernst & Young LLP and its associates (together Ernst & Young LLP), are set out below. All services are approved 
by the Group Audit Committee and are subject to controls to ensure the external auditor’s independence is unaffected by the 
provision of other services.

Audit fees for the Group statutory audit

Of which fees for the audit of Standard Chartered Bank Group

Fees payable to EY for other services provided to the SC PLC Group:

Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries

Total audit fees

Audit-related assurance services

Other assurance services

Other non-audit services

Transaction related services

Total non-audit fees

Total fees payable

2023  
$million

2022  
$million

27.8

20.6

13.4

41.2

6.0

7.0

0.8

0.3

14.1

55.3

22.2

16.3

12.8

35.0

5.5

4.3

0.1

0.3

10.2

45.2

The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above:

•  Audit fees for the Group statutory audit are in respect of fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP for the statutory audit of the 

consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC 

•  Audit-related fees consist of fees such as those for services required by law or regulation to be provided by the auditor, reviews 
of interim financial information, reporting on regulatory returns, reporting to a regulator on client assets and extended work 
performed over financial information and controls authorised by those charged with governance

•  Other assurance services include agreed-upon-procedures in relation to statutory and regulatory filings

•  Transaction related services are fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP for issuing comfort letters 

Expenses incurred in respect of their role as auditor, were reimbursed to EY LLP $0.9 million (2022: $0.6 million). 

39. Standard Chartered PLC (Company)
Classification and measurement of financial instruments

2023

2022

Financial assets

Derivatives

Investment securities

Amounts owed by subsidiary 
undertakings

Total 

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

Non-trading 
mandatorily 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

–

6,944

–
19,4251

Total 
$million

80

26,369

10,294

17,238

–

19,425

10,294

36,743

80

–

–

80

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

Non-trading 
mandatorily 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
$million

61

–

–

61

–

8,423

7,417

–
15,3581

–

15,840

15,358

Total 
$million

61

23,781

7,417

31,259

1   Standard Chartered Bank, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited and Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) 

Limited issued Loss Absorbing Capacity (LAC) eligible debt securities

Instruments classified as amortised cost, which include investment securities and amounts owed by subsidary undertakings,  
are recorded in stage 1 for the recognition of expected credit losses.

Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value and are classified as Level 2 and Level 3 while the counterparty is Standard 
Chartered Bank, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited and external counterparties.

Debt securities comprise securities held at amortised cost issued by Standard Chartered Bank and SC Ventures Holdings Limited 
and have a fair value equal to carrying value of $6,944 million (31 December 2022: $8,423 million).

462

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements39. Standard Chartered PLC (Company) continued
In 2023 and 2022, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have a fair value equal to carrying value.

2023

2022

Financial liabilities

Derivatives

Debt securities in issue

Subordinated liabilities and other 
borrowed funds

Amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss  
$million

1,104

–

–

17,142

14,007

Total 
$million

1,104

31,149

–

–

–

9,248

2,697

11,945

–

–

–

Derivatives 
held for 
hedging 
$million

Amortised 
cost 
$million

Designated 
at fair value 
through 
profit or loss  
$million

1,343

–

–

Total 
$million

1,343

–

–

–

13,891

10,397

24,288

11,239

2,445

13,684

2

–

2

Total

1,104

26,390

16,704

44,198

1,343

25,132

12,842

39,317

Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value and are classified as Level 2 while the counterparty is Standard Chartered 
Bank and Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited.

The fair value of debt securities in issue held at amortised cost is $17,195 million (2022: $13,611 million).

The fair value of subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds held at amortised cost is $8,717 million (2022: $10,434 million).

Derivative financial instruments

Derivatives

Foreign exchange derivative contracts:

Forward foreign exchange

Currency swaps 

Interest rate derivative contracts:

Swaps 

Forward rate agreements and options

Credit derivative contracts

Total

Credit risk

Derivative financial instruments

Debt securities

Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings

Total

2023

2022

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

8,968

563

14,819

–

4,030

 28,380

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

32

–

43

–

5

80

–

35

1,069

–

–

1,104

Notional 
principal 
amounts 
$million

9,351

574

15,423

–

3,256

28,604

Assets 
$million

Liabilities 
$million

47

–

–

–

14

61

2023 
$million

80

26,369

10,294

36,743

61

71

1,211

–

–

1,343

2022 
$million

61

23,781

7,417

31,259

In 2023 and 2022, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings were neither past due nor impaired; the Company had no 
individually impaired loans.

In 2023 and 2022, the Company had no impaired debt securities. The debt securities held by the Company are issued by 
Standard Chartered Bank, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited and 
Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited, subsidiary undertakings with credit ratings of A+.

There is no material expected credit loss on these instruments as they are Stage 1 assets, and of a high quality.

463

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements39. Standard Chartered PLC (Company) continued
Liquidity risk
The following table analyses the residual contractual maturity of the assets and liabilities of the Company on a  
discounted basis:

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one 
year 
$million

Between 
one year 
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and 
undated  
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

Total 
$million

2023

32

–

–

–

–

–

1,598

504

1,530

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,630

504

1,530

11

–

–

278

996

1,285

345

26

–

–

202

51

279

225

17

–

–

135

8

160

1,370

–

–

12

–

–

12

–

–

–

30

–

–

10

3,853

27

11

80

5,581

16,935

26,369

1,073

1,082

3,254

1,241

10,294

–

–

–

–

–

–

60,791

60,791

–

–

1,073

4,945

8,862

78,978

97,534

–

–

–

5

93

171

7,242

14,020

786

9,887

1,104

31,149

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

650

172

202

(190)

440

445

628

2022

330

7,665

1,952

16,143

7,996

11,945

18,669

44,848

(2,720)

(7,281)

60,309

52,686

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one  
year 
$million

Between 
one year  
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and  
undated 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

Total 
$million

45

2,000

–

–

719

1,250

–

–

2,764

1,250

77

–

–

–

175

2,004

2,256

508

3

–

–

–

134

88

225

1,025

–

–

140

–

140

–

–

–

–

95

13

108

32

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

14

248

262

(262)

–

–

–

–

16

–

61

5,351

16,430

23,781

840

1,523

2,081

864

7,417

–

840

–

1,523

–

7,448

60,975

78,269

60,975

92,234

–

–

–

–

5

14

19

821

75

2,090

330

14,155

858

8,043

1,343

24,288

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2

–

–

2

423

1,900

4,065

2,078

16,563

(2,542)

(9,115)

7,339

16,242

62,027

13,684

39,740

52,494

Assets

Derivative financial 
instruments

Investment securities

Amount owed by subsidiary 
undertakings

Investments in subsidiary 
undertakings 

Other assets

Total assets

Liabilities 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Senior debt

Amount owed to subsidiary 
undertakings

Other liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds

Total liabilities

Net liquidity gap

Assets

Derivative financial 
instruments

Investment securities

Amount owed by subsidiary 
undertakings

Investments in subsidiary 
undertakings 

Total assets

Liabilities 

Derivative financial 
instruments

Senior debt

Other debt securities in issue

Amount owed to subsidiary 
undertakings

Other liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds

Total liabilities

Net liquidity gap

464

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements39. Standard Chartered PLC (Company) continued

Financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one 
year 
$million

Between 
one year 
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and 
undated 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

2023

Derivative financial 
instruments

Debt securities in issue 

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities

Total liabilities

11

247

1,059

5

1,322

26

57

134

91

308

17

328

34

–

379

–

398

208

–

606

–

278

556

–

834

2022

Total 
$million

1,104

37,473

93

171

786

8,490

16,396

11,279

410

–

2,304

13,968

18,673

–

–

96

8,993

18,871

26,033

57,346

Between 
one month 
and three 
months 
$million

Between 
three 
months and 
six months 
$million

Between  
six months 
and nine 
months 
$million

Between 
nine months 
and one  
year 
$million

Between 
one year  
and two 
years 
$million

Between 
two years 
and five 
years 
$million

More than 
five years 
and  
undated 
$million

One month 
or less 
$million

Total  
$million

Derivative financial 
instruments

Debt securities in issue 

Subordinated liabilities and 
other borrowed funds 

Other liabilities

Total liabilities

77

88

2,097

9

2,271

3

66

174

15

258

–

262

33

–

295

–

145

273

–

418

–

271

17

–

75

2,896

330

15,676

858

9,057

1,343

28,461

2,035

2,552

14,668

21,849

–

–

–

24

288

5,006

18,558

24,583

51,677

40. Related undertakings of the Group
As at 31 December 2023, the Group’s interests in related undertakings in accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 
2006 are disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated, the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which are 
held by subsidiaries of the Group. Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, Standard Chartered Funding (Jersey) Limited, 
Stanchart Nominees Limited, Standard Chartered Holdings Limited and Standard Chartered Nominees Limited are directly 
held subsidiaries, all other related undertakings are held indirectly.

Subsidiary Undertakings

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, 
EC2V 5DD, United Kingdom

FinVentures UK Limited

SC (Secretaries) Limited
SC Transport Leasing 1 LTD 7,8
SC Transport Leasing 2 Limited7,8

SC Ventures G.P. Limited

SC Ventures Holdings Limited

SC Ventures Innovation Investment L.P.

SCMB Overseas Limited

Shoal Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Others

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Digital marketplace for 
sustainable and “green” 
products.

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

US$1.00 Redeemable 
Preference

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

United Kingdom

£0.10 Ordinary

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

Stanchart Nominees Limited ⁹
Standard Chartered Africa Limited 7,8

Nominee Services

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

Investment Holding 
Company

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

465

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements 
 
 
 
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

Standard Chartered Bank

Banking & Financial 
Services

United Kingdom

US$0.01 Non-Cumulative 
Irredeemable Preference

US$1.00 Ordinary

US$5.00 Non-Cumulative 
Redeemable Preference

Standard Chartered Foundation1

Charity projects

United Kingdom

Guarantor

Standard Chartered Health Trustee (UK) 
Limited

Standard Chartered Holdings Limited⁹

Standard Chartered I H Limited

Standard Chartered Leasing (UK) 
Limited7,8

Standard Chartered NEA Limited

Trustee Services

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

United Kingdom

US$2.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

Investment Holding 
Company

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Nominees (Private 
Clients UK) Limited

Nominee Services

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Nominees Limited⁹ Nominee Services

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Securities (Africa) 
Holdings Limited7,8

Investment Holding 
Company

Standard Chartered Strategic 
Investments Limited7,8

Standard Chartered Trustees (UK) 
Limited
The BW Leasing Partnership 1 LP1
The BW Leasing Partnership 2 LP1
The BW Leasing Partnership 3 LP1
The BW Leasing Partnership 4 LP1
The BW Leasing Partnership 5 LP1

Investment Holding 
Company

Trustee Services

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

US$1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 1

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 2

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 3

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 4

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Poultry, London, EC2R 8EJ, 
United Kingdom

Assembly Payments UK Ltd¹

Payment Services Provider United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

CurrencyFair (UK) Limited¹

Banking & Financial 
Services

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

Zai Technologies Limited1

Payment Services Provider United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 2 More London Riverside, 
London , SE1 2JT, United Kingdom
Bricks (C&K) LP 1
Bricks (T) LP1
Bricks (C) LP1

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Bartholomew Lane,  
London, EC2N 2AX, United Kingdom

Limited Partnership interest United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

Limited Partnership interest United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

Limited Partnership interest United Kingdom

Limited Partnership Interest

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Corrasi Covered Bonds LLP

Trustee Services

United Kingdom

Membership Interest

100

466

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

The following companies have the 
address of 5th Floor, Holland House  
1-4 Bury Street, London, EC3A 5AW, 
United Kingdom

Zodia Custody Limited

Custody Services

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Voting Ordinary

US$2.70 Series A Preferred

Zodia Holdings Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

United Kingdom

US$1.00 A Ordinary

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

95.1

15.911

100

The following companies have the 
address of 6th Floor, 1 Basinghall Avenue, 
London, EC2V 5DD, United Kingdom

Zodia Markets (UK) Limited

Zodia Markets Holdings Limited

The following company has the address 
of Edifício Kilamba, 8º Andar Avenida 4 de 
Fevereiro, Marginal, Luanda, Angola

Standard Chartered Bank Angola S.A.

The following companies have the 
address of Level 22, 120 Spencer Street, 
Melbourne VIC 3000 VIC 3000, Australia

Assembly Payments Australia Pty Ltd ¹
Zai Australia Pty Ltd1

The following company has the address 
of Milsons Landing, Level 5, 6A Glen 
Street, Milsons Point NSW NSW 2061, 
Australia

CurrencyFair Australia Pty Ltd ¹

The following company has the address 
of Level 5, 345 George St, Sydney NSW 
2000, Australia

Banking & Financial 
Services

Digital Venture: Holding 
Company for The Zodia 
Markets Group

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

United Kingdom

US$1.00 Ordinary

80.461

Banking & Financial 
Services

Angola

AOK8,742.05 Ordinary

60

Holding Company

Australia

US$ Ordinary

Payment Service Provider

Australia

AUD0.01 Ordinary

Foreign Currency 
conversion services.

Australia

AUD Ordinary

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Grindlays Pty 
Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Australia

AUD Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 5th Floor Standard House 
Bldg, The Mall, Queens Road,  
PO Box 496, Gaborone, Botswana

Standard Chartered Bank Botswana 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Botswana

BWP Ordinary

75.827

Standard Chartered Bank Insurance 
Agency (Proprietary) Limited

Standard Chartered Botswana 
Education Trust2

Standard Chartered Botswana 
Nominees (Proprietary) Limited

Standard Chartered Investment Services 
(Proprietary) Limited

The following company has the address 
of Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, no 
3.477, 6 andar, conjunto 62 - Torre Norte, 
Condominio Patio Victor Malzoni, CEP 
04538-133, Sao Paulo, Brazil

Insurance Services

Botswana

BWP Ordinary

CSR programme.

Botswana

Trust Interest

Nominee Services

Botswana

BWP Ordinary

Nominee Services

Botswana

BWP Ordinary

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Representação e 
Participações Ltda

Banking & Financial 
Services

Brazil

BRL1.00 Ordinary

100

467

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of G01-02, Wisma Haji Mohd Taha 
Building, , Jalan Gadong, BE4119, Brunei 
Darussalam

Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn 
Bhd

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon 
S.A, 1155, Boulevard de la Liberté, Douala, 
B.P. 1784, Cameroon

Investment Management

Brunei Darussalam BND1.00 Ordinary

100

Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon 
S.A.

Banking & Financial 
Services

Cameroon

XAF10,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of 66 Wellington Street, West, Suite 4100, 
Toronto Dominion Centre, Toronto ON 
M5K 1B7, Canada

CurrencyFair (Canada) Ltd ¹

Digital Payment platform Canada

CAD Common

100

The following company has the address 
of Maples Corporate Services Limited, 
PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand 
Cayman, KY1-1104 , Cayman Islands

Cerulean Investments LP

The following company has the address 
of c/o Maples Finance Limited,  
PO Box 1093 GT, Queensgate House, 
Georgetown, Grand Cayman,  
Cayman Islands

Investment Holding 
Company

Cayman Islands

Limited Partnership Interest

100

SCB Investment Holding Company 
Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Cayman Islands

US$1,000.00 Ordinary-A

99.999

The following company has the address 
of Room 2619, No 9, Linhe West Road, 
Tianhe District, Guangzhou, China

Guangzhou CurrencyFair Information 
Technology Limited 1,3

Foreign Currency 
conversion services.

China

CNY Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of 8A, Hony Tower, 1st Financial Street, 
Nanshan District, Shenzen, China

SC Ventures Investment Management 
(Shenzhen) Limited

Serve as a fund manager in 
China

China

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

Business consulting services China

US$ Ordinary

100

Commercial banking

China

CNY Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of Units 1101B (Office use only), No. 235 
Tianhebei Rd.,, Tianhe District, 
Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, 
China

Standard Chartered (Guangzhou) 
Business Management Co., Ltd.

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Tower, 201 
Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, 
200120, China

Standard Chartered Bank (China) 
Limited 3

468

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

The following company has the address 
of Unit 802B, 803, 1001A,100
2B,1003-1005,1101-1105,, 201-
1205,1302C,1303, No. 235 Tianhe North 
Road, Tianhe District,, Guangzhou City, 
Guangdong Province, China

Standard Chartered Global Business 
Services (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd.3

Research, development, 
other services

China

US$ Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of No. 35, Xinhuanbei Road, Teda, Tianjin, 
300457, China

Standard Chartered Global Business 
Services Co., Ltd 3

Research, development, 
other services

China

US$ Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of 1201 1-2, 15-16, 12/F, Unit No.1, Building 
No.1, No. 1 Dongsanhuan Zhong Road, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing, China

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

100

100

Standard Chartered Securities (China) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

China

CNY Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of No. 188 Yeshen Rd, 11F, A-1161 RM, 
Pudong New District, Shanghai, 31, 
201308, China

Standard Chartered Trading (Shanghai) 
Limited 3

wholesale of base metal 
and its products

China

US$15,000,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Cote 
d’Ivoire, 23 Boulevard de la République, 
Abidjan 17, 17 B.P. 1141, Cote d’Ivoire

Standard Chartered Bank Cote d’ Ivoire 
SA

Banking & Financial 
Services

The following company has the address 
of 8 Ecowas Avenue, Banjul, Gambia

Standard Chartered Bank Gambia 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Cote d’Ivoire

XOF100,000.00 Ordinary

100

Gambia

GMD1.00 Ordinary

74.852

The following company has the address 
of Taunusanlage 16, 60325, Frankfurt am 
Main, Germany

Standard Chartered Bank AG

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Building, 87 
Independance Avenue, Ridge, ACCRA, 
Greater ACCRA, GA-016-4621, Ghana

Banking & Financial 
Services

Germany

€ Ordinary

Solvezy Technology Ghana Ltd

Digital Venture

Ghana

GHS Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of Standard Chartered Bank 
Building, No. 87, Independence Avenue, 
P.O. Box 768, Accra, Ghana

Standard Chartered Bank Ghana PLC

Banking & Financial 
Services

Ghana

GHS Ordinary

GHS0.52 Non-cumulative 
Irredeemable Preference

Standard Chartered Ghana Nominees 
Limited

Nominee Services

Ghana

GHS Ordinary

100

100

69.416

87.043

100

469

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Ghana 
Limited, 87, Independence Avenue, Post 
Office Box 678, Accra, Ghana

Standard Chartered Wealth 
Management Limited Company

The following company has the address 
of 31/F, Tower 2 Times Square, 1 
Matheson St, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong

Investment Management

Ghana

GHS Ordinary

Assembly Payments HK Limited ¹

Online payment platform Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of Suites 1103-4 AXA Tower, Landmark 
East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, 
Hong Kong

CurrencyFair Asia Limited ¹

The following company has the address 
of 18/F., Standard Chartered Tower, 388 
Kwun Tong Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong

Foreign Currency 
conversion services

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

Horsford Nominees Limited

Nominee Services

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 15/F., Two International 
Finance Centre, No. 8 Finance Street, 
Central, Hong Kong

Marina Acacia Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Amethyst Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Angelite Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Beryl Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Emerald Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Flax Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Gloxinia Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Hazel Shipping Limited

Marina Ilex Shipping Limited

Marina Iridot Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Marina Mimosa Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Moonstone Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Peridot Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Sapphire Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Marina Tourmaline Shipping Limited

Leasing Business

Standard Chartered Securities (Hong 
Kong) Limited

Corporate Finance & 
Advisory Services

Marina Leasing Limited

Leasing Business

Standard Chartered Leasing Group 
Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Standard Chartered Trade Support (HK) 
Limited

Corporate Finance & 
Advisory Services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

HKD Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

Hong Kong

US$ Ordinary

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

The following company has the address 
of 39/F., Oxford House, Taikoo Place, 979 
King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong

Mox Bank Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

68.291

470

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

The following company has the address 
of 13/F Standard Chartered Bank 
Building, 4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, 
Hong Kong, 

Standard Chartered Asia Limited

The following company has the address 
of 32/F., 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central , 
Hong Kong

Investment Holding 
Company

Hong Kong

HKD Deferred

HKD Ordinary

Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited⁹

Banking & Financial 
Services

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary-A

HKD Ordinary-B

US$ Ordinary-C

US$ Ordinary-D

The following company has the address 
of 14th Floor, One Taikoo Place, 979 King’s 
Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong

Standard Chartered PF Real Estate 
(Hong Kong) Limited

The following company has the address 
of 13/F Standard Chartered Bank 
Building, 4-4A Des Voeux Road Central, 
Hong Kong

Ultimate Holding Company Hong Kong

US$ Ordinary

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of 14/F, Standard Chartered 
Bank Building, 4-4A Des Voeux Road , 
Central, Hong Kong

Standard Chartered Trust (Hong Kong) 
Limited

Standard Chartered Trustee (Hong 
Kong) Limited

The following company has the address 
of 5/F, Manulife Place, 348 Kwun Tong 
Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong

Investment Management

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

Trustee Services

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary

Zodia Custody (Hong Kong) Limited

Custody Services

Hong Kong

US$0.01 Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of 2 Floor Sabari Complex 24 Field 
Marshal, Capriappa RD Shanthala 
Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Bangalore, 
Karnataka, 560025, India

100

100

100

Assembly Payments India Private 
Limited ¹

Activities auxiliary to 
financial intermediation

India

INR100.00 Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of Ground Floor, Crescenzo 
Building, G Block, C 38/39 , Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (East) , Mumbai , 
Maharashtra , 400051, India

St Helen’s Nominees India Private 
Limited

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
Advisory (India) Private Limited

The following company has the address 
of Vaishnavi Serenity, First Floor, No. 112, 
Koramangala Industrial Area, 5th Block, 
Koramangala, Bangalore, Karnataka, 
560095, India

Standard Chartered (India) Modeling 
and Analytics Centre Private Limited

Nominee Services

Support Services

India

India

INR10.00 Equity

INR1,000.00 Equity

100

100

Support Services

India

INR10.00 Equity

100

471

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of Crescenzo, 6th Floor, Plot No 38-39 G 
Block , Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
East , Mumbai , Maharashtra , 400051, 
India

Standard Chartered Capital Limited

The following company has the address 
of 90 M.G.Road, II Floor, Fort, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, 400001, India

Standard Chartered Finance Private 
Limited

The following company has the address 
of 1st Floor, Europe Building, No.1, 
Haddows Road, Nungambakkam, 
Chennai, 600 006, India

Standard Chartered Global Business 
Services Private Limited

The following company has the address 
of Second Floor, Indiqube Edge, Khata 
No. 571/630/6/4, Sy.No.6/4, Ambalipura 
Village, Varthur Hobli, Marathahalli 
Sub-Division, Ward No. 150, Bengaluru, 
560102, India

Standard Chartered Research and 
Technology India Private Limited

The following company has the address 
of 2nd Floor, 23-25 M.G. Road, Fort, 
Mumbai 400 001, India

Banking & Financial 
Services

India

INR10.00 Equity

100

Support Services

India

INR10.00 Ordinary

98.683

Offshore Support Services

India

INR10.00 Equity

100

Support Services

India

INR10.00 Compulsory 
Convertible Cumulative 
Preference

INR10.00 Equity Class - A

100

100

Standard Chartered Securities (India) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

India

INR10.00 Equity

100

The following company has the address 
of B001, Metrotech Forest View, Sy.No, 
67/5 BSK 6th Stage, Thalaghattapura 
Bengaluru 560062, Karnataka, India

SCV Research and Development Pvt. Ltd.

 Others

India

INR 10.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of The Icon Business Park Blok P Nomor 
03, RT 03/RW 09Sampora, Kec, Cisauk, 
Kabupaten Tangerang, Banten, 15345, 
Indonesia

PT Labamu Sejahtera Indonesia

 Others

Indonesia

IDR10,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of 91 Pembroke Road, Dublin 4, 
Ballsbridge, Dublin, DO4 EC42, Ireland

CurrencyFair (Canada) Limited¹
CurrencyFair Limited1,10

Digital Payment platform Ireland

FX transfer services

Ireland

CurrencyFair Nominees Limited ¹

Nominee company

Ireland

€1.00 Ordinary

€0.001 A Ordinary

€0.001 Ordinary

€1.00 Ordinary

100

100

27.951

100

The following company has the address 
of 27 Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin, D02 TP23, 
Ireland

Zodia Custody (Ireland) Limited

Custody Services

Ireland

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

472

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of 32 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2, 
D02Y512, Ireland

Zodia Markets (Ireland) Limited

The following companies have the 
address of 1st Floor, Goldie House, 1-4 
Goldie Terrace, Upper Church Street, 
Douglas, IM1 1EB, Isle of Man

Banking & Financial 
Services

Ireland

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

Standard Chartered Assurance Limited

Insurance Services

Isle of Man

US$1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Isle of Man Limited5

Insurance & Reinsurance 
Company

Isle of Man

US$1.00 Ordinary

US$1.00 Redeemable 
Preference

The following company has the address 
of 21/F, Sanno Park Tower, 2-11-1 
Nagatacho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-6155, 
Japan

Standard Chartered Securities (Japan) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Japan

JPY Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of 15 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 8PT, 
Jersey

SCB Nominees (CI) Limited

Nominee Services

Jersey

US$1.00 Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey

Standard Chartered Funding (Jersey) 
Limited 5,⁹

Investment Holding 
Company

Jersey

£1.00 Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of Standard Chartered@
Chiromo, 48 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 
30003 - 00100, Nairobi , Kenya

Standard Chartered Bancassurance 
Intermediary Limited

Insurance Services

Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Banking & Financial 

Services

Kenya

Kenya

KES100.00 Ordinary

KES5.00 Ordinary

KES5.00 Preference

Merchant Banking

Kenya

KES20.00 Ordinary

Investment services

Kenya

KES20.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Financial Services 
Limited

Standard Chartered Investment Services 
Limited

Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees 
Limited1

Nominee Services

Standard Chartered Securities (Kenya) 
Limited

Corporate Finance & 
Advisory Services

Solvezy Technology Kenya Limited

Digital Venture

Tawi Fresh Kenya Limited

Digital Marketplace, 
Ecommerce

The following company has the address 
of 47, Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-702, 
Korea, Republic of

Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited Banking & Financial 

Kenya

Kenya

Kenya

Kenya

KES20.00 Ordinary

KES10.00 Ordinary

KES1,000.00 Ordinary

KES1,000.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

74.318

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Services

Korea, Republic of

KRW5,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of 2F, 47, Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 
Korea, Republic of

Standard Chartered Securities Korea Co., 
Ltd

Asset Management

Korea, Republic of

KRW5,000.00 Ordinary

100

473

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of Atrium Building, Maarad Street, 3rd 
Floor, P.O. Box 11-4081 Raid El Solh, Beirut 
Central District, Lebanon

Standard Chartered Metropolitan 
Holdings SAL

Investment Holding 
Company

Lebanon

US$10.00 Ordinary A

100

The following company has the address 
of Level 13, Menara 1 Sentrum 201, Jalan 
Tun Sambanthan, Brickfields, 50470 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Assembly Payments Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ¹ Other financial service 

activities

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of Level 25, Equatorial Plaza, 
Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia

Cartaban (Malaya) Nominees Sdn 
Berhad

Nominee Services

Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd

Nominee Services

Malaysia

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

RM Ordinary

Nominee Services

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn 
Bhd

Golden Maestro Sdn Bhd

Price Solutions Sdn Bhd

Investment Holding 
Company

Direct Sales/Collection 
Services

SCBMB Trustee Berhad

Trustee Services

Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia 
Berhad

Banking & Financial 
Services

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

Malaysia

Malaysia

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

RM Ordinary

RM Irredeemable Convertible 
Preference

RM Ordinary

Standard Chartered Saadiq Berhad

Banking & Financial 
Services

Malaysia

RM Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of TMF Trust Labuan Limited, 
Brumby Centre, Lot 42, Jalan Muhibbah, 
87000 Labuan F.T., Malaysia
Marina Morganite Shipping Limited6

Marina Moss Shipping Limited6

Marina Tanzanite Shipping Limited6

The following company has the address 
of Suite 18-1, Level 18, Vertical Corporate 
Tower B, Avenue 10, The Vertical, Bangsar 
South City , No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi , 59200 
Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, 
Malaysia

Resolution Alliance Sdn Bhd

The following company has the address 
of 12th Floor, Menara Symphony , No. 5, 
Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 
46200 Petaling Jaya , Selangor, Malaysia

Solv Sdn. Bhd.

The following company has the address 
of Level 1, Wisma Standard Chartered, 
Jalan Teknologi 8, , Taman Teknologi 
Malaysia, Bukit Jalil, , 57000 Kuala 
Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia

Standard Chartered Global Business 
Services Sdn Bhd

474

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Malaysia

US$ Ordinary

Malaysia

US$ Ordinary

Malaysia

US$ Ordinary

Investment Holding 
Company

Malaysia

Ordinary

91

B2B digital platform 
offering financial services Malaysia

RM5.00 Ordinary

100

Offshore Support Services Malaysia

RM Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following companies have the 
address of Trust Company Complex, 
Ajeltake Road, Ajeltake Island, Majuro, 
MH96960, Marshall Islands
Marina Angelica Shipping Limited6

Marina Aventurine Shipping Limited6

Marina Citrine Shipping Limited6

Marina Dahlia Shipping Limited6

Marina Dittany Shipping Limited6

Marina Lilac Shipping Limited6

Marina Lolite Shipping Limited6

Marina Obsidian Shipping Limited6

Marina Quartz Shipping Limited6

Marina Remora Shipping Limited6

Marina Turquoise Shipping Limited6

Marina Zircon Shipping Limited6

The following company has the address 
of 6th Floor, Standard Chartered Tower , 
19, Bank Street, Cybercity, Ebene, 72201, 
Mauritius

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Ownership and Leasing of 
vessels

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

Marshall Islands

USD1.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Bank (Mauritius) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Mauritius

Ordinary No Par Value

100

The following companies have the 
address of c/o Ocorian Corporate 
Services (Mauritius) Ltd, 6th Floor, Tower 
A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, 72201, Mauritius

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
(Mauritius) II Limited

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
(Mauritius) Limited

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
(Mauritius) lll Limited

The following company has the address 
of Mondial Management Services Ltd, 
Unit 2L, 2nd Floor Standard Chartered 
Tower, 19 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius

Subcontinental Equities Limited

The following company has the address 
of IQEQ Corporate Services (Mauritius) 
Ltd, 33, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 
11324, Mauritius
Actis Treit Holdings (Mauritius) Limited1

Investment Management Mauritius

US$1.00 Ordinary

Investment Management Mauritius

US$1.00 Ordinary

Investment Management Mauritius

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

Investment Holding 
Company

Mauritius

US$1.00 Ordinary

100

Investment Holding 
Company

Mauritius

Class A $1.00 Ordinary

62.001

475

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Nepal 
Limited, Madan Bhandari Marg. Ward 
No.31, Kathmandu Metropolitan City, 
Kathmandu District, Bagmati Province, 
Kathmandu, 44600, Nepal

Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited Banking & Financial 

Services

Nepal

NPR100.00 Ordinary

70.21

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, 
EC2V 5DD, United Kingdom

Standard Chartered Holdings (Africa) 
B.V.5

Standard Chartered Holdings (Asia 
Pacific) B.V.5

Standard Chartered Holdings 
(International) B.V.5
Standard Chartered MB Holdings B.V.5

The following company has the address 
of PromisePay, 4 All good Place, 
Rototuna North, Hamilton, 3210,  
New Zealand
PromisePay Limited1

The following companies have the 
address of 142, Ahmadu Bello Way, 
Victoria Island, Lagos, 101241, Nigeria

Holding Company

Netherlands

€4.50 Ordinary

Holding Company

Netherlands

€4.50 Ordinary

Holding Company

Holding Company

Netherlands

Netherlands

€4.50 Ordinary

€4.50 Ordinary

Payment Services Provider New Zealand

NZD Ordinary

Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Nigeria

NGN1.00 B Redeemable 
Preference

NGN1.00 Irredeemable Non 
Cumulative Preference

NGN1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory 
Nigeria Limited

Corporate Finance & 
Advisory Services

Nigeria

NGN1.00 Ordinary

Custody Services

Nigeria

NGN1.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Nominees (Nigeria) 
Limited

The following company has the address 
of 3rd Floor Main SCB Building, I.I 
Chundrigar Road, Karachi, Sindh, 74000, 
Pakistan

Price Solution Pakistan (Private) Limited

The following company has the address 
of P.O. Box No. 5556, I.I. Chundrigar Road , 
Karachi , 74000, Pakistan

Banking & Financial 
Services

Pakistan

PKR10.00 Ordinary

100

Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Pakistan

PKR10.00 Ordinary

98.986

The following company has the address 
of 8th Floor, Makati Sky Plaza Building 
6788, Ayala Avenue San Lorenzo, City of 
Makati, Fourth District, National Capi, 
1223, Philippines

Standard Chartered Group Services, 
Manila Incorporated

The following company has the address 
of Rondo Ignacego Daszyńskiego 2B, 
00-843, Warsaw, Poland

Standard Chartered Global Business 
Services spółka z ograniczoną 
odpowiedzialnością

476

Offshore Support Services

Philippines

PHP1.00 Ordinary

100

Offshore Support Services

Poland

PLN50.00 Ordinary

100

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of Al Faisaliah Office Tower Floor No 7 
(T07D) , King Fahad Highway, Olaya 
District, Riyadh P.O box 295522 , Riyadh, 
11351 , Saudi Arabia

Standard Chartered Capital (Saudi 
Arabia)

The following company has the address 
of 9 & 11, Lightfoot Boston Street, 
Freetown, Sierra Leone

Custody Services

Saudi Arabia

SAR10.00 Ordinary

100

Standard Chartered Bank Sierra Leone 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Sierra Leone

SLL1.00 Ordinary

80.656

The following company has the address 
of 9 Raffles Place, #27-00 Republic Plaza, 
048619, Singapore

Actis Treit Holdings No.1 (Singapore) 
Private Limited1

Actis Treit Holdings No.2 (Singapore) 
Private Limited1

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 38 Beach Road, #29-11 South 
Beach Tower, 189767, Singapore

Assembly Payments Pte. Ltd. ¹

Assembly Payments SGP Pte. Ltd. ¹

The following companies have the 
address of Raffles Place, #26-01 Republic 
Plaza, Singapore , 048619, Singapore

Investment Holding 
Company

Transaction/Payment 
Processing Services

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

US$ Preference

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

Audax Financial Technology Pte. Ltd

Support Services

Autumn Life Pte. Ltd.

CashEnable Pte. Ltd.

Huma.Eco Pte. Ltd.

Letsbloom Pte. Ltd.

Libeara (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Libeara Pte. Ltd.

Pegasus Dealmaking Pte. Ltd.

The following company has the address 
of 1 Robinson Road, #17-00, AIA Tower, 
048542, Singapore

CurrencyFair (Singapore) Pte.Ltd ¹

The following companies have the 
address of 9 Raffles Place, #26-01 
Republic Plaza, 048619 , Singapore

Support Services

Digital Venture: Financial 
Services

Support Services

Others

Digital Venture: Investment 
Services

Digital Venture: Investment 
Services

Mergers and Acquisitions 
(M&A) marketplace

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

US$ Ordinary-A

US$ Ordinary-A

US$ Ordinary-A

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary-A

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

Foreign Currency 
conversion services.

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

SCV Research and Development Pte. Ltd. Others

Zodia Custody (Singapore) Limited

Custody Services

Singapore

Singapore

US$ Ordinary-A

US$ Ordinary

Inveco Pte. Ltd.

Venture: Carbon Credit 
Marketplace

Singapore

US$1.00 Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 8 Marina Boulevard, Level 26, 
Marina Bay Financial Centre, Tower 1, 
018981, Singapore

Marina Aquata Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

100

100

100

100

100

100

96.623

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

477

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Marina Aruana Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Singapore

Marina Cobia Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Singapore

Marina Fatmarini Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Marina Frabandari Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Marina Gerbera Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Marina Opah Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Marina Partawati Shipping Pte. Ltd.

Leasing Business

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

SGD Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

SGD Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of Tricor WP Corporate Services Pte Ltd, 
80 Robinson Road #02-00, 068898, 
Singapore

Solv-India Pte. Ltd.

Investment Holding Entity

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 9 Raffles Place, #26-01 
Republic Plaza , Singapore , 048619, 
Singapore

Power2SME Pte. Ltd.

Investment Holding Entity

Singapore

SCV Master Holding Company Pte. Ltd.

Investment Holding Entity

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of 7 Changi Business Park Crescent, 
#03-00 Standard Chartered @ Changi, 
486028, Singapore

Raffles Nominees (Pte.) Limited

Nominee Services

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

The following companies have the 
address of 8 Marina Boulevard, #27-01 
Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 1, 
018981, Singapore

SCTS Capital Pte. Ltd

SCTS Management Pte. Ltd.

Nominee Services

Nominee Services

Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Singapore

Singapore

Singapore

Standard Chartered Holdings 
(Singapore) Private Limited

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

SGD Ordinary

SGD Non-cumulative Class C 
Tier-1 preference

SGD Non-cumulative Class D 
Tier-1 Preference

SGD Ordinary-A

US$ Non-cumulative Class B 
Tier-1 Preference

US$ Ordinary-A

US$ Ordinary-B

US$ Ordinary-C

SGD Ordinary

US$ Ordinary

Nominee Services

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

Trustee Services

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

90.6

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Investment Management

Singapore

USD Ordinary

50

Standard Chartered Nominees 
(Singapore) Pte Ltd

Standard Chartered Trust (Singapore) 
Limited

The following company has the address 
of Abogado Pte Ltd, No. 8 Marina 
Boulevard, #05-02 MBFC Tower 1, 018981, 
Singapore

Standard Chartered IL&FS Management 
(Singapore) Pte. Limited

478

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

The following companies have the 
address of 9 Raffles Place, #26-01 
Republic Plaza, 048619, Singapore

Standard Chartered Private Equity 
(Singapore) Pte. Ltd

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

Standard Chartered Real Estate 
Investment Holdings (Singapore)  
Private Limited

The following company has the address 
of 77 Robinson Road, #25-00 Robinson 
77, 068896, Singapore

Trust Bank Singapore Limited

The following companies have the 
address of 2nd Floor, 115 West Street, 
Sandton, Johannesburg, 2196, South 
Africa

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

US$ Ordinary

Banking & Financial 
Services

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

CMB Nominees (RF) PTY Limited

Nominee Services

South Africa

ZAR1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Nominees South 
Africa Proprietary Limited (RF)

The following company has the address 
of 6 Fort Street, PO 785848, , Birnam, 
Sandton, 2196 2146, South Africa
Promisepay (PTY) Ltd1

The following company has the address 
of 1F, No.177 & 3F-6F, 17F-19F, No.179, 
Liaoning Street, Zhongshan Dist., Taipei, 
104, Taiwan

Nominee Services

South Africa

ZAR Ordinary

Payment Services Provider

South Africa

ZAR1.00 Ordinary

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

100

100

60

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Taiwan (Province of 
China)

TWD10.00 Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Floor, International House, 
Shaaban Robert Street / Garden Avenue, 
PO Box 9011, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, 
United Republic of

Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Standard Chartered Tanzania Nominees 
Limited

Nominee Services

Tanzania, United 
Republic of

Tanzania, United 
Republic of

TZS1,000.00 Ordinary

TZS1,000.00 Preference

TZS1,000.00 Ordinary

100

100

100

The following company has the address 
of No. 140, 11th, 12th and 14th Floor, 
Wireless Road, Lumpini, Patumwan, 
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand

Standard Chartered Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Thailand

THB10.00 Ordinary

99.871

The following company has the address 
of Buyukdere Cad. Yapi Kredi Plaza C 
Blok, Kat 15, Levent, Istanbul, 34330, 
Turkey

Standard Chartered Yatirim Bankasi Turk 
Anonim Sirketi

Banking & Financial 
Services

Turkey

TRL0.10 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank Bldg, 5 
Speke Road, PO Box 7111, Kampala, 
Uganda

Standard Chartered Bank Uganda 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Uganda

UGS1,000.00 Ordinary

100

479

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of 14 Mackinnon Road, Nakasero, 
Kampala, 141769, Uganda

Furaha Finserve Uganda Limited

The following company has the address 
of EX-26, Ground Floor, Bldg 16-Co Work, 
Dubai Internet City, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates

Appro Onboarding Solutions FZ-LLC

The following company has the address 
of Suites 508, 509, 15th Floor, Al Sarab 
Tower, Adgm Square, Al Maryah Island, 
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates

Financial Inclusion Technologies Ltd

The following company has the address 
of Unit GV-00-10-07-OF-02, Level 7, Gate 
Village Building 10, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates

Banking & Financial 
Services

Uganda

US$1.00 Ordinary

20

IT solutions provider and 
support service provider.

United Arab Emirates AED1,000.00 Ordinary

100

Digital wallet and 
technology payments 
platform

United Arab Emirates US$ Ordinary-A

100

Furaha Holding Ltd

Micro-lending Company

United Arab Emirates US$1.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of Standard Chartered Bank, 7th Floor, 
Building One, Gate Precinct, DIFC, PO 
Box 999, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Global Digital Asset Holdings Limited

The following company has the address 
of Part of Level 15, Standard Chartered 
Bank Building, Plot 8, Burj Downtown, 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates

myZoi Financial Inclusion Technologies 
LLC

The following company has the address 
of 25 Taylor St, San Francisco CA 
94102-3916, United States
Assembly Escrow Inc1

The following company has the address 
of 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 
19808, United States

Investment vehicle - 
Strategic investment

United Arab Emirates US$ Ordinary

100

Digital Venture: Activity 
auxiliary to financial 
intermediation

United Arab Emirates AED1.00 Ordinary

100

Payment Services Provider United States

US$0.0001 Ordinary

100

CurrencyFair (USA) Inc¹

Digital Payment platform United States

US$1.00 Uncertificated

100

The following company has the address 
of 1095 Avenue of Americas, New York 
City NY 10036, United States

Standard Chartered Bank International 
(Americas) Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

United States

US$1,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following companies have the 
address of Corporation Trust Center, 
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington DE 
19801, United States

Standard Chartered Holdings Inc.

Investment Holding 
Company

United States

US$100.00 Common

Standard Chartered Securities (North 
America) LLC

Banking & Financial 
Services

United States

Membership Interest

100

100

480

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary undertakings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of 50 Fremont Street, San Francisco CA 
94105, United States

Standard Chartered Overseas 
Investment, Inc.

The following company has the address 
of C/O Corporation Service Company, 
251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 
19808, United States

Standard Chartered Trade Services 
Corporation

The following company has the address 
of Level 3, #CP1.L01 and #CP2.L01, 
Capital Place, 29 Lieu Giai Street, Ngoc 
Khanh Ward, Ba Dinh District, Ha Noi, 
10000, Vietnam

Ultimate Holding Company United States

US$10.00 Ordinary

100

Trade Services

United States

US$0.01 Common

100

Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Vietnam

VND Charter Capital

100

The following company has the address 
of The Company’s Registered Office, 
Vistra Corporate Services Centre, 
Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, Tortola, 
VG1110, Virgin Islands, British
Sky Harmony Holdings Limited6

The following companies have the 
address of Stand No. 4642, Corner of 
Mwaimwena Road and Addis Ababa 
Dri, Lusaka, 10101, Zambia

Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc

Standard Chartered Zambia Securities 
Services Nominees Limited

The following companies have the 
address of Africa Unity Square Building, 
68 Nelson Mandela Avenue, Harare, 
Zimbabwe
Africa Enterprise Network Trust2

Investment Holding 
Company

Virgin Islands, British USD1.00 Ordinary

100

Banking & Financial 
Services

Zambia

ZMW0.25 Ordinary

Nominee Services

Zambia

ZMW0.0203 Ordinary

Investment Holding 
Company

Zimbabwe

Trust Interest

90

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Bank Zimbabwe 
Limited

Banking & Financial 
Services

Zimbabwe

US$1.00 Ordinary

Standard Chartered Nominees 
Zimbabwe (Private) Limited

Ultimate Holding Company Zimbabwe

US$2.00 Ordinary

1.  The Group has determined that these undertakings are excluded from being consolidated into the Groups accounts, and do not meet the definition of a 

Subsidiary under IFRS. See note 32 for the consolidation policy and disclosure of the undertaking.

2.   No share capital by virtue of being a trust

3.   Limited liability company

4.  The Group has determined the prinicpal place of operation to be Ireland

5.   The Group has determined the prinicpal place of operation to be United Kingdom

6.  The Group has determined the prinicpal place of operation to be Hong Kong

7.   Company is exempt from the requirements of the companies Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S479A

8.  Company numbers of the subsidiaries taking an audit exemption are SC Transport Leasing 1 LTD 06787116, SC Transport Leasing 2 Limited 06787090, Standard 

Chartered Leasing (UK) Limited 05513184, Standard Chartered Africa Limited 00002877, Standard Chartered Securities (Africa) Holdings Limited 05843604 and 
Standard Chartered Strategic Investments Limited 01388304

9   Directly held related undertaking

10  Group’s ultimate ownership for CurrencyFair entities is 43.422%

481

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Joint ventures

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

The following company has the address 
of Tricor WP Corporate Services Pte Ltd, 
80 Robinson Road #02-00, 068898, 
Singapore

Olea Global Pte. Ltd.

Associates

Provision of trade finance 
products and services.

Singapore

$ Ordinary

$ Preference

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

41

100

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of 41 Luke Street, London, EC2A 4DP, 
United Kingdom

Fintech for International Development 
Ltd

The following company has the address 
of Bohai Bank Building, No.218 Hai He 
Dong Lu, Hedong District, Tianjin, China, 
300012, China

China Bohai Bank Co., Ltd.

The following company has the address 
of 17/F, 100, Gongpyeong-dong, 
Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, Republic of

Financial intermediation

United Kingdom

$0.0001 Ordinary-A

58.9

General commercial 
banking businesses

China

CNY1.00 Ordinary

16.263

Ascenta IV

Investment making

Korea, Republic of

Partnership Interest

39.100

The following company has the address 
of 1 Raffles Quay, #23-01, One Raffles 
Quay, 048583, Singapore

Clifford Capital Holdings Pte. Ltd.

The following company has the address 
of 10 Marina Boulevard #08-08, Marina 
Bay, Financial Centre, 018983, Singapore

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

$1.00 Ordinary

Verified Impact Exchange Holdings Pte. 
Ltd

Exchange offering liquidity 
of trade

Singapore

SGD Ordinary

The following company has the address 
of Victoria House, State House Avenue, 
Victoria, MAHE, Seychelles

Seychelles International Mercantile 
Banking Corporation Limited.

The following company has the address 
of Gervinusstrasse 17, 60322, Frankfurt 
am Main, Hesse, Germany

SWIAT GmbH

The following company has the address 
of Izumi Garden Tower 19F, 1-6-1 
Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan

Commercial Bank

Seychelles

SCR1,000.00 Ordinary

Digital Venture: Financial 
Services

Germany

€1.00 Ordinary

9.9

15

22

30

SBI Zodia Custody Co. Ltd

Others

Japan

JPY50,000.00 Ordinary

100

The following company has the address 
of 60B, Orchard Road, #06-18, Tower 2, 
The Atrium @ Orchard, 238891, 
Singapore

Partior Holdings Pte. Ltd.

Financial Services

Singapore

SGD1.00 Ordinary

SGD1.00 Series A Preferred

24.999

25.014

482

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Significant investment holdings and other related undertakings

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of 1 Bartholomew Lane, London, EC2N 
2AX, United Kingdom

Corrasi Covered Bonds (LM) Limited

The following company has the address 
of Intertrust Corporate Services 
(Cayman) Limited, 190 Elgin Avenue, 
George Town, Grand Cayman , KY1-
9005, Cayman Islands

Liquidation member  
(Bond holders)

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary

20

ATSC Cayman Holdco Limited

Investment holding

Cayman Islands

$0.01 Ordinary-A

The following companies have the 
address of Unit 605-07, 6/F Wing On 
Centre, 111 Connaught Road, Central, 
Sheung Wan, Hong Kong

Actis Temple Stay Holdings (HK) Limited Investment holding

Hong Kong

Actis Rivendell Holdings (HK) Limited

Investment holding

Hong Kong

The following company has the address 
of 1221 A, Devika Tower, 12th Floor, , 6 
Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019, New 
Delhi, 110019, India

$0.01 Ordinary-B

$ Class A Ordinary

$ Class B Ordinary

$ Class A Ordinary

$ Class B Ordinary

5.272

100

39.689

39.689

39.671

39.671

Mikado Realtors Private Limited

Other business activities

India

INR10.00 Ordinary

26

The following company has the address 
of 4thFloor, 274, Chitalia House, Dr. 
Cawasji Hormusji Road, Dhobi Talao, 
Mumbai City, Maharashtra, India 400 
002, Mumbai, 400 002, India

Industrial Minerals and Chemical Co.  
Pvt. Ltd

The following company has the address 
of 17F, 47, Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, (17F, 100, 
Gongpyeong-dong, Jongno-gu), Seoul, 
Korea, Republic of

Minerals and Chemical

India

INR100.00 Ordinary

Ascenta III

Investment making

Korea

KRW1.00 Class B Equity 
Interest

26

31

The following company has the address 
of 3 Jalan Pisang, c/o Watiga Trust Ltd, 
199070 Singapore
SCIAIGF Liquidating Trust1

The following company has the address 
of 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, New 
Castle DE 19808, United States

Investment Holding 
Company

Singapore

Trust Interest

43.96

Paxata, Inc.

Data Analytics

United States

US$0.0001 Series C2 Preferred 
Stock

US$0.0001 Series C3 Preferred 
Stock

40.74

8.908

1.   The Group has determined the prinicpal place of operation to be Singapore

483

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

In liquidation

Subsidiary Undertakings 

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following companies have the 
address of C/O Teneo Financial Advisory 
Limited, The Colmore Building, 20 
Colmore Circus, Queensway, 
Birmingham, B4 6AT, United Kingdom

Standard Chartered Masterbrand 
Licensing Limited

To manage intellectual 
property for Group

United Kingdom

$1.00 Ordinary Shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of Bucktrout House, Glategny 
Esplanade, St Peter Port, GY1 3HQ, 
Guernsey

Birdsong Limited

Nominees One Limited

Nominees Two Limited

Songbird Limited

Standard Chartered Secretaries 
(Guernsey) Limited

Standard Chartered Trust (Guernsey) 
Limited

The following company has the address 
of 30 Rue Schrobilgen, 2526, Luxembourg

Fiduciary Services

Fiduciary Services

Fiduciary Services

Fiduciary Services

Guernsey

Guernsey

Guernsey

Guernsey

£1.00 Ordinary shares

£1.00 Ordinary shares

£1.00 Ordinary shares

£1.00 Ordinary shares

Fiduciary Services

Guernsey

£1.00 Ordinary shares

Fiduciary Services

Guernsey

£1.00 Ordinary shares

100

100

100

100

100

100

Standard Chartered Financial Services 
(Luxembourg) S.A.

Corporate Finance & 
Advisory Services

Luxembourg

€25.00 Ordinary shares

100

The following company has the address 
of Jiron Huascar 2055, Jesus Maria, Lima 
15072, Peru

Banco Standard Chartered en 
Liquidacion

The following company has the address 
of Luis Alberto de Herrera 1248, Torre II, 
Piso 11, Esc. 1111, Uruguay

Banking services

Peru

$75.133 Ordinary shares

100

Standard Chartered Uruguay 
Representacion S.A.

Financial counselling 
services

Uruguay

UYU1.00 Ordinary shares

100

The following company has the address 
of 555 Washington Av, St Louis, MO, 
United States of America, 63101
Assembly Payments Inc1

The following companies have the 
address of C/O Teneo Financial Advisory 
Limited, The Colmore Building,  
20 Colmore Circus, Queensway, 
Birmingham, B4 6AT, United Kingdom

Standard Chartered Leasing (UK) 3 
Limited

Payment services provider United States

$0.0001 Ordinary

100

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

484

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Liquidated/dissolved/sold

Subsidiary/Associate undertakings and Significant investment holdings

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following companies have the 
address of C/O Teneo Financial Advisory 
Limited, 156 Great Charles Street, 
Queensway, Birmingham, West 
Midlands, B3 3HN, United Kingdom

Standard Chartered Leasing (UK) 2 
Limited

The following companies have the 
address of C/o WALKERS CORPORATE 
LIMITED, 190 Elgin Avenue George Town 
Grand Cayman KY1-9008 , Cayman 
Islands

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

Sirat Holdings Limited

Investment Holding Entity

Cayman Islands

$0.01 Ordinary shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of TMF Trust Labuan Limited, 
Brumby Centre, Lot 42,, Jalan Muhibbah, 
87000 Labuan F.T., Malaysia

Pembroke Leasing (Labuan) 3 Berhad

Leasing Business

Malaysia

$ Ordinary shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of c/o Ocorian Corporate 
Services (Mauritius) Ltd, 6th Floor, Tower 
A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, 72201, Mauritius

Standard Chartered Financial Holdings

The following companies have the 
address of 142, Ahmadu Bello Way, 
Victoria Island, Lagos, 101241, Nigeria

Cherroots Nigeria Limited

The following companies have the 
address of 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 
068898, Singapore

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Mauritius

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

Nigeria

NGN1.00 Ordinary Shares

100

Cardspal Pte. Ltd.

Support Services

Singapore

$ Ordinary shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of Vistra Corporate Services 
Centre, Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, 
Tortola, VG1110, Virgin Islands, British

Sky Favour Investments Limited

The following companies have the 
address of 14th Floor, One Taikoo Place, 
979 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong.

Kozagi Limited

The following company has the address 
of Hoogoorddreef 15, 1101 BA, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands

Investment Holding 
Company

Investment Holding 
Company

Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares

100

Hong Kong

HKD Ordinary shares

100

Pembroke Holland B.V.

Leasing Business

Netherlands

€450.00 Ordinary shares

100

485

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statements40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary/Associate undertakings and Significant investment holdings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following companies have the 
address of 32 Molesworth Street,  
Dublin 2, D02Y512, Ireland

Inishbrophy Leasing Limited

Inishcannon Leasing Limited

Inishcrean Leasing Limited

Inishdawson Leasing Limited

Inisherkin Leasing Limited

Inishoo Leasing Limited

Nightjar Limited

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 1 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 2 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 3 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 4 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 5 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 6 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 7 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 8 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 9 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 10 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 11 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 12 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 13 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 14 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 15 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 16 Limited

Leasing Business

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing Holdings 
Limited

Pembroke Capital Limited

Leasing Business

Leasing Business

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

Ireland

€1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

€1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

€1.00 Ordinary shares

€1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

$1.00 Ordinary shares

€1.25 Ordinary shares

US$1.00 Ordinary

Skua Limited

Leasing Business

Ireland

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

The following company has the address 
of First Names House, Victoria Road, 
Douglas, IM2 4DF, Isle of Man 

Pembroke Group Limited

The following company has the address 
of No. 1034, Managed by Tianjin 
Dongjiang Secretarial Services , Co., Ltd., 
Room 202, Office Area of Inspection 
Warehouse,, No.6262 Ao Zhou Road, 
Dongjiang Free Trade Port Zone,, Tianjin 
Pilot Free Trade Zone, China

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing (Tianjin) 
Limited

The following company has the address 
of No. 1035, Managed by Tianjin 
Dongjiang Secretarial Services , Co., Ltd., 
Room 202, Office Area of Inspection 
Warehouse,, No.6262 Ao Zhou Road, 
Dongjiang Free Trade Port Zone,, Tianjin 
Pilot Free Trade Zone, China

Aircraft leasing, fleet 
advisory and technical 
services

Isle of Man

$0.01 Ordinary shares

100

Holding Company

China 

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing Tianjin 1 
Limited

SPV for Aircraft Operating 
Lease Business

China 

CNY1.00 Ordinary shares

100

486

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsNotes to the financial statements 
 
 
 
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued

Subsidiary/Associate undertakings and Significant investment holdings continued

Name and registered address 

Activity

Place of incorporation

Description of shares

Proportion 
of shares 
held (%)

The following company has the address 
of No. 1036, Managed by Tianjin 
Dongjiang Secretarial Services , Co., Ltd., 
Room 202, Office Area of Inspection 
Warehouse,, No.6262 Ao Zhou Road, 
Dongjiang Free Trade Port Zone,, Tianjin 
Pilot Free Trade Zone, China

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing Tianjin 2 
Limited

SPV for Aircraft Operating 
Lease Business

China 

CNY1.00 Ordinary shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, 
EC2V 5DD, United Kingdom

Pembroke Aircraft Leasing (UK) Limited

Leasing Business

United Kingdom

£1.00 Ordinary shares

100

The following companies have the 
address of Trust Company Complex, 
Ajeltake Road, Ajeltake Island, Majuro, 
MH96960, Marshall Islands

Marina Alysse Shipping Limited

Marina Amandier Shipping Limited

Marina Ambroisee Shipping Limited

Marina Buxus Shipping Limited

Marina Dorado Shipping Limited

Marina Protea Shipping Limited

The following company has the address 
of 3, Floor 1, No.1, Shiner Wuxingcaiyuan, 
West Er Huan Rd, , Xi Shan District, 
Kunming, Yunnan Province, PRC , China

Yunnan Golden Shiner Property 
Development Co., Ltd.

The following companies has the 
address of 49, Sungei Kadut Avenue, 
#03-01 S729673, Singapore

Omni Centre Pte. Ltd.

The following company has the address 
of 505 Howard St. #201, San Francisco, 
CA 94105, United States

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Ownership and Leasing  
of vessels

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

Marshall Islands

$1.00 Ordinary shares

100

100

100

100

100

100

Real Estate Developers

China

CNY1.00 Ordinary shares

42.5

Real Estate Owners & 
Developers

Singapore

SGD Redeemable Convertible 
Preference shares

99.998

SC Studios, LLC

Offshore Support Services

United States

US$1.00 Membership Interest

100

The following company has the address 
of Avenue de Tivoli 2, 1007, Lausanne, 
Switzerland

Metaco SA

Integrated infrastructure 
solutions

Switzerland

CHF 0.01 Preference A Shares

29.505

Save for those disclosed in this Annual Report , there were no other significant investments held, nor were there material 
acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries during the year under review. Apart from those disclosed in this Annual Report,  
there were no material investments or additions of capital assets authorised by the Board at the date of this Annual Report.

487

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Financial statementsSupplementary information

Supplementary 
information

490  

 Supplementary financial 
information

498  

 Supplementary people 
information

504  

 Supplementary 
sustainability  
information

508  

 2023 Sustainability 
Aspirations

511 

TCFD summary and 
alignment index

517  

 Shareholder information

522  

 Main awards and accolades

523   Glossary

Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, China 
Photographer: Irene Yuan

[[ Our weather 
photographers  
of the year]]

We are showcasing three of the most striking weather 
and climate photographs captured by our colleagues, 
as voted for by over 4,000 employees.

These pictures were originally submitted as part of the 
annual Standard Chartered Weather Photographer  
of the Year competition, organised by the UK’s Royal 
Meteorological Society.

Climate change will hit hardest in many of the 
communities and markets where we operate. Its impact 
on the environment and human health significantly 
affects sustainable economic growth and the future  
of society. These pictures aim to draw attention to  
the beauty of the planet and the importance of its 
conservation. We’re committed to net zero carbon 
emissions in our own operations by 2025, and financing 
by 2050. 

Read more on sc.com/scwpy

488

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

 
Amboseli, Kenya  
Photographer: Arvind Karthik

Kolukkumalai Peak, Tamil Nadu, India 
Photographer: Akshat Tholia

l

S
u
p
p
e
m
e
n
t
a
r
y

i

n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

489

 
Supplementary financial information

Five-year summary

Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation

Impairment losses on loans and advances and other 
credit risk provisions
Other impairment1

Profit before taxation

Profit attributable to shareholders
Loans and advances to banks2
Loans and advances to customers2

Total assets
Deposits by banks2
Customer accounts2

Shareholders’ equity
Total capital resources3

Information per ordinary share

Basic earnings per share 

Underlying earnings per share
Dividends per share4

Net asset value per share

Net tangible asset value per share
Return on assets5

Ratios

Reported return on ordinary shareholders' equity

Reported return on ordinary shareholders'  
tangible equity

Underlying return on ordinary shareholders’ equity

Underlying return on ordinary shareholders’  
tangible equity

Reported cost to income ratio (excluding UK Bank Levy)

Reported cost to income ratio (including UK Bank Levy)

Underlying cost to income ratio (excluding UK Bank levy)

Underlying cost to income ratio (including UK Bank levy)

Capital ratios:
CET 16
Total capital6

2023 
$million

6,468

(508)

(1,008)

5,093

3,469

44,977

286,975

822,844

28,030

469,418

44,445

62,389

108.6c

128.9c

27.0c

1,629.0c

1,393.0c

0.4%

7.2%

8.4%

8.7%

10.1%

63.5%

64.1%

63.4%

64.1%

14.1%

21.2%

2022 
$million

5,405

(836)

(425)

4,286

2,948

39,519

310,647

819,922

28,789

461,677

43,162

63,731

85.9c

97.9c

18.0c

1,453.3c

1,249.0c

0.4%

6.0%

6.8%

6.9%

7.7%

66.3%

66.9%

65.5%

66.2%

14.0%

21.7%

2021 
$million

3,777

(254)

(372)

3,347

2,315

44,383

298,468

827,818

30,041

474,570

46,011

69,282

61.3c

85.8c

12.0c

1,456.4c

1,277.0c

0.3%

4.2%

4.8%

5.9%

6.8%

73.6%

74.3%

69.8%

70.5%

14.1%

21.3%

2020 
$million

4,374

(2,325)

(98)

1,613

724

44,347

281,699

789,050

30,255

439,339

45,886

67,383

10.4c

36.1c

–

1,409.3c

1,249.0c

0.1%

0.8%

0.9%

2.6%

3.0%

68.1%

70.4%

66.4%

68.7%

14.4%

21.2%

2019
$million

4,484

(908)

(136)

3,713

2,303

53,549

268,523

720,398

28,562

405,357

44,835

66,868

57.0c

75.7c

22.0c

1,358.3c

1,192.5c

0.3%

4.2%

4.8%

5.6%

6.4%

68.7%

70.9%

65.9%

68.2%

13.8%

21.2%

1   Other Impairment includes $850 million (2022: $308 million) impairment charge relating to the Group’s investment in its associate China Bohai Bank (Bohai)

2   Excludes amounts held at fair value through profit or loss

3 Shareholders’ funds, non-controlling interests and subordinated loan capital

4   Dividend paid during the year per share

5   Represents profit attributable to shareholders divided by the total assets of the Group

6   Unaudited

490

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary financial informationAnalysis of underlying performance by key market
The following tables provide information for key markets in which the Group operates. The numbers are prepared on a 
management view. Refer to Note 2 for details.

Hong 
Kong 
$million

Korea 
$million

China 
$million

Taiwan 
$million

Singapore 
$million

India 
$million

Indonesia 
$million

UAE 
$million

UK 
$million

US 
$million

2023

Operating income

Operating expenses

4,167

1,074

(1,927)

(731)

1,158

(894)

558

2,455

1,206

(331)

(1,214)

(865)

241

(191)

794

102

870

(392)

(870)

(634)

Operating profit/(loss) before 
impairment losses and taxation 

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and  
joint ventures

Underlying profit/(loss)  
before taxation 

2,240

(372)

(17)

–

343

(48)

1

–

264

(113)

(5)

227

(42)

(5)

1,241

(48)

(14)

341

(31)

(11)

114

–

–

–

50

(8)

(2)

–

402

(768)

(236)

24

(5)

–

14

(15)

–

12

(5)

–

1,851

296

260

180

1,179

299

40

421

(769)

243

Total assets employed

190,484

56,638

41,508

21,638 102,724

33,781

5,470

20,376 149,982

88,113

Of which: loans and advances  
to customers1

87,590

33,443

15,882

11,634

62,030

13,832

Total liabilities employed

183,112

46,666

38,252

20,365 109,825

26,532

Of which: customer accounts1

155,446

37,032

31,211

18,621

86,282

18,709

2,533

4,355

3,024

8,495

17,214

31,067

27,434

92,168

72,583

13,924

72,610 40,846

Hong 
Kong 
$million

3,441

(1,816)

1,625

(579)

(1)

–

1,140

(733)

407

(55)

(1)

1,154

(844)

310

(200)

(3)

–

179

Operating income

Operating expenses

Operating profit before 
impairment losses and taxation

Credit impairment

Other impairment

Profit from associates and  
joint ventures

Underlying profit  
before taxation 

2022²

Korea 
$million

China 
$million

Taiwan 
$million

Singapore 
$million

India 
$million

Indonesia 
$million

UAE 
$million

UK 
$million

US 
$million

473

1,909

(336)

(1,082)

1,222

(766)

214

(183)

621

(369)

1,013

(742)

827

84

(2)

456

(31)

(1)

–

–

31

4

–

–

252

81

–

–

271

36

35

–

137

(15)

(1)

–

121

1,031

(603)

428

13

–

–

1,045

351

286

909

424

35

333

342

441

Total assets employed

171,086

68,903

39,508

21,919

97,914

30,412

5,237

19,624

187,832

67,019

Of which: loans and advances 
to customers1

Total liabilities employed

85,359

165,499

49,264

58,992

15,652

33,124

11,283

59,872

20,216

104,318

Of which: customer accounts1

138,713

43,620

24,347

18,509

79,409

15,025

23,210

15,199

2,403

4,257

2,924

7,913

39,356

19,951

16,256

140,160

64,825

12,710 104,482

28,424

1.   Loans and advances to customers includes FVTPL and customer accounts includes FVTPL and repurchase agreements

2   Underlying performance for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA. 

No change to reported performance 

491

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationAnalysis of operating income by product and segment
The following tables provide a breakdown of the Group’s underlying operating income by product and client segment.

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Macro Trading

Credit Markets

Credit Trading

Financing Solutions & Issuance²

Financing & Securities Services²

Lending & Portfolio Management

Wealth Management

Retail Products

CCPL and other unsecured lending

Deposits

Mortgage & Auto

Other Retail Products

Treasury

Other

Total underlying operating income

Transaction Banking

Trade & Working capital

Cash Management

Financial Markets

Macro Trading

Credit Markets

Credit Trading

Financing Solutions & Issuance²

Financing & Securities Services²

Lending & Portfolio Management

Wealth Management

Retail Products

CCPL and other unsecured lending

Deposits

Mortgage & Auto

Other Retail Products

Treasury

Other

Total underlying operating income

2023

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking 
$million

Consumer, 
Private & 
Business  
Banking 
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central & other 
items (segment) 
$million

5,656

1,246

4,410

5,099

2,827

1,803

554

1,249

469

469

–

1

–

1

–

–

–

(7)

11,218

181

48

133

–

–

–

–

–

–

29

1,944

4,927

1,068

3,488

236

135

–

25

7,106

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

41

93

(52)

–

–

30

85

156

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(932)

(170)

(1,102)

Total 
$million

5,837

1,294

4,543

5,099

2,827

1,803

554

1,249

469

498

1,944

4,969

1,161

3,437

236

135

(902)

(67)

17,378

2022 (Restated)¹

Corporate, 
Commercial & 
Institutional 
Banking1
$million

Consumer, 
Private &  
Business  
Banking1
$million

Ventures 
$million

Central & other 
items (segment) 
$million

Total 
$million

3,751

1,288

2,463

5,345

2,965

1,761

488

1,273

619

521

1

1

–

1

–

–

–

(11)

9,608

123

55

68

–

–

–

–

–

–

37

1,795

4,013

1,180

2,029

633

171

–

1

5,969

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

13

22

(9)

–

–

5

11

29

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

332

(176)

156

3,874

1,343

2,531

5,345

2,965

1,761

488

1,273

619

558

1,796

4,027

1,202

2,021

633

171

337

(175)

15,762

1   Underlying income for relevant periods in 2022 has been restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation Finance and (iii) DVA.  

No change to reported performance

2   Shipping Finance is now reported under “Financing Solutions & Issuance” which was reported under “Financing & Securities Services” in Q1‘23

492

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary financial informationInsured and uninsured deposits
SCB operates and provides services to customers across many countries and insured deposit is determined on the basis of limits 
enacted within local regulations.

2023

2022

Insured deposits

Current accounts

Savings deposits

Time deposits

Other deposits

Uninsured deposits

Current accounts

Savings deposits

Time deposits

Other deposits

Total

Bank deposits 
$million

10

9

–

1

–

35,500

20,969

–

8,295

6,236

35,510

Customer 
accounts 
$million

66,753

15,767

27,376

23,517

93

467,868

150,559

91,425

176,977

48,907

534,621

Bankdeposits 
$million

28

8

–

20

–

36,795

22,425

–

6,870

7,500

36,823

Customer 
accounts 
$million

60,008

16,373

26,973

16,599

63

460,221

144,931

90,937

176,090

48,263

520,229

UK and non-UK deposits
The following table summarises the split of Bank and Customer deposits into UK and Non-UK deposits for respective account 
lines based on the domicile or residence of the clients.

UK deposits

Current accounts

Savings deposits

Time deposits

Other deposits

Non-UK deposits

Current accounts

Savings deposits

Time deposits

Other deposits

Total

2023

2022

Bank deposits 
$million

2,918

925

–

310

1,683

32,592

20,053

–

7,986

4,553

35,510

Customer 
accounts 
$million

29,318

7,062

330

5,412

16,514

505,303

159,264

118,471

195,082

32,486

534,621

Bank deposits 
$million

4,163

903

–

1,004

2,256

32,660

21,530

–

5,886

5,244

36,823

Customer 
accounts 
$million

38,557

8,955

420

6,760

22,422

481,672

152,349

117,490

185,929

25,904

520,229

493

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationContractual maturity of Loans, Investment securities and Deposits 

One year or less

Between one and five years

Between five and ten years

Between ten years and fifteen years

More than fifteen years and undated

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to customers 
$million

72,717

3,975

837

35

226

197,125

52,532

19,184

14,084

62,561

Investment 
securities 
– Treasury 
and other 
eligible Bills 
$million

38,877

4

1

–

–

Total

77,790

345,486

38,882

174,333

Total amortised cost and FVOCI exposures

Fixed interest rate exposures

Floating interest rate exposures

44,977

286,975

38,505

168,697

6,472

118,278

2023

Investment 
securities 
– Debt 
securities 
$million

Investment 
securities 
– Equity 
shares 
$million

59,023

69,075

18,804

9,276

18,155

–

–

–

–

3,932

3,932

Bank 
deposits 
$million

Customer 
accounts 
$million

31,333

485,908

4,174

46,365

2

–

–

567

1,341

441

35,509

534,622

One year or less

Between one and five years

Between five and ten years

Between ten years and fifteen years

More than fifteen years and undated

Total

Loans and 
advances  
to banks 
$million

Loans and 
advances  
to customers 
$million

2022

Investment 
securities 
– Treasury 
and other 
eligible Bills 
$million

Investment 
securities 
– Debt 
securities 
$million

Investment 
securities 
– Equity 
shares 
$million

60,132

3,630

411

92

184

208,691

42,269

52,563

18,067

13,305

65,104

482

–

–

–

47,193

63,523

20,078

12,921

15,720

64,449

357,730

42,751

159,435

–

–

–

–

4,037

4,037

Bank 
deposits 
$million

Customer 
accounts 
$million

35,240

508,125

1,576

10,281

7

–

–

694

598

531

36,823

520,229

Total amortised cost and FVOCI exposures

Fixed interest rate exposures

Floating interest rate exposures

39,519

36,218

310,647

170,609

3,301

140,038

Maturity and yield of Debt securities, alternative tier one and other eligible bills held at amortised cost

One year or less

Between one and  
five years

Between five and  
ten years

More than ten years

Total

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

Central and Central and 
other government agencies

– US

– UK

– Other

Other debt securities

As at 31 December 2023

Central and other 
government agencies

– US

– UK

– Other

Other debt securities

As at 31 December 2022

1,861

39

5,045

2,487

9,432

1.39

2.75

2.72

6.45

3.44

9,171

85

9,560

2,658

21,474

1.61

1.06

2.80

5.37

2.61

5,799

101

2,289

2,262

10,451

1.67

0.67

3.12

5.44

2.79

4,524

3.89

21,355

–

81

10,973

15,578

–

4.74

5.13

4.77

225

16,975

18,380

56,935

2.09

1.18

2.84

5.38

3.37

One year or less

Between one and  
five years

Between five and  
ten years

More than ten years

Total

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

$million

Yield %

2,208

–

3,599

4,752

10,559

1.58

–

2.71

4.53

3.29

5,437

85

9,659

2,869

18,050

1.41

1.98

1.98

5.07

2.30

6,317

60

3,541

1,454

11,372

1.32

0.50

2.24

4.09

1.96

4,498

47

44

15,144

19,733

3.47

0.90

4.00

3.55

3.53

18,460

192

16,843

24,219

59,714

1.90

1.26

2.19

3.96

2.82

The maturity distributions are presented in the above table on the basis of residual contractual maturity dates. The weighted 
average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year by the book 
amount of debt securities at that date.

494

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary financial informationAverage balance sheets and yields and volume and price variances 

Average balance sheets and yields
The following tables set out the average balances and yields for the Group’s assets and liabilities for the periods ended 
31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 under the revised definition of net interest margin. For the purpose of these tables, 
average balances have been determined on the basis of daily balances, except for certain categories, for which balances  
have been determined less frequently. The Group does not believe that the information presented in these tables would be 
significantly different had such balances been determined on a daily basis.

Average assets

Cash and balances at central banks

Gross loans and advances to banks

Gross loans and advances to customers

Impairment provisions against loans and advances to 
banks and customers

Investment securities – Treasury and Other Eligible Bills

Investment securities – Debt Securities

Investment securities – Equity Shares

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Prepayments, accrued income and other assets

Investment associates and joint ventures

Total average assets

Average assets

Cash and balances at central banks

Gross loans and advances to banks

Gross loans and advances to customers

Impairment provisions against loans and advances to 
banks and customers

Investment securities – Treasury and Other Eligible Bills

Investment securities – Debt Securities

Investment securities – Equity Shares

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Prepayments, accrued income and other assets

Investment associates and joint ventures

Total average assets

Average 
non-interest 
earning  
balance 
$million

10,466

34,743

55,235

–

7,955

29,912

3,190

8,861

126,539

1,628

278,529

Average 
non-interest 
earning  
balance 
$million

19,700

29,576

61,480

–

5,564

23,618

4,152

8,821

142,599

2,152

297,662

Average  
interest  
earning  
balance 
$million

67,634

44,161

301,570

(5,894)

32,026

133,023

–

–

–

–

2023

Interest  
income 
$million

2,833

2,095

15,698

–

1,596

5,005

–

–

–

–

Gross yield 
%

Gross yield  
total balance 
%

4.19

4.74

5.20

–

4.98

3.76

–

–

–

–

3.63

2.66

4.40

–

3.99

3.07

–

–

–

–

572,520

27,227

4.76

3.20

Average  
interest  
earning  
balance 
$million

54,503

42,953

306,880

(5,867)

25,924

140,977

–

–

–

–

2022

Interest  
income 
$million

765

853

10,168

–

630

2,836

–

–

–

–

Gross yield 
%

Gross yield  
total balance  
%

1.40

1.99

3.31

–

2.43

2.01

–

–

–

–

1.03

1.18

2.76

–

2.00

1.72

–

–

–

–

565,370

15,252

2.70

1.77

495

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationAverage liabilities

Average liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts:
Current accounts
Savings deposits
Time deposits
Other deposits

Debt securities in issue
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds
Non-controlling interests
Shareholders’ funds

Average 
non-interest 
bearing  
balance 
$million

14,238

41,911
–
15,345
44,211
12,259
132,442
–
373
49,920
310,699

Average  
interest  
bearing  
balance 
$million

24,066

132,537
112,046
186,287
6,527
65,579
1,009
12,299
–
–
540,350

Adjustment for Financial Markets funding costs and 
financial guarantee fees on interest earning assets
Total average liabilities and shareholders’ funds

310,699

540,350

Average liabilities
Deposits by banks
Customer accounts:
Current accounts
Savings deposits
Time deposits
Other deposits

Debt securities in issue
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds
Non-controlling interests
Shareholders’ funds

Average 
non-interest 
bearing  
balance 
$million

17,039

51,375
–
11,586
52,962
6,720
147,814
–
312
49,873
337,681

Average  
interest  
bearing  
balance 
$million

27,241

132,709
131,571
152,118
5,094
60,559
1,065
14,994
–
–
525,351

Adjustment for Financial Markets funding costs and 
financial guarantee fees on interest earning assets
Total average liabilities and shareholders’ funds

337,681

525,351

2023

Interest  
expense 
$million

796

3,619
1,981
8,204
488
3,367
52
951
–
–
19,458

(1,778)
17,680

2022

Interest  
expense 
$million

433

1,480
832
3,021
110
1,169
44
570
–
–
7,659

(383)
7,276

Net interest margin

Interest income (Reported)
Average interest earning assets
Gross yield (%)

Interest expense (Reported)
Adjustment for Financial Markets funding costs and financial guarantee fees on interest earning assets
Interest expense adjusted for Financial Markets trading book funding costs and financial guarantee 
fees on interest-earning assets
Average interest-bearing liabilities
Rate paid (%)
Net yield (%)

Rate paid 
%

3.31

2.73
1.77
4.40
7.48
5.13
5.15
7.73
–
–
3.60

Rate paid  
total balance 
%

2.08

2.07
1.77
4.07
0.96
4.33
0.04
7.73
–
–
2.29

3.27

2.08

Rate paid 
%

Rate paid  
total balance 
%

1.59

1.12
0.63
1.99
2.16
1.93
4.13
3.80
–
–
1.46

0.98

0.80
0.63
1.85
0.19
1.74
0.03
3.80
–
–
0.89

1.38

0.84

2023 
$million

27,227
572,520
4.76

19,458
(1,778)

17,680
540,350
3.27
1.49

2022 
$million

15,252
565,370
2.70

7,659
(383)

7,276
525,351
1.38
1.32

Net interest income adjusted for Financial Markets funding costs and Financial guarantee fees on 
interest earing assets
Net interest margin (%)

9,547
1.67

7,976
1.41

496

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary financial informationVolume and price variances
The following table analyses the estimated change in the Group’s net interest income attributable to changes in the average 
volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and changes in their respective interest rates for the years 
presented. Volume and rate variances have been determined based on movements in average balances and average 
exchange rates over the year and changes in interest rates on average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing 
liabilities.

Cash and unrestricted balances at central banks 

Loans and advances to banks 

Loans and advances to customers 

Investment securities 

Total interest earning assets 

Interest bearing liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts:

Current accounts and savings deposits 

Time and other deposits 

Debt securities in issue 

Total interest bearing liabilities 

Interest earning assets

Cash and unrestricted balances at central banks 

Loans and advances to banks 

Loans and advances to customers 

Investment securities 

Total interest earning assets 

Interest bearing liabilities

Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds

Deposits by banks

Customer accounts:

Current accounts and savings deposits 

Time and other deposits 

Debt securities in issue 

Total interest bearing liabilities 

2023 versus 2022

(Decrease)/increase in  
interest due to:

Volume 
$million

550

57

(284)

(74)

249

(208)

(105)

(458)

1,601

258

1,088

Rate 
$million

1,518

1,185

5,814

3,209

11,726

589

468

3,769

3,945

1,940

10,711

 Net increase/
(decrease)  
in interest 
$million

2,068

1,242

5,530

3,135

11,975

381

363

3,311

5,546

2,198

11,799

2022 versus 2021

(Decrease)/increase in  
interest due to:

Volume 
$million

Rate 
$million

 Net increase/
(decrease)  
in interest 
$million

(21)

(60)

(17)

228

130

(58)

(3)

18

157

27

141

694

423

2,611

1,148

4,876

131

300

1,428

1,635

576

4,070

673

363

2,594

1,376

5,006

73

297

1,446

1,792

603

4,211

497

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary people information 

Global1

Full-time equivalent (FTE)
Headcount (year end)

Employed workers (permanent)

of which female

Fixed term workers (temporary)

of which female

Non-employed workers (NEW)

Non-outsourced NEW2
Outsourced NEW3

Headcount (12-month average)

Male
FTE
Headcount
Full-time
Part-time

Female
FTE
Headcount
Full-time
Part-time
Undisclosed4

FTE
Headcount
Full-time
Part-time

Nationalities

Position type

Management team
of which female
of which female (%)

Management team and their direct reports5

of which female
of which female (%)

Senior leadership6
of which female
of which female (%)

Rest of Employees
of which female
of which female (%)
of which who have supervisory responsibilities

of which female
of which female (%)

Business FTE7
Business headcount
of which female

Support services FTE7
Support services headcount

of which female

498

2023

 84,958 
 85,007 
 84,073 
 37,598 
 934 
 453 
 12,537 
 4,925 
 7,612 
 85,353 

 45,993 
 46,004 
 45,975 
 29 

 38,014 
 38,051 
 37,926 
 125 

 950 
 952 
 944 
 8 

 129 

2023

 13 
 7 
53.8%

 133 
 48 
36.1%

 4,541 
 1,474 
32.5%

 80,466 
 36,577 
45.5%
 11,009 
 3,905 
35.5%

 29,909 
 29,929 
 15,335 

 55,049 
 55,078 
 22,716 

2022

 83,195 
 83,266 
 82,319 
 37,259 
 947 
 429 
 13,962 
 5,873 
 8,089 
 82,987 

 44,709 
 44,734 
 44,683 
 51 

 37,642 
 37,688 
 37,551 
 137 

 844 
 844 
 843 
 1 

 131 

2022

 13 
 6 
46.2%

 131 
 43 
32.8%

 4,422 
 1,420 
32.1%

 78,844 
 36,268 
46.0%
 11,067 
 3,995 
36.1%

 30,589 
 30,619 
 15,794 

 52,607 
 52,647 
 21,894 

2021

% change

 81,904 
 81,957 
 80,605 
 36,644 
 1,352 
 637 
 13,845 
 6,130 
 7,715 
 82,736 

 44,033 
 44,045 
 44,002 
 43 

 37,240 
 37,281 
 37,138 
 143 

 631 
 631 
 630 
 1 

 132 

2021

 15 
 5 
33.3%

 116 
 33 
28.4%

 4,227 
 1,299 
30.7%

 77,730 
 35,982 
46.3%
 11,109 
 4,009 
36.1%

 30,921 
 30,940 
 15,997 

 50,983 
 51,017 
 21,284 

 2.1 
 2.1 
 2.1 
 0.9 
 (1.4)
 5.6 
 (10.2)
 (16.1)
 (5.9)
 2.9 

 2.9 
 2.8 
 2.9 
 (43.1)

 1.0 
 1.0 
 1.0 
 (8.8)

 12.6 
 12.8 
 12.0 
 700.0 

 (1.5)

% change

 – 
 16.7 
 16.7 

 1.5 
 11.6 
 9.9 

 2.7 
 3.8 
 1.1 

 2.1 
 0.9 
 (1.2)
 (0.5)
 (2.3)
 (1.7)

 (2.2)
 (2.3)
 (2.9)

 4.6 
 4.6 
 3.8

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary people informationRegion

Asia FTE

Asia headcount

Asia female headcount

Asia employed workers headcount

Asia fixed term workers headcount

Asia full time headcount

Asia part time headcount

AME FTE

AME headcount

AME female headcount

AME employed workers headcount

AME fixed term workers headcount

AME full time headcount

AME part time headcount

EA FTE

EA headcount

EA female headcount

EA employed workers headcount

EA fixed term workers headcount

EA full time headcount

EA part time headcount

Age

< 30 years FTE

< 30 years headcount

< 30 years female headcount

30-50 years FTE

30-50 years headcount

30-50 years female headcount

> 50 years FTE

> 50 years headcount

> 50 years female headcount

2023

 71,097 

 71,123 

 32,452 

 70,394 

 729 

 71,051 

 72 

 8,575 

 8,577 

 3,766 

 8,432 

 145 

 8,574 

 3 

 5,286 

 5,307 

 1,833 

 5,247 

 60 

 5,220 

 87 

2023

 13,168 

 13,176 

 6,848 

 63,309 

 63,334 

 27,432 

 8,480 

 8,497 

 3,771 

2022

 69,329 

 69,364 

 32,033 

 68,585 

 779 

 69,257 

 107 

 8,905 

 8,921 

 3,918 

 8,813 

 108 

 8,917 

 4 

 4,962 

 4,981 

 1,737 

 4,921 

 60 

 4,903 

 78 

2022

 13,826 

 13,836 

 7,397 

 61,651 

 61,691 

 26,870 

 7,718 

 7,739 

 3,421 

2021

% change

 67,840 

 67,870 

 31,470 

 66,968 

 902 

 67,774 

 96 

 9,372 

 9,373 

 4,100 

 8,999 

 374 

 9,369 

 4 

 4,691 

 4,714 

 1,711 

 4,638 

 76 

 4,627 

 87 

 2.6 

 2.5 

 1.3 

 2.6 

 (6.4)

 2.6 

 (32.7)

 (3.7)

 (3.9)

 (3.9)

 (4.3)

 34.3 

 (3.8)

 (25.0)

 6.5 

 6.5 

 5.5 

 6.6 

 – 

 6.5 

 11.5 

2021

% change

 14,063 

 14,069 

 7,623 

 60,891 

 60,919 

 26,583 

 6,949 

 6,969 

 3,075 

 (4.8)

 (4.8)

 (7.4)

 2.7 

 2.7 

 2.1 

 9.9 

 9.8 

 10.2

499

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationTalent management ⁸

Global voluntary turnover – FTE

Global turnover – FTE

Global voluntary turnover rate (%)

Global turnover rate (%)

Male turnover FTE

Male (%)

Female turnover FTE

Female (%)

Female as a % of global turnover FTE

Asia turnover FTE

Asia (%)

AME turnover FTE

AME (%)

EA turnover FTE

EA (%)

< 30 years turnover FTE

< 30 years (%)

30-50 years turnover FTE

30-50 years (%)

> 50 years turnover FTE

> 50 years (%)

Average tenure (years) – Male

Average tenure (years) – Female

Global new hires – FTE

Global new hire rate (%)

Male new hire FTE

Male (%)

Female new hire FTE

Female (%)

Female as a % of global new hires FTE

Asia new hire FTE

Asia (%)

AME new hire FTE

AME (%)

EA new hire FTE

EA (%)

< 30 years new hire FTE

< 30 years (%)

30-50 years new hire FTE

30-50 years (%)

> 50 years new hire FTE

> 50 years (%)

Roles filled internally (%)

of which filled by females (%)

Absenteeism rate9 (%)

Employee job satisfaction (%)

500

2023

 8,200 

 9,712 

9.7%

11.5%

 5,214 

11.4%

 4,394 

11.6%

45.2%

 8,293 

11.8%

 858 

9.9%

562

10.9%

 2,593 

19.2%

 6,242 

9.9%

 878 

11.0%

7.3

7.9

 12,145 

14.2%

 6,875 

14.9%

 5,044 

13.2%

41.5%

 10,653 

14.9%

 615 

7.0%

 877 

16.8%

 4,963 

35.5%

 6,841 

10.8%

 341 

4.2%

32.3%

41.6%

1.3%

83.0%

2022

 12,645 

 14,388 

15.5%

17.6%

 8,021 

18.2%

 6,230 

16.8%

43.3%

 12,501 

18.4%

 1,046 

11.7%

841

17.7%

 4,137 

30.5%

 9,303 

15.2%

 947 

13.1%

7.1

7.6

 17,432 

21.0%

 9,683 

21.7%

 7,384 

19.6%

42.4%

 15,441 

22.4%

 934 

10.2%

 1,056 

21.9%

 7,673 

54.7%

 9,357 

15.2%

 401 

5.4%

37.3%

41.0%

1.4%

80.0%

2021

% change

 10,214 

 13,160 

12.6%

16.2%

 7,332 

16.7%

 5,736 

15.6%

43.6%

 11,004 

16.4%

 1,454 

15.4%

703

15.5%

 3,712 

26.1%

 8,144 

13.5%

 1,304 

19.3%

7.2

7.7

 12,660 

15.3%

 6,758 

15.2%

 5,580 

14.9%

44.1%

 11,387 

16.7%

 431 

4.3%

 842 

18.2%

 5,857 

39.6%

 6,514 

10.7%

 290 

4.2%

40.8%

42.8%

1.6%

81.0%

 (35.1)

 (32.5)

 (37.1)

 (34.5)

 (35.0)

 (37.2)

 (29.5)

 (30.9)

 4.5 

 (33.7)

 (35.9)

 (18.0)

 (15.1)

 (33.2)

 (38.5)

 (37.3)

 (37.3)

 (32.9)

 (34.8)

 (7.3)

 (16.5)

 2.8 

 3.9 

 (30.3)

 (32.3)

 (29.0)

 (31.2)

 (31.7)

 (32.9)

 (1.9)

 (31.0)

 (33.2)

 (34.2)

 (31.7)

 (17.0)

 (23.4)

 (35.3)

 (35.1)

 (26.9)

 (28.8)

 (15.1)

 (23.3)

 (13.5)

 1.5 

 (2.9)

 3.7

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary people informationLearning10

Employees receiving training (%)

Employees receiving training for personal development (%)

Female (%)
Senior leadership (%)6

Average number of training hours per employee

Female

Male

Employed workers

Fixed term workers

Average cost of training per employee ($)11

Diversity

% of women remained employed 12 months after their return from 
parental leave

% of Information Technology (IT) and/or Engineering roles filled by 
women12
% of senior leadership and managerial roles filled by women6,13
% of middle management roles filled by women13
% of non-managerial positions filled by women13

% of women total promotions

Executive and non-executive directors14

Men

Women

% of men

% of women

White British or other White (including minority-White groups)

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

White British or other White (including minority-White groups) (%)

Asian/Asian British (%)

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British (%)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups (%)

Number of senior positions (CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)15

Men

Women

White British or other White (including minority-White groups)

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

2023

99.5%

96.2%

95.8%

93.4%

 38.0 

 37.0 

 38.8 

 38.1

 33.3 

 730 

2023

2022

99.5%

91.6%

90.0%

94.9%

 36.9 

 35.4 

 38.1 

 37.1 

 21.9 

 743 

2022

2021

99.4%

91.7%

91.2%

96.2%

 37.8 

 37.1 

 38.3 

 37.9 

 34.1 

 708 

% change

 0.0 

 5.0 

 6.4 

 (1.5)

 3.1 

 4.5 

 1.8 

2.7

 52.3 

 (1.8)

2021

% change

75.2%

72.4%

78.9%

24.2%

34.6%

35.5%

47.0%

46.0%

8

5

61.5%

38.5%

9

4

0

0

69.2%

30.8%

0.0%

0.0%

3

1

4

0

0

0

24.0%

35.0%

36.1%

47.6%

46.1%

8

6

57.1%

42.9%

11

3

0

0

78.6%

21.4%

0.0%

0.0%

3

1

4

0

0

0

23.8%

34.6%

36.1%

48.0%

45.3%

9

4

69.2%

30.8%

10

3

0

0

76.9%

23.1%

0.0%

0.0%

3

1

4

0

0

0

 3.9 

 0.7 

 (0.9)

 (1.6)

 (1.2)

 (0.2)

 – 

 (16.7)

 7.7 

 (10.3)

 (18.2)

 33.3 

 – 

 –

 (11.9)

43.6

 – 

–

 – 

 –

 – 

 – 

 – 

 –

501

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationDiversity

2023

2022

2021

% change

% of Board members that have a cultural background different from  
the location of the corporate headquarters16

38.5%

35.7%

38.5%

 7.7 

Executive management17

Men

Women

% of men

% of women

White British or other White (including minority-White groups)

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups

Not specified/prefer not to say

White British or other White (including minority-White groups) (%)

Asian/Asian British (%)

Black/African/Caribbean/Black British (%)

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups (%)

Not specified/prefer not to say (%)

UK senior leadership6, 18 (% declared)

UK Black Ethnicity

UK Black, Asian and Minority Ethnicity

US senior leadership6, 18 (% declared)

US Black Ethnicity

US Hispanic or Latinx Ethnicity

Work-related Health & Safety

Fatalities19

Fatalities (rate per million hours worked)
Major injuries19,20, 21, 22
Major injuries (rate per million hours worked23)
Recordable work-related injuries24
Recordable work-related injuries (rate per million hours worked23) 

Work-related ill-health (fatalities)

 14 

 7 

 7 

50.0%

50.0%

 5 

 6 

 1 

 – 

 2 

35.7%

42.9%

7.1%

0.0%

14.3%

2.5%

27.8%

4.0%

10.1%

2023

2

0.010

16

0.08

108

0.56

0

 14 

 8 

 6 

57.1%

42.9%

 6 

 6 

 1 

 – 

 1 

42.9%

42.9%

7.1%

0.0%

7.1%

2.5%

26.4%

4.7%

9.9%

2022

1

0.005

20

 0.11 

83

0.44

0

 16 

 11 

 5 

68.8%

31.3%

 9 

5 

 – 

 1 

 1 

56.3%

31.3%

0.0%

6.3%

6.3%

2.7%

22.1%

3.8%

10.2%

2021

0

0.000

24

 0.13 

79

0.43

0

 – 

 (12.5)

 16.7 

 (12.5)

 16.7 

 (16.7)

 – 

 – 

 – 

 100.0 

 (16.7)

 – 

 – 

 – 

 100.0 

 (0.2)

 5.2 

 (13.8)

 2.1

% change

 100.0 

 100.0 

 (20.0)

(27.3)

 30.1 

 27.6 

 –

502

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary people information1   Excludes 699 employees (headcount) from Digital Ventures entities (Appro, Audax, Autumn, Letsbloom, MyZoi, Solv Ghana, Solv India, Solv Kenya, Solv  

Malaysia, TASConnect, Tawi, Zodia Custody, Zodia Markets). Excludes 412 Person of Interest (headcount) following a recategorisation of worker types from 2022, 
i.e. independent non-executive directors, advisors, external auditors and regulators. Includes employees operating in discontinued/restructured businesses. 
Percentage change refers to the percentage change from 2022 to 2023. All figures above are presented to 1 decimal place and the corresponding percentage 
changes are derived from actual data without rounding to 1 decimal place to remain as accurate as possible. 

2   Non-outsourced NEWs are resources engaged on a time and materials basis where task selection and supervision is the responsibility of the Bank, such as 

agency workers. 

3   Outsourced NEWs are arrangements with a third party vendor where the delivery is based on a specific service or outcome at an agreed price, irrespective of  

the number of resources required to perform the service. These resources are not considered as the Group’s headcount.

4   The disclosure of gender information is not mandatory in some markets. 

5   Management team (MT) and colleagues who report to them, excluding administrative or executive support roles (personal assistant, business planning 

managers).

6   Senior leadership is defined as Managing Directors and Bands 4 (including Management Team).

7   Business is defined as employees directly under the remit of the businesses. Support services include employees who support businesses’ operations or 

investments where costs are fully recharged to the businesses. Increase in support services in 2023 is mainly due to increase in business demand for investment 
support resources and transfer of approximately 670 employees from CCIB business.

8   Turnover metrics are based on permanent employed workers only. New hire metrics are based on external new hires. Turnover and new hire metrics are based on 
average 12 month FTE. These metrics are not shown for the undisclosed gender population due to a small population size. Turnover in 2023 declined. Voluntary 
turnover in 2022 was at a historical high as experienced by many other organisations in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. As turnover declined, the need for 
hiring reduced accordingly compared to 2022, resulting in lower new hires.

9   Represents health and disability related absence. Excludes Korea

10   Learning metrics exclude non-employed workers (NEWs). Training for personal development is defined as all training excluding mandatory or role specific 

training. Average training hours (including mandatory training) has been updated to include self-declared external training hours and prior periods have been 
restated for comparison.

11   Average cost of training per employee includes cost of learning management system.

12   Represents the % of Information Technology (IT) and/or Engineering roles filled by women. IT and/or engineering roles is defined as employees who work in the  
IT job function, including engineering roles (excluding Innovation, Transformation & Ventures) and/or certain job families in the Data and Analytics job function. 

13   Represents the percentage of women that are in the respective population groups. For the purpose of this metric, managerial/middle management roles are 
considered as roles which have people leader responsibilities excluding senior leadership. Non-managerial roles do not have people leader responsibilities

14   Executive and non-executive directors refer to the UK PLC Board. Data has been collected by way of the directors’ annual self-declarations.

15   For the purpose of this metric, senior positions in the Board include the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Senior 

Independent Director

16   Percentage of Board Members whose cultural background (nationality) is different from the location of the corporate headquarters (UK)

17   For the purpose of this metric, executive management refers to Management team plus Group Company Secretary as defined by UK Listing Rules 

18  Ethnicity % has been derived based on colleagues who have declared their ethnicity against the overall UK/US population respectively (including colleagues 

who have not made a declaration).

19   Includes commuting and contractors (2023 one fatality was a contractor commuting accident, one was a staff road accident)

20   Per UK HSE definition. 

21   Most common types of major injury are fractures (75%)

22   2023 includes 5 contractor/visitor. 2022 includes 1 contractor/visitor. 2021 includes 4 contractors/visitors. 

23   2023 hours worked = 192,870,120. 2022 hours worked = 188,758,285. 2021 hours worked = 184,997,097

24   2023 includes 31 contractor/visitors. 2022 includes 18 contractors/visitors. 2021 includes 23 contractors/visitors.

503

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary sustainability information

Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) 

Number of participants in ESRM training sessions1

Number of transactions reviewed

Number of clients reviewed

Client exits due to non-compliance with Position Statements

Equator Principles reporting

2023

2,609²

708

1,341

41

2022

 4,944³ 

 550 

 1,170

 14

2021

 1,280 

 547 

 786 

– 

Project finance mandates

Project-related  
corporate loans

Project-related refinance7

Project advisory mandates

Cat A4

Cat B5

Cat C6

Cat A

Cat B

Cat C

Cat A

Cat B

Cat C

Cat A

Cat B

Cat C

Total 2021

Total 2022

Total 2023

2023

Sector

Mining

Infrastructure

Oil and Gas

Power
Others8

Region

Americas

Asia-Pacific

Europe, Middle East  
and Africa
Designation9

Designated Country

Non-Designated Country

Independent Review

Yes

No

8

6

11

12

7

22

Project finance  
mandates

A

–

–

2

9

–

1

6

4

3

8

10

1

B

–

6

–

15

1

2

11

9

10

12

17

5

3

1

3

C

–

3

–

–

–

–

1

2

1

2

–

3

1

2

1

6

3

4

Project-related  
corporate loans

A

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

1

1

–

B

–

–

1

1

2

–

2

2

1

3

2

2

–

4

1

C

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

1

–

1

–

–

–

1

–

–

Project-related  
refinance

A

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

B

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1

C

–

1

–

–

–

1

–

–

1

–

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

1

Project advisory  
mandates

A

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

B

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

1

–

1

1

–

–

–

–

C

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1   Metric was updated in 2023 as all participants are counted for each live training or e-learning session. An employee may attend either or both types of training 

during the year.

2   Includes 1,338 participants in live training sessions and 1,271 participants who completed e-learning sessions.

3   Figure in 2022 was higher as the Group’s mandatory Sustainable Finance Foundation training was launched in this year, incorporating ESRM as part of the 

curriculum. Frontline colleagues were first required to complete the training in 2022, for other functions the timeline extended into 2023.

4   Cat A or Category A are projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented.

5   Cat B or Category B are projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, 

largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures.

6   Cat C or Category C are projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.

7   In line with Equator Principles (EP4), Standard Chartered now reports those transactions that trigger project-related refinance.

8   Sectors covered under “Others” include Agro-industries, Transport, Chemicals and Manufacturing.

9   Designation is split into Designated and Non-Designated Countries. Designated Countries are deemed by the Equator Principles to have robust environmental 
and social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. Non-Designated Countries 
are countries that are not found on the list of Designated Countries. The list of countries can be found at www.equator-principles.com.

504

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary sustainability informationEnvironment

Reporting coverage of data

Offices reporting

Net internal area of  
occupied property

Annual operating income from 
1 October to 30 September

Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions

Scope 1 emissions 

Scope 2 emissions  
(location-based)

Scope 2 emissions  
(market-based)

Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
(market-based)

Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
(UK and offshore area only)

Scope 3 GHG emissions

Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services (other) 

Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services (data centres) 

Category 2: Capital goods 

Category 3: Fuel- and 
energy-related activities 

Category 4: Upstream 
transportation and distribution 

Category 5: Waste generated  
in operations 

Category 6: Business travel  
(air travel)

Category 6: Business travel 
(miscellaneous other than  
air travel)

Category 7: Employee 
commuting 

Category 8: Upstream  
leased assets

Category 9: Downstream 
transportation and distribution

Category 10: Processing of  
sold products

Category 11: Use of  
sold products

Category 12: End-of-life 
treatment of sold products

Category 13: Downstream 
leased assets (real estate) 

Category 14: Franchises

Category 15: Investments 
(financed emissions)

Total Scope 3

Total Scope 1, 2 and 3

1, 2, 4

12

 3

13

1, 2

5

5

6

7, 8

8

6

6

6

6

6

8, 9

6

10, 14

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

tCO2e

Units

Footnote

Measured

Scaled up

Measured

Scaled up

Measured

Scaled up

2023

2022

2021

No. of offices

762

875

838

m2

864,932

880,515

930,327

946,234

976,520

998,571

$million

1

17,414

15,863

14,541

2022–2023  
% change

(13)

(7)

10

8,454

8,488

2,027

2,071

2,834

2,902

310

84,741

85,741

88,450

89,410

94,564

96,256

25,469

26,246

41,492

47,363

73,016

82,761

33,923

34,734

43,519

49,434

75,850

85,663

248

-

-

286,304

380,732

330,244

4,431

42,707

nm

24,125

520

60,279

8,918

71,228

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

7,898

nm 

7,060

34,496

nm

20,300

747

39,107

2,654

61,917

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

8,594

nm 

41,944,000

42,450,410

42,485,144

49,512,000

50,067,607

50,117,041

45,200,000

45,650,190

45,735,853

3,654

54

4,994

236

43,132

47,217

nm

20,949

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

nm 

(4)

(45)

(30)

100

(25)

(37)

24

nm

19

(30)

15

nm

nm

nm

nm

nm

(8)

nm

(15)

(15)

(15)

505

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environment continued

Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
(market-based) intensity

Environmental resource 
efficiency

Energy 

Indirect non-renewable  
energy consumption

Indirect renewable  
energy consumption

Direct non-renewable  
energy consumption 

Direct renewable energy 
consumption

Energy consumption

Units

tCO2e/ 
$ million

GWh

GWh

GWh

GWh

GWh

Energy consumption intensity

kWh/m2

Energy consumption  
(UK and offshore area only)

GWh

Water

Water consumption

Water intensity

Waste

Waste generated

Waste intensity

Waste reused or recycled

Million litres

m3/m2

kg

kg/m2

%

Footnote

Measured

Scaled up

Measured

Scaled up

Measured

Scaled up

2023

2022

2021

2022–2023  
% change

2 

3 

6

 (36)

139

142

16

13

2

170

289

16

13

2

173

196

6

393

0.45

140

23

10

1

174

265

142

24

10

1

177

187

6

385

0.41

139

27

12

1

179

256

142

28

12

1

183

183

5

384

0.38

998,407

1.1

1,575,954

1.7

3,633,870

3.6

52

35

32

–

(33)

30

100

(2)

5

–

2

10

(37)

(32)

49

11

11

11

1  The reporting period for carbon emissions is 1 October to 30 September. This only differs for Category 1: Purchased Goods (other); Category 2: Capital Goods; 
Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution; Category 6: Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel) and Category 15: Investments where  
a period of 1 January to 31 December is used. Emissions data for these categories is also on a one-year lag with emissions reported in 2023 based on 2022 
emissions data.

2  Scope 1 figure includes fugitive emissions for the first time in 2023. For more information on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions, 

please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

3  Location based emissions have been restated for prior comparative periods. Emissions erroneously included renewable energy certificates and power purchase 

agreements. Other scope 2 reductions outside clean power are attributed to footprint reduction and efficiency gains.

4  We use an independent third-party assurance provider to verify our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. In 2023, limited assurance was completed by Global 

Documentation Ltd, excluding fugitive emissions in this first reporting year. 

5  Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services is made up of third-party on-premise data centres (data centres) and all other purchased goods and services 

(other). Purchased goods and services (data centres) have been restated from 706tCO2e to 7,060tCO2e due to an error in converting the unit of emissions.
6  Scope 3 Category 3, Category 8, Category 9, Category 10, Category 11, Category 12 and Category 14 are not relevant for the Group due to the nature of our 

business, products and services and operations. GHG emissions associated with these categories are not deemed as relevant and/or material.

7  Scope 3 Category 5: Waste generated from operations emissions have been restated for the 2022 reporting period due to an out of date emissions factor being 

used in prior year.

8  Emissions for Scope 3 Category 5: Waste generated in operations, Category 7: Employee commuting and Category 13: Downstream leased assets were measured 

and reported for the first time in 2022. 

9  Reporting of emissions associated with downstream leased aircrafts related to the Group’s aircraft leasing business has been paused following the sale of this 

business during 2023.

10 Scope 3 Category 15 emissions includes financed emissions associated with the Group’s transactions with clients. 2022 absolute emissions have been restated 
from 58.5MtCO2e to 49.5MtCO2e. This is due to (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as improved data has resulted in individual ship-level fair values  
being obtained, (ii) pausing of aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s aviation leasing and lending business, (iii) decreases in Automotive 
Manufacturers’ emissions due to changes in the industry emissions reporting methodology referenced earlier, (iv) decreases in emissions from the ‘Others’ sector 
where improved data has been obtained to calculate emissions and (v) the sectoral baselining of emissions reporting for the Cement and Commercial Real Estate 
as separate high-emitting sectors.

11  Energy intensity metric updated to kWh per square meter in the current year from kWh per headcount in 2022. Water intensity metric updated to cubic litres  
of water per square meter in the current year from cubic litres of water per headcount in 2022. Waste intensity metric updated to cubic kilograms of waste  
per square meter in the current year from cubic metres of waste per headcount in 2022.

12  Scope 1 figure includes fugitive emissions for the first time in 2023 (2023: 5,266 tCO2e). Prior year data was not available for fugitive emissions. For more information 

on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

13  Market based emissions has decreased from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the purchase of additional energy attribution 

certificates by the Group.

14  Financed emissions are included on page 110. A facilitated emissions baseline was measured for the first time during the year. Refer to page 112 for more details.

506

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary sustainability information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplier spend

Top 10 sourcing locations by % overall spend

Singapore

United Kingdom

India

Hong Kong

China³

Korea

United Arab Emirates

Malaysia

United States

Taiwan

Regional spend 

Asia

Europe and Americas

Africa and the Middle East

Category spend 

Technology

Professional Services

Property

Marketing 

Human Resources

Banking Operations

Travel

Office Supplies

Others 

Portion of total 
third-party 
spend1,2

Number of 
supplier 
organisations 
with spend in 
20231,2

Number of  
local suppliers  
by payment 
market1,2

Number of 
global4 suppliers 
(by payment 
market)1,2

36%

14%

11%

11%

5%

3%

3%

2%

2%

2%

74%

18%

8%

43%

16%

13%

13%

7%

3%

3%

1%

1%

1,447

881

2,256

761

936

497

408

565

294

492

8,936

1,704

3,409

1,578

2,066

2,490

1,913

1,503

362

485

786

380

966

563

2,080

483

813

472

241

427

161

416

7,225

1,041

2,507

1,346

1,870

2,431

1,823

1,395

338

443

753

374

481

318

176

278

123

25

167

138

133

76

1,711

663

902

232

196

59

90

108

24

42

33

6

1  Suppliers are counted by generic name (e.g. all DHL legal entities are counted as one DHL).

2  The same supplier may be used in more than one market.

3 

‘China’ refers to the People’s Republic of China and, for the purposes of this document only, excludes Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong), 
Macau Special Administrative Region (Macau) and Taiwan, ‘Korea’ or ‘South Korea’.

4  Suppliers with payments in more than one market.

Charitable giving

Cash contributions

Employee time (non-cash item)
Gifts in-kind (non-cash item)1

Management costs

Total (direct contributions by Group)
Leverage2 

Total (including leverage)

Percentage of prior year operating profit (PYOP)

1  Gifts in-kind comprises all non-monetary donations. 

2  Leverage relates to the proceeds from staff and other fundraising.

2023  
$million

2022  
$million

2021  
$million

31.2

28.7

0.4

5.4

65.7

2.9

68.6

1.6

23.7

17.5

0.3

5.0

46.5

4.8

51.3

1.5

28.2

11.4

2.6

4.7

46.9

1.9

48.8

3.0

507

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplementary information

Supplementary sustainability information

2023 Sustainability Aspirations

1. Mobilise Sustainable Finance 
Pillar
Sustainable 
Finance

Key performance indicators
Mobilise $300 billion in Sustainable 
Finance (SF)¹

Period
2021–2030

Status

2023 progress update
Mobilised $87.2bn between January 2021 and 
September 2023. Strong progress in 2023. We 
anticipate that mobilisation of SF will not be linear and 
will likely increase over time as the market matures and 
we help our clients transition. We remain on track for 
overall target in 2030.

2. Operationalise interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition
Period
Pillar

Key performance indicators

2023 progress update

Status

Operations Net zero in our operations (Scope 1 and 2 

2019–2025

GHG)

Increase renewable energy sourcing to 
100% by 2025 (RE100 compliant)

2022–2025

Achieve and maintain flight emissions 
28% lower than our 2019 baseline of 
94,000 tCO2e
Divert 90% of waste from the landfill by 
2030

2021–2023

2020–2030

2020/ 
2021–2030

Financed 
Emissions

Achieve 2030 interim financed emissions 
reduction in our most carbon-intensive 
sectors²:
•  -29% in Oil and Gas (absolute)
•  -45–67% in Power (production 

intensity)

•  -20–30% in Steel (production 

intensity)

•  -85% emissions reduction in Thermal 

Coal Mining (absolute)

•  Maintain production-intensity in 

Aluminium

•  Reduce our alignment delta in 

Shipping to 0% 

•  -53–82% in Automotive 

Manufacturers (physical intensity)
Set and disclose 2030 financed emission 
targets for high-emitting and carbon-
intensive sectors in line with Net-Zero 
Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidelines:
•  2023: Develop targets for Commercial 

Real Estate, Cement, Residential 
Mortgages, and Aluminium to be 
communicated in our 2023 Annual 
Report

•  2024: Develop 2030 target for 

Agriculture to be communicated in 
our 2024 Annual Report 

We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% to 
34,734 tCO2e during 2023. Our measured real estate 
decreased by 7% during that time.
The Group purchased and retired carbon credits for 
our residual operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions.  
We remain on track for overall target 2025.
66% of our electricity came from renewable sources 
across our portfolio after matching consumption with 
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs).
We remain on track for overall target 2025.
Achieved 36% reduction in flight emissions compared 
to 2019 baseline. 

In 2023, we reduced our overall waste generated  
by 37% and achieved 52% avoidance of landfill  
(up from 31%).
During the year, Oil and Gas sector's revenue-based 
target was changed to absolute target, effectively 
placing a carbon budget on the sector. 
Power and Steel sector targets changed from 
revenue-based to production-based intensity targets, 
which are considered best in class for these sectors.
We remain on track for all interim 2030 sectoral 
science-based targets; however, transition alignment 
is needed for Shipping and Cement.
For further information on the progress against each 
sector-specific 2030 target, refer to pages 109-117. 

 2021–2024

Targets have been set for Commercial Real Estate, 
Cement, Residential Mortgages and Aluminium and 
presented in this Annual Report, refer to pages 109-117. 
Target for Agriculture will be developed in 2024. 
We remain on track for overall target for 2024.

1  Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of 
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations 
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivises our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives 
(known as sustainability-linked finance).

2  Refer to the Group’s ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ via sc.com/sustainabilityhub and aligned with our Position Statements 

available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub. For Aviation, the Group completed the sale of its global aviation finance leasing business and the majority of its aviation 
lending book in August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this business would create in our emissions profile for this sector, the progress against 
this target has been paused for year-end 2023. This will be re-assessed based on the size and materiality of the remaining portfolio in 2024.

508

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

 
3. Enhance and deepen leadership within the sustainability ecosystem 

Pillar

Key performance indicators

Period

Status

2023 progress update

Ongoing

Market 
Integrity, 
Trust, 
Conduct and 
Compliance

Partnering to lead the fight against 
financial crimes:
•  Participating in public–private 
partnerships to contribute to 
understanding most recent 
developments, share intelligence  
and good practices

•  Contribute to developing typologies 

and red flags for financial flows

Develop and deliver a targeted 
outreach programme, including through 
key international platforms, aimed at 
safely and transparently reducing 
barriers to capital mobilisation for 
sustainable development

2022–2024

4. Drive social impact with our clients and communities

During 2023, the Group undertook a series of 
engagements across multiple jurisdictions in 
furtherance of this aspiration. The Group continued 
engagement with international and regional 
standard-setters, such as the Financial Action Task 
Force and Wolfsberg Group. In many jurisdictions, the 
Group contributed, either directly or via trade bodies, 
to reform of financial crime legislation and regulation, 
and to public–private partnerships to tackle financial 
crime. The Group has participated in a number of 
financial crime conferences across our footprint - 
chairing and leading many panel discussions, and 
contributing subject–matter expertise whenever 
possible. In addition, the Group has been engaged  
in planning discussions with countries and bodies 
seeking to establish new partnerships and 
information-sharing arrangements.

The Group continued to proactively engage in policy 
discussions via a number of major international and 
regional platforms and conferences. Through these 
activities, the Group sought to promote robust policy 
and regulatory frameworks to ensure the credibility 
and integrity of sustainable investments and to 
support capital mobilisation for sustainable finance. 

Pillar

People

Key performance indicators

Period

Status

2023 progress update

Increase gender representation to 35% 
women in senior roles³

2016–2025

Create Supplier Diversity and Inclusion 
Plans for all in-scope markets with 
Supply Chain Management (SCM) 
team presence to support 40 per cent 
of our newly onboarded suppliers  
being diverse⁴

2022–2025

Increase our Culture of Inclusion score 
to 84.5%⁵

2020–2024

Grow our employee MyVoice score to 
the question “The way we operate 
day-to-day is aligned with our 
sustainability strategy” from 2021 
baseline of 84% to 88%

2022–2024

Women leadership representation at the end of 2023 
was 32.5%. We remain on track for our overall target  
in 2025.

100% of in-scope markets have Supplier Diversity and 
Inclusion Plans and 40% of our newly onboarded 
suppliers were diverse.

83.23% of employees reported positive sentiments 
around our culture of inclusion. We remain on track  
for our overall 2024 target.

86% of employees have said the way we operate  
day to day is aligned with our sustainability strategy. 
We remain on track for our overall 2024 target.

3  Senior roles refer to roles thatare at least at the level of Executive Director (Band 4) and Managing Directors (Band 3) as of 31 December of each reporting year.

4  For Standard Chartered diverse suppliers are defined as:

•  Small Enterprise (10-49 employees + turnover <USD10 million)

•  Micro Enterprise (<10 employees + turnover <USD2 million)

•  Medium Enterprise (50-249 employees + turnover <USD50 million)

•  Women Owned (51 per cent or more owned by Women (South Africa 30 per cent owned by women as per local government regulations))

•  Ethnic Minority (Owned 51 per cent owned by ethnic minorities)

•  Veteran Owned (51 per cent or more owned by veterans)

•  Disabled Owned (51 per cent or more owned by differently abled people)

•  LGBT+ Owned (Owned 51 per cent owned by LGBT+ (not possible in some countries due to local legal regulations))

•  Social Enterprises (NGOs and Charities)

5   The ‘Culture of Inclusion’ score is based on several questions in MyVoice employee engagement survey that relate to different concepts of inclusion, including 

being respected and valued for contributions, being heard and involved in decisions, career development and opportunities, and work life balance.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

509

l

S
u
p
p
e
m
e
n
t
a
r
y

i

n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n

 
4. Drive social impact with our clients and communities continued

Pillar

Key performance indicators

Period

Status

2023 progress update

Communities Invest 0.75% of prior year operating 

Ongoing

profit (PYOP) in our communities

Education: Reach one million girls and 
young women through Goal

2006–2023

Employability: Reach 275,000 young 
people

2019–2023

Entrepreneurship: Reach 125,000  
young people

2019–2023

Increase participation for employee 
volunteering (EV) to 55%

2020–2023

Concluded in the year 

Ongoing aspirations

   Achieved  

Not achieved 

On track  

Not on track

Achieved 1.6% PYOP, refer to page 509 for additional 
details.

Goal projects reported strong results in 2023 with  
the programme reaching over 200,000 young girls, 
enabling the programme to successfully surpass the 
longstanding target to reach one million girls by 
December 2023.

A new aspirational target was set in 2022 to reach 
275,000 young people by December 2023. We have 
achieved as the pace of implementation for 
employability projects continued to increase in 2023, 
including large projects in China and India delivering 
both intensive and non-intensive (lighter touch) 
interventions. 165,056 young people participated  
in employability programmes in 2023.

A new aspirational target was set in 2022 to reach 
125,000 young people by 2023. We have achieved and 
exceeded this target as Futuremakers entrepreneurship 
projects more than doubled the number of young 
people reached in 2023, primarily driven by non-
intensive tech-enabled solutions and online learning 
materials that allowed projects to access a much  
larger number of participants. 378,108 young people 
participated in entrepreneurship programmes in 2023.

We achieved and surpassed our target of 55% with an 
outstanding EV participation rate of 61% as of end of 
December 2023. 
52,377 volunteers have logged 76,126 days of EV leave. 
Going forward, we aim to shift the focus of EV to 
skills-based volunteering, for which we have included 
the target for 2024 of 75,000 hours. 

510

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSupplementary sustainability informationTCFD summary and alignment index

The following table sets out the recommendations and recommended disclosures of the Taskforce on Climate–related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and summarises where information can be found in this Annual Report.

Recommendation

Response

Governance 

Disclosure location

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate–related risks and opportunities

Process and 
frequency of 
communication 
to the Board

•  The Board and its supporting committees are responsible for the oversight of 

climate- and sustaianbiltiy-related risks and opportunities.

•  The Board Risk Committee (BRC) receives Climate Risk updates in Group Chief Risk 
Officer (GCRO) reports six times a year and reviews the Climate Risk Information 
Report quarterly.

•  The Audit Committee (AC) is responsible for oversight of the Group’s quantitative 

reporting metrics and controls over those metrics. The AC is updated annually in the 
fourth quarter and more frequently if any material disclosures are made outside of 
the Group’s annual reporting cycle.

Strategic report – 
page 76
Sustainability review 
– pages 120-123
Directors’ report – 
pages 162-176 
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

•  The Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC) reviews the Group’s overall 

sustainability strategy and monitors the implementation of the Group’s public 
commitment to net zero financed emissions by 2050. The CSC received updates 
three times during 2023. 

Incorporation of 
climate–related 
issues into Board and 
Board committee 
planning and 
decisions

Board oversight of 
climate–related 
goals and targets

•  The Board reviewed and approved our sustainability strategy including progress  
on our roadmap to achieve net zero financed emissions by 2050, key performance 
indicators and public commitments.

Sustainability review 
– pages 120-123

•  The BRC reviewed, discussed, and challenged the Group’s (i) progress on 

embedding climate risk in line with PRA SS 3/19; (ii) the results of the Group’s first 
bespoke short–term base case and tail risk scenarios; (iii) development of the 
Group’s internal modelling capabilities; and (iv) key focus areas for 2024.

•  The Board oversees the Group’s overall net zero 2050 ambition and in 2023 reviewed 

progress on delivery against the Group’s net zero roadmap. 

Sustainability review 
– pages 120-123

• 

It approved the Group’s Climate Risk Appetite Statement and related Board-level 
metrics. Any breaches to the risk appetite metrics are reported to the Group Risk 
Committee and the Board Risk Committee.

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

Roles and 
responsibilities for 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities

•  Each member of the Group Management Team (MT) is responsible for strategically 
driving climate considerations within their geography, business segment or function 
in line with our net zero roadmap. 

Sustainability review 
– pages 120-123

•  Responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks from climate change sits 
with the GCRO as the appropriate Senior Management Function (SMF) under the 
Senior Managers Regime (SMR).

•  The Global Head, ESG and Reputational Risk is responsible for ensuring and 

executing the delivery of the Climate Risk workplan.

•  The Chief Sustainability Officer’s (CSO) organisation, as led by the CSO, is 

responsible for creating the Group-wide sustainability strategy and working across 
business segments and functional teams to deliver on our goals, targets and net 
zero roadmap.

•  Roles and responsibilities associated with climate-related risks and opportunities 

have been set out in the “Climate and sustainability-related governance” section of 
this Annual Report.

Processes used to 
inform management

•  Management is informed by several committees and forums, with climate-  

and sustainability-related information communicated via reports and  
committee papers. 

Sustainability review 
– pages 120-123

•  This includes channels including our Climate Risk Information Reports, and updates 
to the Sustainability Executive Committee and CCIB and CPBB management teams.

511

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationRecommendation

Response

Strategy

Disclosure location

a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term

Relevant short, 
medium and 
long-term time 
horizons

• 

In our strategic business planning, we consider “short-term” to be less than two 
years, “medium-term” to be two to five years and “long-term” to be beyond this. 

Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

•  For climate scenario analysis, we can run 30-year scenarios for both physical and 

transition risk. Some elements of our physical risk scenario analysis can also extend 
to 2100. 

• 

In 2023, we significantly strengthened our stress testing and scenario analysis 
abilities for a range of short, medium and long-term management scenarios  
that are more plausible, including the first bespoke short-term base case and  
tail risk scenarios.

Processes used to 
determine material 
risks and 
opportunities

•  We utilise a range of tools and methodologies to assess transition and physical 
Climate Risk, which we apply to our clients, portfolios and our own operations.  
These include: scenario analysis, location-based hazard and risk scores and 
temperature alignment scores.

Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

• 

In addition, we engage with our corporate clients to understand their transition  
and physical risks, as well as their plans to prepare for climate change.

•  Detailed processes to determine material risks across the impacted risk types are 

discussed in more detail within the “Risk review and Capital review” section. 

Climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
identified

•  The Group is exposed to Climate Risk through our clients, our own operations, our 
suppliers and from the industries and markets we operate in. The Group defines 
Climate Risk as the potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising 
from climate change and society’s response to it. 

•  Physical risk may arise from increasing severity and frequency of climate- and 
weather-related events, which can damage property and other infrastructure, 
disrupt supply chains, and impact food production. It may also reduce asset 
valuations leading to lower profitability for companies. Indirect effects on the 
macroeconomic environment, such as lower output and productivity may 
exacerbate these direct impacts.

•  Transition risk may arise from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy, 

which will require significant structural changes to the economy. These changes will 
prompt a reassessment of a wide range of asset values, a change in energy prices, 
and a fall in income and creditworthiness of some borrowers. In turn, this entails 
credit losses for lenders and market losses for investors.

•  Our work to scale Sustainable and Transition Finance is an opportunity for the 
Group to create resilience against transition risks and help provide capital and 
financing for our clients’ transition to a low carbon economy. Through supporting 
our clients on their decarbonisation journeys as they adapt their business models  
to be less carbon-intensive over time, we help manage their, and our transition risk. 
We aim to achieve Sustainable Finance income of $1 billion by 2025, mobilise  
$300 billion of Sustainable Finance between 2021 and 2030, and continue to  
grow the Sustainable Finance asset and liability books.

Strategic report – 
pages 76-78
Sustainability review 
– pages 126-129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313
Note 1 significant 
judgement and 
estimates – pages 
367-369

Significant 
concentrations of 
credit exposure to 
carbon-related 
assets

•  We aim to become net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and have set interim 
2030 targets set for 11 high-emitting sectors in line with Net-Zero Banking Alliance 
(NZBA) Guidance: Aluminium; Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation, Cement; 
Commercial Real Estate, Oil and Gas, Power, Residential Mortgages, Shipping,  
Steel and Thermal Coal Mining. The 12th sector, Agriculture, will have a target 
developed in 2024. 

Sustainability review 
– pages 108-117
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 
298-305

•  We have disclosed our exposures to high-emitting sectors, which are identified and 
grouped as per the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) system 
and exposure numbers have been updated to include all in-scope ISIC codes used 
for target setting among the high-carbon sectors.

•  The full exposure does not provide an indication of how many clients have net zero 
pathways in alignment with our own, and hence can be banked as they transition 
and/or decarbonise their business models . 

512

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023TCFD summary and alignment indexSupplementary informationRecommendation

Response

Strategy continued

Disclosure location

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning

Impact of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities on 
business areas

Enterprise Risk
•  We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk types 

and are embedding climate-risk considerations into relevant frameworks and 
processes. Details on the risks identified such as sectors vulnerable to climate risks, 
loan impairment intensities, client-level climate risk grading, exposure concentration 
to physical risk hazards for residential mortgage portfolios and across our own 
operations are discussed in more detail within the “Risk review and Capital review” 
section.

Products and services
•  We have Product Programme Guidance documents which underpin each 
Sustainable Finance product that we offer, signed off by a delegate of the 
Sustainable Finance Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of the 
product construct by the SFGC. The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable 
Finance products and derives its authority from the Group Reputational and 
Responsibility Risk Committee. SFGC is our foremost committee on greenwashing 
risk in Sustainable Finance product design and labelling.

•  Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework governs all activities we as an 

organisation view as green or sustainable. It is publicly available and externally 
verified by Morningstar Sustainalytics.

•  The Sustainability Bond Framework provides the basis for issuance of Green,  

Social and Sustainability bonds, drawing on the activities that we view as green  
or sustainable.

• 

Informed by the IEA NZE Energy 2050 scenario, we outline what assets and 
activities qualify for labelling as “transition” in our Transition Finance Framework.

In our own operations
•  Since 2018 we have been actively targeting a reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We aim to optimise our office and branch 
network by retiring unused or inefficient space and creating a working environment 
that matches office and hybrid-working patterns of our workforce. 

•  We are actively seeking to increase the proportion of our electricity usage that 
comes from renewable sources. These can take the form of power purchase 
agreements, clean energy contracts, on-site solar installations and renewable 
energy certificates.

In our supply chain
•  Through our Supplier Charter, we expect our suppliers to support and promote 
environmental protection, and to comply with local environmental laws and 
regulations. We expect our suppliers to promote the development and distribution 
of environmentally friendly technologies and manage environmental concerns in 
their own supply chains.

•  With 11,563 suppliers, we recognise our contribution to climate impacts through  

the goods and services we procure. Severe weather events could result in material 
disruptions to our supply chain that may potentially impact our ability to serve our 
clients. As such, we work to gather site locations for our material suppliers to assess 
their physical risk exposures, such that suitable continuity plans can be developed.

•  We continue to engage with our suppliers to collect emissions data, directly from 

them, thereby improving the accuracy of our Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 
(miscellaneous other than air travel) emissions calculations and reporting. 

Incorporating 
climate-related 
inputs into the 
financial planning 
process

• 

• 

In 2023, climate-related risks and opportunities were considered as part of our 
formal annual corporate plan, strategy, and financial planning process, and 
included if considered material. 

In addition, we developed management scenarios with an aim to strengthen 
business strategy and financial planning to support the Group’s net zero roadmap.

•  From a capital perspective, Climate Risk considerations have been part of our 

Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) submissions.

Strategic report – 
pages 70; 76-78
Sustainability review 
– pages 105-107; 
126-129
Directors’ report – 
pages 226-227
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

Strategic report – 
page 78
Sustainability review 
– page 129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313
Note 1 significant 
judgement and 
estimates – pages 
367-369

513

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationRecommendation

Response

Strategy continued

Disclosure location

c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 
two degrees Celsius or lower scenario

Approach to scenario 
analysis

•  Over recent years, we have progressively strengthened our scenario analysis 
capabilities and developed our infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate 
Climate Risk into data, modelling and analysis.

Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 309-313

•  Our work to date, using current assumptions and proxies, indicates that our business 

is resilient to three scenarios from Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for 
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and three in-house bespoke scenarios that 
were explored.

Scenarios used

• 

In 2023, we developed bespoke internal modelling capabilities to provide greater 
transparency of scenarios and models.

Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 309-313

•  We assessed the impact on our CCIB corporate client portfolio based on three 

Phase 3 scenarios from the NGFS and three in-house bespoke scenarios.

•  We also assessed the impact of sea level rises under various Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 
scenarios to explore the physical risk impacts on the Consumer, Private & Business 
Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage portfolio over short- and long-term time 
horizons for internal risk management purposes.

•  The results of scenario analyses have provided further validation to the actions we 

are taking as a Group in terms of our net zero ambitions and strategy.

•  We are working with clients in high-emitting and carbon-intensive sectors, aiming 

to support their transition to a low carbon economy, including through the adoption 
of emission reduction plans and new technological solutions.

•  Our work to scale our Sustainable Finance franchise, along with our targets to (i)
mobilise $300 billion Sustainable Finance between 2021 and 2030, and (ii) scale 
Sustainable Finance income to $1 billion by 2025, supported by our Sustainable 
Finance frameworks are elements of a robust response to transition risks in the short 
term, strengthening our resilience towards a two degrees Celsius or lower transition 
scenario.

Impact of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities on 
business strategy

Risk Management

a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

Processes for 
identifying and 
assessing risk

•  We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk  

types and are embedding climate-risk considerations into relevant frameworks  
and processes. 

•  To support the management and monitoring of climate-related physical and 
transition risks, we continue to conduct case level reviews for enhanced due 
diligence on high ‘Climate Credit Risk’ and ‘Climate and Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk’ for our corporate clients.

•  We continuously monitor the Risk Appetite metrics that aim to measure and 

manage financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change.

•  To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in the short-, medium- and 
long-term, we use scenario analysis to consider how risks and opportunities  
may evolve under different situations.

Strategic report – 
page 70
Sustainability review 
– pages 96; 99-101

Strategic report – 
pages 76-78
Sustainability review 
– pages 126-129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

Existing and 
emerging regulatory 
requirements related 
to climate change

•  Key financial regulators across our footprint have proposed or set supervisory 

expectations on climate and environmental risk management. Those expectations 
are broadly aligned with the Basel Committee principles for the management of 
climate-related financial risks, but local implementations vary.

Strategic report – 
page 78

•  We have been actively engaging with industry bodies and regulators to drive 

consistency in policymaking across our markets. A process has been established  
for tracking various Climate Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations 
set by both financial and non-financial service regulators at Group, regional and 
country level, with roles and responsibilities set out in the Group’s Climate Risk  
Policy. Regulatory requirements or enhancements needed are recorded through 
workplans across various teams. The workplans are coordinated and monitored 
through various working groups by having the relevant accountable executives 
participate in the relevant forums.

•  We have identified seven Principal Risk Types (PRT) that are most materially 
impacted by potential climate risks and describe transmission channels for  
Climate Risk manifesting as financial and non-financial risk.

Strategic report – 
page 78
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 
298-309

Characterising 
climate-related risks 
in the context of 
traditional banking 
industry risk 
categories

514

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023TCFD summary and alignment indexSupplementary informationRecommendation

Response

Risk Management continued

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks

Processes for 
managing and 
mitigating risks

•  We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of these seven PRTs  

and are embedding climate-risk considerations into the relevant frameworks and 
processes as well as setting risk appetites. Detailed processes for managing and 
mitigating climate risks across the impacted risk types are discussed in more detail 
within the ‘Risk review and Capital review’ section of this Annual Report. 

•  Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) is approved annually by the Board  

and any breaches are reported to the Group Risk Committee and the Board Risk 
Committee. We regularly review the scope and coverage of our Risk Appetite 
metrics for enhanced risk identification and management. Additional metrics  
to address our public targets across key sectors and a stress loss metric built on 
scenario outcomes have been identified and are being monitored in 2024.

Disclosure location

Strategic report – 
pages 76-78
Sustainability review 
– pages 126-129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s 
overall risk management

Integration into 
Enterprise Risk 
Management 
Framework

•  Climate Risk is recognised in the Group Enterprise Risk Management Framework 

(ERMF) as manifesting through existing risk types and is managed in line with the 
impacted risk type frameworks. In 2023, we have continued to build Climate Risk 
into existing risk-management processes, focusing on identifying, assessing, and 
monitoring across risk types.

Strategic report – 
pages 76-78
Sustainability review 
– pages 127-129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

Metrics and Targets

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process

Strategic report – 
pages 68; 72
Sustainability review 
– pages 94; 99-101; 105; 
110-117; 126-129
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 298-313

Key metrics used to 
measure and 
manage climate-
related risks and 
opportunities as well 
as metrics used to 
assess the impact of 
(transition and 
physical) climate-
related risks on their 
lending and other 
financial 
intermediary 
business activities

•  We disclose the following metrics in order to measure and manage climate-related 

risks and opportunities:

GHG emissions:
•  Scope 1, Scope 2 and relevant Categories of Scope 3 emissions, in particular 

Category 15 – Investments (financed emissions).

Climate-related transition risks:
•  Loan impairment intensities for the corporate portfolio and key sectors across  

a range of scenarios.

•  Transition risk exposure concentration for residential mortgages using Energy 

Performance Certificate (EPC).

•  Client-level Climate Risk Assessment (CRA) scores by region for measuring gross 

transition risk and mitigation plans.

•  Distribution of climate risk grading across key markets.

•  Weighted Average Temperature Alignment (WATA) scores by sectors and regions.

•  Gross Country Risk exposure distribution .

Climate-related physical risks:
•  Exposure concentration of gross flood and sea level rise risk for residential 

mortgage portfolio by regions.

• 

 Physical risk vulnerabilities of our own operating locations across a range of acute 
and chronic physical risk events.

•  Client-level CRA scores by region for measuring gross physical risk and adaptation 

measures.

•  Gross Country Risk exposure distribution.

Climate-related opportunities:
•  Sustainable Finance income.

•  Green and Social finance assets.

•  Sustainable liabilities.

•  Sustainability-Linked assets.

Capital deployment:
•  Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance.

Climate-related 
incentive structures

•  Selected sustainability measures aligned with the Group’s Sustainability Aspirations 

and Sustainability Strategic Pillars continue to be incorporated into the Group 
scorecard which informs variable remuneration for the majority of employees. 

•  Sustainability-related targets continue to be also included in the 2024–2026 

Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) performance measures. Members of the Group 
Management Team are eligible for LTIP awards, which may also be granted to 
other employees in the Group.

Sustainability review 
– page 124
Risk review and Capital 
review – pages 202-207

515

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationRecommendation

Response

Metrics and Targets continued

b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions and the related risks
In our own operations •  We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% to 34,734 tCO2e. Our measured  

real estate decreased by 7% during this time. This was possible through investments 
into energy-efficiency and utilising 66% of electricity from renewable sources across 
our portfolio after matching consumption with Renewable Energy Certificates 
(RECs). During the year, we started measuring the fugitive emissions from our  
own operations.

In our supply chain

Measuring our 
financed emissions

•  We continued to partner with an independent climate consultancy using a hybrid 
methodology (supplier-specific data and spend emissions factors) to measure our 
supplier emissions for Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other than air 
travel). These emissions are reported on a one-year lag. 

•  Overall, our emissions associated with the products, services and equipment that 
we purchase and those related to business travel (excluding air travel) – Scope 3 
Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other than air travel) – have shown an 
estimated 17% year-on-year reduction to a total of 362,054 tCO2e since the previous 
reporting year, excluding Scope 3 category 1 data centres. We continued to improve 
the accuracy of our supply chain emissions data collection by increasing the number 
of primary data sources and updating the CEDA emissions factor calculations.  
Our 2023 reported emissions are based on 2022 supplier spend.

•  Our Scope 3 Category 6 (air travel) emissions totalled 60,279 tCO2e. We have seen 
an increase in emissions associated with air travel since the previous reporting year. 
Nonetheless, the Group was able to exceed its target and managed to reduce 
these emissions by 36% compared to its 2019 baseline.

•  Analysing our exposure to high-emitting sectors is the starting point of our financed 

emission calculations.

•  The Group has set targets for 11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors as mandated by the 
NZBA with targets for Aluminium, Cement, Commercial Real Estate, and Residential 
Mortgages set during the year.

•  The Group has further set a baseline for facilitated emissions in 2023.

Disclosure location

Sustainability review 
– pages 105-106
Supplementary 
sustainability 
information – pages 
505-506

Sustainability review 
– page 109
Supplementary 
sustainability 
information – pages 
505-506

Strategic report – 
pages 73-74
Sustainability review 
– pages 105; 108-117

c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against 
targets

Details of targets set 
and whether they are 
absolute or intensity 
based

•  The targets we have set for climate-related risks are primarily our net zero, across 

Scopes 1, 2 and specifically 3 financed emissions, starting in 2030, with thermal coal 
targets in the shorter term from 2024. Our progress is set out in the Financed 
emissions section.

•  On climate-related opportunities, we have $1 billion of Sustainable Finance  

income and $300 billion mobilisation of Sustainable Finance targets for 2025  
and 2030 respectively.

•  During the year, we revised the measurement of our Oil and Gas sector emissions 
from an income-based carbon intensity metric to absolute financed emissions to 
better reflect the sector emission profile, effectively creating a carbon budget for 
the sector that is intended to decrease over time. In addition to this, our Power 
target was revised from an income-based carbon intensity to a production intensity 
target. Target methodologies have evolved in the Shipping and Automotive 
Manufacturers sectors which has led us to restate some of our existing targets  
to better align them with the latest scientific views in those sectors.

• 

In 2023, we continued to expand the coverage of our financed emissions targets 
with four additional targets for Aluminium, Cement, Commercial Real Estate and 
Residential Mortgages.

Strategic report – 
pages 68; 70; 72; 74
Sustainability review 
– pages 94; 99-101; 106; 
107; 110-111

A description of the 
methodologies used 
to calculate targets 
and measures

Other key 
performance 
indicators used

•  The methodologies used to calculate baseline emissions are set out in the updated 

‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’, available at  
sc.com/sustainabilityhub.

Sustainability review 
– pages 109-117

•  The Group’s approach to sustainability is underpinned by our Sustainability 
Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our Sustainability 
Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by key 
performance indicators.

Sustainability review 
– pages 94-98
2023 Sustainability 
Aspirations – pages 
508-510

516

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023TCFD summary and alignment indexSupplementary informationShareholder information

Dividend and interest payment dates

Ordinary shares

Results and dividend announced

Ex-dividend date

Record date for dividend

Last date to amend currency election instructions for cash dividend*

Dividend payment date

*   In either United States dollars, sterling or Hong Kong dollars

Preference shares

73∕8 per cent non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of £1 each
81∕4 per cent non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of £1 each

Final dividend

23 February 2024

7 (UK) 6 (HK) March 2024

8 March 2024

23 April 2024

17 May 2024

1st half yearly dividend

2nd half yearly dividend

1 April 2024

1 April 2024

1 October 2024

1 October 2024

6.409 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January and 30 April 2024 30 July and 30 October 2024

7.014 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each

30 January 2024

30 July 2024

Donating shares to ShareGift
Shareholders who have a small number of shares often find  
it uneconomical to sell them. An alternative is to consider 
donating them to the charity ShareGift (registered charity 
1052686), which collects donations of unwanted shares until 
there are enough to sell and uses the proceeds to support  
UK charities. There is no implication for capital gains tax  
(no gain or loss) when you donate shares to charity and  
UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the 
value of their donation.

Further information can be obtained from the Company’s registrars 
or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from sharegift.org

Bankers’ Automated Clearing System (BACS) 
Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building 
society account.

Please register online at investorcentre.co.uk or contact our 
registrar for a dividend mandate form

Registrars and shareholder enquiries
If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and 
you hold your shares on the UK register, please contact  
our registrar at investorcentre.co.uk and click on the ‘ASK  
A QUESTION’ link at the bottom of the page. Alternatively, 
please contact Computershare Investor Services PLC,  
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ or call  
the shareholder helpline number on 0370 702 0138.

If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register  
and you have enquiries, please contact Computershare Hong 
Kong Investor Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre,  
183 Queen’s Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.

You can check your shareholding at computershare.com/hk/investors

Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Friday  
10 May 2024 at 11:00 UK time (18:00 Hong Kong time).  
Further details regarding the format, location and business  
to be transacted at the meeting will be disclosed within the 
2024 Notice of AGM.

Details of voting at the Company’s AGM and of proxy votes cast can 
be found on the Company’s website at sc.com/agm

Interim results
The interim results will be announced to the London Stock 
Exchange and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited  
and put on the Company’s website.

Country-by-Country Reporting
In accordance with the requirements of the Capital 
Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 
2013, the Group will publish additional country-by-country 
information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2023, 
on or before 31 December 2024. We have also published our 
approach to tax and tax policy.

This information will be available on the Group’s website at sc.com

Pillar 3 Reporting
In accordance with the Pillar 3 disclosure requirements, the 
Group will publish the Pillar 3 Disclosures in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2023, on or before 23 February 2024.

This information will be available on the Group’s website at sc.com

ShareCare
ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Company’s UK 
register who have a UK address and bank account. It allows 
you to hold your Standard Chartered PLC shares in a nominee 
account. Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will 
no longer have to worry about keeping your share certificates 
safe. If you join ShareCare, you will still be invited to attend  
the Company’s AGM and you will receive any dividend at the 
same time as everyone else. ShareCare is free to join and there 
are no annual fees to pay.

If you would like to receive more information, please visit our 
website at https://www.sc.com/sharecare or contact the 
shareholder helpline on 0370 702 0138

517

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationSubstantial shareholders
The Company and its shareholders have been granted partial 
exemption from the disclosure requirements under Part XV of 
the Securities and Futures Ordinance (SFO). As a result of this 
exemption, shareholders, directors and chief executives, no 
longer have an obligation under Part XV of the SFO (other 
than Divisions 5, 11 and 12 thereof) to notify the Company  
of substantial shareholding interests, and the Company  
is no longer required to maintain a register of interests of 
substantial shareholders under section 336 of the SFO, nor  
a register of directors’ and chief executives’ interests under 

section 352 of the SFO. The Company is, however, required  
to file with The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited any 
disclosure of interests made in the UK.

Taxation
No tax is currently withheld from payments of dividends by 
Standard Chartered PLC. Shareholders and prospective 
purchasers should consult an appropriate independent 
professional adviser regarding the tax consequences of an 
investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, 
including the effect of any national, state or local laws.

Previous dividend payments (unadjusted for the impact of the 2015/2010/2008 rights issues)

Dividend and 
ﬁnancial year

Payment date

Dividend per ordinary share

Final 2008

15 May 2009

42.32c/28.4693p/HK$3.279597

Interim 2009

8 October 2009

21.23c/13.25177p/HK$1.645304

Final 2009

13 May 2010

Interim 2010

5 October 2010

Final 2010

11 May 2011

Interim 2011

7 October 2011

Final 2011

15 May 2012

Interim 2012

11 October 2012

Final 2012

14 May 2013

Interim 2013

17 October 2013

Final 2013

14 May 2014

Interim 2014

20 October 2014

Final 2014

14 May 2015

Interim 2015

19 October 2015

Final 2015

No dividend declared

Interim 2016

No dividend declared

Final 2016

No dividend declared

Interim 2017

No dividend declared

Final 2017

17 May 2018

Interim 2018

22 October 2018

Final 2018

16 May 2019

Interim 2019

21 October 2019

44.80c/29.54233p/HK$3.478306
23.35c/14.71618p/HK$1.811274/INR0.9841241
46.65c/28.272513p/HK$3.623404/INR1.99751701
24.75c/15.81958125p/HK$1.928909813/INR1.137971251
51.25c/31.63032125p/HK$3.9776083375/INR2.66670151
27.23c/16.799630190p/HK$2.111362463/INR1.3498039501
56.77c/36.5649893p/HK$4.4048756997/INR2.9762835751
28.80c/17.8880256p/HK$2.233204992/INR1.68131
57.20c/33.9211444p/HK$4.43464736/INR3.3546261
28.80c/17.891107200p/HK$2.2340016000/INR1.6718425601
57.20c/37.16485p/HK$4.43329/INR3.5140591
14.40c/9.3979152p/HK$1.115985456/INR0.861393721

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A
11.00c/7.88046p/HK$0.86293/INR0.6536433401
6.00c/4.59747p/HK$0.46978/INR0.36961751
15.00c/11.569905p/HK$1.176260/INR0.9576916501
7.00c/5.676776p/HK$0.548723/INR0.4250286001

Final 2019

Dividend withdrawn

Interim 2020

No dividend declared

N/A

N/A

Final 2020

20 May 2021

9.00c/6.472413p/HK$0.698501

Interim 2021

22 October 2021

3.00c/2.204877p/HK$0.233592

Final 2021

12 May 2022

9.00c/6.894144p/HK$0.705772

Interim 2022

14 October 2022

4.00c/3.675912p/HK$0.313887

Final 2022

11 May 2023

14.00c/11.249168p/HK$1.098083

Interim 2023

13 October 2023

6.00c/4.910412p/HK$0.469085

Cost of one new ordinary share 
under share dividend scheme

£8.342/$11.7405

£13.876/$22.799

£17.351/$26.252

£17.394/$27.190

£15.994/$25.649

£14.127/$23.140

£15.723/$24.634

£13.417/$21.041

£17.40/$26.28792

£15.362/$24.07379

£11.949/$19.815

£12.151/$20.207

£9.797/$14.374

£8.5226/$13.34383

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

£7.7600/$10.83451

£6.7104/$8.51952

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1 

 The INR dividend is per Indian Depository Receipt. In March 2020, the Group announced the termination of the IDR programme. The IDR programme was formally 
delisted from the BSE Limited (formerly the Bombay Stock Exchange) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited with effect from 22 July 2020

Chinese translation
If you would like a Chinese language version of the 2023 
Annual Report, please contact Computershare Hong Kong 
Investor Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre,  
183 Queen’s Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.

二〇二三年年報之中文譯本可向香港中央證券登記有限公司索取， 
地址：香港灣仔皇后大道東183號合和中心17M樓。

Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have 
asked to receive corporate communications in either  
Chinese or English can change this election by contacting 
Computershare.

If there is a dispute between any translation and the English 
version of this Annual Report, the English text shall prevail.

Electronic communications
If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you 
would like to receive the Annual Report electronically rather 
than by post, please register online at: investorcentre.co.uk. 
Click on ‘register now’ and follow the instructions. You will need 
to have your Shareholder or ShareCare reference number to 
hand. You can find this on your share certiﬁcate or ShareCare 
statement. Once you have registered and confirmed your 
email communication preference, you will receive future 
notifications via email enabling you to submit your proxy vote 
online. In addition, as a member of Investor Centre, you will be 
able to manage your shareholding online and change your 
bank mandate or address information.

518

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationShareholder informationImportant notices

Forward-looking statements 
The information included in this document may contain 
‘forward-looking statements’ based upon current 
expectations or beliefs as well as statements formulated  
with assumptions about future events. Forward-looking 
statements include, without limitation, projections, estimates, 
commitments, plans, approaches, ambitions and targets 
(including, without limitation, ESG commitments, ambitions 
and targets). Forward-looking statements often use words 
such as ‘may’, ‘could’, ‘will’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘estimate’, 
‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘plan’, ‘seek’, ‘aim’, ‘continue’ or other 
words of similar meaning to any of the foregoing. Forward-
looking statements may also (or additionally) be identified  
by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or  
current facts.

By their very nature, forward-looking statements are subject 
to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other 
factors that could cause actual results, and the Group’s plans 
and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied in the forward-looking statements. Readers should 
not place reliance on, and are cautioned about relying on,  
any forward-looking statements. 

There are several factors which could cause the Group’s actual 
results and its plans and objectives to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. 
The factors include (but are not limited to): changes in global, 
political, economic, business, competitive and market forces or 
conditions, or in future exchange and interest rates; changes 
in environmental, geopolitical, social or physical risks; legal, 
regulatory and policy developments, including regulatory 
measures addressing climate change and broader 
sustainability-related issues; the development of standards 
and interpretations, including evolving requirements and 
practices in ESG reporting; the ability of the Group, together 
with governments and other stakeholders to measure, 
manage, and mitigate the impacts of climate change and 
broader sustainability-related issues effectively; risks arising 
out of health crises and pandemics; risks of cyber-attacks, 
data, information or security breaches or technology failures 
involving the Group; changes in tax rates or policy; future 
business combinations or dispositions; and other factors 
specific to the Group, including those identified in this Annual 
Report and financial statements of the Group. To the extent 
that any forward-looking statements contained in this 
document are based on past or current trends and/or 
activities of the Group, they should not be taken as a 
representation that such trends or activities will continue  
in the future. 

No statement in this document is intended to be, nor should 
be interpreted as, a profit forecast or to imply that the 
earnings of the Group for the current year or future years  
will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published 
earnings of the Group. Each forward-looking statement 
speaks only as of the date that it is made. Except as required 
by any applicable laws or regulations, the Group expressly 
disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forward-
looking statement contained within this document, regardless 
of whether those statements are affected as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. 

Please refer to this Annual Report and the financial 
statements of the Group for a discussion of certain of the  
risks and factors that could adversely impact the Group’s 
actual results, and cause its plans and objectives, to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-
looking statements.

Financial instruments
Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction, 
an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities  
or other financial instruments, nor shall it constitute a 
recommendation or advice in respect of any securities  
or other financial instruments or any other matter.

Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding 
Data Limitations
This section is specifically relevant to, amongst others,  
the sustainability and climate models, calculations and 
disclosures throughout this report.

The information contained in this document has been 
prepared on the following basis: 

i.  disclosures in the Strategic report, Sustainability review, 
Directors’ report, Risk review and Capital review and 
Supplementary information are unaudited unless 
otherwise stated;

ii.  all information, positions and statements set out in this 

document are subject to change without notice; 

iii.  the information included in this document does not 

constitute any investment, accounting, legal, regulatory  
or tax advice or an invitation or recommendation to enter 
into any transaction;

iv.  the information included in this document may have been 
prepared using models, methodologies and data which 
are subject to certain limitations. These limitations include: 
the limited availability of reliable data, data gaps, and the 
nascent nature of the methodologies and technologies 
underpinning this data; the limited standardisation of 
data (given, amongst other things, limited international 
coordination on data and methodology standards);  
and future uncertainty (due, amongst other things,  
to changing projections relating to technological 
development and global and regional laws, regulations 
and policies, and the current inability to make use of 
strong historical data); 

v.  models, external data and methodologies used in 

information included in this document are or could be 
subject to adjustment which is beyond our control; 

vi.  any opinions and estimates should be regarded as 

indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 
Expected and actual outcomes may differ from those set 
out in this document (as explained in the “Forward-looking 
statements” section above);

vii.  some of the related information appearing in this 

document may have been obtained from public and other 
sources and, while the Group believes such information to 
be reliable, it has not been independently verified by the 
Group and no representation or warranty is made by the 
Group as to its quality, completeness, accuracy, fitness  
for a particular purpose or noninfringement of such 
information; 

viii. for the purposes of the information included in this 

document, a number of key judgements and assumptions 
have been made. It is possible that the assumptions 
drawn, and the judgement exercised may subsequently 
turn out to be inaccurate. The judgements and data 
presented in this document are not a substitute for 
judgements and analysis made independently by  
the reader;

519

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationYou are advised to exercise your own independent judgement 
(with the advice of your professional advisers as necessary) 
with respect to the risks and consequences of any matter 
contained in this document. 

The Group, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or 
agents expressly disclaim any liability and responsibility for 
any decisions or actions which you may take and for any 
damage or losses you may suffer from your use of or reliance 
on the information contained in this document. 

Copyright in all materials, text, articles and information 
contained in this document (other than third party materials, 
text, articles and information) is the property of, and may only 
be reproduced with permission of an authorised signatory of, 
the Group.

Copyright in materials, text, articles and information created 
by third parties and the rights under copyright of such parties 
are hereby acknowledged. Copyright in all other materials not 
belonging to third parties and copyright in these materials as 
a compilation vests and shall remain at all times copyright of 
the Group and should not be reproduced or used except for 
business purposes on behalf of the Group or save with the 
express prior written consent of an authorised signatory of  
the Group. All rights reserved.

ix.  any opinions or views of third parties expressed in this 

document are those of the third parties identified, and not 
of the Group, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or 
agents. By incorporating or referring to opinions and views 
of third parties, the Group is not, in any way, endorsing or 
supporting such opinions or views;

x.  whilst the Group bears primary responsibility for the 

information included in this document, it does not accept 
responsibility for the external input provided by any third 
parties for the purposes of developing the information 
included in this document;

xi.  the data contained in this document reflects available 

information and estimates at the relevant time; 

xii.  where the Group has used any methodology or tools 
developed by a third party, the application of the 
methodology or tools (or consequences of its application) 
shall not be interpreted as conflicting with any legal or 
contractual obligations and such legal or contractual 
obligations shall take precedence over the application  
of the methodology or tools; 

xiii. where the Group has used any underlying data provided 

or sourced by a third party, the use of the data shall not be 
interpreted as conflicting with any legal or contractual 
obligations and such legal or contractual obligations shall 
take precedence over the use of the data;

xiv. this Important Notice is not limited in applicability to  

those sections of the document where limitations to data, 
metrics and methodologies are identified and where this 
Important Notice is referenced. This Important Notice 
applies to the whole document;

xv.  further development of reporting, standards or other 

principles could impact the information included in this 
document or any metrics, data and targets included in  
this document (it being noted that ESG reporting and 
standards are subject to rapid change and development); 
and

xvi.  while all reasonable care has been taken in preparing  
the information included in this document, neither the 
Group nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees 
or agents make any representation or warranty as to its 
quality, accuracy or completeness, and they accept  
no responsibility or liability for the contents of this 
information, including any errors of fact, omission or 
opinion expressed.

520

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationShareholder informationMain awards and accolades in 2023

Asian Banker
•  Best Frictionless Customer Experience 

Initiative Award, China

Asian Banking and Finance Retail 
Banking Awards
•  International Retail Bank of the Year, 

Singapore

Euromoney Global  
Private Banking  
Awards 
•  Best Domestic Private Bank,  

United Kingdom

The Asset Triple A  
Awards 
•  Best RMB Bank  

Across East Africa,  
Kenya

•  Best for ESG Investing, Korea &  

•  Best Service Providers for Trade 

United Kingdom

Finance, Sri Lanka

•  Investment Innovation Product of the 

Year, Taiwan

European Chamber of Commerce
•  Best ESG Communications, Singapore

The Asset Triple A Digital Awards
•  Digital Bank of the Year, Bangladesh

•  Wealth Management Platform of the 

Year, Brunei

•  International Retail Bank of the Year, 

Hong Kong

Forbes 
•  Ranked 1st in the  

World’s Best Banks  
2023 list, China

Asiamoney  
•  Best International  
Bank, Bangladesh

•  Best Bank for Digital  
Solutions, Hong Kong

•  Best Bank for Corporate Social 

Responsibility, Hong Kong

Bloomberg Businessweek Awards
•  Excellence Award for ‘Bank of the 

Year’, Hong Kong

•  Excellence Award for ‘Retail Bank of 

the Year’, Hong Kong

Fortune India – Grant Thornton Bharat 
Study on India’s Best Banks 2023
•  Best Foreign Bank, India

Global Finance Magazine
•  Best Bank in Sustainable Finance, 

Saudi Arabia

•  Global Outstanding Leadership in 

Sustainable Finance, Global

International Business Magazine 
Awards
•  Best Corporate and Social 

Responsibility Bank, Bangladesh

•  Excellence Award for ‘ESG 

Sustainability of the Year’, Hong Kong

•  Most Innovative Digital Bank, 

Bangladesh

Digital Banker CX Awards
•  Best Retail Bank for Digital CX  
(Highly Acclaimed), Hong Kong

•  Best Hybrid CX (Highly Acclaimed), 

Hong Kong

•  Best Retail Bank for Digital CX, 

Pakistan

Digital Banker Global Retail Banking 
Innovation Awards
•  Best Digital Bank, Hong Kong

ESG Business Awards
•  Renewable Energy Adoption Award, 

Bangladesh

International Finance Awards
•  Most Innovative Wealth 

Management Bank, Ghana

MEA Finance Awards
•  Best Global Bank, Middle East 

•  Best Cash Management Bank,  

United Arab Emirates

The Digital Banker
•  Outstanding Digital Client Experience, 

China

The Asset Triple A Islamic Finance 
Awards
•  Best Investment Bank, United  

Arab Emirates

•  Best Retail Bank, United  

Arab Emirates

•  Best Retail Bank, Standard Chartered 

Saadiq Bangladesh

•  Sukuk Adviser of the Year,  

Saudi Arabia

•  Islamic Bank of the Year, Middle East

•  Islamic Bank of the Year, Standard 
Chartered Saadiq Bangladesh

•  Best Supply Chain Bank, Middle East

The Asset Triple A Sustainable 
Investing Awards
•  Best Domestic Custodian, Indonesia

The Asset Triple A Treasurise Awards
•  Best RMB Bank, Indonesia

•  Best ESG Solution for Liquidity and 
Investments, Malaysia, Taiwan &  
the Philippines

•  Best Payments and Collections 
Solution, Malaysia, Taiwan &  
the Philippines

•  Best Trade and Working Capital 

Finance Bank in South Asia, India – 
fifth consecutive year

•  Best Transaction Bank, Hong Kong

•  Best Mobile Banking Project, China

•  Best Cash Management Bank,  

Hong Kong

•  Best E-Solutions Partner Bank,  

Hong Kong

521

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationWallstreetcn
•  Excellent Foreign Bank of the Year, 

China

WealthBriefing Europe Awards
•  Best UK International Clients Team 
(Private Bank), United Kingdom

LGBT+ Inclusion Index - Presented by 
Community Business
•  Ranked 4th for the Top Employers, 

Hong Kong

•  Ranked 2nd for Top Organisations in 

Financial Services, Hong Kong

•  Best UK Client Service (Private Bank), 

United Kingdom

LinkedIn Top Companies List
•  Ranked 2nd, Singapore

Women in Marketing Communications 
Conference Awards
•  Award for the Most Committed  

LinkedIn’s Top 25 Workplaces to  
Grow Your Career List
•  Ranked 8th, Kenya

Brand Supporting Women-Owned 
Tech Businesses, Nigeria

Diversity & Inclusion and 
Employer awards

Asiamoney
•  Best Bank for Diversity and Inclusion, 
Hong Kong, Taiwan, the Philippines 
and Malaysia

Asian Banking and Finance Retail 
Banking Awards
•  Employer of the Year (Regional Gold), 

Hong Kong

British Chamber of Commerce
•  Diversity and Inclusion Champion  
of the Year, Singapore & United 
Kingdom

Newsweek
•  Listed in the Top 100 Most Loved 

Workplaces, United States

Points of Light
•  The Civic 50: Most Community-
Minded Company Honoree,  
United States

Priority for the Disabled
•  Won the Top Award, Korea

Seramount
•  Best Company for Multicultural 

Women, United States

The Straits Times
•  Named as one of the Best Employers, 

Singapore

Equileap
•  Ranked 15th for Gender Equality, 

Top Employers Institute China
•  Named Top Employer, China

Financial Times 
•  Listed in the  

Financial Times  
European Diversity Leaders for 
Workplace Inclusion, Europe –  
4th consecutive year

Globally

•  Ranked 3rd for Gender Equality, 

United Kingdom

Great Place to Work Accreditation
•  Certified, Poland 

•  Certified, United Kingdom

•  Certified, United States

•  Certified, India

•  Certified, Sri Lanka

India Workplace Equality Index
•  Gold Employer of the Year, India

522

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationAwardsGlossary

Absolute financed emissions
GHG emissions attributed to the Group’s 
lending activities expressed in CO2e and 
reported in the Group’s emissions table 
under Scope 3, Category 15. 

AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital
Additional Tier 1 capital consists of 
instruments other than Common  
Equity Tier 1 that meet the conditions  
set out in Article 52(1) of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation (as it forms 
part of UK domestic law), as well as the 
share premium accounts related to 
those instruments.

Additional value adjustment
See Prudent valuation adjustment.

Advanced Internal Rating 
Based (AIRB) approach
The AIRB approach under the Basel 
framework is used to calculate credit  
risk capital based on the Group’s own 
estimates of prudential parameters.

Alignment delta
Alignment delta is a variant on the 
physical emissions intensity approach.  
It measures the coefficient of alignment 
against a particular reference scenario 
expressed in percentage terms i.e., how 
much a particular portfolio is above or 
below the net zero reference scenario.

Alternative performance 
measures
A financial measure of historical or 
future financial performance, financial 
position, or cash flows, other than a 
financial measure defined or specified  
in the applicable financial reporting 
framework.

ASEAN
Association of South East Asian  
Nations (ASEAN) which includes  
the Group’s operations in Brunei, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

AUM or Assets under 
management
Total market value of assets such as 
deposits, securities and funds held by 
the Group on behalf of the clients.

Basel II
The capital adequacy framework issued 
by the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision (BCBS) in June 2006 in the 
form of the International Convergence 
of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards.

Basel III
The global regulatory standards on 
bank capital adequacy and liquidity, 
originally issued in December 2010 and 
updated in June 2011. In December 2017, 
the BCBS published a document setting 
out the finalisation of the Basel III 
framework. The latest requirements 
issued in December 2017 have been 
implemented from 2022.

BCBS or Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision
A forum on banking supervisory matters 
which develops global supervisory 
standards for the banking industry.  
Its members are officials from 45 central 
banks or prudential supervisors from  
27 countries and territories.

Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Represents earnings divided by the 
basic weighted average number  
of shares.

Basis point (bps)
One hundredth of a per cent (0.01  
per cent); 100 basis points is 1 per cent. 

CRD or Capital Requirements 
Directive
An EU capital adequacy legislative 
package largely implemented or 
onshored into UK law. The package 
comprises the Capital Requirements 
Directive and the Capital Requirements 
Regulation (CRR) and implements the 
Basel III framework together with 
transitional arrangements for some of 
its requirements. CRD IV came into force 
on 1 January 2014. The EU CRR II and 
CRD V amending the existing package 
came into force in June 2019 with most 
changes starting to apply from 28 June 
2021. Only those parts of the EU CRR II 
that applied on or before 31 December 
2020, when the UK was a member of  
the EU, have been implemented.  
The PRA has recently implemented  
the UK’s version of CRR II.

Capital-lite income
Income derived from products with low 
RWA consumption or products which 
are non-funding in nature.

Capital resources
Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after 
regulatory adjustments.

CGU or Cash-generating unit
The smallest identifiable group of assets 
that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets.

Cash shortfall
The difference between the cash flows 
that are due in accordance with the 
contractual terms of the instrument and 
the cash flows that the Group expects  
to receive over the contractual life of  
the instrument.

Clawback
An amount an individual is required to 
pay back to the Group, which has to  
be returned to the Group under certain 
circumstances.

 Commercial real estate
Includes office buildings, industrial 
property, medical centres, hotels, malls, 
retail stores, shopping centres, farm 
land, multi-family housing buildings, 
warehouses, garages, and industrial 
properties. Commercial real estate  
loans are those backed by a package  
of commercial real estate assets.

CET1 or Common Equity Tier 1 
capital
Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists  
of the items, including the common 
shares issued by the Group and related 
share premium, retained earnings, 
accumulated other comprehensive 
income and other disclosed reserves, 
eligible non-controlling interests and 
regulatory adjustments required in the 
calculation of Common Equity Tier 1,  
set out in Article 26(1) of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation (as it forms 
part of UK domestic law), capable of 
being available to the institution for 
unrestricted and immediate use to 
absorb losses as soon as these occur. 

523

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationCET1 ratio
A measure of the Group’s CET1 capital 
as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.

Contractual maturity
Contractual maturity refers to the  
final payment date of a loan or other 
financial instrument, at which point all 
the remaining outstanding principal 
and interest is due to be paid.

Countercyclical capital buffer
The countercyclical capital buffer 
(CCyB) is part of a set of 
macroprudential instruments, designed 
to help counter procyclicality in the 
financial system. CCyB as defined in  
the Basel III standard provides for an 
additional capital requirement of up to 
2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets in a 
given jurisdiction. The Bank of England’s 
Financial Policy Committee has the 
power to set the CCyB rate for the 
United Kingdom. Each bank must 
calculate its ‘institution-specific’ CCyB 
rate, defined as the weighted average 
of the CCyB rates in effect across the 
jurisdictions in which it has credit 
exposures. The institution-specific  
CCyB rate is then applied to a bank’s 
total risk-weighted assets.

Counterparty credit risk
The risk that a counterparty defaults 
before satisfying its obligations under  
a derivative, a securities financing 
transaction (SFT) or a similar contract.

CCF or Credit conversion factor
An estimate of the amount the Group 
expects a customer to have drawn 
further on a facility limit at the point  
of default. This is either prescribed by 
CRR or modelled by the bank. 

CDS or Credit default swaps
A credit derivative is an arrangement 
whereby the credit risk of an asset (the 
reference asset) is transferred from the 
buyer to the seller of protection. A credit 
default swap is a contract where the 
protection seller receives premium or 
interest-related payments in return for 
contracting to make payments to the 
protection buyer upon a defined credit 
event. Credit events normally include 
bankruptcy, payment default on  
a reference asset or assets, or 
downgrades by a rating agency.

Credit grade
A standard alphanumeric Credit Risk 
grade system is used for CCIB Client 
Coverage. The numeric grades run from 
1 to 14 and some of the grades are 
further sub-classified. Lower numeric 
credit grades are indicative of a lower 
likelihood of default. Credit grades 1 to 12 
are assigned to performing customers, 
while credit grades 13 and 14 are 
assigned to nonperforming or  
defaulted customers

Credit institutions
An institution whose business is to 
receive deposits or other repayable 
funds from the public and to grant 
credits for its own account.

Credit risk mitigation
Credit risk mitigation is a process to 
mitigate potential credit losses from any 
given account, customer or portfolio by 
using a range of tools such as collateral, 
netting agreements, credit insurance, 
credit derivatives and guarantees.

CVA or Credit valuation 
adjustments
An adjustment to the fair value of 
derivative contracts that reflects the 
possibility that the counterparty may 
default such that the Group would  
not receive the full market value of  
the contracts.

Customer accounts
Money deposited by all individuals  
and companies which are not credit 
institutions including securities sold 
under repurchase agreement (see repo/
reverse repo). Such funds are recorded 
as liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet 
under customer accounts.

Days past due
One or more days that interest and/or 
principal payments are overdue based 
on the contractual terms. 

DVA or Debit valuation 
adjustment

An adjustment to the fair value of 
derivative contracts that reflects  
the possibility that the Group may 
default and not pay the full market 
value of contracts.

Debt securities
Debt securities are assets on the Group’s 
balance sheet and represent certificates 
of indebtedness of credit institutions, 
public bodies or other undertakings 
excluding those issued by central banks.

Debt securities in issue
Debt securities in issue are transferable 
certificates of indebtedness of the 
Group to the bearer of the certificate. 
These are liabilities of the Group and 
include certificates of deposits.

Deferred tax asset
Income taxes recoverable in future 
periods in respect of deductible 
temporary differences between the 
accounting and tax base of an asset or 
liability that will result in tax deductible 
amounts in future periods, the carry-
forward of tax losses or the carry-
forward of unused tax credits.

Deferred tax liability
Income taxes payable in future periods 
in respect of taxable temporary 
differences between the accounting 
and tax base of an asset or liability  
that will result in taxable amounts in 
future periods.

Default
Financial assets in default represent 
those that are at least 90 days past  
due in respect of principal or interest 
and/or where the assets are otherwise 
considered to be unlikely to pay, 
including those that are credit-impaired.

Defined benefit obligation
The present value of expected future 
payments required to settle the 
obligations of a defined benefit scheme 
resulting from employee service.

Defined benefit scheme
Pension or other post-retirement  
benefit scheme other than a defined 
contribution scheme.

Defined contribution scheme
A pension or other post-retirement 
benefit scheme where the employer’s 
obligation is limited to its contributions 
to the fund.

524

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationGlossaryDelinquency
A debt or other financial obligation is 
considered to be in a state of 
delinquency when payments are 
overdue. Loans and advances are 
considered to be delinquent when 
consecutive payments are missed.  
Also known as arrears.

Deposits by banks
Deposits by banks comprise amounts 
owed to other domestic or foreign  
credit institutions by the Group  
including securities sold under repo.

Diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Represents earnings divided by the 
weighted average number of shares 
that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive 
potential ordinary shares.

Dividend per share
Represents the entitlement of each 
shareholder in the share of the profits  
of the Company. Calculated in the 
lowest unit of currency in which the 
shares are quoted.

Early alert, purely and non-
purely precautionary
A borrower’s account which exhibits  
risks or potential weaknesses of a 
material nature requiring closer 
monitoring, supervision, or attention by 
management. Weaknesses in such a 
borrower’s account, if left uncorrected, 
could result in deterioration of 
repayment prospects and the likelihood 
of being downgraded to credit grade 12 
or worse. When an account is on early 
alert, it is classified as either purely 
precautionary or non-purely 
precautionary. A purely precautionary 
account is one that exhibits early alert 
characteristics, but these do not present 
any imminent credit concern. If the 
symptoms present an imminent  
credit concern, an account will be 
considered for classification as  
non-purely precautionary.

Effective tax rate
The tax on profit/ (losses) on  
ordinary activities as a percentage  
of profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation.

Encumbered assets
On-balance sheet assets pledged or 
used as collateral in respect of certain  
of the Group’s liabilities.

EU or European Union
The European Union (EU) is a political 
and economic union of 27 member 
states that are located primarily  
in Europe.

Eurozone
Represents the 19 EU countries that  
have adopted the euro as their  
common currency.

ECL or Expected credit loss
Represents the present value of 
expected cash shortfalls over the 
residual term of a financial asset, 
undrawn commitment or financial 
guarantee.

Expected loss
The Group measure of anticipated  
loss for exposures captured under  
an internal ratings-based credit risk 
approach for capital adequacy 
calculations. It is measured as the 
Group-modelled view of anticipated 
loss based on probability of default,  
loss given default and exposure at 
default, with a one-year time horizon.

Exposures
Credit exposures represent the amount 
lent to a customer, together with any 
undrawn commitments.

EAD or Exposure at default
The estimation of the extent to which 
the Group may be exposed to a 
customer or counterparty in the event of, 
and at the time of, that counterparty’s 
default. At default, the customer may 
not have drawn the loan fully or may 
already have repaid some of the 
principal, so that exposure is typically 
less than the approved loan limit.

ECAI or External Credit 
Assessment Institution
External credit ratings are used to assign 
risk-weights under the standardised 
approach for sovereigns, corporates 
and institutions. The external ratings  
are from credit rating agencies that  
are registered or certified in accordance 
with the credit rating agencies 
regulation or from a central bank  
issuing credit ratings which is exempt 
from the application of this regulation.

ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance.

FCA or Financial Conduct 
Authority
The Financial Conduct Authority 
regulates the conduct of financial  
firms and, for certain firms, prudential 
standards in the UK. It has a strategic 
objective to ensure that the relevant 
markets function well.

Forbearance
Forbearance takes place when a 
concession is made to the contractual 
terms of a loan in response to an 
obligor’s financial difficulties. The Group 
classifies such modified loans as either 
‘Forborne – not impaired loans’ or ‘Loans 
subject to forbearance – impaired’.  
Once a loan is categorised as either of 
these, it will remain in one of these two 
categories until the loan matures or 
satisfies the ‘curing’ conditions described 
in Note 8 to the financial statements.

Forborne – not impaired loans
Loans where the contractual terms  
have been modified due to financial 
difficulties of the borrower, but the  
loan is not considered to be impaired. 
See ‘Forbearance’.

Funded/unfunded exposures
Exposures where the notional amount 
of the transaction is funded or 
unfunded. Represents exposures where 
a commitment to provide future funding 
is made but funds have been released/
not released.

525

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationFVA or Funding valuation 
adjustments
FVA reflects an adjustment to fair value 
in respect of derivative contracts that 
reflects the funding costs that the 
market participant would incorporate 
when determining an exit price.

G-SIBs or Global Systemically 
Important Banks
Global banking financial institutions 
whose size, complexity and systemic 
interconnectedness mean that their 
distress or failure would cause significant 
disruption to the wider financial system 
and economic activity. The list of  
G-SIBs is assessed under a framework 
established by the FSB and the BCBS.  
In the UK, the G-SIB framework is 
implemented via the CRD and G-SIBs 
are referred to as Global Systemically 
Important Institutions (G-SIIs).

G-SII buffer
A CET1 capital buffer which results from 
designation as a G-SII. The G-SII buffer  
is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent, 
depending on the allocation to one  
of five buckets based on the annual 
scoring. In the UK, the G-SII buffer is 
implemented via the CRD as Global 
Systemically Important Institutions 
(G-SII) buffer requirement.

Green and Sustainable Product 
Framework
Sets out the eligible themes and 
activities that may be considered as 
‘green’, ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ at 
Standard Chartered. The Framework 
has been developed with support from 
Morningstar Sustainalytics and is 
updated on an annual basis in 
collaboration with them. It is informed 
by industry principles and supervisory 
standards such as the ICMA Green  
Bond Principles and the EU Taxonomy 
for sustainable activities.

Hong Kong regional hub
Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited and its subsidiaries including the 
primary operating entities in China, 
Korea and Taiwan. Standard Chartered 
PLC is the ultimate parent company  
of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong 
Kong) Limited.

 Interest rate risk
The risk of an adverse impact on the 
Group’s income statement due to 
changes in interest rates.

IRB or internal ratings-based 
approach
Risk-weighting methodology in 
accordance with the Basel Capital 
Accord where capital requirements  
are based on a firm’s own estimates  
of prudential parameters.

Internal model approach
The approach used to calculate market 
risk capital and RWA with an internal 
market risk model approved by the PRA 
under the terms of CRD/CRR.

IAS or International  
Accounting Standard
A standard that forms part of the 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards framework.

IASB or International 
Accounting Standards Board
An independent standard-setting body 
responsible for the development and 
publication of IFRS, and approving 
interpretations of IFRS standards  
that are recommended by the IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC).

IFRS or International Financial 
Reporting Standards
A set of international accounting 
standards developed and issued by the 
International Accounting Standards 
Board, consisting of principles-based 
guidance contained within IFRSs and 
IASs. All companies that have issued 
publicly traded securities in the EU are 
required to prepare annual and interim 
reports under IFRS and IAS standards 
that have been endorsed by the EU.

IFRIC
The IFRS Interpretations Committee 
supports the IASB in providing 
authoritative guidance on the 
accounting treatment of issues not 
specifically dealt with by existing IFRSs 
and IASs.

Investment grade
A debt security, treasury bill or similar 
instrument with a credit rating 
measured by external agencies of  
AAA to BBB.

Leverage ratio
A ratio introduced under CRD IV  
that compares Tier 1 capital to total 
exposures, including certain exposures 
held off-balance sheet as adjusted by 
stipulated credit conversion factors. 
Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based 
backstop measure.

Liquidation portfolio
A portfolio of assets which is beyond our 
current risk appetite metrics and is held 
for liquidation.

LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio
The ratio of the stock of high-quality 
liquid assets to expected net cash 
outflows under stressed conditions over 
the following 30 days. High-quality 
liquid assets should be unencumbered, 
liquid in markets during a time of stress 
and, ideally, be central bank eligible.

Loan exposure
Loans and advances to customers 
reported on the balance sheet held  
at amortised cost or FVOCI, non-
cancellable credit commitments and 
cancellable credit commitments for 
credit cards and overdraft facilities.

Loans and advances  
to customers
This represents lending made under 
bilateral agreements with customers 
entered into in the normal course of 
business and is based on the legal form 
of the instrument.

526

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationGlossaryLoans and advances to banks
Amounts loaned to credit institutions 
including securities bought under 
Reverse repo.

LTV or loan-to-value ratio
A calculation which expresses the 
amount of a first mortgage lien as a 
percentage of the total appraised  
value of real property. The loan-to- 
value ratio is used in determining the 
appropriate level of risk for the loan  
and therefore the correct price of the 
loan to the borrower.

Loans past due
Loans on which payments have been 
due for up to a maximum of 90 days 
including those on which partial 
payments are being made.

Loans subject to forbearance – 
impaired
Loans where the terms have been 
renegotiated on terms not consistent 
with current market levels due to 
financial difficulties of the borrower. 
Loans in this category are necessarily 
impaired. See ‘Forbearance’.

Loss rate
Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate, 
developed using monthly write-off and 
recoveries over the preceding 12 months 
and total outstanding balances.

LGD or Loss given default
The percentage of an exposure that a 
lender expects to lose in the event of 
obligor default.

Low returning clients
See ‘Perennial sub-optimal clients’.

Malus
An arrangement that permits the  
Group to prevent vesting of all or part of 
the amount of an unvested variable 
remuneration award, due to a specific 
crystallised risk, behaviour, conduct or 
adverse performance outcome.

Master netting agreement
An agreement between two 
counterparties that have multiple 
derivative contracts with each other 
that provides for the net settlement of 
all contracts through a single payment, 
in a single currency, in the event of 
default on, or termination of, any  
one contract.

Mezzanine capital
Financing that combines debt and 
equity characteristics. For example,  
a loan that also confers some profit 
participation to the lender.

MREL or minimum  
requirement for own funds  
and eligible liabilities
A requirement set by resolution 
authorities to set a minimum 
requirement for own funds and eligible 
liabilities for banks, implementing the 
FSB’s Total Loss Absorbing Capacity 
(TLAC) standard. MREL is intended to 
ensure that there is a minimum amount 
of equity and subordinated debt to 
support an effective resolution.

Net asset value (NAV) per share
Ratio of net assets (total assets less  
total liabilities) to the number of 
ordinary shares outstanding at the  
end of a reporting period.

Net exposure
The aggregate of loans and advances 
to customers/loans and advances to 
banks after impairment provisions, 
restricted balances with central banks, 
derivatives (net of master netting 
agreements), investment debt and 
equity securities, and letters of credit 
and guarantees.

Net zero roadmap
The commitment to reaching net zero 
carbon emissions in our operations by 
2025 and in our financed emissions  
by 2050.

NII or Net interest income
The difference between interest 
received on assets and interest paid  
on liabilities.

NSFR or Net stable funding ratio
The ratio of available stable funding to 
required stable funding over a one-year 
time horizon, assuming a stressed 
scenario. It is a longer-term liquidity 
measure designed to restrain the 
amount of wholesale borrowing and 
encourage stable funding over a 
one-year time horizon.

NPLs or non-performing loans
An NPL is any loan that is more than  
90 days past due or is otherwise 
individually impaired. This excludes 
Retail loans renegotiated at or after  
90 days past due, but on which there 
has been no default in interest or 
principal payments for more than  
180 days since renegotiation, and 
against which no loss of principal  
is expected.

Non-linearity
Non-linearity of expected credit loss 
occurs when the average of expected 
credit loss for a portfolio is higher than 
the base case (median) due to the fact 
that bad economic environment could 
have a larger impact on ECL calculation 
than good economic environment.

Normalised items
See ‘Underlying/Normalised’ on 
page 87.

Operating expenses
Staff and premises costs, general and 
administrative expenses, depreciation 
and amortisation. Underlying  
operating expenses exclude expenses 
as described in ‘Underlying earnings’.  
A reconciliation between underlying 
and reported earnings is contained in 
Note 2 to the financial statements.

527

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationOperating income or  
operating profit
Net interest, net fee and net trading 
income, as well as other operating 
income. Underlying operating income 
represents the income line items  
above, on an underlying basis.  
See ‘Underlying earnings’.

OTC or Over-the-counter 
derivatives
A bilateral transaction (e.g. derivatives) 
that is not exchange traded and that is 
valued using valuation models.

OCA or Own credit adjustment
An adjustment to the Group’s issued 
debt designated at fair value through 
profit or loss that reflects the possibility 
that the Group may default and not pay 
the full market value of the contracts.

Perennial sub-optimal clients
Clients that have returned below 3% 
return on risk-weighted assets for the 
last three years

Physical risks
The risk of increased extreme weather 
events including flood, drought and  
sea level rise.

Pillar 1
The first pillar of the three pillars of the 
Basel framework which provides the 
approach to calculation of the minimum 
capital requirements for credit, market 
and operational risk. Minimum capital 
requirements are 8 per cent of the 
Group’s risk-weighted assets.

Pillar 2
The second pillar of the three pillars of 
the Basel framework which requires 
banks to undertake a comprehensive 
assessment of their risks and to 
determine the appropriate amounts  
of capital to be held against these  
risks where other suitable mitigants  
are not available.

Pillar 3
The third pillar of the three pillars of  
the Basel framework which aims to 
provide a consistent and comprehensive 
disclosure framework that enhances 
comparability between banks and 
further promotes improvements in  
risk practices.

Priority Banking
Priority Banking customers are 
individuals who have met certain  
criteria for deposits, AUM, mortgage 
loans or monthly payroll. Criteria varies 
by country.

Private equity investments
Equity securities in operating companies 
generally not quoted on a public 
exchange. Investment in private equity 
often involves the investment of capital 
in private companies. Capital for private 
equity investment is raised by retail or 
institutional investors and used to  
fund investment strategies such as 
leveraged buyouts, venture capital, 
growth capital, distressed investments 
and mezzanine capital.

PD or Probability of default
PD is an internal estimate for each 
borrower grade of the likelihood that  
an obligor will default on an obligation 
over a given time horizon.

Physical/production emission 
intensity
GHG emissions per a specific physical or 
production unit, for example: tCO2e/
tonne steel, kgCO2e/square metre. 

Probability weighted
Obtained by considering the values the 
metric can assume, weighted by the 
probability of each value occurring.

Profit (loss) attributable to 
ordinary shareholders
Profit (loss) for the year after non-
controlling interests and dividends 
declared in respect of preference  
shares classified as equity.

PVA or Prudent valuation 
adjustment
An adjustment to CET1 capital to reflect 
the difference between fair value and 
prudent value positions, where the 
application of prudence results in a 
lower absolute carrying value than 
recognised in the financial statements.

PRA or Prudential Regulation 
Authority
The Prudential Regulation Authority is 
the statutory body responsible for the 
prudential supervision of banks, building 
societies, credit unions, insurers and a 
small number of significant investment 
firms in the UK. The PRA is a part of the 
Bank of England.

Regulatory consolidation
The regulatory consolidation of 
Standard Chartered PLC differs from  
the statutory consolidation in that it 
includes Ascenta IV, Olea Global group, 
Seychelles International Mercantile 
Banking Corporation Limited., and all  
of the legal entities in the Currency  
Fair group on a proportionate 
consolidation basis. These entities are 
considered associates for statutory 
accounting purposes. 

The regulatory consolidation further 
excludes the following entities,  
which are consolidated for statutory 
accounting purposes; Audax Financial 
Technology Pte. Ltd, Cardspal Pte. Ltd. 
Letsbloom Pte. Ltd, SCV Research  
and Development Pte. Ltd., Standard 
Chartered Assurance Limited, Standard 
Chartered Isle of Man Limited,  
Corrasi Covered Bonds LLP, Pegasus 
Dealmaking Pte. Ltd., Solv Sdn. Bhd., 
Standard Chartered Botswana 
Education Trust, Standard Chartered 
Bancassurance Intermediary Limited, 
Standard Chartered Bank Insurance 
Agency (Proprietary) Limited, Standard 
Chartered Research and Technology 
India Private Limited, Standard 
Chartered Trading (Shanghai) Limited, 
Tawi Fresh Kenya Limited.

Repo/reverse repo
A repurchase agreement or repo is a 
short-term funding agreement, which 
allows a borrower to sell a financial 
asset, such as asset-backed securities  
or government bonds as collateral for 
cash. As part of the agreement the 
borrower agrees to repurchase the 
security at some later date, usually less 
than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of 
the loan. For the party on the other end 
of the transaction (buying the security 
and agreeing to sell in the future), it is  
a reverse repurchase agreement or 
reverse repo.

528

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationGlossaryReported performance/results
Reported performance/results within 
this report means amounts reported 
under UK-adopted IAS and EU IFRS. In 
prior periods Reported performance/
results were described as Statutory 
performance/results.

Residential mortgage
A loan to purchase a residential 
property which is then used as collateral 
to guarantee repayment of the loan. 
The borrower gives the lender a lien 
against the property, and the lender can 
foreclose on the property if the borrower 
does not repay the loan per the agreed 
terms. Also known as a home loan.

RoRWA or Return on risk-
weighted assets
Profit before tax for year as a 
percentage of RWA. Profit may be 
reported or underlying and is specified 
where used. See ‘RWA’ and ‘Underlying 
earnings’. Income RoRWA calculated  
as income for year as a percentage  
of RWA.

RWA or Risk-weighted assets
A measure of a bank’s assets adjusted 
for their associated risks, expressed  
as a percentage of an exposure value  
in accordance with the applicable 
standardised or IRB approach 
provisions.

Risks-not-in-VaR (RNIV)
A framework for identifying and 
quantifying marginal types of market 
risk that are not captured in the Value  
at Risk (VaR) measure for any reason, 
such as being a far-tail risk or the 
necessary historical market data not 
being available.

Roll rate
Uses a matrix that gives average loan 
migration rate from delinquency  
states from period to period. A matrix 
multiplication is then performed to 
generate the final PDs by delinquency 
bucket over different time horizons.

Scope 1 emissions 
Direct GHG emissions that occur from 
sources owned or controlled by the 
Group - i.e., emissions from combustion 
in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, 
vehicles, as well as fugitive emissions 
from pressure containing equipment at 
Group locations. 

Scope 2 emissions
Indirect GHG emissions from the 
generation of purchased or acquired 
electricity, steam, heating, or cooling 
consumed by the Group.

Scope 3 emissions
All indirect GHG emissions (not included 
in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain 
of the Group, arising from sources not 
controlled by the Group. This comprises 
of both upstream and downstream 
value chain emissions and includes 
absolute financed emissions.

Secured (fully and partially)
A secured loan is a loan in which the 
borrower pledges an asset as collateral 
for a loan which, in the event that the 
borrower defaults, the Group is able to 
take possession of. All secured loans are 
considered fully secured if the fair value 
of the collateral is equal to or greater 
than the loan at the time of origination. 
All other secured loans are considered 
to be partly secured.

Securitisation
Securitisation is a process by which 
credit exposures are aggregated  
into a pool, which is used to back  
new securities. Under traditional 
securitisation transactions, assets are 
sold to a structured entity which then 
issues new securities to investors at 
different levels of seniority (credit 
tranching). This allows the credit quality 
of the assets to be separated from the 
credit rating of the originating institution 
and transfers risk to external investors  
in a way that meets their risk appetite. 
Under synthetic securitisation 
transactions, the transfer of risk is 
achieved by the use of credit derivatives 
or guarantees, and the exposures being 
securitised remain exposures of the 
originating institution.

Senior debt
Debt that takes priority over other 
unsecured or otherwise more ‘junior’ 
debt owed by the issuer. Senior debt has 
greater seniority in the issuer’s capital 
structure than subordinated debt. In the 
event the issuer goes bankrupt, senior 
debt theoretically must be repaid before 
other creditors receive any payment.

SICR or Significant increase in 
credit risk
Assessed by comparing the risk of 
default of an exposure at the reporting 
date to the risk of default at origination 
(after considering the passage of time).

Solo
The solo regulatory group as listed in  
the Prudential Regulation Authority 
waiver written notice dated 21 August 
2023. This differs from Standard 
Chartered Bank in that it includes the 
full consolidation of three subsidiaries, 
namely Standard Chartered Holdings 
(International) B.V, Standard Chartered 
Grindlays PTY Limited, SCMB Overseas 
Limited.

Sovereign exposures
Exposures to central governments and 
central government departments, 
central banks and entities owned or 
guaranteed by the aforementioned. 
Sovereign exposures, as defined by the 
European Banking Authority, include 
only exposures to central governments.

Stage 1
Assets have not experienced a 
significant increase in credit risk since 
origination and impairment recognised 
on the basis of 12 months expected 
credit losses.

Stage 2
Assets have experienced a significant 
increase in credit risk since origination 
and impairment is recognised on the 
basis of lifetime expected credit losses.

Stage 3
Assets that are in default and 
considered credit-impaired  
(non-performing loans).

529

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationStandardised approach
In relation to credit risk, a method  
for calculating credit risk capital 
requirements using External Credit 
Assessment Institutions (ECAI) ratings 
and supervisory risk weights. In relation 
to operational risk, a method of 
calculating the operational capital 
requirement by the application of  
a supervisory defined percentage 
charge to the gross income of eight 
specified business lines.

Structured note
An investment tool which pays a return 
linked to the value or level of a specified 
asset or index and sometimes offers 
capital protection if the value declines. 
Structured notes can be linked to 
equities, interest rates, funds, 
commodities and foreign currency.

Subordinated liabilities
Liabilities which, in the event of 
insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, 
are subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and other creditors of  
the issuer.

Sustainability Aspirations
The Group’s approach to sustainability  
is underpinned by our Sustainability 
Aspirations, our long-term sustainability 
goals. Each Sustainability Aspiration 
encompasses a number of key 
performance indicators that we use to 
measure our progress and outcomes  
in areas in which we can make a 
contribution to the delivery of the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Sustainable Finance assets
Assets from clients whose business 
activities are aligned with the 
Sustainability Bond Framework, those 
generated from transactions for which 
the use of proceeds will be utilised 
towards eligible themes and activities 
set out within the Sustainability Bond 
Framework, or assets generated 
through Standard Chartered’s own 
lending activities to small and medium 
sized enterprises (SMEs) in eligible 
markets as per the criteria set out in  
the Sustainability Bond Framework.

Sustainable Finance income
Income generated from Sustainable 
Finance products as listed in the Green 
and Sustainable Product Framework. 
Additional products may be approved 
throughout the year by the Sustainable 
Finance Governance Committee. 

Sustainable Finance mobilised
Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is 
defined as any investment or financial 
service provided to clients that  
supports: (i) the preservation and/or 
improvement of biodiversity, nature or 
the environment; (ii) the long-term 
avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, 
including the alignment of a client’s 
business and operations with a  
1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as 
transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; 
or (iv) incentivises our clients to meet 
their own sustainability objectives 
(known as sustainability-linked finance).

Tier 1 capital
The sum of Common Equity Tier 1  
capital and Additional Tier 1 capital.

Tier 1 capital ratio
Tier 1 capital as a percentage of 
risk-weighted assets.

Tier 2 capital
Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying 
subordinated liabilities and related 
share premium accounts.

TLAC or Total loss absorbing 
capacity
An international standard for TLAC 
issued by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs 
to have sufficient loss-absorbing and 
recapitalisation capacity available in 
resolution, to minimise impacts on 
financial stability, maintain the 
continuity of critical functions and  
avoid exposing public funds to loss.

Transition risks
The risk of changes to market  
dynamics or sectoral economics  
due to governments’ response to 
climate change.

UK bank levy
A levy that applies to certain UK banks 
and the UK operations of foreign banks. 
The levy is payable each year based on 
a percentage of the chargeable equities 
and liabilities on the Group’s UK tax 
resident entities’ balance sheets. Key 
exclusions from chargeable equities and 
liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured  
or guaranteed retail deposits, repos 
secured on certain sovereign debt and 
liabilities subject to netting.

Unbiased
Not overly optimistic or pessimistic, 
represents information that is not 
slanted, weighted, emphasised, 
de-emphasised or otherwise 
manipulated to increase the probability 
that the financial information will be 
received favourably or unfavourably  
by users.

Unlikely to pay
Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall 
include placing the credit obligation on 
non-accrued status; the recognition of a 
specific credit adjustment resulting from 
a significant perceived decline in credit 
quality subsequent to the Group taking 
on the exposure; selling the credit 
obligation at a material credit-related 
economic loss; the Group consenting to 
a distressed restructuring of the credit 
obligation where this is likely to result  
in a diminished financial obligation 
caused by the material forgiveness, or 
postponement, of principal, interest  
or, where relevant fees; filing for the 
obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in 
respect of an obligor’s credit obligation 
to the Group; the obligor has sought or 
has been placed in bankruptcy or similar 
protection where this would avoid or 
delay repayment of a credit obligation 
to the Group.

VaR or Value at Risk
A quantitative measure of market risk 
estimating the potential loss that will 
not be exceeded in a set time period  
at a set statistical confidence level.

530

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationGlossaryViU or Value-in-Use
The present value of the future 
expected cash flows expected to be 
derived from an asset or CGU.

Write-downs
After an advance has been identified  
as impaired and is subject to an 
impairment provision, the stage may be 
reached whereby it is concluded that 
there is no realistic prospect of further 
recovery. Write-downs will occur when, 
and to the extent that, the whole or part 
of a debt is considered irrecoverable.

XVA
The term used to incorporate credit, 
debit and funding valuation 
adjustments to the fair value of 
derivative financial instruments.  
See ‘CVA’, ‘DVA’ and ‘FVA’.

531

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Supplementary informationtracked at www.climatepartner.com, giving details of 
the carbon offsetting process including information on 
the emissions volume and the carbon offset project 
being supported.

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95%  
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and,  
on average 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled and the remaining 1%  
used to generate energy.

This document is printed on Nautilus Superwhite  
100% Recycled paper containing 100% recycled fibre. 
The FSC® label on this product ensures responsible use  
of the world’s forest resources.

© Standard Chartered PLC. All rights reserved.

The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, its logo device 
and associated product brand names are owned by 
Standard Chartered PLC and centrally licensed to its 
operating entities. 

Registered Office: 1 Basinghall Avenue, London  
EC2V 5DD. Telephone +44 (0) 20 7885 8888. 

Principal place of business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor,  
4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong.

Registered in England No. 966425.

Designed and produced by Friend 
www.friendstudio.com

Printed by Park Communications a certified Carbon 
Neutral print company.

Park works to the EMAS standard and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.

This publication has been manufactured using 100%  
offshore wind electricity sourced from UK wind.

This is a certified climate neutral print product for  
which carbon emissions have been calculated and 
offset by supporting recognised carbon offset projects. 
The carbon offset projects are audited and certified 
according to international standards and demonstrably 
reduce emissions. The climate neutral label includes a 
unique ID number specific to this product which can be 

532

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Global headquarters 

Registrar information

Chinese translation

Computershare Hong Kong  
Investor Services Limited 
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Wan Chai 
Hong Kong

Register for electronic 
communications 
website: investorcentre.co.uk

Standard Chartered Group 
1 Basinghall Avenue 
London, EC2V 5DD 
United Kingdom

telephone: +44 (0)20 7885 8888 
facsimile: +44 (0)20 7885 9999

Digital Annual Report

sc.com/annualreport

Shareholder enquiries

ShareCare information 
website: sc.com/shareholders 
helpline: +44 (0)370 702 0138

ShareGift information  
website: ShareGift.org 
helpline: +44 (0)20 7930 3737

UK

Computershare Investor  
Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol, BS99 6ZZ 
helpline: +44 (0)370 702 0138

Hong Kong

Computershare Hong Kong  
Investor Services Limited 
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 
183 Queen’s Road East 
Wan Chai 
Hong Kong

website: computershare.com/hk/
investors

LSE stock code: STAN.LN 
HKSE stock code: 02888

