Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs 

Announced in 2023, the four thematic innovation hubs – 
Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance1, Carbon Markets 
and Nature Positive Solutions – focus on emerging themes 
of sustainability aligned to areas where the Group has 
a core competency and are particularly suited to our 
clients in our footprint markets.  Each hub is transversal, 
run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims 
to identify opportunities for future returns outside of our 

core range of traditional products and services. By being 
deliberate in demonstrating leadership to advance the 
ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group 
will be well positioned to take advantage of the significant 
and differentiated revenue potential that will result from 
maturation of these thematic areas in the future.

For further information on collaborative initiatives the Group 
participates in, refer to page 96

1. Adaptation Finance
The world is experiencing impacts from changes  
in average temperature, seasonal shifting, an 
increasing frequency and intensity of extreme 
weather events, and slow onset events. 

A significant proportion of our Group’s footprint 
markets are coastal, which means that adaptation 
represents both a risk and an opportunity for us and 
our clients.

There is an urgent global need to unlock and scale 
public and private climate adaptation finance  
to build shared societal resilience. This need is 
applicable to all nations but is particularly acute  
in emerging and developing economies. 

Acknowledging our geographical footprint and the 
multiplier effect of investment in adaptation – where 
every dollar spent on adaptation this decade could 
generate up to $12 of economic benefit (sc.com/
adaptation-economy) – it is our ambition to act 
decisively and mobilise others on adaptation.

In 2023:
•  Closed the Group’s first Adaptation 
Finance transaction; an adaptation 
letter of credit with a parametric 
insurance provider for the renewable 
energy sector.

•  Reviewed our Group’s portfolio to 

analyse data on past transactions 
related to adaptation.

•  Used data collected from our Climate 

Risk Assessments to design an 
‘adaptation readiness’ test at the  
client level.

•  Collaborated externally with KPMG and 
the United Nations Office for Disaster 
Risk Reduction (UNDRR) to develop the 
market’s first Guide to Adaptation and 
Resilience Finance (GARF), which was 
announced at COP28 and published in 
early 2024.

2. Blended Finance1
The Independent High-Level Expert Group on 
Climate Finance estimate that by 2030 there will be a 
$2.5–3 trillion per year financing gap between current 
baselines and what is required to deliver the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in emerging 
markets and developing countries other than China. 

Such sums cannot be delivered through public 
financing alone. They require the international 
private sector to step up, including in markets 
historically considered as too risky for high levels of 
investment. Blended finance – using concessional 
public funds to mobilise much larger volumes of 
private capital – can help to close this gap. The  
Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs) are  
an example of such blended finance.

Our hub brings together public and private expertise 
across the Group, including one of the architects  
of the South Africa and Vietnam JETPs, to help 
commercialise blended finance. Some of the 
objectives of the JETPs – e.g., financing the early 
retirement of coal-fired power plants – will require 
truly innovative approaches and collaboration.

In 2023:
•  Worked through international fora and 

industry groups (e.g., GFANZ) to leverage 
the Group’s expertise and support – 
alongside other international banks – 
blended finance projects and 
programmes, including the development 
of frameworks for early coal retirement.

•  Hosted both the Vietnamese and 
Indonesian governments as they 
launched their JETP events at COP28.

•  Standard Chartered became one of the 
founding partners of the Bangladesh 
Climate and Development Partnership, 
which aims to use blended finance to 
help Bangladesh adapt to climate 
change.

“The Adaptation Hub has 
drawn on our diverse 
experience from across the 
Group. Our first Adaptation 
Finance deal provided a test 
case to scaling our efforts 
internally and demonstrate 
how private sector finance can 
be deployed into Adaptation. 
The new Guide for Adaptation 
and Resilience Finance (GARF) 
is centred around bankable 
opportunities and we hope it 
will unlock significant private 
sector capital flow towards 
adaptation in emerging 
markets.”

Alex Kennedy 
Head of Sustainable Finance 
Solutions

“Where money goes today 
shapes tomorrow’s world’ was 
the theory of change for the 
COP26 organisers. While the 
scale of the challenge remains 
significant – the Vietnam and 
Indonesian JETPs alone each 
require over $100bn of private 
finance – the opportunities 
also remain clear. Blended 
Finance offers us in Standard 
Chartered the chance to make 
use of donor financing to help 
the markets that we call home 
accelerate their journeys 
towards net zero.”

John Murton 
Senior Sustainability Advisor 

1  The hub developed an internal working definition in order to differentiate and build upon the Group’s already long-established blended finance reputation 

in Export Credit Agency financing. We use ‘Blended Finance’ here to refer to the strategic use of catalytic public (and/or philanthropic) capital and 
regulatory reform to increase private sector investment that supports the SDGs. This can happen at a programme level or at a project level and may  
involve the creation and use of innovative financing instruments and structures to overcome barriers to investment.

118

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review3. Carbon Markets 
A high-integrity carbon market, combined with 
corporate commitments to cut emissions and high 
standards of reporting, can accelerate the global 
progress towards net zero by 2050. The use of 
high-quality carbon credits can play a part  
in a multi-faceted and urgent approach to 
decarbonisation, as it enables climate action in 
sectors and geographies that remain severely 
underfunded today. 

In 2023:
• 

Involved in some of the largest carbon 
market transactions, including the 
Regional Voluntary Carbon Market 
Company and Climate Impact X (CIX) 
auctions.

•  Established primary supply partnerships 
with clients in Kenya, Brazil, China and 
Vietnam.

Carbon credits can be complementary to a credible 
corporate net zero transition plan and help bridge 
the gap between the emissions reductions that can 
be implemented now, and the longer lead time for 
technological solutions that are yet to scale.

•  Educated policymakers, clients and 

colleagues on the benefits of a liquid 
carbon market to bring funding to 
people and projects that likely would  
not receive it otherwise.

Standard Chartered has been at the forefront of 
several initiatives that are working to ensure that a 
high integrity, scalable market develops. We offer 
trading, advisory, financing and risk management 
services to our clients around the world. 

4. Nature Positive Solutions
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is 
moderately or highly dependent upon nature. 
Despite its importance, biodiversity is rapidly 
declining. 

Having applied international environmental and 
social standards in our financing for more than 
20 years, our presence in markets with some of  
the richest biodiversity in the world positions us to 
engage with a range of stakeholders. We are guided 
by our commercial ambition to increasingly shift 
financial flows toward nature positive outcomes  
and thereby contribute to the halting and reversing 
of biodiversity loss. Nature is also a critical lever for 
climate change mitigation and adaptation and  
the hub collaborates with the Carbon Markets  
and Adaptation Finance hubs to explore  
natural climate solutions and ecosystem-based 
adaptation opportunities.

•  Participated in several industry initiatives 
that support development of the global 
carbon market: the International 
Emissions Trading Association (IETA),  
the Integrity Council for the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets (ICVCM), the Voluntary 
Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative 
(VCMI) and the Africa Carbon Markets 
Initiative (ACMI).

In 2023:
•  Conducted initial impact and 

dependency assessment to identify our 
exposure to potentially material sectors 
in our CCIB segment.

•  Partnered externally with organisations 
such as the Ocean Risk and Resilience 
Action Alliance (ORRAA) and were 
invited to participate in the UN Global 
Compact Ocean Investment Protocol 
Steering Committee.

•  Welcomed the publication of the 

Taskforce for Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) guidance and 
recommendations as we see the value  
in transparency and comparability  
when reporting on nature-related 
dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities. 

• 

In January 2024, the Group joined a 
cohort of early adopters of the TNFD 
framework preparing to publish our first 
TNFD-aligned disclosures in early 2026.

“For many years, we have 
faced a huge challenge and a 
degree of scepticism, to build 
the framework for a global 
carbon market. With the 
arrival of the ICVCM’s Core 
Carbon Principles and the 
development of end-to-end 
carbon market announced  
at COP28, that framework 
now exists. We have all the 
component parts of a vibrant 
market. We need to make it 
work in practice and make 
sure it grows big enough  
to make a meaningful 
contribution to global  
net zero.”

Chris Leeds 
Head of Carbon Markets 
Development 

“The Kunming-Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework 
signed by 196 nations puts the 
global economy on a policy 
trajectory that is needed to 
bend the curve on biodiversity 
loss. Now is the opportunity for 
collective action to halt and 
reverse biodiversity loss to 
allow species and ecosystems 
to recover.”

Oliver Withers 
Head of Nature 

119

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewClimate- and sustainability-related 
governance

Sustainability-related risks, opportunities and organisational 
implications are overseen by the Group’s Board, Management 
Team and multiple supporting sub-committees.

Board oversight of climate- and sustainability-
related risks and opportunities

The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the 
Group and its supporting committees consider climate-and 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities when reviewing 
and guiding strategic decisions. Throughout 2023, Board 
activities have included reviewing and guiding strategic 
decisions on our approach to reach net zero financed 
emissions by 2050. Since 2019, the Board has approved a 
Climate Risk Appetite Statement annually to reflect our aim  
to measure and manage the financial and non-financial risks 
arising from climate change and to reduce emissions related 
to the Group’s own activities, including those associated  
with providing financial services to clients, in line with the  
Paris Agreement. 

Management-level governance

Each member of the Group Management Team is responsible 
for strategically driving climate considerations within their 
geography, business segment or function in line with our net 
zero roadmap. 

The responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks 
from climate change sits with the Group Chief Risk Officer 
(GCRO) as the appropriate Senior Management Function 
(SMF) under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR). The GCRO is 
supported by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management, 
who has day-to-day oversight and responsibility for the 
Group’s second line of defence against Climate Risk.

The structure of the Group’s Board and Management Team can be 
found on pages 137 to 144

Supporting governance

The oversight and management of climate and sustainability-
related risks and opportunities are an integral part of our 
business management, involving several executive 
committees. These committees operate under their terms of 
reference, delineating responsibilities, decision-making 
process, authority and the escalation route for any material 
issues. Additionally, a number of teams across our business, 
risk and functional areas are either dedicated to, or spend a 
proportion of their time, working on climate and sustainability-
related activities. We are also expanding governance and  
risk management at the regional, country and segment  
levels to better identify and manage climate-related risks  
and opportunities.

Structural overview of Standard Chartered PLC’s climate- and sustainability-related governance

Board oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Standard Chartered PLC Board

Board Risk Committee (BRC)

Audit Committee (AC)

Culture and Sustainability  
Committee (CSC)

Management-level governance

Group Management Team

Group Risk 
Committee  
(GRC)

Group 
Responsibility  
and Reputational 
Risk Committee 
(GRRRC)

Sustainability Executive Committee 
(Sustainability ExCo)

Supporting governance

Executive committees

Climate Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(CRMC)

Sustainable  
Finance  
Governance 
Committee (SFGC)

Sustainability Operating Steering 
Committee (SOSC)

120

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance committees and steering groups 

Several committees and steering groups support the Group’s Board and Management Team on the management and 
monitoring of climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities and associated impacts on our business and for  
our key stakeholders. 

Climate- and sustainability-related governance

Governance body

Chair

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

Standard 
Chartered PLC 
Board

Group 
Chairman

Annual update on 
Sustainability

•  Oversight of the Group’s 
sustainability strategy

Climate Risk 
updates delivered 
quarterly through 
the Group CRO 
report

•  Received an update on the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, including 
progress made against key 
performance indicators and  
public commitments

•  Received quarterly Climate Risk 

updates through the GCRO reports

•  Approved Climate Risk Appetite 
Statement and Board-level Risk 
Appetite (RA) metrics

•  The Board received training on 

climate risk scenarios

•  Provide oversight of the Group’s key 

•  Reviewed, discussed and 

Board Risk 
Committee 
(BRC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Climate Risk 
updates are 
provided to BRC in 
Group CRO reports 
six times a year

risks on behalf of the Board and is the 
primary risk committee at Board level 
that oversees Climate Risk

•  Consider the Group’s Risk Appetite 

and make recommendations to the 
Board on the Climate Risk Appetite 
Statement 

•  Assess risk types (including Climate 
Risk) and the effectiveness of risk 
management frameworks and 
policies

•  Provide oversight and challenge the 
design and execution of climate-
related Group-wide enterprise stress 
tests mandated by a regulator

•  Responsible for oversight of the 
Group’s quantitative reporting 
metrics and controls over  
those metrics

Audit Committee 
(AC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Culture and 
Sustainability 
Committee 
(CSC)

Independent 
Non-
Executive 
Director

Updated annually in 
the fourth quarter 
and more frequently 
if any material 
disclosures are 
made outside  
of the Group’s  
Annual Report

Three times in 2023

•  Review the Group’s overall 

sustainability strategy and monitor 
its execution

•  Monitor the development and 
implementation of the Group’s  
public commitment to net zero 
financed emissions by 2050

Group Risk 
Committee 
(GRC)

Group Chief 
Risk Officer 
(CRO)

Climate Risk 
updates were 
provided to GRC in 
Group CRO report  
10 times during 2023

•  Ensure the effective management  
of Climate Risk in support of the 
Group’s strategy

•  Review Risk Appetite (RA) and 

approve Management Team-level 
RA metrics and thresholds for 
Principal Risk Types and integrated 
risks, including Climate Risk

challenged:

(i)  the Group’s progress on 

embedding climate risk in line 
with the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) Supervisory 
Statement (SS 3/19)

(ii)  the results of the Group’s first 

bespoke short-term base case 
and tail risk scenarios and 
development of the Group’s 
internal modelling capabilities, 
and

(iii)  key focus areas for 2024

•  Reviewed Climate Risk Information 

Report quarterly

•  Monitored adherence to RA metrics 

•  Reviewed changes to the climate 
and carbon emissions-related 
quantitative disclosures to be 
reported in this Annual Report,  
and the key controls around those 
quantitative disclosures

•  Received an update on the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, including 
risk, regulatory and governance 
matters, public commitments,  
and Position Statements

•  Reviewed progress on the Group’s 

net zero roadmap

•  Oversaw the update and 

consolidation of the Group’s 
Sustainability Aspirations

•  Reviewed and discussed the  

Group’s Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) rating scores 
against prioritised frameworks

•  Received an update on Climate  
Risk embedding and the Climate 
Risk profile as part of the Risk 
Information Report

•  Approved the Management 

Team-level Climate RA metrics and 
monitored adherence to these

121

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance body

Chair

Group 
Responsibility 
and 
Reputational 
Risk Committee 
(GRRRC)

Group Head, 
Conduct, 
Financial 
Crime and 
Compliance

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

Monthly

•  Oversee and approve Position 

Reviewed:

Statements including sector-specific 
and cross-sector statements 
including Climate Risk

•  Oversee climate-driven Reputational 

and Sustainability Risk Appetite 

•  Oversee changes to Climate Risk 

decision frameworks

•  Exposure to clients that do  
not comply with enhanced 
environmental and social criteria

•  Transactions where Position 

Statement criteria are not fully met

•  Transactions with high or very high 
Reputational Risk with climate 
change factors and decisions on 
whether to decline transactions  
or not

•  The process for net zero portfolio 

steering and governance, including:

(i)  evaluating clients’ transition 

plans,

(ii)  refreshed financed emissions 

data for clients in sectors where 
the Group has set net zero 
targets and 

(iii)  ongoing approach to net zero 

portfolio management

•  Updates for cross-sector and 

sector-specific Position Statements

Sustainability 
Executive 
Committee 
(Sustainability 
ExCo)

Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer (CSO)

At least eight times 
a year

•  Hold ultimate decision-making 

Reviewed and approved:

authority over all material 
Sustainability initiatives as delegated 
by the Group Management Team

•  Direct actions as necessary for  

areas of improvement to ensure  
the effective implementation of 
Sustainability initiatives

•  New or updated net zero sector 

targets for Aluminium, Steel, Power, 
Cement, Residential Mortgages 
and Commercial Real Estate

•  Consolidation of the Group’s 
Sustainability Aspirations

•  Review findings and escalations from 
delegated committees (including  
but not limited to the Sustainability 
Operating Steering Committee)

Discussed:

•  The Group’s approach to 

integrating nature-related risk  
into the business model

•  Oversees the net zero programme

•  The Group’s ESG ratings and  

priority disclosures

Climate Risk 
Management 
Committee 
(CRMC)

Global Head, 
Enterprise Risk 
Management

Six times in 2023

•  Oversee development and 

Drove delivery of:

implementation of the Climate  
Risk framework, including relevant 
regulatory requirements

•  Oversee all aspects of risk 

management practices for climate-
related financial and non-financial 
risks, including leadership and 
oversight in developing and 
effectively implementing the 
Group’s Climate Risk management 
framework

•  Provide structured governance 

around engagement with relevant 
Principal Risk Types impacted by or 
linked to Climate Risk

•  Provide challenge and recommend 

Climate Risk-related Enterprise Stress 
Test results

•  Review, challenge and provide  

input on external disclosures such  
as Climate Risk-related financial 
disclosures, including those set out 
by the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 

•  Monitor and manage the Climate 

Risk and net zero profile of the Group 
within Risk Appetite

•  Climate-related Group-wide  

stress testing and management 
scenario analysis

•  Progress associated with 

integrating Climate Risk across  
all impacted risk types

•  Climate Risk-related external 
disclosures, including those 
discussed in this report

•  Climate Risk research with  
Imperial College London

•  Regulatory feedback and 

supervision

•  Climate-related management 
information and Risk Appetite 
metrics

•  Approach to delivering training  

and upskilling staff on Climate Risk 
across the Group

•  Oversight on the development, 
ownership, as well as the results  
of Climate Risk models in scope

122

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewGovernance body

Chair

Sustainable 
Finance 
Governance 
Committee 
(SFGC)

Global Head 
of Sustainable 
Finance (SF)

Agenda frequency 
and inputs

At least six times 
a year

Roles and responsibilities

Topics covered in 2023

•  Provide leadership, governance and 
oversight in delivering the Group’s  
SF offerings

•  Review and endorse SF products

•  Guide the Group in identifying 

opportunities in SF and managing 
the greenwashing risks relating to SF 

Reviewed and approved:

•  SF products including sustainable 
cash products, sustainable trade 
finance products and SF retail  
loan products

•  Green and sustainable finance 

transactions including transactions 
with climate-related key 
performance indicators

•  The Group’s approach to launching 
sustainable and climate products

•  The Group’s Green and Sustainable 

Product Framework (GSPF), 
encompassing a range of climate 
finance activities

•  The Group’s Transition Finance 

Framework outlining our approach 
to defining transition activities

•  The Group’s approach to pureplay 
clients which align to the Group’s 
GSPF

•  Tracked delivery of net zero  

sectoral target setting against  
our commitments

•  Enforced accountability and 

fostered collaboration across the 
Group to implement the Group’s  
net zero plan requirements and 
advance the digitalisation of 
Sustainable Finance data and 
reporting 

•  Provided updates on advancement 
within the Group’s innovation hubs

Sustainability 
Operating 
Steering 
Committee 
(SOSC)

Head 
Strategic 
Initiatives, 
Sustainable 
Finance

Monthly

•  Central forum where all strategic 
priorities related to sustainability  
are consolidated, prioritised and 
agreed upon 

•  Oversee and monitor milestones  
and deliverables of sustainability 
initiatives

•  Ensure sustainability investment 

budget is centrally prioritised and 
allocated to Business and Function’s 
Quarterly Performance Reviews

•  Be a forum for escalation and 

decision-making 

Governance of our Sustainable Finance frameworks

We have Product Programme Guidance documents which 
underpin each Sustainable Finance product that we offer, 
signed off by a delegate of the Sustainable Finance 
Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of  
the product construct by the SFGC. 

The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable Finance 
products and derives its authority from the Group 
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC). The 
SFGC is our foremost committee on managing greenwashing 
risk in Sustainable Finance product design and labelling.

•  Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework sets out 
our approach to mitigating greenwashing risk across our 
product suite and defines the themes and activities that  
we consider eligible for green and social financing. The 
Framework is informed by international market guidelines 
and standards on green and sustainable finance, among 
others, the Climate Bonds Standard, EU Taxonomy for 
sustainable activities and the Green Loan Principles. 
Co-authored with Morningstar Sustainalytics, our 
Framework is reviewed annually to ensure it remains in line 
with the latest industry standards. For more infromation, 
please visit sc.com/gspf.

•  Our Sustainability Bond Framework governs our 

sustainable debt products, providing transparency and 
guidance on the use of proceeds and the impact of the 
green, social and sustainability bonds and notes issued by 
the Group. It has received a Second Party Opinion from 
Morningstar Sustainalytics, which confirms our Framework  
is credible, impactful and aligns with industry guidelines.  
For more infromation, please visit sc.com/sustainability-
bond-framework.

•  We have outlined our approach to defining Transition 
Finance in our Transition Finance Framework. This 
Framework is informed by the 2023 IEA NZE 2050 scenario 
and is reviewed annually to ensure it is in line with the  
latest available science and industry standards.  
For more information, please visit sc.com/transition-
finance-framework.

123

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewIncentive structure

Our sustainability-related goals and targets are reflected  
in the measures that determine employee incentives and 
variable remuneration. Variable remuneration is based  
on measurable performance criteria linked to the Group’s 
strategy and overseen by the Remuneration Committee. 

Annual incentive
Annual incentives are based on the assessment of the Group 
scorecard which contains financial and strategic measures 
and is operated for the majority of our employees. 

Sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the 
2024 Group scorecard related to: 

•  Growing Sustainable Finance income in our CCIB segment

•  Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in line  
with our risk appetite and based on our interim 2030 
sectoral targets

•  Meeting key milestones for building client and transaction-
related, and central data infrastructure for delivering on  
our net zero ambition 

•  Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our 

operational net zero by 2025 target

Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have the 
ability to influence the long-term performance of the Group. 
Members of the Group Management Team are eligible for 
LTIP awards, which may also be granted to other employees  
in the Group. 

Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024–26 LTIP 
through the following performance measures:

•  Accelerating zero: Progress towards our 2030 Sustainable 

Finance mobilisation target in each of the three 
performance years

•  Lifting participation: Year-on-year growth in financing 

activity with female and/or small and medium enterprise 
(SME) clients and other underserved populations 

•  Delivering on our Sustainability Aspiration to further 

develop the global sustainability ecosystem by actively 
contributing to global partnerships, initiatives and cross-
sector collaborations

Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 195 to 204

Key individuals or teams with climate-related objectives which impact variable remuneration

In addition to the Group scorecard and LTIP performance measures, dedicated climate and sustainability-related objectives 
apply across functional and regional scorecards including the Risk function, and individual objectives add a further link between 
sustainability outcomes and reward. 

Individual or team

Objectives/performance linkage

Group 
Management 
Team (MT)

Group Chief Risk 
Officer (CRO)

Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer (CSO)

Global Head of 
Supply Chain 
Management

Global Head, 
Property

All employees

Members of the Group MT are eligible for an annual incentive based on the outcome of our Group scorecard 
and an LTIP award which both include sustainability-related measures. Further details can be found on 
pages 200 to 203 of this Annual Report.

The Group CRO is responsible and accountable for Climate Risk under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime. This includes responsibility for overseeing the delivery of the Climate Risk 
workplan covering Climate Risk governance, Climate Risk assessment, Climate Risk scenario analysis and stress 
testing, and Climate Risk disclosure. 

The CSO helps drive the Group’s sustainability agenda and brings together its Sustainable Finance, Sustainability 
Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives and Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) teams. 
Performance measures for the CSO include progress against the delivery of net zero roadmap and Sustainable 
Finance targets.

The Global Head of Supply Chain Management is responsible for ensuring and overseeing the delivery of supply 
chain emissions and climate related objectives and plans in partnership with contract owners across the Bank. 
This includes baselining our supply chain emissions related to products and services, supply chain emissions 
disclosures, and the implementation of plans to reduce supply chain-related emissions and managing climate 
risks in partnership with our suppliers.

The Global Head, Property is responsible for delivering on our aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our own 
operations by 2025.

Selected sustainability-related targets are incorporated into our annual Group scorecard which determines 
annual incentives for the majority of our employees.

124

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewManaging Environmental 
and Social Risk

We seek to proactively manage Environmental and Social 
(E&S) Risks and impacts arising from the Group’s client 
relationships and transactions. 

For over 20 years, our cross-sector Environmental and Social 
Risk Management (ESRM) Framework has helped us apply 
international standards and best practices across all our 
markets. In the frontline, our ESRM team within the Chief 
Sustainability Officer (CSO) organisation oversees the 
management of E&S Risks associated with our client 
relationships. 

For further information please refer to our ESRM Framework 
at sc.com/esriskframework 

Our approach is embedded directly into our credit approval 
process and supports us to work with our stakeholders to 
identify, manage, mitigate and monitor the potential impacts 
that stem from our financing decisions.

Our Position Statements, approved by the Group 
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC), 
outline the cross-sector and sector-specific criteria we apply 
to assess whether to provide financial services to our clients.

We use these statements – which draw on International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, the 
Equator Principles (EP) and global best practice – to assess 
E&S risk related to our financing. 

Position Statements

Cross-sector Position Statements

Climate Change

Human Rights

Nature

Sector-specific Position Statements

Agribusiness

Infrastructure  
and Transport

Chemicals and  
Manufacturing

Extractive Industries

Power Generation

Thermal Coal

Prohibited Activities

We reviewed 1,341 clients and 708 transactions that presented 
potential for elevated E&S risk in 2023. If we find a material 
E&S issue, we take steps to proactively engage the client to 
mitigate identified risks and impacts, and support and guide 
our clients to improve their E&S performance over time. 
However, for clients who do not meet our Position Statement 
criteria, we may look to withdraw financial services and  
exit the relationship if we cannot work with them to align  
over time.

In 2023, we completed the review and update of our  
cross-sector Climate Change and sector-specific Position 
Statements covering all sensitive sectors, with the 
requirements to take effect in 2024. We also commenced the 
review of our cross-sector Human Rights Position Statement. 

During the year, we evolved our approach to nature risk 
assessment. This included a loan book analysis to identify 
impacts and dependencies from nature-related risks at sector, 
country and financial services levels. The Group’s cross-sector 
Nature Position Statement provides a consolidated view of 
our approach to managing Nature Risk across our business, 
operations and supply chain. 

Read more about our Position Statements 
at sc.com/positionstatements

Our list of Prohibited Activities can be found 
at sc.com/prohibitedactivities

Our reporting against the Equator Principles can be found 
on page 504 or at sc.com/equatorprinciples

125

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewManaging Climate Risk

We have designed an approach that begins to embed Climate Risk with impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs) within our central 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework based around two principles:

1.  Treat Climate Risk like a traditional risk type. Climate Risk 

may lead to financial losses and non-financial detriments, 
much like Credit Risk, and should be managed as such to 
limit the Group’s exposure to these detriments. This means 
embedding Climate Risk considerations into existing risk 
identification and management processes, governance, 
reporting, scenario analysis, strategy, and financial planning.

2.  Recognise and build for where Climate Risk is different. 
Climate Risk is likely to crystallise over much longer time 
horizons and is inherently difficult to quantify. Its unique 
features and a need for granular forward-looking 
measurements require the use and development of  
new tools and methodologies to quantify and analyse  
the implications.

Our climate toolkit – Processes for identifying and assessing Climate Risks

We have invested in a number of toolkits and partnerships to quantitatively measure climate-related physical and transition 
risks and we have conducted scenario analysis across a range of plausible scenarios in 2023. We continue to engage with our 
clients to understand their climate adaptation, mitigation and transition plans. In 2024 and beyond, we aim to reduce reliance 
on third-party models with the development of our internal carbon elasticity and IFRS 9 expected credit loss models including 
climate-related impacts. 

Toolkits and 
Partnerships

In-house 
Climate Risk 
Questionnaires

Munich Re

Description

Client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) to assess and gather information on client mitigation and 
adaptation plans. The information gathered through these CRQs form part of the Client-level Climate Risk 
Assessments (CRAs).

Physical Risk assessment tool built on extensive re-insurance experience to obtain location-based hazard and risk 
scores under current day for acute weather events (e.g., storms, floods, or wildfire) and longer-term time horizons 
(2050, 2100) for Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5, and for chronic risks such 
as sea level rise.

Baringa Partners

Scenario expansion models and expertise used to design bespoke short-term scenario narratives and build 
scenarios for management stress tests and implement them within the Aladdin Climate transition risk models.

BlackRock

S&P Global

Aladdin Climate transition risk models are used to translate the impact of transition and Physical Risk scenario 
variables on company financials and probabilities of default, and obtain temperature alignment results to assess 
a temperature score to indicate client- and portfolio-level global warming potential up to 2030.1

Asset locations, energy mixes and client-level emissions i.e., absolute emissions (tonnes of CO2e) and emissions 
intensities by revenue (tonnes of CO2e/$ million) for Scope 1 and 2 and, where available, for Scope 3 emissions.

Imperial College 
London

Academic expertise leveraged to advance our understanding of climate science, upskill our employees and 
senior management, and progress independent research on climate risks with a focus on emerging markets. 

1  The inclusion of the Aladdin Climate analytics, based on models from BlackRock, contained in this report should not be construed as a characterisation 

regarding the materiality or financial impact of that information. The Aladdin Climate analytics include non-financial metrics that are subject to measurement 
uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The Aladdin Climate analytics are not fixed and 
are likely to change and evolve over time. The Aladdin Climate analytics rely on comparatively new analysis and there is limited peer review or comparable data 
available. BlackRock does not guarantee and shall not be responsible for the content, accuracy, timeliness, non-infringement, or completeness of Aladdin Climate 
analytics contained herein, or have any liability resulting from the use of the Aladdin Climate analytics in this report, or any actions taken in reliance on any 
information herein.

Limitations with existing tools and data 

We recognise that there are limitations when assessing 
Climate Risk, given approaches to quantifying Climate Risk 
are nascent and data availability and coverage across our 
clients continue to present challenges. This is particularly true 
in emerging markets where Climate Risk-related disclosure 
and preparedness can be less advanced. We have seen 
limitations in coverage, granularity of information at client 
group and entity level and timeliness of data leading to the 
use of proxies such as regional and/or sector averages and 
sovereign heatmaps. Most tool outputs do not factor in 

existing adaptation measures, governmental policies to 
protect and build for changing climate, and structural 
adaptation e.g., age and quality of construction or flood 
defences and dams protecting the property. Over time, 
sovereigns and policymakers are also expected to drive 
market trends such as investment in adaptation plans, 
technological advancements, innovative risk transfer and 
mitigation approaches to combat the potential impacts  
of climate change. Such assumptions are not factored into  
our analysis. 

126

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewKey updates in 2023

Next steps

•  Physical risk scenarios impacting our sites and 

causing disruption to services are assessed for loss 
estimates. 

•  New sites onboarded within the Group are assessed 

for physical risk vulnerabilities.

•  Third-party continuity plans have been enhanced to 

include climate risk related disruptions.

•  Gather site locations for our 
material vendors to assess 
their physical risk exposures, 
such that suitable continuity 
plans can be developed.

Page

308

•  Enhance our methodology 

306

for the assessment of 
sovereign physical risks to 
limit reliance on static data 
sources from external 
research and expand 
coverage to include  
nature/biodiversity risks.

•  Our methodology for Physical and Transition Risk 
Sovereign Rankings serves as an input into the  
annual sovereign reviews and quarterly early  
warning indicators.

•  We have developed Climate Risk report cards for 

approximately ~30 sovereigns covering 75% of GCR 
exposure across our footprint, which provide a 
detailed breakdown of the Physical and Transition 
Risk scores, along with key takeaways and historic 
climate disaster statistics.

•  We have built an in-house Sovereign climate model 
that forecasts Sovereign credit grades across the 
various NGFS scenarios.

•  Country limit benchmark computations consider 

climate factors.

•  Additional due diligence is conducted to support 

• 

client or transaction level assessments for (i) clients 
covered by the Group’s net zero targets for high-
carbon sectors (Oil & Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium, 
Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation & CRE) (ii) 
clients with a coal nexus as well as (iii) those assessed 
as high climate risk.

•  Governance standards and new controls rolled  

out to mitigate the greenwashing risk throughout  
the lifecycle of Sustainable Finance products. The 
controls aim to ensure accurate Sustainable Finance 
labelling and ongoing monitoring of clients, products, 
and transactions, and are continuously reviewed and 
tested for control effectiveness, bearing in mind the 
changing regulatory landscape and innovation in 
Sustainable Finance.

•  Established key management information to track 
divergence of net zero pathways from group-level 
sector targets to aid the monitoring of the impact of 
climate risk on various portfolios.

•  The Traded Risk stress testing framework covers 
market impacts from Climate Risk, including an 
assessment of transition effects from climate change 
policies and two physical risk scenarios as part of the 
global Traded Risk scenarios inventory. These flow 
into existing Traded Risk Appetite metrics. 

Increase in the pace and 
variety of Regulations 
around Sustainability with a 
focus on greenwashing will 
be a key priority for 2024.

305

•  Ensure framework and 
controls consider new 
regulations and the controls 
are embedded in an 
effective manner.

•  Extend the tail scenario 

308

narratives developed for the 
CCIB portfolio to develop 
transition risk scenarios  
for the trading book and 
implement enhancements 
related to Market Risk 
factors and shorter-term 
shocks.

Impacted Risk Type

Operational and 
Technology Risk 

Impact of acute or chronic 
physical risks may disrupt our 
own properties, data centers 
and third parties leading  
to business disruptions. 
Furthermore, increased  
costs may arise through 
implementation of practices 
such as renewable energy 
sources and waste reduction  
to reduce emissions.

Country Risk

Both Physical and Transition 
risks can have a direct impact 
on a sovereign’s economic 
strength and increase their  
cost of borrowing, directly 
impacting overall 
creditworthiness.

Reputational and 
Sustainability Risk

Potential for stakeholders to 
view the Group negatively due 
to actual or perceived actions 
or inactions in response to  
our stated climate, ESG and  
net zero commitments. 
Increasing expectations from 
governments, regulators, 
NGOs, investors, and 
individuals heightens 
reputational risks.

Traded Risk

Acute physical risk events or a 
disruptive transition can cause 
sudden changes in the fair 
value of assets driven by 
commodity price changes. 
Additional impact may  
result due to trigger sales, 
sudden and negative price 
adjustments where these  
risks are not yet incorporated 
into prices.

  Physical Risk 

  Transition Risk

128

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewImpacted Risk Type

Key updates in 2023

Next steps

Treasury Risk

Impact on client business 
models and their overall 
financial stability from 
transition to a low-carbon 
economy can impact capital 
adequacy and/or liquidity 
levels needed to ensure 
financial stability during 
periods of stress.

Model Risk

Model Risk may exist from 
inappropriate design / 
specification / development / 
governance of a model relative 
to the intended business 
objectives and/or ineffective 
model remediation in response 
to issues identified by model 
validation.

  Physical Risk 

  Transition Risk

•  Progressed towards a more quantitative approach as 
we continue to consider capital requirements as part 
of the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP).

•  Review risk pockets within 
high Climate Risk and net 
zero divergent sectors as 
part of the ICAAP.

•  Commenced monitoring of climate risk-related 

•  Advance our capabilities to 

vulnerabilities and readiness of our top corporate 
liquidity providers, leveraging our client-level climate 
risk assessments.

assess Climate Risk as part of 
the Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ILAAP).

•  The first-generation of internal models have been 
developed and are in various stages of model 
governance.

•  Target to enhance physical 
risk modelling capabilities, 
advancing sector models to 
factor in sector-specific 
nuances and building carbon 
elasticity models for Shipping 
and Automobile.

• 

Implementation of models 
within the Group’s 
infrastructure.

Page

309

309

Investing in Climate Risk research

Since the launch of our four-year partnership with Imperial College London in 2020, the Group has sponsored a series of  
public research projects. As part of our ongoing academic partnership, we supported new climate research on the range of 
opportunities that exist for private investors in nature-related investments and cross-sectoral implications of electrification  
of transport in India. In 2023 we have cooperated with Imperial College London on three specific projects:

1. Asset haircuts
For our key residential mortgage markets, we have 
collaborated with our academic partner to develop an 
internal model for revaluating property valuations under 
different climate scenarios using the forward-looking risk 
indices from Munich Re. These revaluations are then used to 
inform haircuts on the property prices and arrive at climate 
adjusted Expected Credit Loss values for the mortgage book.

2. Country Risk 
The cooperation involves the construction of a methodology 
used to project sovereign ratings along selected NGFS climate 
scenarios for 40 target countries. The model develops a term 
structure of sovereign Probability of Defaults (PDs) along  
each climate scenario and associated projected ratings and 
compares it with a term structure of sovereign PDs and ratings 
in a counterfactual (non-climate change) scenario.

3. Cross-sectoral implications of transport electrification  
in India
Exploring the potential impact of introducing a legislative 
requirement for the switch to electric vehicles (EVs), including, 
but not limited to supply chain management, the strain  
on existing power supply (as some regions are already 
experiencing regular blackouts), and the need for expansion 
of the power grid to support the connection of the required 
number of chargers. The research has been completed and 
preparations for the publication have been made.

129

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewIntegrity, conduct and ethics

We aim to live our valued behaviours,  
which are ‘Never settle’, ‘Better together’  
and ‘Do the right thing’ through our actions, 
decisions and interactions day-to-day with 
colleagues and clients. 

Good conduct is critical to delivering positive outcomes for  
our clients, markets and stakeholders. It is fundamental to 
achieving our brand promise, here for good. Conduct Risk  
may arise anywhere in the Group at any time. The Group 
therefore expects all employees to be responsible for 
managing Conduct Risk given it is a transversal risk, which 
means it impacts every aspect of the Group’s operations. 

Our Conduct Risk management approach has been 
strengthened since 2022 through several initiatives,  
including launching the new Group Conduct Risk 
Management Standard, which sets minimum standards for 
the management of Conduct Risk across our operations.  
The Group employs a risk-based, three lines of defence 
approach to Conduct Risk management, where oversight, 
governance and controls applied are proportionate to our 
assessment of the risk. We set target Conduct Outcomes that 
the Group aspires to deliver for clients, external stakeholders, 
employees, and the environment.

Code of Conduct and Ethics

The Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code) remains the 
primary tool through which we communicate our conduct 
expectations. In October 2023, we launched the refreshed 
Code to improve alignment with our Stands, strengthen the 
link between ethics, culture, conduct, and the Group’s strategy. 
The Code is intended to be more than a guidance document: 
rather, it is a code to live by, designed to guide colleagues 
through how to live our valued behaviours on a day-to-day 
basis, whatever their business, function, region, or role. We 
have made the Code more user friendly, interactive and 
accessible to all colleagues. The Code also includes more 
content on ethical leadership, the way we use personal data, 
having a culture of inclusion and feeling safe to speak up. 

Download our Code of Conduct and Ethics at 
sc.com/codeofconductandethics and visit sc.com/speakingup  
to find more about how our Speaking Up programme works

To reinforce our shared commitment to the highest 
possible standards of conduct, each year we ask our 
colleagues to reconsider what the Code means to them 
through a refresher e-learning, and to reaffirm their 
commitment. In 2023, 99.8 per cent of our colleagues 
completed the mandatory training and affirmation. 
Colleagues who are overdue without a valid reason are 
subject to a 25 per cent reduction in their annual variable 
compensation for the year they failed to attest.

99.8%

of employees affirmed recommitment to our Code annually

130

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewSpeaking Up

Our Speaking Up programme provides a safe, independent 
and confidential way to report concerns. It helps build and 
maintain a strong ethical culture, with integrity, trust, and 
transparency. The early disclosure of concerns reduces the 
risk of financial and reputational loss caused by misconduct. 
We encourage colleagues, contractors, clients, suppliers and 
members of the public to use our Speaking Up programme 
without fear of retaliation. When a concern is raised, our 
Shared Investigative Services team will determine whether the 
matter is a Speaking Up disclosure or if it is an out-of-scope 
disclosure. Examples of Speaking Up concerns may include 
breaches of regulatory requirements or breaches of Group 
policy or standards. Out-of-scope disclosures will be referred 
to the appropriate internal teams. If a matter is considered a 
Speaking Up Disclosure, relevant Shared Investigative Services 
and/or Employee Relations colleagues will conduct fact-
finding into the matter, with any follow-up action taken as 
required following the fact-finding process. 

Throughout 2023, we hosted a series of awareness campaigns 
to ensure that our colleagues understand the importance 
of upholding our conduct standards and know how, and 
when, to Speak Up. To recognise Whistleblowers’ Day on 
23 June, the Global Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and 
Compliance issued a Group-wide communication underlining 
the importance of Speaking Up. A World Whistleblowers’ Day 
panel discussion was held, covering Speaking Up and ESG 
(Environmental, Social and Governance) topics, with Group 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Whistleblowing 
Champion Phil Rivett as a panellist. 

Fighting financial crime

Access to the financial system helps transform lives around 
the world, helping to reduce poverty and spur economic 
development. But the financial system is also used by those 
involved in some of today’s most damaging crimes – from 
human trafficking to terrorism, corruption and the drug 
trade. Our ambition is to help tackle these crimes by making 
the financial system a hostile environment for criminals and 
terrorists. We have no appetite for breaches in laws and 
regulations related to financial crime.

Our Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) team 
sets our financial crime risk management framework. We 
seek to protect our clients and communities against money 
laundering (AML), terrorist financing, sanctions, fraud and 
other risks, applying core controls such as client due-diligence, 
screening and monitoring, and strengthening our people’s 
understanding as to how to identify, manage and mitigate 
such risks. In addition, anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) 
controls aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties working  
on our behalf, from engaging in bribery or corruption. 

A particular focus of our financial crime investigatory teams 
is the use of data analytics to identify those clients and 
cases which generate the greatest financial crime risk. This 
has strengthened the second line of defence in support of 
colleagues in business lines and country teams across  
the Group.

To mitigate the risk of financial crime, particularly laundering 
the proceeds of corruption, in the lead-up to, during and 
after major political elections in footprint markets, the 
Group conducts enhanced monitoring designed to identify 
and investigate transactions of potential concern. In 2023, 
enhanced monitoring was conducted during major elections 
and times of political transition or conflict, for example in 
Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe.

This event was part of the wider Global Conduct Week from 
19 to 23 June, themed ‘Be the Change’, which encouraged 
colleagues to think about how their individual actions on 
a daily basis can aggregate to a much wider impact on 
outcomes for our clients, customers and other stakeholders. 
In addition, in October 2023, a Group-wide panel discussion 
was held to celebrate Global Ethics Day, with the theme ‘Ethics 
Empowered’. All campaigns included interactive messages 
from our senior leaders and live panel discussions designed to 
both set the tone from the top and nurture it from within.

The Speaking Up programme continues to be utilised 
across all countries, businesses and functions, and our  
2023 MyVoice survey found that 88 per cent of employees 
(no change from 2022) felt comfortable raising concerns 
through these channels. The Board reviews a Speaking Up 
report annually. For the period July 2022 to June 2023 a 
three per cent (34 cases) decrease was noted in the volume 
of total disclosures via Speaking Up channels compared 
with the previous period (i.e. July 2021 to June 2022). 

88%

of employees in our MyVoice survey felt comfortable raising 
concerns through Speaking Up channels

Visit our  Speaking Up programme’s website  https://secure.ethicspoint.
eu/domain/media/en/gui/108379/index.html

Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine on 24 February 
2022, the authorities of the European Union, United Kingdom, 
United States, and several other nations have imposed 
multiple rounds of sanctions against Russia by targeting a 
wide range of Russian entities (state-owned and private) and 
a large number of Russian elites, oligarchs, political leaders 
and officials. While the pace of change and the complexity of 
these sanctions against Russia are unprecedented and had 
the potential to create areas of uncertainty as to the scope of 
some of the regulatory prohibitions, we have sought to comply 
with these requirements fully and promptly. This work remains 
a significant area of focus for teams across the first and second 
line of defence.

We have invested significantly to ensure our employees 
are properly equipped to combat financial crime. In 2023, 
99.9 per cent of colleagues and governance body members 
completed financial crime mandatory e-learnings which 
cover topics such as ABC, AML including terrorist financing, 
sanctions, tax evasion and fraud topics (Asia: 99.9 per cent, 
AME: 99.8 per cent, EA: 99.8 per cent, Governance body 
members: 100 per cent). 

99.9%

of colleagues and governance members completed financial 
crime mandatory e-learnings

131

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewFighting financial crime continued

For those in high-risk roles and functions, we delivered 
additional training across all financial crime areas, including 
in-depth awareness on Russia sanctions, ABC training for 
targeted roles, training on tax evasion risks, trade AML, and 
money laundering risks concerned with money mules and 
shell companies. We also delivered new training modules 
on financial crime risks in fintech and digital assets. In 
addition, masterclasses and forums were held to deepen 
understanding. We shared our Supplier Charter, which sets 
out our principles and expectations, and provides guidance 
related to ABC, with 11,563 suppliers and third parties across 
48 markets.

This was supported by our Group-wide financial crime 
awareness campaign, ‘The Whole Story’, which aimed to 
raise employee awareness of the real-life impact of financial 
crime and highlight the work we are doing individually and 
collectively to build a robust risk culture and lead in the fight 
against financial crime. The Whole Story 2023 theme of ‘Let’s 
get #fightingfit’ focused on how we can reboot and recharge 
the fight against financial crime and play a part in driving the 
right outcomes for our clients, through the right conduct and 
culture, vigilance and risk management.

Collaborative initiatives
Our public-private partnerships are aimed at producing new 
insights about various criminal typologies and advances in 
how we collectively combat financial crime in an increasing 
number of jurisdictions, including Singapore, Hong Kong, 
South Africa, India, the UK and UAE. 

Throughout 2023, we also engaged with peers in contributing 
to the ongoing dialogue to advance effectiveness in 
combating financial crime through our active participation 
in several of the leading industry groups, including the 
Wolfsberg Group of global banks, Madison Group and  
UK Finance. 

We also participated in discussions and forums with many 
external thought leaders including participation with the 
World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption 
Initiative and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime,  
in addition to hosting events with clients designed to foster 
dialogue on the tackling of financial crime.

For more, visit sc.com/fightingfinancialcrime

Responsible lending and fair treatment of our customers in our CPBB segment

The Group’s Board of Directors provides oversight of the 
Group’s treatment of customers through its reporting and 
committee structures. The relevant governance forum or Risk 
Committee is required to challenge the business for any new 
or material product proposals prior to the commencement of 
the product approval process.

Escalations may be taken to the CPBB Risk Committee chaired 
by the CPBB Chief Risk Officer or the Group Risk Committee 
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, and ultimately to the 
Group’s Board and Board Risk Committee. Oversight and 
governance of Collections is performed by the CPBB Risk 
function with regular reviews of performance metrics and 
complaints-handling data. 

Complaints management
Formal avenues are established for CPBB customers to lodge 
complaints. A complaints-handling process has been put in 
place to enable the proper receipt, acknowledgement and 
independent and effective handling of complaints, which  
are to be resolved and notified to customers within a 
reasonable turnaround time without compromising the 
quality of the review. 

At the global level, key complaints insights, trends and  
root causes are provided to the CPBB Risk Committee every 
month. Examples of key metrics that are used to track and 
manage complaints across CPBB markets include: total 
number of complaints received in the month split by type 
and root cause, including sub-categories such as potential 
inappropriate sales, proven mis-selling or fraud, and 
percentage of complaints resolved within the pre- 
determined turnaround time.

Loan modifications
Where possible, practical support programmes may be 
offered to customers experiencing financial difficulty. Loan 
modification options that may be offered to our customers 
take into account the most recently available information 
on the customer’s income, expenditures and circumstances. 
Collections staff managing these arrangements are trained 
to discuss options thoroughly with customers in order that  
any restructured payments, if agreed, are kept affordable. 

Collections
Across the Group, while the approach may vary across 
markets in line with local regulations, programmes to assist 
retail banking borrowers in financial distress are handled by 
Collections teams. 

The expectation on the Bank’s Collections teams include 
meeting the following requirements:

•  Providing a fair and reasonable treatment regarding any 

late fees

•  Aligning calling and visitation hours to local regulations  

and practices 

•  Updating the financial status of customers on a timely basis 

in our systems to support fair treatment

•  Having all customer interactions with the Collections  

teams, complaints and feedback monitored and regularly 
reviewed

All Collections staff responsible for dealing with customers 
in financial distress are trained prior to commencement 
of collection activities, and in particular, are required to be 
familiar with the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. Where 
external collections agencies are utilised, these agencies 
undergo assessment and due diligence in accordance with 
Group sourcing standards and their staff must undertake the 
same training as the Group’s internal Collections teams. 

132

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability reviewRespecting human rights

We strive to be a responsible company and respect human 
rights across our business. We recognise that the global 
nature of our business may expose us to the risk of modern 
slavery and human trafficking in our operations, supply chain 
and client relationships and we are committed to managing 
and mitigating these risks. Our Modern Slavery Statement 
details our approach and actions to manage modern slavery 
risks across our value chain.

Standard Chartered will not enter into relationships with 
suppliers involved in human trafficking, modern slavery, or 
forced labour. Suppliers that are identified as presenting 
higher risks of modern slavery are subject to enhanced due 
diligence. Our Supplier Charter sets out the principles for  
the behavioural standard that Standard Chartered expects 
from all its suppliers, and those within a supplier’s sphere of 
influence that assist them in performing their obligations to us.

Read our Modern Slavery Statement at sc.com/modernslavery

Read our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter

Due diligence is a central part of our approach in assessing 
and managing risks associated with the provision of financial 
services to our clients. We approach this due diligence in 
accordance with our Environmental and Social Risk 
Management (ESRM) and Financial Crime Compliance  
(FCC) frameworks.

Our Position Statement on Human Rights is a key part of our 
framework and was developed following engagement with a 
range of external stakeholders, including expert practitioners 
and civil society organisations. Like our cross-sector Position 
Statements, the Human Rights Position Statement applies to 
our clients, suppliers and employees and is regularly reviewed 
to ensure it addresses emerging risks and issues.

Read more about our ESRM Framework and Position Statements  
at sc.com/esriskframework or sc.com/positionstatements

Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles by which we seek 
to deliver fair and competitive remuneration to all employees. 
We use these principles to guide reward and performance 
decision-making globally, including how we set, structure  
and deliver remuneration. Further information on our 
alignment to the Fair Pay Charter can be found in our  
2023 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report available at 
sc.com/diversityfairpayreport.

133

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Sustainability review 
 
 
Directors’ report

Directors’ report

136  Group Chairman’s governance overview

137   Board of Directors

142  Management Team

145   Corporate governance

182   Directors’ remuneration report

208  Additional remuneration disclosures

217  Other disclosures

229  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

[[Liverpool FC 
and Standard 
Chartered 
encourage girls 
to ‘Play On’]]   

In May, alongside our long-time  
partners Liverpool FC, we launched 
‘Play On’, our four-year campaign 
aimed at encouraging girls to play 
sport because of the transferable life 
skills it teaches off the pitch. As well as 
raising awareness that twice as many 
girls than boys drop out of sport by age 
14, the programme delivers physical 
support and training for female  
grassroots coaches in our key markets. 

The campaign also provides a digital 
repository where girls, teachers,  
coaches and parents can access  
useful resources.

Read more at sc.com/playon

134

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

135

 
Group Chairman’s governance overview

Group Chairman’s 
governance overview

Dr José Viñals  
Group Chairman

“ In times of uncertainty, a robust 
corporate governance framework 
is especially important.”

In my opening letter, I referred to the uncertainties in our markets 
caused by the multiple geopolitical and macroeconomic events 
affecting the year. These require our close attention given their ability 
to impact our various businesses in quite different ways. The Board 
has monitored these developments carefully and proactively, 
devoting agenda time at the Board and across our committees and 
also considering them at the Group’s International Advisory Council 
(IAC), which includes representatives from our Management Team. 

The Board also received a series of briefings from internal and 
external experts who provided valuable insights from their diplomatic, 
central banking, economic, regional and political vantage points to 
help us prepare for events which may occur in the future. In the same 
vein, the Board Risk Committee (BRC) and Audit Committee (AC) 
jointly held a Blue Sky Thinking session on forward-looking geopolitics 
and their impact on the work of those committees. The session was 
facilitated by Robert Zoellick, the Chair of our IAC.

In times of uncertainty, a robust corporate governance framework is 
especially important, and this report sets out how the Board and our 
committees work to ensure that risks are addressed, opportunities are 
taken, and the Group continues to deliver sustainable value. 

The Board was disappointed with the market reaction to the Group’s 
third-quarter results. We considered carefully the reasons for that with 
our advisers and also at our December Board meeting, from which we 
drew a number of lessons.

The Board’s priorities for 2023 were guided by our business objectives, 
the environment in which we operate and suggestions from last year’s 
externally facilitated Board evaluation. These were woven into 
agendas at the beginning of the year and reviewed regularly. 

In February 2023, the banking sector faced volatility caused by the 
collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank which was followed by that of 
Credit Suisse. The BRC monitored the situation carefully, receiving 
regular updates from management on our own financial position  
and actions to address issues arising in the markets. These were also 
shared with the Board which also received updates at meetings. 

Information and cybersecurity (ICS) risk was also a key area of focus 
for both the Board and the BRC in 2023. The BRC devoted significant 
time to reviewing and discussing ICS matters, including a new ICS Risk 
Appetite Statement that was also brought to the Board. The AC had 
a very busy year, reviewing internal controls and assurance around the 
Group’s activities. It paid close attention to the carrying value of loans 
and investments in certain industries, locations and subsidiaries, 
especially China.

136

The Remuneration Committee continues to work hard to implement 
the remuneration strategy approved in 2022. Our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which details the key activities of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2023, can be found on page 182.

In January, we appointed Linda Yueh as an independent Non-
Executive Director (INED). Linda then succeeded Jasmine Whitbread 
as chair of the Sustainability and Culture Committee (CSC) following 
Jasmine’s retirement from the Board in May. Jasmine has been an 
excellent contributor to the Board across her eight years and has led 
the CSC with distinction. We are also very sorry to see the departure  
of Andy Halford, who stepped down from his Group Chief Financial 
Officer (GCFO) role in January 2024, after a tenure of over nine years, 
marked by his very significant contributions to the Group.

We welcomed Diego De Giorgi to the Group in September 2023 as 
GCFO Designate, following a thorough external talent mapping and 
selection process overseen by the Governance and Nomination 
Committee (GNC). Following regulatory approval, Diego began his 
role in January 2024 following a thorough induction programme and 
handover from Andy. Further detail regarding the changes made to 
our Board appears in the GNC report starting on page 177. 

We have been following the proposals for UK Audit and Corporate 
Governance (ACG) reforms, both at Board level and across our 
committees. Following the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024, we are 
considering the changes in readiness for the application of the new 
UK Code in 2025, and additional internal control reporting provisions 
coming into force in the following year.

We travelled to a number of markets as a Board during 2023, with 
visits to Hong Kong, Jakarta and Seoul; in addition, onward market 
visits were made by a number of directors to obtain an on-the-ground 
perspective of the business, opportunities and challenges faced. In 
each market we visited as a Board, employee engagement sessions 
were held where directors met and listened to colleagues from across 
our footprint, either face-to-face or through hybrid mechanisms.  
We welcomed the opportunity to engage with so many of our valued 
colleagues, both long-standing employees and newer recruits. These 
market visits provided an opportunity to test enhancements made to 
the Board’s workforce engagement model, which facilitate more face-
to-face contact following our emergence from the COVID pandemic. 
Details of the changes to our workforce engagement model are set 
out in the CSC report on page 174. Apart from allowing us to connect 
with colleagues from across our footprint, overseas board visits also 
provide opportunities for the Board to strengthen the links with 
subsidiary boards. The Board is planning to visit several countries 
across our footprint in 2024. Further detail regarding Board 
engagement with stakeholders appears on page 157. 

Engagement with all stakeholders, including, of course, our investors is 
key to our decision-making. I hosted a stewardship event in November 
alongside the chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees to 
provide an update regarding the Group’s strategy, including with 
respect to sustainability, and on the work of our Board committees. 
Close engagement has continued between the Board and our 
subsidiary boards, through regular exchanges among the chairs, 
committee chairs and other INEDs.

The Corporate Plan is an important part of the Board’s agenda each 
year. In June, we held a deep and productive two-day strategy 
discussion, which considered any impact from the economic and 
political headwinds emerging in 2023. The session concluded with  
the Board’s firm belief that it remains the right strategy for the Group. 
Throughout the year, the Board considered a number of strategic 
opportunities for growth in the context of our Corporate Plan and  
Risk Appetite.

Finally, the Board remains confident for the Group’s future and is 
committed to our strategy and our purpose, and is laser focused on 
developing sustained and sustainable returns within our Risk Appetite.

Dr José Viñals  
Group Chairman

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of Directors

Committee key

Committee Chair shown in green

A

Ri

S

N

R

Audit Committee

Board Risk Committee

Culture and Sustainability Committee

Governance and Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Dr José Viñals (69) 
Group Chairman

Appointed October 2016 and Group 
Chairman in December 2016. José was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in April 2019.

Bill Winters (62) 
Group Chief Executive

Appointed June 2015. Bill was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in June 2015.

Experience José has substantial experience 
in the international regulatory arena and has 
exceptional understanding of the economic, 
financial and political dynamics of our 
markets and of global trade. He has a  
broad network of decision-makers in the 
jurisdictions in our footprint.

Career Until 2016, José was the Financial 
Counsellor and the Director of the Monetary 
and Capital Markets Department at the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and was 
responsible for the oversight and direction  
of the IMF’s monetary and financial sector 
work. He was the IMF’s chief spokesperson  
on financial matters, including global 
financial stability. During his tenure, José  
was a member of the Plenary and Steering 
Committee of the Financial Stability  
Board, playing a key role in the reform of 
international financial regulation. Prior to the 
IMF, José began his career as an economist 
and as a member of the faculty at Stanford 
University, before going to the Central Bank 
of Spain, where he was the Deputy Governor. 
He is a past President of the International 
Monetary Conference.

Experience Bill is a career banker with 
significant frontline global banking 
experience and a proven track record of 
leadership and financial success. He has 
extensive experience of working in emerging 
markets and a proven record in spotting and 
nurturing talent.

Career Bill began his career with JP Morgan, 
where he went on to become one of its top 
five executives and later Co-Chief Executive 
Officer at the investment bank from 2004 
until he stepped down in 2009. Bill was  
invited to be a committee member of the 
Independent Commission on Banking to 
recommend ways to improve competition 
and financial stability in banking. 
Subsequently, he served as an adviser to  
the Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards and was asked by the Court of the 
Bank of England to complete an independent 
review of the bank’s liquidity operations.

José has held many other board and advisory 
positions, including chair of Spain’s Deposit 
Guarantee Fund, chair of the International 
Relations Committee at the European 
Central Bank, member of the Economic and 
Financial Committee of the European Union, 
and chair of the Working Group on 
Institutional Investors at the Bank for 
International Settlements.

External appointments José is Co-Chair  
of the United Nations’ Alliance of Global 
Investors for Sustainable Development 
(GISD). He is a board member of the  
Institute of International Finance (IIF), a 
member of the board of directors of the 
Bretton Woods Committee, member of  
the Leadership Council of CityUK, and 
member of the Business Advisory Group  
to the Director General of the World Trade 
Organisation (WTO).

Committees  N

In 2011, Bill founded Renshaw Bay, an 
alternative asset management firm, where 
he was chairman and CEO. He stepped down 
on appointment to the Standard Chartered 
PLC Board. Bill was previously a non-executive 
director of Pension Insurance Corporation plc 
and RIT Capital Partners plc. He received a 
CBE in 2013. Bill is a director of Standard 
Chartered Holdings Limited.

External appointments Bill is an  
independent non-executive director of 
Novartis International AG, listed on SIX  
Swiss Exchange. He is also an Advisory  
Group Member of the Integrity Council for 
Voluntary Carbon Markets and a member  
of the Steering Committee of the UK 
Voluntary Carbon Markets Forum.

Bill leads the Management Team

As announced on 1 August 2022, Christine Hodgson retired from the Board on 31 January 2023. Jasmine Whitbread retired from the Board on 
3 May 2023.

As announced on 21 December 2023, Andy Halford stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer and from the Board on 2 January 2024,  
and therefore will not seek re-election at the 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM).

As announced on 16 February 2024, Gay Huey Evans will step down from the Board with effect from 29 February 2024. Carlson Tong’s departure 
from the Board will take place on 9 May 2024, ahead of the AGM. Diane Jurgens will join the Board as an INED, with effect on 1 March 2024.

137

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDiego De Giorgi (53)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Appointed January 2024. Diego was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2024.

Maria Ramos (65)
Senior Independent Director

Appointed January 2021. Maria was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2021. She was 
appointed as Senior Independent Director 
in September 2022.

Shirish Apte (71)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed May 2022. Shirish was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2023.

Experience Diego has more than three 
decades of experience in the global financial 
services sector, working with clients across 
the UK, Europe, the US, Asia, the Middle East 
and Africa. This has helped him build a strong 
understanding of the complexity of delivering 
across diverse markets.

Career Diego spent 18 years at Goldman 
Sachs, with leadership roles in the Equity 
Capital Markets Group and the Financial 
Institutions Group before becoming the Chief 
Operating Officer for the Global Investment 
Banking division. Following this, he moved  
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, where he 
spent six years, rising to Head of Global 
Investment Banking. He served as a 
non-executive director at UniCredit and a 
member of their Compensation Committee 
in 2020 and 2021. 

Experience Maria has extensive CEO, 
banking, commercial, financial, policy and 
international experience.

Career Based in South Africa, Maria served 
as chief executive officer of ABSA Group 
Limited (previously Barclays Africa Group),  
a diversified financial services group serving 
12 African markets, from 2009 to 2019. Before 
joining ABSA, Maria was the group chief 
executive of Transnet Ltd, the state-owned 
freight transport and logistics service 
provider, for five years. Prior to her CEO career, 
Maria served for seven years as director- 
general of South Africa’s National Treasury 
(formerly the Department of Finance), where 
she played a key role in transforming the 
National Treasury into one of the most 
effective and efficient state departments  

Experience Shirish has extensive corporate, 
investment banking, risk management, 
commercial and retail banking experience. 
He has a deep understanding of financial 
services, notably across the Asia Pacific, 
Middle East, Africa and Central and Eastern 
European regions.

Career Shirish spent over 30 years with 
Citigroup, where he focused on corporate 
and investment banking, and managed 
commercial and retail banking businesses at 
country and regional level. He has strong risk 
experience at country and regional level and 
was a Senior Credit Officer and a Senior 
Securities Officer at Citigroup. Shirish was 
Co-CEO for Citi’s Europe, Middle East and 
Africa business from 2008 to 2009, and 
Regional CEO Asia Pacific from 2009 to 2011. 

From 2021, Diego was the Co-Chief Executive 
of Pegasus Europe, Europe’s largest-ever 
Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC), 
which was focused on the financial services 
sector and was listed on Euronext 
Amsterdam.

External appointments Diego also sits  
on the Board of the MIB Trieste School  
of Management.

in the post-apartheid administration. Maria 
has served on a number of international 
boards, including Sanlam Ltd, Remgro Ltd, 
and SABMiller plc and more recently was a 
non-executive director of The Saudi British 
Bank and Public Investment Corporation 
Limited before stepping down in  
December 2020.

External appointments Maria is Chair of 
AngloGold Ashanti PLC and a non-executive 
director of Compagnie Financière Richemont 
SA. She is also a member of the Group of 
Thirty, sits on the International Advisory 
Board of the Blavatnik School of Government 
at Oxford University and on the Wits 
Foundation Board of Governors.

Committees  Ri   A   R   N  

He was Chairman of Asia Pacific Banking 
from 2012 until his retirement in 2014.

He was on the Executive and Operating 
Committees of Citigroup from 2008  
to 2014. From June 2014, he was an 
independent non-executive director at  
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia  
until stepping down in October 2022.

External appointments Shirish is an 
independent non-executive director at 
Singapore Life Pte Ltd, and an independent 
non-executive director of Keppel Corporation 
Limited, where he is a member of its Audit 
and Board Risk Committees.

Committees  R   A   Ri   N  

138

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of DirectorsPhil Rivett (68)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed May 2020. Phil was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered.

Dr Linda Yueh, CBE (52)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed January 2023. Linda was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in January 2023.

David Conner (75)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed January 2016. 

Experience Phil has significant professional 
accountancy and audit experience, 
specifically focused in the financial 
services sector. He has a strong technical 
accounting knowledge and understanding 
of disclosure requirements. He has 
broad financial and business experience 
especially of the financial services sector.

Career Phil joined PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(PwC) as a graduate in 1976, becoming a 
Partner in 1986. He spent more than 30 years 
at PwC and was lead relationship Partner 
for several FTSE 100 companies, including a 
number of international banks and financial 
services institutions. He also has substantial 
international experience, having worked 
with banks across the Middle East and Asia, 

Experience Linda is a renowned economist 
and financial broadcaster with a diverse 
range of skills and experience across financial 
services, technology, not-for-profit and 
business-to-business service sectors.

Career Linda has held various academic roles 
and acted in various advisory roles after 
starting her career as a corporate lawyer at 
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.

Linda was Economics Editor at Bloomberg 
News from 2010 to 2012 and Chief Business 
Correspondent for the BBC between 2013 
and 2015. She was a Visiting Professor at LSE 
IDEAS at the London School of Economics 
and Political Science from 2019 to 2022 and 
served on the Independent Review Panel on 
Ring-Fencing and Proprietary Trading for  
HM Treasury. Linda held non-executive 
directorships with Scottish Mortgage 
Investment Trust Plc, London & Partners Ltd 
and JPMorgan Asia Growth & Income Plc.  

Experience David has significant global and 
corporate, investment and retail banking 
experience, strong risk management 
credentials and an in-depth knowledge  
of Asian markets.

Career David spent his career in the financial 
services industry, living and working across 
Asia for 37 years, for both Citibank and  
OCBC Bank. He joined Citibank in 1976 as a 
management trainee and went on to hold a 
number of Asia-based senior management 
roles, including Chief Executive Officer of 
Citibank India and managing director and 
marketing manager at Citibank Japan, 
before leaving Citibank in 2002. David joined 
OCBC Bank in Singapore as Chief Executive 
Officer and director in 2002. He implemented 

in particular China. He became Leader of 
PwC’s Financial Services Assurance practice 
in 2007 and was appointed Chairman 
of its Global Financial Services Group in 
2011. Phil has sat on a number of global 
financial services industry groups, producing 
guidelines for best practice in governance, 
financial reporting and risk management.

External appointments Phil is an 
independent non-executive director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee 
at Nationwide Building Society.

Committees  A   Ri   N  

She was Senior Independent Director of 
Fidelity China Special Situations Plc. Linda 
was awarded a CBE for Services to Economics 
in the New Year Honours List of 2023. Linda 
was a Trustee of the Coutts Foundation and 
Adviser to the UK Board of Trade.

External appointments Linda is a Fellow  
at St Edmund Hall, Oxford University and 
Adjunct Professor of Economics at London 
Business School. She currently serves as an 
independent non-executive director of 
Rentokil Initial Plc and Segro Plc. She is Chair 
of the Baillie Gifford The Schiehallion Fund 
Ltd, an investment company listed on the 
Specialist Fund Segment of the London Stock 
Exchange Main Market. Linda is Executive 
Chair of the Royal Commonwealth Society, 
and an Associate Fellow at Chatham House.

Committees  S   R   N  

a strategy of growth and led the bank 
through a period of significant turbulence. 
David stepped down as Chief Executive 
Officer in 2012 but remained as a non- 
executive director on the board of OCBC 
Bank, before leaving the group in 2014. He 
was previously a non-executive director of 
GasLog Ltd.

External appointments David is Chair of the 
Barnard Cancer Institute and an emeritus 
trustee of Washington University in St Louis.

Committees  A   Ri   R
David is also a member of the Combined 
US Operations Risk Committee of Standard 
Chartered Bank.

139

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportGay Huey Evans, CBE (69)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed April 2015. Gay was appointed 
to the Court of Standard Chartered Bank 
in April 2019.

Jackie Hunt (55)
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed October 2022. Jackie was  
also appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in October 2022.

Robin Lawther, CBE (62)
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed July 2022. Robin was 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in December 2022.

investment banking and investment 
management. She was previously a 
non-executive director at Aviva plc, the 
London Stock Exchange Group plc and Itau 
BBA International Plc. In 2016, she received  
an OBE for services to financial services  
and diversity and a CBE for services to the 
economy and philanthropy in the Queen’s 
Birthday Honours 2021. Gay is a former Chair 
of the London Metal Exchange.

External appointments Gay is a non-
executive director of ConocoPhillips and  
S&P Global, and a non-executive member  
of the HM Treasury board. Gay also sits on 
the panel of senior advisers at Chatham 
House and the board of the Benjamin 
Franklin House.

Committees  Ri  

and Africa. She was Group Chief Financial 
Officer of Standard Life plc from 2010 to 
2013, where she helped transform the life 
insurer into a diverse savings, pensions and 
asset management business. Jackie was 
previously the Senior Independent Director 
of National Express Group PLC, a non- 
executive director of TheCityUK and the 
Deputy Chair of the FCA Practitioner Panel. 
She was also an independent non-executive 
director of Man Group PLC, Rothesay Life 
PLC and OneWeb Holdings Limited.

External appointments Jackie is an 
independent non-executive director 
of Willis Towers Watson plc.

Committees  A   S  

completing her term in May 2022. She 
received a CBE for services to finance 
and diversity in the Queen’s Birthday 
Honours 2020. From 2018 to 2023, she 
served as an independent non-executive 
director of Nordea Bank Abp.

External appointments Robin is 
an independent board member of 
Ashurst LLP and a member of the 
advisory board at Aon PLC.

Committees  Ri   S   R  

Experience Gay has extensive banking and 
financial services experience with significant 
commercial and UK regulatory and 
governance experience.

Career Gay spent over 40 years working 
within the financial services industry, the 
international capital markets and with the 
UK financial regulator. Gay spent seven years 
with the Financial Services Authority from 
1998 to 2005, where she was director of 
markets division, capital markets sector 
leader, with responsibility for establishing a 
market-facing division for the supervision of 
market infrastructure, oversight of market 
conduct and developing markets policy. From 
2005 to 2008, Gay held a number of roles at 
Citibank, including head of governance, Citi 
Alternative Investments, EMEA, before joining 
Barclays Capital where she was vice chair of 

Experience Jackie is a Chartered 
Accountant and has spent most of her 
career within financial services. She 
brings significant UK and international 
financial services experience, including 
asset management, insurance, regulatory 
and accounting knowledge.

Career Jackie has held a number of senior 
management positions in companies 
including Aviva, Hibernian Group, Norwich 
Union Insurance, PwC and RSA Insurance. 
From 2016, Jackie was a member of the 
Allianz SE management Board with executive 
responsibility for the asset management 
and US life insurance divisions, a position 
she held until 2021. Prior to that, Jackie 
was an executive director of Prudential 
plc and CEO of Prudential UK, Europe 

Experience Robin brings extensive 
international banking experience in 
global markets and financial institutions. 
In addition to a broad understanding of 
commercial banking, she has specialist 
knowledge in investment banking, mergers 
and acquisitions and capital raising.

Career Robin spent over 25 years at  
JP Morgan Chase in a number of senior 
executive positions. She has valuable 
executive and non-executive experience 
across global markets and has considerable 
understanding of regulatory and governance 
issues. From 2019 to 2021, she served as a  
non-executive director on the board of  
M&G plc. In January 2014, Robin joined 
Shareholder Executive, which later became 
UK Government Investments (UKGI), as 
a non-executive board member until 

140

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard of DirectorsDavid Tang (69) 
Independent Non-Executive Director 

Appointed June 2019. David was also 
appointed to the Court of Standard 
Chartered Bank in June 2019.

Carlson Tong (69) 
Independent Non-Executive Director

Appointed February 2019. 

Adrian de Souza (53)
Group Company Secretary

Appointed Adrian was appointed Group 
Company Secretary in May 2022.

and regional president of Advanced Micro 
Devices (AMD), Greater China, before joining 
NGP Capital (Nokia Growth Partners) in 
Beijing as managing director and partner in 
2013, a position he held until retiring in June 
2021. David was a non-executive director of 
Kingsoft Corporation, a leading Chinese 
software and internet services company 
listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

External appointments David joined Kaiyun 
Motors, an electric vehicle start-up based in 
China, in June 2021 as Chief Value Officer. 
David is also a non-executive director of 
JOYY Inc., the Chinese live streaming social 
media platform listed on the Nasdaq Stock 
Market. He is also an adviser to NGP Capital.

Committees  Ri   S  

connect schemes and the mutual recognition 
of funds between the mainland and Hong 
Kong. From 2017 until July 2020, Carlson was  
a non-executive director of the Hong Kong 
International Airport Authority. He was a 
member of the Hong Kong Human Resource 
Planning Commission from April 2020 until 
December 2022 and Chair of the Hong  
Kong University Grants Committee from 
January 2016 until he stepped down in 
December 2022.

External appointments Carlson is an 
independent non-executive director of  
MTR Corporation Limited, Chairman of its 
Audit & Risk Committee and a member of its 
Finance and Investment Committee. He sits 
on various Hong Kong SAR government 
bodies and is also an observer on behalf  
of the Hong Kong Government for Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited. He is a board 
member of Hong Kong Investment 
Corporation Limited and the Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange.

Committees  A   Ri

Securities Group PLC, where he was a 
member of the Group’s Executive Committee 
and Head of Legal at SABMiller PLC, Europe.

Experience David has a deep understanding 
and experience of emerging technologies in 
the context of some of our key markets, most 
notably mainland China.

Career David has more than 30 years of 
international and Chinese operational 
experience in the technology and venture 
capital industries, covering venture 
investments, sales, marketing, business 
development, research and development 
and manufacturing. From 1989 to 2004, 
David held a number of senior positions in 
Apple, Digital Equipment Corp and 3Com 
based in China and across the Asia Pacific 
region. From 2004 to 2010, David held various 
positions in Nokia, including corporate  
vice president, chairman of Nokia 
Telecommunications Ltd and vice chairman 
of Nokia (China) Investment Co. Ltd. He went 
on to become corporate senior vice president 

Experience Carlson has a deep 
understanding and knowledge of operating 
in the financial services and regulatory 
sectors in mainland China and Hong Kong.

Career Carlson joined KPMG UK in 1979, 
becoming an Audit Partner of the Hong Kong 
firm in 1989. He was elected Chairman of 
KPMG China and Hong Kong in 2007, before 
becoming Asia Pacific chairman and a 
member of the global board and global 
executive team in 2009. He spent over  
30 years at KPMG and was actively involved 
in the work of the securities and futures 
markets, serving as a member of the Main 
Board and Growth Enterprise Market Listing 
Committee of the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong from 2002 to 2008 (Chair from 2006  
to 2008). After retiring from KPMG in 2011,  
he was appointed a non-executive director  
of the Securities and Futures Commission, 
becoming its Chair in 2012 until he stepped 
down in October 2018. He oversaw a number 
of major policy initiatives during his term as 
the Chair, including the introduction of the 
Hong Kong and Shanghai/Shenzhen Stock 

Career Adrian qualified as a lawyer in 1997. 
Prior to joining Standard Chartered, he was 
General Counsel for Vivo Energy PLC, a 
FTSE-250 pan-African fuel retailer, where he 
was responsible for the Company Secretarial, 
Governance, Ethics, Compliance and Forensic 
Investigations functions, and was a member 
of the group’s Executive Committee.

After working in private practice at 
international law firms Hogan Lovells and 
Clifford Chance, Adrian served as General 
Counsel and Company Secretary at IQSA 
Group (a Goldman Sachs private equity 
business); Company Secretary at Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of the FTSE 100 company, Land 

Reasons why the contribution of each director standing for re-election is, and continues to be, important to Standard Chartered PLC’s long-term 
sustainable success will be included in the Notice of AGM 2024.

141

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement Team

Bill Winters (62) 
Group Chief Executive

Diego De Giorgi (53)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Head of Corporate and Investment Banking, 
Singapore. He has extensive experience in 
the areas of investment banking, corporate 
banking and transaction banking.

External appointments Simon is Chairman  
of the advisory board of the Lee Kong Chian 
School of Business.

External appointments None.

Prior to this, Judy spent 18 years at Citibank, 
where she held various leadership roles in its 
Consumer Banking business in Asia.

External appointments Judy was appointed 
to the board of CapitaLand Investment 
Limited as a Non-executive Independent 
Director in June 2021.

Simon joined the Group as CEO, Corporate & 
Institutional Banking in April 2016. He 
assumed additional responsibility for 
Commercial Banking in March 2018 and the 
Europe & Americas region in January 2021.

Career Simon was previously group 
managing director and chief executive of 
Global Commercial Banking at HSBC. He has 
extensive experience across our markets  
and client segments. Simon joined HSBC  
in 1989 and held a number of senior roles 
there, including deputy chairman and chief 
executive officer, Middle East and North 
Africa; chief executive officer, Korea; and 

Claire joined Standard Chartered as Group 
Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing 
in March 2021.

Career Claire is a seasoned communications 
expert who has led teams at global brands 
in a variety of sectors, in Europe and the US. 
She spent nearly eight years living and 
working in Silicon Valley, including for eBay/
PayPal and latterly as Chief Communications 
Officer at Intel. Throughout her career she 
has been a champion for creating positive 
global impact, including leading Global 
Corporate Responsibility at GlaxoSmithKline. 
Claire is Chair of the Standard Chartered 
Foundation.

Judy was appointed CEO, Consumer, Private 
& Business Banking on 1 January 2021 and has 
been a member of the Group Management 
Team since 2018.

Career Prior to her most recent appointment, 
Judy was Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia, 
a position she held from June 2018. Judy was 
the country CEO for Standard Chartered 
Singapore from 2015 to 2018. She joined 
Standard Chartered in December 2009 as 
the Global Head of Wealth Management 
and led the strategic advancement of the 
Bank’s wealth management business.

Simon Cooper (56)
CEO, Corporate, Commercial & 
Institutional Banking and Europe & 
Americas

Claire Dixon (51)
Group Head of Corporate Affairs, 
Brand & Marketing

Judy Hsu (60)
CEO, Consumer, Private  
& Business Banking

142

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement TeamMary Huen (56)
CEO, Hong Kong and Cluster CEO, 
Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau

Mary was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) for Hong Kong in March 2017, and took 
on an expanded role as Cluster CEO for Hong 
Kong, Taiwan and Macau in January 2021.

Career Mary has over 30 years of experience 
in business management and banking 
services. Prior to her current role, Mary was 
Regional Head of Retail Banking, Greater 
China & North Asia, and the Head of Retail 
Banking, Hong Kong. She is a board member 
of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited and the chairperson of the Board of 
Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited.

External appointments Mary is the vice 
chairperson of the Hong Kong Association  
of Banks, a member of the Banking Advisory 
Committee of the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority and the Aviation Development and 
Three-runway System Advisory Committee.

She is also a representative of Hong Kong, 
China to the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation (APEC) Business Advisory 
Council, and holds Board positions in the 
Hong Kong Tourism Board, the Hospital 
Authority, and the Community Chest of  
Hong Kong.

Benjamin Hung (59)
CEO, Asia

Tanuj Kapilashrami (46)
Group Head, Human Resources

Sunil Kaushal (58) 
CEO, Africa & Middle East

Ben was appointed CEO, Asia on 1 January 
2021. He is the Chairman of Standard 
Chartered Bank (China) Limited and 
Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) 
Limited.

of the Financial Services Development 
Council and a board member of the Hong 
Kong Airport Authority and the Hong Kong 
Hospital Authority. He was also a Council 
Member of the Hong Kong University.

Career Ben joined Standard Chartered in 
1992 and has held a number of senior 
management positions spanning corporate 
and retail banking. Prior to his current role, 
Ben was Regional CEO for Greater China & 
North Asia and CEO for the Bank’s Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management 
businesses globally. He is currently based in 
Hong Kong and has international banking 
experience in the United Kingdom and in 
Canada. Ben was previously chairman of the 
Hong Kong Association of Banks, a member 

Tanuj joined the Management Team as 
Group Head, Human Resources (HR) in 
November 2018.

Career Prior to joining the Group, Tanuj built 
her career at HSBC. She has worked across 
multiple HR disciplines in many of our 
footprint markets (Hong Kong, Singapore, 
Dubai, India and London). Tanuj joined the 
Bank in March 2017 as Group Head, Talent, 
Learning and Culture and took on additional 
responsibility as Global Head HR, Corporate, 
Commercial and Institutional Banking in 
May 2018. 

External appointments Ben is an 
independent non-executive director of the 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. 
He also sits on the Exchange Fund Advisory 
Committee and is a member of the General 
Committee of the Hong Kong General 
Chamber of Commerce. He is a strategic 
adviser at the International Consultative 
Conference on the Future Economic 
Development of Guangdong Province, China.

External appointments Tanuj is a non- 
executive director of Sainsbury’s PLC and  
a member of their Nomination and 
Remuneration committees. She is a member 
of the Asia House board of trustees, of  
which Standard Chartered is a founding 
stakeholder. Asia House is a London-based 
centre of expertise on trade, investment  
and public policy whose mission it is to  
drive political, economic and commercial 
engagement between Asia and Europe. 
Tanuj is also a board member of the UK 
Financial Services Skills Commission.

Sunil was appointed CEO, Africa & Middle 
East on 1 October 2015.

Career Prior to his current role, Sunil was 
regional CEO South Asia, responsible for 
Standard Chartered’s operations in South 
Asia (which included India, Bangladesh, Sri 
Lanka and Nepal). He has over 36 years of 
banking experience in diverse markets and 
has been with Standard Chartered for over 
26 years, holding senior roles across the 
Wholesale and Consumer Bank. Sunil has  
rich experience across the Group’s footprint, 
having served as the Head of Corporate 

Banking in UAE, Head of Originations and 
Client Coverage in Singapore, Global Head 
Small and Medium Enterprises and New 
Ventures in Singapore and Chief Executive 
Officer of Standard Chartered Bank  
(Taiwan) Ltd.

Before joining Standard Chartered in 1998, 
Sunil held various banking positions at a 
number of leading international financial 
institutions.

External appointments None.

143

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportRoel Louwhoff (58)
Chief Technology, Operations and 
Transformation Officer

Tracey McDermott, CBE (54) 
Group Head Conduct,  
Financial Crime and Compliance

Sandie Okoro, OBE (59)
Group General Counsel

Roel joined the Group in November 2021  
as Chief Digital, Technology & Innovation 
Officer, before becoming the Chief 
Transformation, Technology & Operations 
Officer from 1 April 2022. He spearheads the 
Bank’s Technology and Operations strategy 
and the development of its technology 
systems, business resilience framework and 
infrastructure which support its clients and 
employees globally and leads the innovation 
agenda of the Bank. Roel is also responsible 
for leading bank-wide transformation, which 
includes the digital transformation of the 
Bank into an agile, digital and future-focused 
organisation.

Career Prior to joining Standard Chartered, 
Roel was Chief Operations and 
Transformation Officer at ING Bank, where 

Tracey has been the Group Head Conduct, 
Financial Crime and Compliance since 
January 2019.

Career Tracey originally joined Standard 
Chartered as Group Head of Corporate, 
Public and Regulatory Affairs in March 2017, 
subsequently adding Brand and Marketing 
to her portfolio in December 2017 and 
Compliance in March 2018. Prior to joining the 
bank, Tracey served as Acting Chief Executive 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
from September 2015 to June 2016. She joined 
the then Financial Services Authority (FSA)  
in 2001 where she held a number of senior 
roles, including Director of Supervision and 
Authorisations, and Director of Enforcement 
and Financial Crime. Tracey also served as a 
Board Member of the FSA from April 2013, as 
a member of the Financial Policy Committee 
of the Bank of England, and as non-executive 

Sandie Okoro joined the Bank as Group 
General Counsel in April 2022. In the role,  
she leads the Bank’s Legal, Group Corporate 
Secretariat and Shared Investigative  
Services functions.

Career Sandie is a pre-eminent lawyer, having 
served as General Counsel and Senior Vice 
President, and Vice President for Compliance, 
at the World Bank Group. Prior to joining the 
World Bank, Sandie was General Counsel for 
HSBC Global Asset Management and Global 
General Counsel at Barings. Sandie is an 
Honorary Bencher of Middle Temple in the 
United Kingdom (2018) and was named  
one of the Upstanding 100 Leading Ethnic 
Minority Executives (2016), Top 20 Global 
General Counsel (2019) by the Financial Times, 
and was recognised as Britain’s 10th most 

he oversaw operations, technology and the 
broader transformation agenda. During his 
seven years in this role, Roel led the successful 
digital transformation of ING, seen by many 
as a trailblazer in digitising financial services. 
Before ING, Roel spent 10 years at British 
Telecom (BT), latterly as CEO of BT-Operate 
based in the UK. At BT, he redefined the 
technology and operational approach and 
led the BT communication side of the 2012 
Olympics before applying that learning in 
delivering turn-key digital and infrastructure 
solutions for major exhibition and sporting 
events.

External appointments None.

director of the Prudential Regulation 
Authority from September 2015 to June 2016. 
Prior to joining the FCA, Tracey worked as a 
lawyer in private practice, having spent time 
in law firms in the UK, USA and Brussels. In 
2016, Tracey received a CBE for her services  
to financial service consumers and markets. 
She is a trustee of the Standard Chartered 
Foundation.

External appointments Tracey chairs the  
Net Zero Banking Alliance, is a member of  
the International Regulatory Strategy Group 
Council and chairs the Conduct and Ethics 
Committee of the Fixed Income, Currencies 
and Commodities Markets Standards Board. 
She is also a non-executive director of 25x25 
Limited and a Member of the Management 
Board of Cambridge Endowment for 
Research in Finance.

influential person of African and African 
Caribbean heritage by Powerlist (2023).

Sandie received a lifetime achievement 
award from the UK Black Solicitors Network 
(2016), was named one of the Power 100 
Women by City A.M., 100 Women to Watch 
by Female FTSE Board and received an OBE 
for services to Diversity in International 
Finance in 2024.

External appointments Sandie was 
appointed inaugural Chair of the UK-based 
charity Women of the World Foundation in 
June 2021, she received an honorary lifetime 
Emeritus membership of the Law Societies’ 
Compact and Forum for Sustainable 
Development Goal 16 in June 2022, and  
she is a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare 
Company.

Sadia Ricke (53) 
Group Chief Risk Officer, 
director of Standard Chartered Bank

Sadia Ricke joined the Bank in February 2023.

Career Sadia has a broad range of financial 
and risk experience and a thorough 
understanding of our footprint markets.

She was appointed Group Country Head and 
Head of Coverage and Investment Banking 
for the UK in 2017. In 2019, Sadia became 
Deputy Chief Risk Officer and then Group 
Chief Risk Officer in January 2021.

She joined the Bank from Société Générale, 
where she started in 1994 in the Financial 
Institutions Credit department. She gained 
more than 13 years of structured finance 
experience in the Natural Resources and 
Energy Finance division where she was 
Co-Deputy Head, a position she held until 
2010. She then became Head of Credit Risk 
for SG CIB in Paris, before moving to Hong 
Kong to take on the role of Head of Global 
Finance for Asia Pacific in January 2015.  

External appointments Sadia became a 
member of the International Financial Risk 
Institute Foundation Board in February  
2023 and was appointed as Vice-Chair in 
March 2023.

144

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportManagement TeamCorporate  
governance

This section provides an insight  
into key Board items and activities 
covered during the year, as well 
as the structure of the Board, its 
committees, and its meetings.

Governance 

Strategy 

External 
environment

Key areas of  
Board discussion 
and activities 
during 2023

Risk  
management

People, culture 
and values 

Financials and 
performance 

Shareholder  
and stakeholder 
engagement 

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Code compliance

The directors are pleased to confirm that the Company 
continued to comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2018 (UK Code) and the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code contained in Appendix C1 of the Hong 
Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) for the whole of the year  
under review. 

We share insights into how governance operates within 
the Group and how we have applied the principles set 
out in the UK Code and HK Code in the pages that follow 
and in particular on page 217. Copies of the UK Code and 
the HK Code can be found at frc.org.uk and hkex.com.hk 
respectively.

The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct 
regarding directors’ securities transactions on terms no less 
exacting than required by Appendix C3 of the Hong Kong 
Listing Rules.

Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group 
confirms that all directors have complied with the required 
standards of the adopted code of conduct.

To the extent applicable, information required by  
paragraphs 13(2) (c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 of  
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is available in  
Other disclosures on pages 217 to 228

Our stakeholders, their interests: driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity

The Board is conscious of the need to create and maintain positive stakeholder relationships and spends significant time 
interacting with them to better understand their views, as well as the opportunities, challenges and the Group’s impact 
across our diverse markets. 

These relationships were considered extensively during Board and Committee meetings and in decision-making, and  
also in the individual and collective engagements that took place throughout the year. Examples of this can be found  
in the stakeholder engagement section on pages 157 to 161, within the feature sections on the following pages and on  
pages 54 to 64.

Clients 

Regulators and 
governments

Investors 

Suppliers 

Society 

Employees 

Read more  
on page 55

Read more  
on page 57

Read more  
on page 57

Read more  
on page 58

Read more  
on page 59

Read more  
on page 60

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

145

 
 Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023

 Strategy

•  Reviewed the Group’s strategy over two days at a Board and 
senior management offsite, discussing progress, possible 
enhancements and confirming that it remains appropriate

•  Reviewed and approved the 2024–2028 Corporate Plan 
as a basis for preparation of the 2024 budget, receiving 
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that  
the plan is aligned to the Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Statement

•  Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational 

performance of the business across client segments, product 
groups and regions, which included details of their priorities, 
progress, opportunities and response to current events.  
This included deep dives into the following areas:

–  Information and Cybersecurity

–  Private Banking

–  SC Ventures

–  Hong Kong, South Korea, and the ASEAN region

•  Received and discussed regular corporate development 

updates

•  Discussed and reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy

•  Discussed and reviewed the Group’s Transformation, 

Technology & Operations strategy

Spotlight
Spotlight
Driving transformation  
Liverpool Football Club 
with SC Ventures
sponsorship renewal
SC Ventures, the Group’s innovation, fintech investment and 
The Group announced a four-year extension to their main 
ventures arm, was set up in 2018 and now encompasses a 
sponsor agreement with Liverpool Football Club (LFC) and 
portfolio of 36 ventures across four themes: Digital Assets, 
LFC Women in July 2022. The Board discussed and reviewed 
Sustainability & Inclusion, Online Economy & Lifestyle and 
the proposed plans to renew the long-standing relationship 
SME & World Trade. In 2023, the Group completed the 
and fully supported continuing the partnership through 
restructuring and ringfencing of SC Ventures’ activities. 
to the end of the 2026/27 season, including increased 
Within the Group, SC Ventures is driving a culture of 
investment in LFC Women. LFC is a globally renowned 
innovation by scaling up intrapreneurship, fintech 
football club, with many followers across our markets in 
engagement, and collaborating with the bank’s clients. 
Asia, Africa and the Middle East.  
SC Ventures is continuing to build a sustainable ecosystem 
The Board recognised this as a unique and valuable 
of ventures and partners for the bank and accelerating 
opportunity to help deliver our narrative and Stands. 
transformation in banking. 
Continuing to invest in brand and business marketing where 
Given the size of the SC Ventures portfolio, the Board 
appropriate is an important part of the Group’s Corporate 
considered how best to articulate its value both to the 
Plan.
organisation and externally to investors. The Board 
scrutinised management’s plans in respect to SC Ventures’ 
current and future business model. The Group will focus on 
putting Ventures in a position where it would help transform 
the core bank. 

•  Received updates on the Group’s investment in its associate 
China Bohai Bank and on real estate investments in China

Stakeholders

•  Approved the sale of its global aviation finance leasing 

business 

•  Monitored the sales of its subsidiaries in Angola, Cameroon, 
The Gambia, and Sierra Leone, and its Consumer, Private & 
Business Banking (CPBB) business in Tanzania

Clients

Investors

Employees

 Risk management

•  Received and discussed briefings from management on 
ICS matters, approved a revised ICS Risk Appetite and 
completed training on the topic

•  Approved the Operational Resilience Self-assessment
•  Reviewed work on projects to replace and upgrade data 

centres in Asia

•  Discussed macroeconomic headwinds and tailwinds as both 

risks and opportunities for the Group

•  Reviewed and discussed risk reports from the Group Chief 

Risk Officer

•  Reviewed and approved the draft Group’s Resolvability 

Assessment, delegating the final approval to the Board Risk 
Committee

•  Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on 
the findings of their 2023 Periodic Summary Meeting Letter

•  Reviewed the FCA’s periodic Firm Evaluation Letter 
•  Assessed progress in continuing to strengthen the Group’s 

risk culture

•  Approved the Risk Appetite for 2024 which included a 

consideration of principal risks 

•  Approved the renewal of the Group’s insurance policies for 

2023/2024

•  Approved material changes to the Enterprise Risk 

Management Framework 

Spotlight
Spotlight
Blue Sky Thinking session 
Resolvability
facilitated by Robert Zoellick, 
Resolvability was a fundamental part of the Board’s 
a former President of the 
agenda for the year. They reviewed, challenged and 
approved enhancements to the updated Group’s 
World Bank and Chair of our 
Resolvability Assessment Report provided to the Bank 
of England in February 2022 and approved the Group’s 
International Advisory Council 
Resolvability disclosure published in June 2022. In July 2022, 
the Board attended a teach-in session of the Master 
Resolution Playbook. It also participated in a Resolution 
The Board Risk and Audit Committees jointly attended a 
simulation exercise with senior leaders and experts in 
Blue Sky Thinking session entitled the “Forward-Looking 
December 2022 to role play a hypothetical scenario that 
Geopolitical  Agenda”. Robert Zoellick led the session by 
could arise if Standard Chartered were to enter resolution. 
introducing three key meta-trends (technology innovation, 
demographics and the environment) and three key 
Further information can be found on page 173
constituents (consumers, workers and investors). Drawing 
upon analyses prepared by our Group Regulatory and 
Public Affairs team, committee members considered the 
interaction of meta-trends, key constituents and policy 
levers. Committee members then analysed how key policy 
and regulatory levers can be used in response to pressures 
created by the meta-trends and constituents. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and 
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees

146

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued

 Financials and performance

•  Monitored the Group’s financial performance

•  Approved the 2022 full year and 2023 half year results

•  Monitored and assessed the strength of the Group’s 

capital and liquidity positions

•  Considered the carrying value of the Group’s investments

•  Considered the Group’s approach to capital management 

and returns

•  Approved a 2022 final dividend and 2023 interim dividend

•  Approved two share buy-back programmes

•  Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, the 

Group’s major investment programmes in 2023

•  Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, investor 

relations matters

•  Approved the Group’s 2022 Country-by-Country Reporting 

disclosures

Spotlight
Dividend payments and  
share buy-backs

In 2023, the Board approved two dividend payments and two 
ordinary share buy-back programmes. As part of its decision-
making process, the Board noted the importance of approving 
distributions and other capital management activities within 
an appropriately prudent framework. Assurance was also 
sought from management regarding the protection of the 
Group’s capital position and its ability to execute planned 
investment activities for future growth. By November 2023, 
the two share buy-back programmes initiated during the year 
successfully completed approximately $2 billion in shareholder 
returns for 2023, complemented by a total dividend payment 
of $569 million. This progress brings us closer to our goal of 
achieving at least $5 billion in shareholder returns by 2024. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and 
governments

Investors

 People, culture and values

•  Approved the Group’s 2022 Modern Slavery Statement

•  Approved the Group’s refreshed Code of Conduct and Ethics

•  Discussed progress made against the Group’s people 

strategy and culture aspirations

•  Discussed aspects of the Group’s global employee 

engagement survey, My Voice

•  Received updates on the progression and evolution  

of the Management Team’s and senior management’s 
succession plans following a number of recent 
appointments

•  Discussed the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives

•  Reviewed the Board Diversity Policy

•  Approved changes to the Group’s operational  

resilience strategy

•  Reviewed an annual report update on the operation and 
effectiveness of the Group’s Speaking Up programme

Spotlight
Culture of Excellence

The Board considered the Group’s People Strategy and 
discussed the extent to which objectives could be 
introduced to better measure the transformation of the 
organisation. They discussed with management the 
Group’s culture aspiration, which is to encourage a culture of 
ambition, action and accountability, improve operational 
efficiency and drive client centricity through a culture of 
high performance and execution. The Board noted the 
importance of the People Strategy to the success of the 
transformation of the business, and ultimately the delivery 
of the Group’s strategic objectives.

Stakeholders

Clients

Employees

Society

 External environment

•  Received updates on the macroeconomic headwinds  
and tailwinds in the global economy, including an 
assessment of the impact on the key drivers of the  
Group’s financial performance

•  Received internal and external briefings and input  

across a range of subjects, including:

–  global market trends

–  the global macro impact of geopolitical uncertainties  

in the Middle East 

–  China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic 

–  Russia-Ukraine war

–  China/ US tensions

–  societal and business implications of global 

demographic trends

–  strategic insights into global markets, geopolitics and 

policy

–  regulatory developments and updates

Spotlight
Global market trends 

The Board invited a number of internal experts and guest 
speakers to attend Board dinners providing important and 
specialist insight and context to the Board discussion on a 
variety of matters. Geopolitical uncertainties and global 
market trends were among the topics which were covered 
this year.

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and  
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees 

147

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued

 Governance

•  Monitored developments and trends in corporate 

governance, focusing on changes proposed by the UK 
Government, FRC and Hong Kong Stock Exchange

•  Noted and/or approved changes to the membership of the 

Board’s committees, including the appointment of Linda Yueh 
as the new Committee Chair of the CSC

•  Received reports at each scheduled meeting from the Board 
committee chairs on key areas of focus for the committees 
and quarterly updates from Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited (SCBHK) and its Audit and Board Risk 
committees

•  Undertook training on directors’ duties and the governance 

landscape

•  Discussed and reviewed the independence, performance and 

annual re-election of the non-executive directors

•  Approved the re-appointment of the independent adviser to 

the Board on cyber security and cyber threats

•  Approved the replacement of the independent adviser to the 
Board on financial crime with an annual externally-facilitated 
session on financial crime risk

•  Authorised potential conflicts of interest relating to directors’ 

external appointments

•  Discussed the observations and themes arising from the 2023 
internal Board and committees’ effectiveness review ahead of 
approving the 2024 Action Plan

•  Reviewed, and where appropriate, approved updates to the 

Terms of Reference for each Board committee

•  Further developed meaningful linkages between the Board 

and its subsidiaries at chair, board and committee level

  Shareholder and  
stakeholder engagement

•  Engaged with investors, held meetings with brokers, discussed 

the views of institutional shareholders

•  Discussed and reviewed the approach to engaging investors 
and other relevant stakeholders ahead of the 2023 AGM 

•  Engaged with clients, shareholders and regulators
•  Engaged with colleagues around the business throughout  

the year

•  Hosting a stewardship event, with a focus on strategy, 

including sustainability

•  Received bi-annual updates from Investor Relations, including 
share price and valuation analysis, market engagement and 
ownership analysis and sell-side sentiment

Spotlight
Appointment of the Group 
Chief Financial Officer

In 2023, the GNC led the search process for a successor 
to Andy Halford as GCFO. The GNC oversaw a 
robust search and assessment process, conducted in 
conjunction with executive search firm Russell Reynolds, 
which resulted in some exceptionally talented internal 
and external candidates being interviewed and 
considered. Diego De Giorgi emerged as the preferred 
choice, and joined the Group as GCFO Designate in 
September 2023. He received a thorough induction 
and training programme, meeting colleagues 
and other stakeholders from around the Group’s 
footprint. Following regulatory approval, Diego’s 
appointment as GCFO took effect on 3 January 2024. 

Stakeholders

Clients

Regulators and  
governments

Investors 

Suppliers

Society

Employees 

Spotlight

Stewardship Event 

The Group Chairman welcomed external investors 
to our annual stewardship event in November 
2023, alongside the chairs of the Board Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. The event took a hybrid 
format and was attended by investors representing 
43 per cent of the Group’s shareholders by value. 
The Group Chairman provided an update regarding 
the Group’s strategy, including with respect to 
sustainability, and was supplemented by opening 
remarks from the Remuneration Committee Chair. The 
Audit Committee Chair also discussed key updates on 
the activities of the Audit and Board Risk Committees 
during the year. This was followed by a Q&A session.

Stakeholders

Investors

For a detailed overview of our strategy see pages 24 and 25

148

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceBoard and committee structure: decisions, responsibilities and delegation of authority

Standard Chartered PLC

Audit Committee

Board Risk Committee

Culture and Sustainability 
Committee

Governance and  
Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

The Board sets the Company’s purpose, values and strategy. Under the Board’s Terms 
of Reference, it is collectively responsible to shareholders for the governance, strategic 
direction and performance of the Company and the delivery of sustainable value within 
a framework of prudent and effective controls to which the Company’s culture is aligned. 
The Board is responsible for understanding the views and interests of key stakeholders and 
for considering those views and interests during Board discussions and decision-making. 
It is responsible for overseeing the Group’s conduct and affairs and for promoting its long-
term sustainable success. 

The Board discharges its responsibilities directly or, in order to ensure effective independent 
oversight and stewardship, delegates specified responsibilities to its committees. 

Detail of how the Board fulfilled its responsibilities in 2023, as well as key topics discussed 
and considered by the Board committees, can be found in this Directors’ report.

Biographies for each director are set out on pages 137 to 141

The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight and review of 
matters relating to financial reporting, the Group’s internal 
controls, including internal financial controls, and the work 
undertaken by the Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance, 
Group Internal Audit and the Group’s Statutory Auditor, Ernst & 
Young LLP (EY).

The Board Risk Committee is responsible for oversight and review 
of the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, the appropriateness  
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems and 
the principal risks, including Climate Risk, to the Group’s business. 
Furthermore, it considers the implications of material regulatory 
change proposals and due diligence on material acquisitions  
and disposals.

The Culture and Sustainability Committee is responsible for 
oversight and review of the Group’s culture and sustainability 
priorities.

The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible for 
oversight and review of Board and executive succession, overall 
Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues.

The Remuneration Committee is responsible for oversight and 
review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives.

Read more  
on page 162

Read more  
on page 168

Read more  
on page 174

Read more  
on page 177

Read more  
on page 182

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Group Chief 
Executive

The Board delegates authority for the operational management of the Group’s business  
to the Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters that are 
necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business. The Board 
holds the Group Chief Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.

Management Team

The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, regional CEOs, client segment CEOs, and our global function heads.  
It has responsibility for executing the strategy. Details of the Group’s Management Team 
can be found on pages 142 to 144.

Terms of Reference for the Board and each committee are in place to provide clarity over where responsibility for decision- 
making lies. These are reviewed annually against industry best practice and corporate governance provisions and guidance, 
including the PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Responsibilities (as amended).

With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee (where the Group Chairman is its Chair) all of the Board 
committees are composed of INEDs who bring a diversity of skills, experience and knowledge to the discussion.

Written Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

149

 
Our Board committees
The Board places significant reliance on its committees by 
delegating a broad range of responsibilities and issues to 
them. It therefore remains crucial that effective linkages are 
in place between the committees and the Board as a whole, 
not least as it is impracticable for all INEDs to be members of 
all of the committees. Mechanisms are in place to facilitate 
these linkages, including ensuring that there are no gaps 
or unnecessary duplications between the remit of each 
committee and overlapping membership between Board 
committees where necessary. Alongside interconnected 
committee membership, the Board regularly receives a  
written summary of each of the committee’s meetings,  
and verbal updates at the Board, where appropriate.

Further details on each committee, including their oversight 
and focus during 2023, can be found in the Board committee 
reports starting on page 162.

Our Board meetings
The Board is committed to maintaining a comprehensive 
schedule of meetings and a forward agenda to ensure its time 
is used most effectively and efficiently, and is supported by the 
Group Company Secretary to facilitate this. Flexibility in the 
programme is important and permits key items to be added 
to any agenda so that the Board can focus on evolving and 
important matters at the most appropriate time.

Performance against delivery of the agreed key financial 
priorities is reviewed at every scheduled meeting, with 
particular reference to the detailed Group management 
accounts. The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief 
Financial Officer comment on current trading, business 
performance, the market, colleagues, relevant stakeholders, 
and regulatory and external developments at each scheduled 
meeting, and present comparative data and client insight.

In addition, the Group Chief Risk Officer periodically attends 
meetings to update the Board on key risks.

The Group Chairman holds INED-only meetings ahead 
of each scheduled Board meeting, which provides the 
opportunity for discussion on key agenda items and other 
matters without the executive directors and management 
present.

Sir Iain Lobban and Paul Khoo, as independent advisers to the 
Board and its committees on cyber security and cyber threat 
management and financial crime respectively, attended a 
combination of Board and committee meetings to provide  
an independent and current view on the Group’s progress in 
this area. 

Board activities during 2023

January

February 

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

October

November  December

Key:

Scheduled meeting

Ad hoc meeting

Informal session

AGM

150

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance 
 
Board composition, roles and attendance in 2023

The Group Chairman is committed to 
ensuring optimal Board effectiveness.  
A key mechanism to drive this is the 
appropriate composition and balance  
of the Board.

The Board is composed of a majority of independent non-
executive directors who provide an independent perspective, 
constructive challenge, and monitor the performance and 
delivery of the strategy within the Risk Appetite and controls 
set by the Board.

Detail regarding Board diversity can be found within the Governance  
and Nomination Committee report on pages 177 to 181

Group Chairman

Executive directors

Group Chairman
José Viñals

Group Chief Executive 
Bill Winters

Group Chief Financial Officer 
Andy Halford

Responsibilities
Responsible for leading the Board, ensuring 
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role  
and developing the Group’s culture with  
the Group Chief Executive. Promotes high 
standards of integrity and governance 
across the Group and ensures effective 
communication and understanding 
between the Board, management, 
shareholders and wider stakeholders.

Responsibilities
Responsible for the management of 
all aspects of the Group’s businesses, 
developing the strategy in conjunction  
with the Group Chairman and the Board 
and leading its implementation.

Responsibilities
Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury, 
Strategy, Group Corporate Development, 
Group Investor Relations, Property and Supply 
Chain Management functions.

As announced on 21 December 2023, Diego 
De Giorgi succeeded Andy as Group Chief 
Financial Officer on 3 January 2024.

Attendance

Attendance

Attendance

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Y

8/8

1/1

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Independent non‑executive directors

Senior Independent Director 
Maria Ramos

Responsibilities
Provides a sounding board for the Group 
Chairman and discusses concerns that 
are unable to be resolved through the 
normal channels or where such contact 
would be inappropriate with shareholders 
and other stakeholders. Chairs the 
Governance and Nomination Committee 
when considering succession of the Group 
Chairman. Is available to shareholders 
if they have concerns that cannot be 
resolved or for which the normal channels 
would be inappropriate. Can be contacted 
via the Group Company Secretary at 
1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD.

AGM

Scheduled

Ad hoc

Attendance

Y

8/8

1/1

Attendance

AGM Scheduled Ad hoc

 David Conner

 Gay Huey Evans, CBE

 Phil Rivett

 David Tang

 Shirish Apte

 Robin Lawther, CBE

 Jackie Hunt

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

 Jasmine Whitbread

N/A

3/3

 Linda Yueh, CBE

 Carlson Tong

Y

Y

8/8

8/8

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

INEDs who 
stepped down in 
2023

Christine Hodgson 
and Jasmine 
Whitbread stepped 
down from the 
Board on 31 January 
2023 and 3 May 
2023 respectively.  
No Board meetings 
took place in 2023 
prior to Christine 
leaving the Board.

INEDs who 
joined in 2023

Linda Yueh joined 
the Board on 
1 January 2023.

Board committee roles and attendance 
can be found in the committee sections 
starting from page 162.

The biographies of each director are set 
out on pages 137 to 141

Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023. 
Further information can be found on page 139

The roles of the Group Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive are distinct from 
one another and are clearly defined in 
detailed role descriptions which can be 
viewed at sc.com/roledescriptions

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

151

 
Director induction
Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023. Her 
experience can be found in her biography on page 139. 
Along with Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, who 
were all appointed in 2022, the new directors were given a 
comprehensive induction programme, tailored to meet each 
director’s individual level of experience and expertise. 

Diego De Giorgi was appointed as Group Chief Financial 
Officer on 3 January 2024, following the retirement of 
Andy Halford on 2 January 2024. Diego received in-depth 
handovers from Andy, which included a period of shadowing 
from September 2023 to January 2024. As well as numerous 
tailored, individual training sessions, Diego also attended 
formal training sessions on topics including Directors’ Duties 
(on 20 September 2023), Climate Risk (on 28 September 2023), 
Trading Activity Wind-Down Governance (on 28 September 
2023), Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) litigation 
(on 30 November 2023), ICS Horizon Scanning (on 5 December 
2023) and Directors’ Duties applicable to directors of Hong 
Kong-listed companies (on 14 December 2023). Following 
his relevant training provided by a firm of solicitors on 
14 December 2023, Diego confirmed his understanding of  
the obligations as a director of a listed issuer pursuant to  
Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules. 

The Group Company Secretary supports new directors 
as they undertake their induction programmes, which are 
typically completed within the first six to twelve months of 
their appointment. The induction programmes are regularly 
reviewed and take into account directors’ feedback to ensure 
continuous development and improvement.

Progress against induction programmes
The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible 
for periodically reviewing the induction programme of all 
new INEDs, to understand the level of progress made and 
to consider where any areas of additional focus might be 
required. The Committee is satisfied that all new INEDs have 
made good progress completing induction work, both in 
London and as part of overseas Board visits to our markets. 

2023 director training overview

Ongoing development plans
Continuous training and development beyond a director’s 
induction plan is essential for maintaining a highly engaged, 
effective and well-informed Board. Ongoing development 
plans also help ensure directors lead with integrity and 
promote the Group’s culture, purpose and values.

Mandatory learning and training are important elements of 
directors’ fitness and propriety assessments as required under 
the UK Senior Managers and Certification Regime. During 
the year, all directors received a combination of mandatory 
learning and training, internal and external briefings, 
presentations from guest speakers, and papers on a wide 
range of topics to ensure the directors are well informed and 
that the Board remains highly effective. The table below gives 
further detail on who received these briefings. 

In 2023, Board members received briefings from and engaged 
with leading diplomats, former national security advisers, 
former leaders of international organisations and economists 
on topics including China’s emergence from the COVID 
pandemic, the evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle 
East, and the global macroeconomic environment. 

The Board committee members also received specific 
training relevant to the work of their respective committees. 
In 2023, the Board Risk Committee received training on topics 
including: Threat Scenario-led Risk Assessment, Trading 
Activity Wind-Down Governance, Operational Risk and the 
implications of Basel 3.1. 

The Group Chairman reviews with each director their training 
and development needs both in real time and as part of 
the annual performance cycle. Where it is recognised that 
the Board or individual directors need further training or 
development in key areas, additional sessions are arranged 
with subject matter experts.

Directors’ duties 
and regulatory 
updates

Induction1

Digital  
assets

Climate Risk

ICS Horizon 
Scanning 
Emerging Risks

José Viñals

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Shirish Apte2

David Conner

Gay Huey Evans, CBE

Jackie Hunt2

Robin Lawther, CBE2

Maria Ramos

Phil Rivett

David Tang

Carlson Tong

Jasmine Whitbread3

Linda Yueh, CBE2

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

1  Applicable to directors who received induction training during 2023

  Director attended the session

2  Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh joined the Board on 

4 May 2022, 1 July 2022, 1 October 2022 and 1 January 2023 respectively

3   Jasmine Whitbread stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2023

   Director was unable to attend the session but received any accompanying 
material and had opportunities to raise questions and observations with the 
Group Chairman and Group Company Secretary

152

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceAll of the directors have access to the advice of the Group 
Company Secretary, who provides support to the Board and  
is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters. 
Directors also have access to independent, professional 
advice at the Group’s expense where they judge it necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities as directors. 

Directors’ performance
The Group Chairman led the evaluation of individual director 
performance during 2023. These one-to-one sessions 
considered:

•  their performance against core competencies and their 

individual effectiveness

•  their time commitment to the Group, including (where 
relevant) the potential impact of any outside interests

•  their ongoing development and training needs

•  the Board’s composition, taking into account when each 

INED envisaged stepping down from the Board

•  the current and future committee membership and 

structure

•  their engagement across the Group.

These performance reviews are used as the basis for 
recommending the re-election of directors by shareholders 
at the 2024 AGM and to assist the Group Chairman with 
his assessment of the INEDs’ competencies. In addition, the 
Group Chairman has responsibility for assessing annually the 
fitness and propriety of the Company’s INEDs and the Group 
Chief Executive Officer under the Senior Managers Regime. 
These assessments were carried out in respect of each INED 
and the Group Chief Executive and no issues in relation to 
fitness and propriety were identified.

Group Chairman’s performance
Maria Ramos, as Senior Independent Director, reviewed José 
Viñals’ performance as Group Chairman, meeting with each 
director separately to take their feedback. Consolidated 
feedback was shared with him.

Time commitment
Our INEDs commit sufficient time in discharging their 
responsibilities as directors of Standard Chartered. In general, 
we estimate that each INED spent approximately 40 to 90 
days on Board-related duties.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

153

 
Directors’ report

Corporate governance

Spotlight

Interview with Dr Linda Yueh

An insight into one of our new INEDs

Dr Linda Yueh  
Independent Non-Executive Director

Q. What drew you to Standard Chartered  
and have your initial impressions aligned with 
your experiences as an INED one year on?
A. One of the key things that attracted me to Standard 
Chartered was the Group’s culture and its people. Prior to 
my appointment, I had a number of discussions with several 
directors, including the Group Chairman, who offered insights 
into serving on the Board of a global financial institution. I 
was particularly impressed with their willingness to listen and 
engage collaboratively in constructive discourse over issues of 
importance to the Group. One year on, I’m pleased to say that 
I am working with a great group of people from a variety of 
backgrounds, who possess strong skills and industry-leading 
experience in their respective fields. In my role as Chair of the 
Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC), I am able to 
actively engage with the issues around culture that are central 
to a people business. This has been particularly rewarding.

Q. How effective have you found your  
induction programme in preparing you as an 
INED and for the Standard Chartered Board  
and committee discussions?
A. The induction programme, designed to be undertaken 
over several months, is extensive and well-designed. As my 
knowledge of the Group grew, my induction meetings became 
a mixture of introductions and substantive discussions, which 
worked well. I met with various employees and stakeholders 
around the Group, which provided a great opportunity to 
listen to, and understand, a number of different aspects of the 
bank. The induction programme also included joint sessions 
with other INEDs who joined the Board in 2022. These joint 
induction sessions were extremely helpful, as we learned 
from each other’s perspectives and got to know each other 
better through the process. In addition, I joined part of the BRC 
meetings as an observer, on discussions covering topics such 
as reputation and sustainability risks, which dovetail into the 
work of the CSC. I also travelled with the Board to Hong Kong, 
Seoul and Singapore and undertook part of my induction in 
these overseas locations. Market visits are a helpful part of the 
induction programme and provide important commercial and 
regulatory context, which helped me to better understand the 
global nature of Standard Chartered’s business. 

Q. As the new chair of the Culture and 
Sustainability Committee, what do you see as  
its key priorities over the next five years?

A. It is a privilege to chair the CSC and to help define the 
priorities of the Group in areas which lie at the heart of  
our organisation and inform everything that we do. 

154

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

In terms of culture, our priorities include embedding a high-
performance culture, whereby our people can excel and do so 
in prudent ways. Diversity and inclusion are essential building 
blocks which will go a long way in ensuring that our employees 
can succeed and thrive. Another key component to driving a 
healthy culture is through embedding valued behaviours, such 
as risk awareness, into the Group’s culture. 

In terms of sustainability, our key priorities include achieving 
the Group’s net zero transition pathway, with particular focus 
being placed on ensuring that the milestones are clearly 
defined, measured and delivered. In addition, biodiversity and 
other emerging issues around safeguarding our planet will 
also be in focus in the coming years. 

Q. How important is a company’s culture to 
you and what are your views on the culture at 
Standard Chartered?
A. Standard Chartered is a people business, so culture is 
central to its success and ability to contribute positively to our 
stakeholders, including clients, investors, employees and wider 
society. The Group is a global institution with footprints in 
over 52 markets, so it is particularly important that INEDs and 
executive directors continually engage with our stakeholders 
and always remain sensitive to the cultural and business 
context in which particular issues arise in individual markets. In 
the year I’ve been on the Board, I have been impressed by the 
focus on culture and the thoughtfulness of the Group in this 
area that is not straightforward to manage. 

Q. As an INED, how do you build connections and 
maintain relationships with our key stakeholders?
A. Delivering for our stakeholders is an area I have placed 
great focus on. I am pleased that the CSC has been refocused 
on supporting the Board’s engagement notably with our 
employees, communities, suppliers and shareholders. For 
instance, our relationship with our colleagues has been 
strengthened by honing our Board workforce engagement 
sessions this year. During our workforce engagement sessions, 
which regularly take place as part of the Board’s overseas 
market visits as well as in the Group’s London headquarters, 
INEDs will spend time with colleagues to understand the 
areas in which the business excels, and also the areas where 
the My Voice survey scores are below average. With those 
insights, the CSC and the Board can have informed follow-up 
discussions, where we can reflect and act upon what we have 
heard to continually improve the Group’s operations.

Board effectiveness

The 2023 Board and committees’ effectiveness review was 
conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company 
Secretary, and in accordance with the UK Code.

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions to be 
achieved following the externally facilitated Board evaluation 
conducted in 2022. The 2023 Action Plan was regularly 
reviewed during the year and good progress had been made 
against many of the actions as evidenced by this year’s 
internally facilitated Board effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

•  The Board remains effective at testing and 

•  The Board engaged well with a range of key 

shaping the Group’s strategy.

stakeholders at different levels.

•  Board meetings had focused well on business 
opportunities with a good level of discussion 
and challenge, which helped to set strategic 
priorities.

•  The Board has a comprehensive understanding 
of the Group’s principal risks and explores them 
extensively.

2024 Action Plan

•  Review the length and focus of Board papers, 
ensuring a focus on key points for the Board  
to understand, discuss, challenge and agree  
on actions.

•  Evaluate the balance of topics on the Board 
agenda to maximise time allocation and 
focus on key strategic items, challenges and 
commercial opportunities.

•   The Board agenda had accommodated the 

impact of emerging geopolitical vulnerabilities 
and the evolving macroeconomic landscape.

•  The management of the transition of new 
INEDs on the Board had been handled well.

•  Enhance measurement of progress on the 

Group’s engagement with its key stakeholders.

•  Continue to enhance the sustainability aspect 

of the Board’s education programme.

Internal evaluation process 

Review approach 
agreed 

Questionnaires 
completed

Evaluation  
and report

Findings shared with 
committee Chairs 
and committees

Findings discussed with  
the Group Chairman and 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee

Board discussion and agreed  
Action Plan for 2024

155

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDetails of the directors’ external directorships can be found 
in their biographies on pages 137 to 141. Before committing to 
an additional appointment, directors confirm the existence of 
any potential or actual conflicts, that the role will not breach 
their limit as set out by the PRA, and provide the necessary 
assurance that the appointment will not adversely impact 
their ability to continue to fulfil their role as a director of the 
Company. All directors continue to hold no more than four 
non-executive directorships (or one executive directorship 
alongside two non-executive directorships) permitted under 
the General Organisational Requirements Part of the PRA 
Rulebook.

Our established internal processes ensure that directors 
do not undertake any new external appointments without 
first receiving formal approval of the Board. The Board has 
delegated authority to make such approvals to the Group 
Chairman, with the exception of his own appointments. Of 
those INEDs who took on new external directorships during 
the year, two were regarded as significant directorships 
(appointed to the board of a listed company) and as 
such were announced to the market in line with our listing 
obligations. Further detail on the specific appointments are 
provided below:

•  Carlson Tong was appointed to the board of Hong Kong 
Stock Exchange as a Board member on 23 April 2023.

•  Jackie Hunt was appointed to the Board of Willis Towers 

Watson plc as an independent non-executive director on  
1 April 2023.

The two directors discussed their respective appointments 
with the Group Chairman in advance of accepting the 
positions. Each director confirmed the existence of any 
potential or actual conflicts; provided assurance that the 
respective roles would not breach their limits as set out by 
the PRA; and confirmed that their appointments would not 
impact their abilities to devote sufficient time and focus to 
both their Board and committee responsibilities.

2023 Board effectiveness review
This year’s review took the form of a questionnaire-based 
evaluation for the Board and its committees which was 
completed by every Board member. These questionnaires 
explored some of the themes for the previous year’s review 
as well as probing the Board’s and committees’ performance 
through the year. 

The results were compiled into a detailed report and 
conclusions were discussed with the Group Chairman and 
by the Governance and Nomination Committee ahead of 
a Board discussion. At the Board meeting, the key findings 
and recommendations were presented along with an Action 
Plan for 2024, which was then approved. Details of the key 
observations from this year’s review and the agreed Action 
Plan are set out on page 155.

The Board’s five committees were also included as part of the 
effectiveness review. The observations and key themes arising 
from the review were shared with the relevant committee 
Chairs before being circulated to each of the committees and 
action plans for 2024 agreed. Details of the key observations 
and action plans for each of the committees can be found 
within each of the committees’ reports.

Director independence
The GNC reviews the independence of each of the non-
executive directors, taking into account any circumstances 
likely to impair, or which could impair, their independence. 
Recommendations are then made to the Board for further 
consideration.

In determining the independence of a non-executive director, 
the Board considers each individual against the criteria set 
out in the UK Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules and also 
considers their contribution and conduct at Board meetings, 
including how they demonstrate objective judgement and 
independent thinking.

The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be 
independent of Standard Chartered, concluding that there 
are no relationships or circumstances likely to impair any 
INED’s judgement.

External directorships and other business 
interests
Board members hold external directorships and other outside 
business interests. We recognise the significant benefits 
that broader boardroom exposure provides for our directors. 
However, we closely monitor the nature and quantity of 
external directorships our directors hold, in order to satisfy 
ourselves that any additional appointments will not adversely 
impact their time commitment to their role at Standard 
Chartered, and to ensure that all of our Board members 
remain compliant with the PRA directorship requirements, as 
well as the shareholder advisory groups’ individual guidance 
on ‘overboarding’. These requirements impose a limit on 
the number of directorships both executive and INEDs are 
permitted to hold.

156

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceStakeholder 
engagement

Ensuring authentic engagement 
across our markets

Investors

Clients

Suppliers

Regulators and 
governments

Society

Employees

The Board recognises the importance of stakeholder 
consideration and interaction. It forms a crucial part of Board 
decisions and discussions, as well as the review of our purpose, 
values and strategy.

Board activities led to a number of invaluable opportunities to 
engage with stakeholders across the Group’s diverse network, 
including those identified on the following pages. Directors 
did not just engage collectively with stakeholders, but also 
individually. The Remuneration, Culture and Sustainability, 
Board Risk and Audit Committees also engaged directly with 
employees. Informal and formal sessions with stakeholders 
across our footprint help provide INEDs and independent 
adviser members with a comprehensive understanding of the 
Group’s market operations, implementation of strategy, and 
the external and internal impact of the Group’s activities.

Further detail regarding the Board’s engagement with our 
stakeholders can be found on the following pages. Detail 
regarding how Board committees and their members 
engaged with stakeholders can be found in the committee 
report sections starting from page 162.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Chairman and INED travel across our markets

The Chairman and 
INEDs, either together or 
individually, visited  
a range of markets.

 Europe and  
the Americas

1.  Germany 
2.   Poland 
3.  UK 
4.  US

 Africa and  
Middle East

5.  Ghana 
6.  Kenya 
7.  South Africa 
8.  UAE

  Asia

9. 

 China, including  
Hong Kong
10.  Indonesia 
11.   Japan 
12.   South Korea 
13.   Malaysia 
14.   Singapore 
15.   Vietnam

4

3

2

1

5

8

6

7

11

12

9

13

15

14

10

3. London, United 
Kingdom
In September 2023, the 
Board and committees 
held their meetings in 
London. The Board was 
joined by UK-based 
colleagues for an informal 
top talent lunch at which 
colleagues shared their 
experiences of working 
at Standard Chartered. 
The Board also heard 
from other UK colleagues 
through the employee 
townhall, held to mark 
170 years of Standard 
Chartered’s presence in 
the UK. Board members 
also met with the UK PRA, 
and Hong Kong Trade 
Development Council  
in London. 

9. Hong Kong, China 
The Board and 
committees held their 
meetings in Hong Kong in 
March 2023. During this 
visit, the Board met with 
clients, colleagues, senior 
government officials and 
regulators. An informal 
top talent lunch was 
held where the Board 
met with employees 
from Hong Kong 
representing different 
functions and discussed 
the goals, challenges 
and opportunities of the 
business. The Board also 
took the opportunity to 
visit Mox Bank, the Group’s 
virtual bank in Hong Kong 
and hosted a client dinner.

10. Jakarta, Indonesia
In June 2023, the Board 
travelled to Jakarta. 
During this visit, the Board 
took the opportunity to 
meet with a wide range 
of stakeholders, including 
informal discussions 
with senior leaders, 
other colleagues at 
the bank as well as top 
government officials. 
The Board also hosted 
an employee townhall 
and concluded the visit 
with a client dinner 
celebrating 160 year of 
Standard Chartered’s 
presence in Indonesia. 

12. Seoul,  
South Korea
The Board held its 
November meetings 
in Seoul. The week’s 
programme began with 
a global townhall, with 
colleagues around the 
world tuning in virtually. 
The Board also hosted 
a talent lunch and met 
with colleagues based 
in Korea. As part of the 
trip, the Board met with 
clients, top government 
officials, and local 
regulators, and engaged 
with local entrepreneurs 
for a community 
engagement session.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

157

 
 
 
The Board’s engagement with investors

Our approach
Aiming to deliver robust returns and long-term, 
sustainable value for shareholders is of key importance 
to the Board. We continuously reflect on how the Board 
engages with our investors, openly seeking feedback and 
reviewing previous activities. We believe this strengthens 
engagements and helps support the Board’s focus on 
developing open and trusted relationships with investors.

During the year, we maintained a comprehensive 
programme of engagement, including with investor 
advisory bodies and credit rating agencies, and provided 
updates on progress made to transform our business for 
improved returns.

The Group Chairman and other Board directors had direct 
contact with investors and advisory voting bodies during 
the year, and received regular updates from the Investor 
Relations team, including reports on market developments. 
The Group Chairman, as part of his role, leads engagement 
with shareholders and hosted the 2023 AGM alongside 
fellow Board members. The Group Chairman and certain 
Board members also held an investor stewardship event. 

Maria Ramos, our Senior Independent Director, was 
available as an alternative point of contact for shareholders.

Bill Winters and Andy Halford were the primary 
spokespeople for the Group in 2023. Throughout the year 
they engaged extensively with existing shareholders 
and potential new investors during individual or group 
meetings and conferences, either in person or virtually. 
Diego De Giorgi has replaced Andy, following his 
retirement, in this regard from January 2024. In addition, 
Ben Hung, CEO Asia hosted investors and analysts in 
Asia aimed at promoting greater awareness of our 
strategy and progress in that region. Various members 
of the Group’s Management Team also participated 
in investor conferences throughout the year.

Institutional shareholders
The Group maintains a diverse, high-quality and 
predominantly institutional shareholder base. The Investor 
Relations team has primary responsibility for managing 
day-to-day communications with these shareholders 
and provides support to the Group Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other 
Board members and senior management in conducting 
a comprehensive engagement programme.

Presentation material and webcast transcripts are made available 
on the Group’s website and can be viewed at sc.com/investors

Investor stewardship event
The Group Chairman hosted a stewardship event in 
November 2023 alongside the chairs of the Board 
Audit and Remuneration committees. The Group 
Chairman provided an update regarding the Group’s 
strategy, including with respect to sustainability, which 
was supplemented by opening remarks from the 
Remuneration Committee Chair. The Audit Committee 
Chair also provided updates on both the Audit and Risk 
committees and their activities during the year. This 
was followed by a Q&A session. Questions could be 
submitted in advance of the event, asked live in person 
or via a web-based platform for those who joined 
electronically.

Debt investors and credit rating agencies
Our Debt Investor Relations team has primary responsibility 
for managing the Group’s relationships with debt investors 
and the three major rating agencies, with local market chief 
executives and chief financial officers leading on smaller 
subsidiary ratings. In 2023, management met with debt 
investors across the regions, and maintained a regular 
dialogue with the rating agencies.

It is important that the Group, as an active issuer of senior 
unsecured and non-equity capital, maintains regular 
contact with debt investors to ensure continued appetite  
for the Group’s credit. The Group’s credit ratings are a key 
part of the external perception of our financial strength  
and creditworthiness.

Further information can be viewed at sc.com/investors

Engagement with investors: what we did during 2023

February
2022 full-year 
results and 
roadshows

March
Conferences and 
roadshows

April
2023 first quarter 
results and 
conferences

May
AGM, Asia 
seminar and 
conferences

June
Conferences

July
2023 half-year 
results 

August
Roadshows

September
Conferences and  
roadshows

October
2023 third-quarter  
results

November
Stewardship event, 
sustainability event  
and conferences

December
Conferences 

158

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceThe Board’s engagement with investors

Retail shareholders
The Group Company Secretary oversees communication with our retail shareholders.

AGM
The meeting was held on 3 May 2023. We were pleased 
that in addition to in-person attendance, we offered 
shareholders the opportunity to participate electronically 
via a live web portal. Within this portal, shareholders were 
able to view a live video feed of the AGM, submit voting 
instructions and questions in writing or ask them through 
an audio line. Shareholders who attended the meeting 
in person were able to submit voting instructions and ask 
questions directly.

The AGM is a key date in the Board’s calendar and the 
hybrid format ensured that shareholders could engage 
with them regarding the Company’s recent performance 
and strategic priorities. Questions received from 
shareholders covered a diverse range of topics, including 
climate and the Group’s net zero pathway; diversity; the 
Group’s strategy; director remuneration; shareholder 
engagement; share price and regulatory developments.

All Board-proposed resolutions were passed, with 
shareholder support for each ranging from 94.70 per cent 
to 100 per cent. We remain very grateful for the support 
of our shareholders.

Detail regarding the directors’ remuneration report 
resolution can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report starting on page 182. Further detail on how the 
Group engaged with investors more generally can be 
found on page 57.

Voting results from the 2023 AGM can be viewed at 
sc.com/investors

A summary of responses to questions on key themes 
raised by shareholders was made available on our website 
after the meeting and can be found at sc.com/agm

The Board’s engagement with clients and suppliers

Clients are central to everything we do and promoting 
productive, sustainable relationships with them is a key 
priority. In 2023, Board members, either collectively or 
individually, met clients face-to-face or virtually to keep 
abreast of developing client trends, experiences and needs. 
As part of our overseas Board programme, members of 
the Board also travelled within our footprint for meetings 
with clients and hosted client dinners throughout the year. 
In addition, updates on clients’ insights form part of deep 
dives into product segment strategy at Board meetings.

Suppliers provide efficient and sustainable goods and 
services for our business and certain members of the  
Board also met with them during the year. Detail on how  
the Group engaged more generally with clients and 
suppliers can be found on pages 55, 56, 58 and 59 of the 
Strategic report.

The Board’s engagement with regulators and governments

The Board, either collectively or individually, engaged 
with relevant authorities and regulators including in the 
UK, Hong Kong and South Korea to discuss key items 
and developments. Topics of discussion varied, including 
change management, Execution Risk, information and 
cybersecurity, Data Risk, Model Risk management, Climate 

Risk, Credit Risk and macroeconomic developments, 
resolvability, and risk-free rate transition. Further detail  
on how the Group engaged with regulators and 
governments more generally can be found on page 57  
of the Strategic report.

The Board’s engagement with society

The Board receives regular updates from management 
concerning the communities and environment in which  
we operate.

Either collectively or individually, directors were able to 
visit some of the Group’s markets this year. Directors 
participated in a volunteering day in Jakarta, where 
they taught four modules from our financial education 
programme to children aged 15–16. In Seoul, directors took 
part in a community engagement session where they 
facilitated a mock investment and solution challenge 
with three female start-up CEOs from our Women in 
Entrepreneurship programme. 

In addition, external and internal speakers provided input 
to the Board’s discussions, which covered key societal issues 
such as China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic, the 
evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle East, and the 
global macroeconomic environment. Further detail on how 
the Group engaged with society more generally can be 
found on page 59.

159

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportThe Board’s engagement and linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries

The Remuneration Committee Chair also held a 
videoconference attended by the subsidiary remuneration 
committee chairs and the chairs of subsidiary boards 
that have remuneration responsibilities. The call was 
also attended by the Group Chairman, other members 
of the Group Remuneration Committee and executives 
from Human Resources and Reward. The call fostered 
knowledge sharing and best practice between the Group 
Remuneration Committee and the subsidiary remuneration 
committees and raises awareness of the priorities felt by  
the wider workforce in our markets. Topics that were 
discussed included:

•  The Fair Pay Charter and recent benefits-related 

initiatives

•  Key focus areas for the 2023 year-end pay review and 

our drive to embed a high-performance culture through 
strong differentiation

•  Discussion on key focus areas for the subsidiaries

•  2024 priorities, including the development of a new 

recognition platform.

Other activities that took place during 2023 to further 
strengthen the linkages across the Group included  
the following:

•  The Group Chairman attended a SCBHK board meeting

•  The Chair of the Group Audit Committee attended an 
audit committee meeting of Standard Chartered Bank 
(Singapore) Limited (SCBSL). The audit committee 
chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL attended one Group Audit 
Committee Meeting

•  The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended a 

risk committee meeting of SCBHK. The risk committee 
chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL joined one Group Board Risk 
Committee meeting.

Further detail regarding how the Group engages with 
its stakeholders can be found on pages 54 to 64.

The Board and its committees recognise the importance 
of creating, maintaining and building upon appropriate 
linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries. In 2023, the Group 
Chairman and INEDs engaged with the Group’s subsidiaries 
through a number of forums. This included a video-enabled 
chair and committee chair engagement session, as well as 
other forms of interaction.

The Group Chairman hosted a virtual subsidiary chair 
engagement session during 2023. The event opened with 
an update from Bill Winters on the third-quarter results, 
progress against our strategic priorities, and areas of  
focus for the remainder of the year and going into 2024. 
The subsidiary chairs asked questions, both on the Group’s 
performance and questions specific to their markets. 
José Viñals then updated the subsidiary chairs on Board 
changes, areas of focus for the year so far at the PLC Board, 
and Board diversity. The Chairman finished his thoughts on 
the macro outlook and challenges for the Group into 2024. 

Committee chair engagement
The Audit Committee held its annual videoconference 
during the year, followed by a Q&A session. This was hosted 
by the Audit Committee Chair and attended by the Group 
Chairman and the chairs of subsidiary audit committees. 
The Group Financial Controller; Group Head, Internal Audit; 
Regional Head, Audit, Europe and the Americas, and Africa 
and the Middle East; Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime 
and Compliance; members of the Group’s statutory auditor, 
EY, including the lead audit partner; the Group Company 
Secretary and the Committee Secretary also participated  
in the call. Items discussed during the call included:

•  2023 Audit Committee focus areas

•  Group Finance update, which featured UK Audit and 
Corporate Governance reforms and likely impact on 
subsidiaries, IFRS 9 models, increased sustainability 
disclosure and an update on capitalised software

•  Conduct, financial crime and compliance update

•  Group Internal Audit reporting to subsidiary audit 

committees

•  Group statutory audit update from EY.

The Board Risk Committee Chair hosted the annual 
videoconference with chairs of the subsidiary board 
risk committees, followed by a Q&A session. The Group 
Chairman; Group Chief Risk Officer; Global Head of 
Enterprise Risk Management and Deputy Chief Risk Officer 
Standard Chartered Bank; the Group Company Secretary 
and Committee Secretary also participated in the call.

Items discussed during the call included:

•  2023 Board Risk Committee focus areas

•  Group Chief Risk Officer’s 2023 priorities

•  Update on Model and Treasury Risk.

160

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceThe Board’s engagement with employees

The Board places great importance on workforce 
engagement and values its interactions at all levels of the 
Group. Two-way dialogue through a variety of forums 
helps build the Board’s understanding of key issues and 
developments around its markets, as well as providing an 
insight into the hands-on experiences of colleagues.

The role of the Board is distinct from management, and 
the directors are aware of the importance of overseeing, 
supporting and, where necessary, challenging management 
in implementing its people strategy and ensuring that 
the voice of colleagues is heard and reflected in decision-
making. 

Following a review of the existing Board workforce 
engagement model by the CSC, an enhanced model 
involving more face-to-face colleague interaction was 
approved and implemented during the year. This enhances 
the model that was put in place immediately preceding the 
COVID pandemic and was reliant on virtual touchpoints. 
As part of these changes, the Board continues to adopt an 
alternative workforce engagement method as set out in the 
UK Code.

The enhanced model is designed to improve how Board 
members gather and share feedback obtained from 
colleagues, while paying special attention to expanding 
participation in engagement sessions to a more diverse 
set of voices. In 2023, the Board met colleagues in various 
markets, including Hong Kong, Jakarta, Seoul and London, 
with the enhanced model being trialled successfully in 
London, where the Board conducted informal listening 
sessions in September, and again as part of the Board’s trip 
to Seoul in November. Ahead of these informal listening 
sessions, directors were briefed on the individual market, 

including local trends provided by the annual employee 
engagement survey (My Voice) and other relevant data 
points offered by local and regional management teams. 
Following the listening sessions, feedback was subsequently 
shared with the CSC and other stakeholders, where 
appropriate. Through these sessions directors were able 
to appreciate the challenges, successes and concerns 
shared by colleagues in each of the markets. The Board will 
continue to implement our enhanced model of engagement 
in London and in three overseas markets which the Board 
plans to visit in 2024. 

In addition to this enhanced model, the Group has a 
comprehensive employee listening programme, through 
which the Board has an opportunity to understand diverse 
employee perspectives. These tools include the annual 
employee engagement survey, a continuous listening 
programme, lifecycle surveys and diagnostic research 
on specific areas of focus, such as flexible working and 
performance management. Details on all of our employee 
engagement can be found on page 60. 

The Board is also informed about the operation of the 
Speaking Up programme, including on the themes of 
employee concerns raised through Speaking Up, employee 
confidence level in Speaking Up and the programme’s usage 
volume. For more details on Speaking Up, please refer to 
page 131. Our Brand and Culture Dashboard has been in 
place since 2018 and provides a comprehensive overview 
of cultural change by reporting on several key metrics that 
allow us to monitor progress of our culture journey.

Further detail regarding employee engagement this 
year can be found within the Culture and Sustainability 
Committee report starting on page 174.

INTERNAL\Internal Recipient 

INED Kenya Visit  

161

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
 
 
 
 
Audit Committee

“In light of the challenging 
external environment, the 
Group’s investment in China 
Bohai Bank (Bohai), and the 
Group’s exposures to China 
Commercial Real Estate (CRE) 
in particular, was an area of 
significant focus.”

Committee composition

Phil 
Rivett 
(Chair) 

David 
Conner

Christine 
Hodgson,  
CBE1

Shirish 
Apte 

Jackie 
Hunt

Maria 
Ramos

Carlson 
Tong

8/8

8/8

1/1

8/8

8/8

8/8

8/8

1  Christine stepped down from the Committee on 1 May 2023.

I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023. This report sets out the areas of significant 
focus for the Committee and its activities over the course of the year. 
Throughout the year, the Committee has carefully scrutinised and 
challenged credit impairments, key accounting issues, significant 
accounting estimates and judgements made by management to 
ensure that they are appropriate and clearly communicated in the 
Group’s public disclosures. In light of the challenging external 
environment, the Group’s investment in China Bohai Bank (Bohai),  
and the Group’s exposures to China Commercial Real Estate (CRE) in 
particular, was an area of significant focus. The Committee reviewed 
carrying values for larger investments and management overlays.
Sovereign ratings and credit impairments have also been reviewed 
and discussed, including Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nigeria and Ghana.  
The Committee is mindful of the work of the BRC on emerging 
sovereign and country risks. The Audit Committee’s work during the 
year complemented the wider review undertaken by the BRC on 
sovereign and country risks. 
The Committee has been focused on the Group’s implementation 
plan addressing UK ACG reforms, including the FRC’s consultation on 
the UK Code and legislation published, and later withdrawn, by the 
UK government. In readiness for those proposals, work has been  
done on controls, process improvement and examining work already 
undertaken on stress testing, going concern and viability statements. 
Following its consultation, the FRC decided not to take forward a 
number of proposals. The Committee is considering which of the 
proposals the Group may decide to take forward on a voluntary  
basis. The updated UK Code was published in January 2024 and 
management is reviewing the implications and timings, with reporting 
being provided to the Committee regularly throughout the year.
As the Board-appointed Consumer Duty Champion, I am fully 
engaged on the progress of Standard Chartered Bank’s 
implementation plans, through regular briefings with the Consumer 
Duty Accountable Executive. The Committee also receives updates  
on Consumer Duty, including progress on agreed commitments  
and actions to ensure that Consumer Duty is fully embedded in  
our customer experience. 

162

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for oversight and advice to the  
Board on matters relating to financial, non-financial and narrative 
reporting. The Committee’s role is to review, on behalf of the Board, 
the Group’s internal controls, including internal financial controls. 
The Committee has exercised oversight of the work undertaken by 
the internal Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) and 
Group Internal Audit (GIA) functions and EY. The Committee Chair 
reports to the Board on the Committee’s key areas of focus 
following each meeting.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be  
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended 2023 Committee meetings?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief  
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate (from 
2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer; Group General Counsel; 
Group Head, Internal Audit; Group Head of CFCC; Group Head, 
Central Finance; representatives from Group Finance; Group 
Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary. Paul Khoo, 
independent adviser to the Board, attended a discussion on 
Financial Crime Compliance-related matters.

As part of, and in addition to most scheduled Committee  
meetings, the Committee held private members-only meetings. 
The Committee also met with the Group’s Statutory Auditor, EY  
and the Group Head, Internal Audit, without management being 
present. The Committee members have detailed and relevant 
experience and bring an independent mindset to their role.

The Board is satisfied that Phil Rivett has recent and relevant 
financial experience. Phil is a chartered accountant with over  
40 years’ experience of professional accountancy and audit 
focused on banks and insurance companies. He led the audits  
of a number of leading banks during his career as senior audit 
partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is also chair of the audit 
committee for Nationwide Building Society.

Biographical details of the Committee members can be 
viewed on pages 137 to 141

The Committee reviewed and discussed the refresh of the Group 
Code of Conduct and Ethics, and recommended this to the Board for 
endorsement. This was a substantial refresh, designed to provide a 
guide for colleague behaviour in a fast-changing world with new 
technologies including artificial intelligence, customer expectations 
and the shifting geopolitical landscape. We were keen to understand 
the roll-out and training that would be provided to fully embed this 
within the Group.
The Committee is cognisant of the benefits of engaging with broader 
stakeholders and updating them on the Committee’s priorities and 
activities. As Audit Committee Chair, I participated in the Group’s 
stewardship event in November 2023, where the work of the Audit 
Committee was discussed. Details on the stewardship event may be 
found on page 158.
The Committee has exercised its authority delegated by the Board for 
ensuring the integrity of the Group’s published financial information 
by discussing and challenging the judgements and disclosures made 
by management, and the assumptions and estimates on which they 
are based. The Committee has exercised judgement in deciding 
which of the issues it considered to be significant in the financial 
statements, and this report sets out the material matters that it has 
considered in these deliberations. 
As a result of the Committee’s work in 2023, assurance has been 
provided to the Board on the quality and appropriateness of the 
Group’s financial reporting, and on internal audit, compliance and 
regulatory matters, to continue to safeguard the interests of the 
Group’s broader stakeholders. The following pages provide insight 
and context into the Committee’s work and activities during the year.

Phil Rivett 
Chair of the Audit Committee

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year

Financial  
reporting

•  Satisfied itself that the Group’s accounting policies and practices are appropriate.

•  Reviewed the clarity and completeness of the disclosures made within the published financial statements, 

in particular, that they are fair, balanced and understandable.

•  Monitored the integrity of the Group’s published financial statements and formal announcements relating 

to the Group’s financial performance, reviewing the significant financial judgements, estimates and 
accounting issues.

•  Considered the forthcoming UK ACG Reforms and discussed how the Group will implement the new 

proposals.

•  Considered the ‘Audit Committees and External Audit Minimum Standard’ published by the FRC in May 

2023 and is satisfied that the Committee met the relevant requirements. 

Significant accounting judgements considered during 2023 are shown below.

The Committee can confirm that the key judgements and significant issues reported are consistent with the 
disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements as set out in Note 1 starting on page 367.

Key area

Action taken

Impairment of 
loans and 
advances

•  Reviewed and challenged, on a quarterly basis, reports detailing the composition and credit quality of the 

loan book, concentrations of risk and provisioning levels.

•  Understood the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model output, reviewed ,considered and challenged 

judgemental Post Model Adjustments (PMAs) and management overlays in both the wholesale and retail 
portfolios on a quarterly basis, that were required to estimate ECL. 

•  Applied careful consideration and challenge on ECL provisions relating to China CRE lending and 

sovereign exposures. 

• 

In the case of PMAs, understood adjustments made where model performance breached monitoring 
standards or validation standards. 

•  Reviewed and challenged management’s proposed reduction of management COVID overlays for CPBB, 

as the outlook has improved during 2023.

•  As well as the expectation of elevated losses in industries and locations, paid particular attention to the 

China CRE sector and certain sovereigns. In respect of high-risk credit grade exposures, received briefings 
on business plans, including remedial actions and management assessment of the recoveries and 
collateral available.

•  Received a briefing on the assessment of the output of the Group’s Monte Carlo model incorporating a 
wider range of scenario outcomes than the previous model, with the effect of increasing non-linearity in 
the model output. Reviewed and challenged the judgement to release the previously held PMA for CPBB, 
as a result of the output of these model changes. Benchmarked the ECL non-linearity calculated using the 
Monte Carlo model against discrete scenarios as a stand-back assessment.

•  Reviewed the Group’s high-level quantitative assessment of the impact of Climate Risk on the Group’s ECL 
and considered the materiality of the impact and the judgement to disclose a potential range of impact, 
rather than to adjust the ECL given the immaterial impact.

•  Received a briefing on the performance of ECL models and the remediation plans in place to address 

material non-performance issues, where these had been identified.

•  Received a briefing on the Group’s adoption of the high-quality practices relating to IFRS 9 ECL and the 

areas of focus recommended by the PRA in recent Dear CFO letters.

•  Considered the appropriateness of the staging of higher-risk loans. For Stage 3 loans, monitored the 

impairment coverage rates, recovery forecasts and material movements.

•  Challenged management on the assumptions made on the decline in Bohai’s Net Interest Margin (NIM), 

and the outlook should China GDP not improve.

•  Reviewed and challenged management’s assessment that the Group maintained significant influence 

and satisfied itself that it remained appropriate to continue to equity account for the investment.

•  Received reports and updates at each reporting period detailing the key processes undertaken to produce 
and validate valuations of financial instruments, including any changes in methodology from prior years 
and significant valuation judgements. 

•  Received regular updates on the level of unsold positions in the syndications portfolio and the valuation of 

these positions and plans for sell down. 

•  Reviewed credit valuation adjustments, debit valuation adjustments, funding valuation adjustments and 
own credit adjustments, and considered the explanation and rationale for any significant movements.

Carrying value 
of investments 
in associates

Valuation of 
financial 
instruments 
held at fair 
value

163

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Other areas of focus
Goodwill 
impairment

Recoverability 
of parent 
company’s 
investment in 
subsidiaries
Disposals of 
aviation finance 
business and 
businesses in 
the Africa and 
Middle East 
(AME) region
Classification of 
assets as held 
for sale

Hold to collect 
portfolio

Restructuring 
costs
Taxation

Provisions for 
legal and 
regulatory 
matters

•  Reviewed management’s annual assessment of goodwill impairment, covering key assumptions (including 

forecasts, discount rate and significant changes from the previous year), headroom availability and 
sensitivities to possible changes in key assumptions and related disclosures.

•  Discussed and challenged management’s impairment assessment of investments in subsidiaries.

•  Reviewed and challenged the accounting treatment and impact of the disposals of the aviation finance 

business and businesses in the AME region.

•  Reviewed management’s assessment of whether certain assets or disposal groups should be reclassified 
as held for sale. This included reviewing the facts and circumstances for the proposed sale of the business 
exits in the AME region, the sale of the aviation finance business, shipping assets and remaining Principal 
Finance investments.

•  After the collapse of several US banks during the first quarter of the year, reviewed the Group’s portfolio of 
hold to collect debt securities on a quarterly basis to monitor the amount of any unrecognised losses and 
to understand the potential impact.

•  Reviewed and considered, on a quarterly basis, income statement charges and credits classified as 

restructuring.

•  Reviewed and considered a paper on the key drivers of the Group’s tax rate, and updates on the Group’s 

Deferred Tax Assets, tax exposures and recent tax developments.

•  Considered the impacts of the global minimum tax rules which will apply from 2024.
•  Considered advice presented on the current status of significant legal and regulatory matters, and 

reviewed management’s judgements on the level of provisions and the adequacy of disclosure, as set  
out in Note 26 on page 434.

Going concern 
assessment and 
viability 
statement

•  Reviewed management’s process, assessment and conclusions with respect to the Group’s going concern 

assessment and viability statement, including the forward-looking Corporate Plan cashflows, the results of 
various stress tests that explore the resilience of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and business 
model, principal and emerging risks, liquidity and capital positions and key assumptions. Ensured that the 
going concern assessment and viability statement is consistent with the Group’s Strategic report and other 
risk disclosures. 

Further details can be found on pages 369, 218 and 229

Fair, balanced 
and 
understandable

•  Considered, satisfied itself and recommended to the Board that the processes and procedures in place 

ensure that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy, and the business risks it faces. 

164

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Examples of 
deeper 
discussions into 
specific topics

•  EY regional partner and topical overviews: Received a presentation from EY’s local regional partners in 

India on the Group’s global business services hubs. We also held discussions with EY’s specialist partners on 
Climate Risk and ACG reforms, providing external perspective and peer comparison. These EY regional 
partner overviews and technical topics will continue in 2024 and beyond.

•  UK ACG reforms implementation approach: Received and discussed updates on the implementation by 
the Group, including end-to-end controls and process improvement. Discussion focused on the adequacy 
of resourcing, potential impact to Committee and Board responsibilities under the new requirements and 
broader market developments associated with the reforms. The proposed approach for an Audit and 
Assurance Policy (AAP) was discussed, with the Committee providing feedback on this. Even though this 
was a proposal not taken forward by the FRC, the Committee continues to consider what might be done 
on a voluntary basis, where beneficial for the Group. 

•  Aspire programme: Discussed an update on the Group’s Aspire programme (a programme launched  

to deliver a modern technology system and data landscape for financial management and reporting). 
Discussion focused on the programme’s potential in driving control enhancement and cost efficiencies  
in resourcing. 

•  Internal financial controls: Received and discussed a paper setting out the approach taken to safeguard 

the production of the Group’s financial books and records. 

•  IFRS 9 models: Received and discussed updates on the Group’s use of IFRS 9 ECL models.

•  Finance resourcing: Reviewed and discussed a paper providing assurance that the Accounting and 

Financial Reporting function is adequately and appropriately resourced; the qualifications, experience and 
training of colleagues is appropriate; and in the context of a stretching agenda, the level of resource is 
deemed to be appropriate to cover the implementation of ACG reforms, new capital rules under Basel 3.1 
and the deployment of the Aspire programme. 

•  Tax update: Received and discussed a paper setting out an update on international tax reform and a 
review of tax exposures and deferred tax assets. EY’s specialist tax partner also joined this discussion.

•  Large Exposures: Received and discussed reports on the methodology supporting the Group’s Large 

Exposures reporting to the regulators. 

•  Financial regulatory reporting: Received and discussed an update on the Group’s financial regulatory 

reporting remediation programme.

•  Data management: Received and discussed updates on progress in reducing the Group’s Data Risk 

exposure. The H1 2023 discussion focused on managing Data Privacy risks in SC Ventures investments  
and Data Sovereignity Risk in high-risk jurisdictions, given numerous data storage, transfer and  
access obligations across the Group’s footprint. The H2 2023 discussion focused on progress made in 
refreshing the focus of the Data Shield Programme, previously known as the Group’s Data and Privacy 
Transformation Programme, resourcing and the roadmap and timelines to reach the desired end-state. 
This will continue to be an area of focus for 2024.

•  China Data Security: Received and discussed an update on China Data Security measures. 

•  Financial Crime: Reviewed and discussed an update on Financial Crime, cognisant of the work of the  

BRC and Board on this matter.

•  Report of the Group Money Laundering Report Officer (MLRO): Reviewed and discussed the annual 

report from the MLRO. 

•  Group Code of Conduct Refresh: Received and discussed a paper setting out the refreshed Code, which 
better connects to the Group’s valued behaviours and introduces additional areas such as data ethics.  
The Committee recommended the Code to the Board for endorsement. 

•  Politically Exposed Persons (PEP): In light of external events, received and discussed a paper setting out 

an overview of the Group’s approach to managing PEP risk.

•  FCA Consumer Duty: Received updates on Standard Chartered Bank’s implementation plans and 

oversight for compliance with the FCA Consumer Duty. Particular focus was placed on management 
information, client documentation, pricing and processes. This will continue to be an area of focus for 2024.

•  Major disputes, significant regulatory and government investigations: Received and discussed updates 

on major disputes and significant regulatory government investigations facing the Group.

•  Technology costs: Reviewed and considered updates from management and EY on work undertaken on 

capitalised technology costs, including software as a service (SaaS) arrangements.

•  Technology controls: Reviewed and considered updates from EY on the results of their testing of 

privileged user access management controls, noting improvements made by management in this area 
during 2023.

165

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Group Statutory 
Auditor, EY 

Non-audit 
services

Internal 
controls

•  Reviewed and discussed the risks identified by EY’s audit planning, as well as EY’s planned audit strategy  

in response to those risks.

•  Satisfied itself that EY has allocated sufficient and suitably experienced resources to address these risks 

and reviewed the findings from the audit work undertaken.

•  Sought and received assurance that no undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees,  

to ensure that audit work can be conducted effectively and independently.

•  Conducted an annual performance and effectiveness review of EY. Input was received from Committee 
members, chairs of subsidiary audit committees, the Group Management Team, regional/country chief 
financial officers, members of the Group Finance Leadership Team and GIA senior leadership. The results 
of this input were discussed by the Committee. Overall, it was felt that EY is considered to be effective, 
objective and independent in its role as the Group’s Statutory Auditor. The Committee agreed to propose 
to the Board that the re-appointment of EY as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for a further year be 
recommended to shareholders at the 2024 AGM. This recommendation was made without any influence 
from a third party and free from any contractual obligation to do so, including for the avoidance of doubt, 
any contractual term described in Article 16(6) of the Audit Regulation.

•  Reviewed and discussed EY’s audit planning report and any updates, audit results reports and interim 

review reports.

•  Received and discussed a paper setting out EY’s control themes and observations from the 31 December 

2023 year-end audit, as well as an update on these matters later in the year.

•  Reviewed and discussed EY’s approach to the private Written Auditor Report to the PRA for the year 

ended 31 December 2023. Updates from management were also provided. 

•  Received reports from EY and management regarding EY’s FCA Client Assets (CASS) audit of Standard 

Chartered Bank.

The Committee met privately with EY at the end of certain Committee meetings, without management 
being present.
Phil Rivett met regularly with the EY partners leading the Group’s audit during the course of the year.
The Company complies with the Statutory Audit services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee responsibilities) Order 2014, which 
relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the external auditor. As a UK 
public interest entity, the Group is required to tender the audit every 10 years and rotate the auditor every  
20 years. As long as the Committee remains satisfied with EY’s performance, the Group has no current 
intention of tendering for an alternative external auditor to commence before the end of the current  
required 10 year period. Any tender would be in respect of 2030 onwards and would likely occur in 2027,  
in order to allow sufficient time to plan for a transition.
EY has been the Group’s Statutory Auditor for four years. In accordance with the Audit Practices Board’s 
requirements, the lead audit engagement partner will have held the role for five years following the 
completion of the audit for the year-ending 31 December 2025. The lead engagement partner, David 
Canning-Jones, has a background of auditing banks and understands the markets in which the Group 
operates. Following completion of the audit for the year-ending 31 December 2024, Micha Missakian, an  
EY senior audit partner who is also experienced in auditing global banking institutions, will assume the role  
of the lead audit engagement partner.
Following the 2017 audit tender, EY was appointed as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2020. EY has been re-appointed as the Group’s Statutory Auditor for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023 at the 2023 AGM.
• 

In 2023, the Group spent $14.1 million on non-audit services provided by EY (including audit-related 
assurance services such as quarterly and half year reviews and regulatory reporting) and $41.2 million on 
the audit of the Group and its subsidiaries.

Further details on non-audit services provided by EY can be found in Note 38 on page 462  
and the Group’s approach to non-audit services on page 228

•  Discussed reports from GIA that provide GIA’s view on the system of internal controls across all risk types, 

business and country functions, including summary highlights of the most significant matters identified by 
GIA and areas of thematic interest that have arisen as part of the audits and warrant the Committee’s 
attention. On a periodic basis, GIA reports on any overdue remediation of findings. The BRC and the CSC 
discussed separate reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit on GIA’s appraisal of controls across key 
risks, subject to each committee’s oversight.

Further details on internal controls can be found on page 222

Group Internal 
Audit

•  Assessed the role and effectiveness of the GIA function, and reviewed and monitored GIA’s progress 

against the 2023 Audit Plan and the review and monitoring of audit themes, trends and significant issues. 
Significant changes to the Audit Plan were also discussed and approved by the Committee.

•  Reviewed and approved GIA’s 2024 Audit Plan, resourcing and budget, and is satisfied that these are 

appropriate. 

•  Reviewed and approved the refreshed GIA Charter.
•  Received and discussed reports from the Global Head, Audit Quality Assurance (QA) on the QA function’s 

view of the control environment in GIA.

•  Scrutinised any long overdue issues raised by GIA and requested management to develop risk reduction 

plans for items with long closure periods to be monitored by GIA.

•  Reviewed GIA’s functional strategy, including GIA’s mission, vision and priorities. The Committee is satisfied 

with the independence and objectivity of the GIA function.

•  Received an update on the planned External Quality Assurance Review that will take place in 2024.
•  Over the course of the year, Phil Rivett met regularly with the Group Head, Internal Audit and the Audit 

Executive Team. The Group Head, Internal Audit also met privately with the Committee.

166

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Conduct, 
Financial Crime 
& Compliance 

Speaking Up

In 2023, the Committee was updated on and discussed:

•  regulators’ supervisory focus areas, regulatory updates and forward-looking themes, the status of the 

Group’s core college regulatory relationships and enforcement matters

•  topical compliance issues, for example, the Committee was updated on transaction reporting and the  
use of unapproved communication channels, recognising progress made to date and issues faced by  
the Group

•  the importance of continuing to strengthen the effectiveness in our overall risk management

•  the function’s operating model, including an overview of the CFCC budget and organisational changes  

to simplify the function

•  CFCC’s resources and budget to deliver against its mandate, including the use of automation.

Phil Rivett met regularly throughout the year with the Group Head, CFCC.
The Committee reviewed and discussed an annual report on the operation and effectiveness of Speaking 
Up, the Group’s confidential whistleblowing programme. The report provided the Committee with assurance 
of the Group’s ongoing compliance with the PRA and the FCA’s Whistleblowing Rules. Once reviewed and 
discussed by the Committee, this report was submitted to the Board. 

In 2023, the Committee Chair received updates on Speaking Up outside of formal Committee meetings and 
regularly met with senior management from Conduct and Compliance. 

Further details on Speaking Up can be found on page 131

Interaction with 
regulators
Linkages with 
subsidiary audit 
committees

Phil Rivett attended a trilateral meeting with EY and the PRA and also met with the PRA in his capacity as 
Audit Committee Chair.

In 2023, Phil Rivett attended an audit committee meeting of SCBSL. The audit committee chairs of SCBHK and 
SCBSL attended one Standard Chartered PLC Audit Committee meeting. This practice will continue in 2024 to 
reinforce these important linkages.

Phil Rivett hosted an annual video-conference with the chairs of subsidiary audit committees and INEDs in 
May 2023.

Please refer to page 160 on linkages between the Committee and chairs of subsidiary audit committees. 

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with all of them 
being completed. 

Committee effectiveness review
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  The Committee’s oversight and 

understanding of all the key issues under its 
remit was rated highly, with focused agendas 
and productive discussions.

•  While there were no identified gaps in the 
technical skills of Committee members,  
there is a need to monitor the Committee’s 
composition to ensure that sufficient 
experience in banking, accounting and 
financial reporting remain in the Committee 
as Committee members step down. 

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Maintain focus on enhanced internal controls 

to meeting forthcoming legislative and 
corporate governance requirements.

•  The contributions from EY and GIA were  

well rated. A suggestion was made for more 
engagement with members of the GIA 
function, in addition to the Group Head, 
Internal Audit.

•  Continue to monitor the length, focus and 

timeliness of papers.

•  Schedule training sessions in 2024 to cover 
topics such as ECL, internal controls and an 
optimum control environment.

167

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportBoard Risk Committee

“In an ever-changing and 
complex geopolitical and 
macroeconomic environment, 
the Committee remained 
focused to ensure efficient 
and effective risk 
management across  
the Group.”

Committee composition

Maria 
Ramos 
(Chair)

David 
Conner

Gay 
Huey 
Evans, 
CBE

Phil 
Rivett

David 
Tang 

Carlson 
Tong

Shirish 
Apte 

Robin 
Lawther, 
CBE1 

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

Ad hoc

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

4/5

1  Robin was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting due to a prior 

business commitment

I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee’s report for the year 
ended 31 December 2023. 

In an ever-changing and complex geopolitical and macroeconomic 
environment, the Committee remained focused to ensure efficient 
and effective risk management across the Group.

Market volatility earlier in the year, resulting from the challenging 
external environment, prompted the Committee to focus on key 
macroeconomic issues. In particular, a severe liquidity stress test was 
performed, in light of banking sector events, and the Committee also 
reviewed and challenged the Group’s Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS) 
stress test results for submission to the Bank of England (BoE). 

Credit Risk has been reviewed and discussed at most Committee 
meetings, given the uncertain external environment, with China  
CRE and global CRE being key areas of focus. Sovereign Risk  
remained a priority, with global trends throughout the year being 
closely monitored. 

The Group’s hedging strategies were robustly challenged, with 
specific deep dives on Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,  
Foreign Exchange, Treasury Portfolios and Financial Markets. 

The Committee is aware of its critical role in overseeing and assessing 
robust ICS defence strategies. A key focus of 2023 was ICS Risk 
management, with representation from the three lines of defence 
and our Cyber Advisor to the Board, Sir Iain Lobban. In particular,  
we scrutinised the Group’s ICS Risk Appetite and Strategic Plan.  
The Committee has dedicated significant time to ICS Risk this year, 
including scheduling an ad hoc meeting and completing ICS training. 
ICS Risk will remain a key priority given the evolving and dynamic 
landscape in which we operate.

The Committee has had oversight of Operational Risk during  
the year, with particular focus on the Group’s data centre  
migration programme.

What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for exercising oversight, on behalf 
of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. It reviews the Group’s 
Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) and makes recommendations to the Board. 
Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems, key 
controls and considering the implications of material regulatory 
change proposals, reviewing reports on principal risks, including 
Climate Risk, to the Group’s business, providing oversight and 
challenge to the design and execution of stress testing, and 
ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and 
disposals. The Committee Chair reports to the Board on the 
Committee’s key areas of focus following each meeting.

The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be 
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief 
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate 
(from 2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO); Group 
Head of Enterprise Risk Management; Group General 
Counsel; Group Treasurer; Group Head, Conduct, Financial 
Crime & Compliance; Group Head, Internal Audit; the Group’s 
Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary. 

Sir Iain Lobban, independent adviser to the Board, regularly 
attended discussions on Information and Cyber Security Risk 
and technology. Paul Khoo, an independent adviser to the 
Board, attended discussions on Financial Crime Risk (FCR) 
related matters. EY attended all Committee meetings in 
2023. As part of, and in addition to scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Committee held private members-only 
meetings. The Committee’s membership comprises INEDs 
who have a deep and broad experience of banking and 
the risk factors affecting the Group, including geopolitical, 
economic, IT, Financial Crime (FC) and general business risks.

Biographical details of the Committee members can be 
viewed on pages 137 to 141

taken from the extensive work performed by the second and third 
lines of defence to review and challenge Resolvability documentation 
prepared by the first line. 

Operational Resilience remained a key topic in 2023, with the 
Committee challenging the embedding of Important Business 
Services (IBS) and Impact Tolerance Statements (ITS) within the 
Group. The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board  
for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience Self-Assessment. 
Furthermore, we considered and approved material changes to the 
Group’s IBS and ITS arising from the annual review, in accordance  
with authority delegated by the Board. Progress to meet the  
2025 regulatory deadline continues to be carefully monitored to 
ensure compliance. 

Financial Crime Risk has been a key feature of the Committee’s work 
during the year. The CCIB and CPBB Risk reviews both covered FCR 
matters, and we received dedicated papers on client due diligence 
and surveillance and Russian sanctions. Towards the end of the year, 
we considered emerging FC threats faced by the Group and risk 
mitigation; and we reviewed and discussed the coverage of FCR by 
the Committee, Audit Committee and the Board, to ensure that the 
balance is appropriate. This discussion provided useful suggestions  
for enhancement, which will be taken forward in 2024. 

In December 2023, we welcomed the board risk committee chairs 
from the Group’s Hong Kong and Singapore banking subsidiaries as 
observers. I hosted a call with subsidiary board risk committee chairs 
from across the Group in July 2023, designed to strengthen subsidiary 
governance linkages and engagement. 

The following pages provide insight and context into the Committee’s 
work and activities during the year.

Resolvability was discussed regularly throughout the year, and we 
reviewed and approved the Group’s Resolvability Assessment Report, 
ahead of submission to the PRA in October 2023. Assurance was 

Maria Ramos 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 

168

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year

Risk Appetite 

•  Reviewed, challenged and approved at half year changes to the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and 

Board metrics. 

•  Scrutinised and recommended to the Board for approval the revised ICS Risk Appetite Statement and 

Board metrics. 

•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board revisions to the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Board 

metrics for 2024. Challenge was provided to ensure that the Risk Appetite sets appropriate boundaries in 
respect of each Principal Risk Type and is affordable within the overall context of our financial resources. 
Specific consideration was given to redistribution of metrics between the Board and management-level, 
as well as appropriate Board oversight and reporting, including any breaches. 

•  Monitored actual exposures throughout the year relative to Risk Appetite limits using regular Board Risk 

Information reports.

Further details of the Group’s Risk Appetite are set out on pages 314 to 316

Enterprise Risk 
Management 
Framework 
(ERMF)

•  Reviewed proposed material changes to the ERMF, arising from the 2023 annual review, including a 
refreshed definition of the Risk Culture and recommended these changes to the Board for approval.

•  Considered the approach and key outcomes of the 2023 annual effectiveness of the ERMF. Affirmation 

was received from the GCRO that the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is 
materially effective and improvement areas were highlighted for management attention.

Further details of the ERMF are set out on pages 314 to 316

Principal Risk 
Types

•  Received reports on the Group’s Principal Risk Types at each of its scheduled meetings, through a Board 
Risk Information report. In addition, the Committee had deeper discussions on the topics set out on 
page 172.

Further details on Principal Risk Types, including the definitions of each, are set out on  
pages 317 to 337

Key area

Action taken

Operational and 
Technology Risk 

•  Received regular updates on the risk environment including progress of key change and technology 

programmes. 

•  Discussed independent reports on Cash Payments systems and Client Lifecycle Management in CCIB, 

particularly the progress to address the recommendations provided.

•  Considered the Group’s ISO 20022 readiness ahead of launch and the technological developments 

required. 

•  Received updates on the progress of key technology transformation programmes, particularly data 

centre resilience and updates to the Group’s Cloud strategy, from all three lines of defence.

•  Sought assurance as to appropriate risk management of the key programmes. 

Model Risk 

•  Reviewed and discussed the key risks and issues relating to Model Risk management.

•  Provided review and challenge on the Group Model Risk Appetite.

•  Considered the progress of the programme for Advanced Internal Ratings Based model delivery. 

•  Received updates on the Group Model Risk profile, Risk Appetite and the progress of Model Risk  

strategic initiatives. 

•  Considered the recent PRA requirements relating to Model Risk management for banks (SS1/23), the 

implications for the Group’s model framework and expectations of the Board. 

169

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report Activities during the year continued

Key area

ICS Risk 

Action taken

•  Reviewed and discussed ICS Risk management, with representation from the three lines of defence and 
our Cyber Adviser to the Board, Sir Iain Lobban. This included oversight of key milestones and topical 
deep dives. 

•  Challenged management as to its progress on the ICS Transformation Programme and scrutinised the 

ICS Strategic Plan. 

•  Considered the ICS Risk Appetite in detail. In particular, this included ICS Risk Appetite linkages to the 
Group’s Threat-led Scenario Risk Assessment and calibration between Board and management-level 
metrics and leading indicators. 

•  Recommended three refreshed ICS Risk Appetite Board-level metrics to the Board for approval.

•  Received assurance from GIA on the ICS programme and monitored management’s progress to address 

audit actions. 

•  Monitored progress of the Insider Threat Programme and endorsed management’s holistic approach. 

•  Committee members were invited to attend meetings of the Group’s Cyber Security Advisory Forum, 

along with the rest of the Board.

Treasury Risk 

•  Received the Group Treasurer’s report, at each scheduled meeting, which covers market developments, 
capital, liquidity, leverage and funding, recovery and resolution planning, regulatory updates and rating 
agency updates.

•  Reviewed and discussed papers on Hedging strategies: Interest Rate in the Banking Book, Foreign 

Exchange and Treasury Portfolios deep dives.

•  Considered and discussed the Group’s capital and liquidity position and the regulatory environment in 

the context of regulatory submissions. 

•  Reviewed, discussed and challenged the Group’s ACS stress test results for submission to the BoE, as  

well as the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and a severe liquidity stress test in 
response to external market events.

For further detail on the Committee’s work on stress testing see page 171

The Committee’s work on Resolvability is set out on page 171

Credit Risk

Traded Risk

Financial Crime 
Risk

•  Received and discussed updates on Credit Risk, with China-related impairments being key areas of focus, 
cognisant of the work of the Audit Committee. These discussions were further enhanced through deep 
dives into various countries, sovereigns, and business/client segments, details of which are set out in 
examples of deeper discussions on specific topics.

•  Received and discussed papers on developments and changes in the risk profile of Treasury and 

Financial Markets over the past year. The size and volatility of the Treasury book was reviewed, as well  
as the quality and resilience of the Financial Markets business. 

•  Discussed management’s work to de-risk the Treasury Markets portfolio and the review of the Treasury 

Market Risk Appetite. 

•  Requested a deep dive on changes to the Financial Markets Fair Value portfolios.

•  Reviewed FCR matters as part of regular CCIB and CPBB Risk reviews.

•  Discussed a paper on the Group’s approach to managing FCR, including client due diligence and 

surveillance, as well as a Russian sanctions update. 

•  Considered a paper setting out emerging FCR threats and the Group’s risk mitigation. 

•  Reviewed and discussed the coverage of FCR by the Committee, Audit Committee and the Board, 

whereby enhancements for 2024 were discussed.

170

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governance Activities during the year continued

Stress Testing 

•  Provided oversight, challenge and, where required, approval for:

Regulatory

–  the Group Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) submission, including the scenario 

and stress test results

–  the Group ICAAP submissions, including the scenarios, stress test and reverse stress test results
–  the Group’s ACS Stress Test results submission to the BoE
–  results of the Group Recovery Plan stress test
–  results of management’s ad hoc stress tests. 

•  Considered the results of a severe liquidity stress test ran in early 2023, due to considerable banking 

sector market volatility, with the particular objective of testing the speed with which the Group could 
execute management actions to mitigate the outflows. 

•  Reviewed, discussed and challenged the outcome and key findings of the liquidity stress test, particularly 

management’s assumptions and the quality of management information.

Further details of stress testing are set out on pages 314 to 316

Resolvability
•  Received regular updates from the three lines of defence which provided the Committee with oversight 
of the Group’s progress on resolvability since its first regulatory submission in 2022, with learnings from 
the external market events in early 2023 particularly considered.

•  Welcomed management’s active dialogue with the BoE on the Group’s 2023 submission.

•  Approved the final Group Resolvability Assessment Report for submission to the BoE and PRA, in 

accordance with delegated authority from the Board.

Recovery Plan
•  Reviewed and challenged the enhancements to the Group’s Recovery Plan.

Trading Book Wind-Down
•  Reviewed and discussed the Trading Book Wind-Down (TWD) programme.

•  Attended a training session ahead of discussing and probing the expertise and resource capacity for the 

TWD programme. 

•  Approved TWD Governance roles and responsibilities for submission to the PRA.

Operational Resilience – IBS and ITS
•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience self-

assessment. 

•  Considered and approved material changes to the Group’s IBS and ITS, arising from an annual review,  

in line with authority delegated by the Board. 

•  Challenged the embedding of the IBS and ITS in the Group’s day-to-day processes. 

IBOR transition
•  Received updates on the IBOR transition programme tracking remediation closely ahead of the LIBOR 
cessation in September 2023, noting the transition of the programme into business as usual at the end  
of 2023. 

BCBS 239 principles
•  Received and discussed an update on the outcome of the BCBS 239 self-assessment as of end 2022 and 

the roadmap for compliance with BCBS 239.

•  Received an update on the trajectory of the BCBS 239 programme at year end 2023, including the 

progress made and challenges faced.

Internal controls

•  Discussed reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit which provided summaries of GIA’s appraisals of 
controls across key risks, subject to the Committee’s oversight, together with the key risk issues identified 
by GIA’s work and management actions put in place to address the findings.

•  Reviewed the annual Risk and Control self-assessment and challenged the key areas of elevated  

residual risk.

Further details on internal controls are set out on page 222

Remuneration  
as a risk 
management 
tool

•  Considered advice provided by the GCRO to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk factors  
to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining incentives for the Group Chief 
Executive and other colleagues. Such advice assists the Remuneration Committee in its assessment as  
to whether the Group’s remuneration policy, practices and procedures are consistent with and promote 
sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of 
tolerated risk of the Group.

Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk management  
tool is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 182 to 216

171

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
Progress against the Board Diversity Policy objectives, and targets set out in the UK Listing Rules 
9.8.6(9)
As the composition of the Board continues to change, the balance of women directors on the Board this year fell slightly 
compared with last year, with female representation on the Board ending the year at 38 per cent following the departures  
of Christine Hodgson and Jasmine Whitbread (as at 31 December 2022 it was at 43 per cent). This falls short of both the 
requirements set out in the Policy and in the Listing Rules. The Board is absolutely committed to ensuring female representation 
on the Board is at least in line with the target of 40 per cent set out in the Listing Rules and the Policy. Following the composition 
changes to the Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation on the Board will be  
42 per cent.

As of 31 December 2023, the senior positions on the Board, as defined by the Listing Rules, are held by one female director and 
three male directors, in line with the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178. 

As of 31 December 2023, directors from an ethnic minority background represented 31 per cent of the Board, above the  
30 per cent target set out in our Policy. Of the thirteen directors on our Board, four directors are from an ethnic minority 
background, above the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178. 

Aligned to the Policy’s broad ambition, this year we continue to report on the progress made against the seven objectives set 
out in the table below.

Board Diversity Policy objectives

Progress

Increasing the representation of women on  
the Board with an aim to have a minimum of 
40 per cent female representation

Adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a  
minimum of 30 per cent from an ethnic 
minority background

Ensuring that our Board reflects the diverse 
markets in which we operate 

Ensuring that the Board is comprised of a  
good balance of skills, experience, knowledge, 
perspective and varied backgrounds

Ensuring that we consider the Group’s 
aspirations in relation to disability, sexual 
orientation, gender identity and gender 
expression

Only engaging search firms who are signed up 
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search firms

Reporting annually on the diversity of the 
executive pipeline as well as the diversity of 
the Board, including progress being made on 
reaching the Board’s gender and ethnicity 
aspirations

180

Increasing gender representation on the Board remains an important focus of the 
Board’s succession planning process, ensuring that female candidates are fairly 
represented on long and short lists. The composition of the Board continued to 
change during the year, with the retirement of two INEDs, Christine Hodgson  
and Jasmine Whitbread from the Board on 31 January 2023 and 3 May 2023 
respectively. Linda Yueh was appointed an INED to the Board on 1 January 2023 
and we announced the appointment of Diego De Giorgi as Chief Financial Officer 
Designate to succeed Andy Halford, with effect from 3 January 2024. Female 
representation on the Board is currently 38 per cent, below both the Board’s target 
and that set out in the Listing Rules. Following the composition changes to the 
Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation 
on the Board will be 42 per cent.

Following the changes to the composition of the Board during the year, 
representation from ethnic minority background has increased from 21 per cent  
in 2022 to 31 per cent at the end of 2023. We remain committed to our ethnicity 
aspiration and to ensuring a broad representation of our directors from across  
our markets.

What sets Standard Chartered apart is our diversity of people, cultures and 
networks. The Board has representation from across the regions in which we 
operate, including the UK, EU, North America, North and South-East Asia and 
Africa. Many of the INEDs have additional experience of having worked and lived 
in many of the Group’s markets. As part of the Committee’s succession planning in 
2023, it has considered a significant number of potential future INED candidates 
who are representative of some of our key regions and markets.

Throughout the year the Committee has focused on identifying the collective 
experience, skills and attributes required both immediately and in the medium to 
longer term. The Committee has systematically reviewed candidate longlists and 
shortlists to identify potentially suitable INED candidates. Areas of particular focus 
in 2023 included:
•  Expertise from the Technology sector
•  Global Consumer experience (non-FS)
•  Former CEO experience
•  Representation from Group’s markets.

We remain committed to all aspects of diversity as we undertake any Board 
succession process.

We continue to only engage search firms signed up to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct. We worked with Russell Reynolds to assist us in identifying and building 
a pipeline of high-quality potential INED candidates for a number of assignments. 
Russell Reynolds is signed up to the Voluntary Code and is committed in 
supporting our ambitions to widen all aspects of diversity on the Board.

The Committee takes an active role in reviewing the succession planning for the 
Executive, Management Team and senior management one level below the 
Management Team. We continue to improve our reporting of Board and senior 
talent succession planning as well as reporting on the importance of a diverse 
Board as a means of capturing differing perspectives and enhancing discussion. 
Progress enhancing diversity along with the Board’s gender and ethnicity 
aspirations will continue to be developed.

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportCorporate governanceDetails of the Board’s diverse composition are set out on pages 137 to 141 of this report, and that of the Management Team can 
be found on pages 142 to 144. Our approach to collecting Board diversity data is set out on page 503. 

Details of the Group’s wider diversity and inclusion strategy, including gender balance across the Group and targets for ethnic 
representation, can be found on pages 60 to 63 of this report.

A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy can be viewed at sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy and further details on the Group’s 
approach to Diversity and Inclusion can be viewed at  sc.com/diversity-and-inclusion

Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.  
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions. 

Committee effectiveness review 
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.

Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review

The feedback on the Committee’s functioning 
and effectiveness was positive and specifically 
highlighted the following:

•  Work had been done to improve the pace  
of the identification and assessment of 
candidates.

•  The Committee’s focus and diligence in 

identifying skills and experience required on 
the Board, and oversight of CEO, CFO and 
INED succession was rated highly.

•  The INED induction programmes, including 
the phased nature of their delivery, were  
well rated.

2024 Action Plan

The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee 
reflects suggestions from the evaluation  
and continues to build on the solid progress 
made last year:

•  Continue to focus on Board succession 

planning, with particular focus placed on 
increasing diversity and adding further  
deep banking expertise, global markets 
representation and sustainability expertise  
to the Board.

•  Consider increasing the time allotted for 

meetings to ensure sufficient deliberation.

•  Follow up on the suggestions for training to 
be provided in 2024, including on diversity 
and inclusion.

181

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’  
remuneration report

“Rewarding strong performance 
and delivering on our targets.”

Key sections

Page 186  

Remuneration at a glance 

Page 188 

 Summary of the directors’ remuneration 
policy

Page 190 

Remuneration alignment

Page 192 

Committee at a glance

Page 194 

Group-wide remuneration

Page 195 

Directors’ remuneration in 2023

Page 205 

 2024 policy implementation for directors

Page 208  Additional remuneration disclosures

Summary of 2023  
remuneration decisions

•  Group performance in 2023 was strong across both 
financial and non-financial metrics. Remuneration 
decisions have been made to reflect this performance 
and the delivery of our targets.

•  Discretionary incentives are USD1,574m, down 1 per 
cent on 2022, reflecting Group performance and 
affordability. 

•  Annual incentive awards for executive directors, Bill 
Winters, Group Chief Executive (CEO) and Andy 
Halford, Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO), were 
assessed at 66 per cent and 65 per cent of the 
maximum, and are 2.5 per cent and 2.6 per cent  
lower than 2022 awards respectively. 

•  Global average salary increases of 2.2 per cent for 2024, 
focused on junior employees and those in high inflation 
markets. No salary increases for executive directors in 
line with this approach.

•  Projected performance outcome of 66 per cent for the 

2021-23 long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards.

•  Reward for all Group employees, including the 

executive directors, continues to be aligned to the 
Group’s strategic priorities, through the annual and 
long-term incentive scorecards.

182

I am pleased to present our directors’ remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 December 2023. This report provides  
an overview of the Remuneration Committee’s work on 
remuneration for the executive directors and the wider 
workforce. The directors’ remuneration policy has operated  
as intended, incentivising performance linked to the Group’s 
strategy and aligning with shareholder interests.

The Group continues to make significant progress and has 
delivered strong performance in 2023, achieving our ambition 
of a double-digit return on tangible equity (RoTE) for the full 
year. The decisions taken by the Committee were based on 
careful consideration of a broad range of factors including the 
economic environment in our markets, performance across 
the Group, and the need for appropriate and fair reward for 
our workforce.

Our performance in 2023

Underlying profit before tax is up 27 per cent at ccy on 
2022, reflecting significant progress in our high-growth 
markets despite an uncertain picture for the global 
economy. RoTE has continued to grow above pre-
pandemic levels and is up 240 basis points to 10.1 per cent. 

RoTE performance

12%

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

The Group remains well capitalised with Common Equity 
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio at 14.1 per cent. 

The formulaic outcome for Group performance, based  
on the balanced scorecard, was 80 per cent. Of this,  
38 per cent (out of a possible 50 per cent) related to 
financial performance including income up 13 per cent 
and the increase in RoTE. The remaining 42 per cent 
related to the achievement of non-financial goals, 
including strong client satisfaction performance, 
improved growth across target markets and 
achievements against our sustainability targets.  

See pages 196 and 197 for more information

Financial KPIs

Profit before taxation

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

$5,678m 

 27%

14.1% 

 10bps

Return on tangible equity 

Total shareholder return

10.1% 

9.4% 

 240bps (underlying basis)

2022: 41.4%

Group-wide remuneration

2023 discretionary annual incentives 
The Group scorecard formulaic assessment of 80 per cent is 
the starting point for determining discretionary incentives. 

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportTo arrive at a distributable pool, the Committee considers 
additional factors not captured by the scorecard, such as the 
external environment, market competitiveness and overall 
affordability. The Committee also considers risk, control and 
conduct matters, including ongoing investigations and 
matters raised by regulators. 

Following its review of these factors, the Committee 
determined that a reduction of 15 percentage points from the 
initial scorecard outcome was appropriate. In making this 
decision, while noting that 2023 performance was very 
positive, the Committee was conscious to maintain an 
appropriate balance between rewarding our employees and 
delivering appropriate value to shareholders.

Calculating the Group scorecard outcome for 
discretionary incentives

2021-23 LTIP awards vesting in March 2024 
The 2021-23 LTIP awards are due to start vesting in March 
2024 with a projected performance outcome of 66 per cent, 
based on RoTE performance of 10.1 per cent (maximum 
outcome), relative total shareholder return (TSR) ranking 
between median and upper quartile and above target 
performance against sustainability and other strategic 
measures. As usual, the final relative TSR outcome will be 
assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2024. 
The values delivered by this projected outcome are based on 
the three-month average share price to 31 December 2023 
and are included in the single total figures of remuneration for 
Bill and Andy.

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Award share 
price (£)

Valuation share 
price (£)

4.90

4.90

6.72

6.72

2021-23 LTIP 
projected 
outcome (£)

3,340,237

 2,135,206

Financials

Non-ﬁnancials

Committee 
discretionary 
reduction

-15%

38%

42%

65%   Group scorecard outcome 

See pages 196 and 197 for further details

Discretionary incentive pool

Incentive pool  
($m)

1,574

% change  
(reported)

% change  
(same store basis) 

(1%)

(2%)

2024 salaries 
We have increased salaries in 2024 by 2.2 per cent on average 
globally. This is lower than last year, reflecting falling inflation 
in a number of our locations. We have focused the increases 
on junior employees, and on markets that continue to 
experience high rates of inflation.

Additionally, we have provided targeted support through 
off-cycle salary increases to colleagues facing economic 
hardships in countries such as Angola, Argentina, Egypt, 
Ghana, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Turkey and Zimbabwe.

Executive director remuneration in 2023

Annual incentives for executive directors 
Annual incentives for Bill and Andy are based predominantly 
on the Group scorecard with an additional element for 
personal performance, as below.

Financials

Strategic

Individual
performance

50%

40%

10%

50%

50%

The Committee considered the grant price against that of the 
previous year’s award, and against the average share price in 
the period leading up to the grant date. Based on the review, 
the Committee determined that the price difference was not 
significant and, therefore, there was no windfall gain and no 
adjustment to the award was required.

See pages 200 and 201 for further details

Single total figure of remuneration for 2023
The 2023 annual incentive and projected 2021-23 LTIP 
performance outcome results in a 2023 single figure for Bill of 
GBP7,836,987 and for Andy of GBP4,921,095. This represents 
year-on-year increases of 22 and 23 per cent respectively, 
largely due to the projected performance outcome of the 
2021-23 LTIP award. 

2023 single total ﬁgure of remuneration (£000)

Salary, pension, beneﬁts

Annual incentive

LTIP

Bill Winters

2023

2022

2021

7,837

6,408

4,740

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

7,000

8,000

Andy Halford

2023

2022

2021

4,921

3,988

3,032

0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

6,000

For 2023, the Committee approved the following annual 
incentive outcomes, including individual performance 
assessments, for Bill and Andy. The Committee is satisfied that 
these are appropriate given 2023 Group performance and the 
significant personal contributions from Bill and Andy.

2023 annual 
incentive (£) % of maximum

Year-on-year 
change (%)

A significant portion of both Bill’s and Andy’s total 
remuneration is share-based with delivery and release over an 
eight-year period. The deferral, retention and recovery 
provisions of their pay continue to reinforce alignment with 
shareholder interests and the Group’s long-term performance. 
Both Bill and Andy continue to exceed their shareholding 
requirements.

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

1,461,874

920,348

66%

65%

(2.5%)

(2.6%)

See page 195 for further details

See pages 196 to 199  for further details

183

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
continued

Executive directors’ remuneration in 2024

[[Change in GCFO]]

On 31 August 2023 we announced that Andy Halford had decided to retire as GCFO and as an executive director. 
He has been succeeded by Diego De Giorgi who joined on 1 September 2023. Diego was appointed as GCFO and 
joined the Board as an executive director on 3 January 2024, after receiving regulatory approval.

Andy 
Andy remained as GCFO and an executive director 
until 2 January 2024, helping to ensure a smooth 
transition. After stepping down as GCFO, he is 
continuing as a Senior Adviser, working on strategic 
projects for the Group. He will continue to receive his 
salary and benefits until he retires on 31 August 2024. 

Andy will be considered an eligible leaver and, in 
accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy, 
was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive award, 
determined by the Committee based on Group and 
individual performance during 2023. 

As an eligible leaver, Andy will retain all existing LTIP 
awards subject to the achievement of performance 
measures. He will receive the full value of his 2021-23 
LTIP award given the performance period will complete  
during his employment. His other awards will be 
pro-rated for the period until he retires. All outstanding 
awards will vest and release as scheduled and remain 
subject to malus and clawback arrangements. Andy is 
not eligible for any further LTIP awards and will not 
receive an award in March 2024. 

Andy will be eligible to be considered for a pro-rated 
2024 annual incentive award for time served as a 
Senior Advisor, based on contribution. 

Diego 
Diego’s remuneration arrangements have been set in 
accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy. 

Value (£)

Delivery method

Salary

1,650,000

Pension

110,000

67% cash
33% delivered in shares 
– released in equal 
amounts over five years 

10% of the cash element 
of salary

Diego also receives core benefits in line with the 
approach for all UK employees with additional 
role-specific benefits appropriate to his responsibilities.

Diego was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive which 
has been pro-rated to reflect the period for which he 
was employed during the year. He is also eligible to 
receive an LTIP award that will be granted in 2024.

Diego did not receive a buyout award.

In line with the approved directors’ remuneration policy, the 
Committee considers annual salary increases for executive 
directors taking account of any increase in scope or 
responsibility, market competitiveness, and any salary 
increases across the Group. Taking these factors into account, 
and in line with the approach of focusing increases on junior 
employees, fixed pay for Bill and Diego will not be increased in 
2024 with their salaries being GBP2,517,000 and GBP1,650,000 
respectively. 

2024-26 LTIP awards to be granted in March 2024
Having considered 2023 performance, the Committee has 
approved the following LTIP awards for the period of 2024-26.

Bill Winters

Diego De Giorgi

2024-26 LTIP 
award (£)

3,322,440

2,178,000

% of salary

132%

132%

The LTIP awards are performance-linked and outcomes will 
depend upon achieving specified targets by the end of the 
three-year performance period. 

Following the assessment of performance, resulting shares will 
vest pro-rata from years three to seven, with an additional 
retention period of 12 months after vesting. 

Performance will be assessed on:

RoTE

30%

Relative TSR

30%

ESG

25%

0

Other
strategic

15%

100

Financial

Non-ﬁnancial

See pages 202 and 203 for further details

Working closely with the Culture and Sustainability 
Committee we have considered the categorisation of 
performance measures and reorganised the non-financial 
strategic measures that relate to environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues. These are now combined with the 
existing sustainability measures, with a weighting of 25 per 
cent for this category. The overall scorecard continues to be 
split 60 per cent financial and 40 per cent non-financial. 

Discussions with shareholders were held in December 2023 
and January 2024 on the development of these performance 
measures and targets and the input received was 
incorporated into the final decisions by the Committee.

184

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report 
In January 2024 the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) 
published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code which 
will apply from 1 January 2025. Following a consultation on 
potential changes during 2023, many of the proposed 
changes were not included in the revised Code. We will reflect 
the updates that have been made in our 2025 report.

In the rest of this report we present the disclosures required by 
regulations, as well as additional information to explain how 
remuneration for our executives aligns with our strategy, 
shareholder interests and wider workforce pay. In making 
remuneration decisions for 2023 and beyond, we have also 
been mindful of the experience of our wider stakeholder 
group.

I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for the 
work they have put into the Committee, and our shareholders 
for their ongoing support and engagement.

Shirish Apte
Chair of the Remuneration Committee  

(All disclosures in the directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless 
otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited 
in the context of the financial statements as a whole.)

[[Removal of the  
bonus cap]]

On 24 October 2023, the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) confirmed the removal of the bonus cap in 
the UK, effective immediately. 

We aim to pay our colleagues competitively for 
performance aligned to the strategic aims of the 
Group, through structures that are consistent 
with and promote sound and effective risk 
management. This should support the Group in 
generating sustained and sustainable returns in 
the interests of shareholders and other 
stakeholders. The removal of the cap does not 
change this.

We are considering our pay structures and how 
they might evolve now that the cap has been 
removed. For our executive directors, 
remuneration will continue to be set in line with 
relevant regulations and guidance and our 
approved directors’ remuneration policy which 
includes maximums in respect of variable pay. 
These maximums do not change as a result of 
the cap being removed and the current structure 
will continue until a new policy is proposed and 
approved by shareholders, scheduled to be at 
the 2025 Annual General Meeting (AGM).

How to use this report

Within the directors’ remuneration report we have  
used colour coding to denote different elements  
of remuneration, as follows:

      Salary, pension, benefits  
(fixed remuneration) 

     Annual incentive

     LTIP

We have also used the following icons for ease of navigation through this section and to show alignment between 
remuneration and the strategic objectives of the Group.

See pages 20 to 26 for further details

Investors

Clients

Risk management

Ways of Working

Employees

Innovation

Sustainability

Lifting Participation

Resetting Globalisation

Accelerating Zero

People and culture

185

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ report Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration at a glance 

How does remuneration link to Group strategy?

As measured by

2023 Annual 
incentive

2021-23  
LTIP

Financial KPIs

Further details can be found 
on pages 196 and 202

• 

Income

•  Costs

•  Return on tangible equity

•  Common Equity Tier 1 ratio

•  Relative total shareholder return

Financial  
results 

Strategic priorities 

Further details can be found 
on page 25

Critical enablers 

Further details can be found 
on page 24

•  Network business

•  Affluent client business

•  Mass Retail business

•  Sustainability

•  People and culture

•  Ways of Working

• 

Innovation

Achievement  
against  
objectives 

How did we determine variable remuneration outcomes in 2023?

2023 Group scorecard

2021-23 LTIP

Financials

38%

50%

RoTE with  
CET1 underpin 

30%

Clients

13%

15%

Relative TSR

9%

30%

30%

Sustainability

10%

10%

Sustainability

13%

15%

Enablers

6%

10%

Strategic

14%

25%

Risk and control

13%

15%

15ppt  

 Committee discretionary reduction to the formulaic 
outcome. See page 183 for further details

Following the detailed performance assessment of measures 
and proof points, the Committee considered the projected 
performance outcome to be consistent with Group 
performance and no adjustment has been made.

2023 Group scorecard outcome

65%

66% 2021-23 LTIP projected outcome

How do executive directors’ remuneration outcomes compare with the maximum opportunity?

2023 annual incentive (£000)

2021-23 LTIP projected outcome (£000)1

Actual Max

Bill Winters

1,462

2,215

Andy Halford

Actual Max

920

1,416

Bill Winters

Andy Halford

Actual

3,340

Max

5,061

Actual

Max

2,135

3,235

1  The values of the projected outcome and maximum opportunity are calculated using a three-month average share price to 31 December 2023

186

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

How did we pay our executive directors in 2023 (single total figure of remuneration)?

Variable  
remuneration

LTIP

Fixed 
remuneration

Annual incentive

Salary  

Pension

Benefits

7,837

3,340

1,462

3,035

6,408

1,949

1,499

2,960

2023

2022

Bill Winters

£000

4,921

2,135

920

1,866

2023

3,988

1,210

945

1,833

2022

Andy Halford

How is executive director remuneration delivered over time?1

Awarded for 2023 
£000

Delivery method

Structure and timing of payment

CEO: 50% cash

Cash

Salary

CEO: £2,496

CEO: 50% shares

Shares
Released in equal amounts between  
2024 and 2028

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

Pension

CEO: £251

100% cash

Cash

Annual  
incentive2

CEO: £1,462

50% cash

Cash 

50% shares

Shares

LTIP2

CEO: £3,322

100% shares

Performance  
measured over  
3 years 

Shares
Delivered in equal amounts between  
2027 and 2031 (subject to 12 month  
retention post release)

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2029

2030

2031

Information is provided for the CEO only due to the change in GCFO at the end of the year 

1 
2  Annual incentive and LTIP shares are subject to clawback for up to 10 years from grant 

68% of Bill’s maximum remuneration opportunity is delivered in shares creating strong alignment of interests between 
executives and shareholders to generate long-term value.  

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

187

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the directors’ remuneration policy 

The forward-looking remuneration policy for executive directors and independent non-executive directors (INEDs) was 
approved at the AGM held on 4 May 2022 and applies for three years from that date. A summary of the executive director 
policy, including the key remuneration elements, is set out below for information.

The full policy, including recruitment and leaver provisions, can be found on pages 159 to 164 of the 2021 Annual Report and on our website at sc.com

Our approach to remuneration is consistent for all employees and is designed to create alignment with our Fair Pay Charter, 
which applies globally. However, our pay structures may vary according to location (to comply with local requirements) and, 
therefore, the table below explains the alignment between the executive directors and our UK workforce, being the most 
relevant market.

Fixed remuneration

Policy

Alignment with UK employees 

Salary
Set to reflect the role, 
and the skills and 
experience of the 
individual.

•  Delivered part in cash and part in shares.
•  To maintain alignment with shareholders, the 
share element is subject to a holding period of 
five years, with 20 per cent being released 
annually.

•  The process of setting and annually reviewing 

salaries against market information is the same 
for all employees.

•  For all other UK employees, salary is paid 100 per 

cent in cash in line with market practice.

Pension
To facilitate long-term 
retirement savings.

•  For directors who joined before 4 May 2022, an 
annual pension allowance or contribution of  
10 per cent of salary is payable.

Benefits
A competitive benefits 
package to support 
executives to carry out 
their duties effectively.

•  For directors who joined after 4 May 2022, 10 per 
cent of the cash element of salary only will be 
payable.

•  A range of benefits is provided including holiday 
and sick pay, a benefits cash allowance, private 
medical insurance, life insurance, financial advice 
and tax return preparation. A car and driver or 
other car-related service is available to the CEO, 
which is a role-based provision due to security 
requirements.

•  Executive directors receive a lower cash benefits 

allowance than other UK employees as a 
percentage of their salary.

•  Pension is set at 10 per cent of salary for both the 
executive directors and other UK employees, 
aligned with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.

•  Core benefits are aligned with all employees. 
Some additional, role-specific benefits are 
received by the current executive directors. 

•  Employees are eligible for tax return preparation 

in the year of an international relocation.

Variable remuneration 

Policy 

Alignment with UK employees 

Annual incentive
Remuneration based on 
measurable 
performance criteria 
linked to the Group’s 
strategy and assessed 
over a period of one 
year.

LTIP
LTIP awards are granted 
to senior executives who 
have the ability to 
influence the long-term 
performance of the 
Group. Awards are 
performance 
dependent based on 
measurable, long-term 
criteria.

•  Annual incentive awards are delivered as a 
combination of cash and shares subject to 
holding requirements, and deferred shares.
•  The maximum value of an annual incentive 

award cannot exceed 88 per cent of salary and 
can be any amount from zero to the maximum.
•  Awards are determined by the Committee, based 
on the assessment of the Group scorecard which 
contains financial (at least 50 per cent of the 
scorecard) and strategic measures, as well as the 
personal performance of the individual.

•  LTIP awards are granted annually, based on 

performance in the relevant year. 

•  The maximum value of an LTIP award cannot 
exceed 132 per cent of salary and can be any 
amount from zero to the maximum. 

•  Following the grant of awards, performance is 

measured over three years with no vesting before 
the third anniversary of the grant. 

•  LTIP awards are delivered in shares and subject to 

holding requirements.

•  The annual incentive plan is operated for all 

employees, paid in cash up to certain limits with 
the balance deferred over at least three years in 
shares and/or cash. 

•  The same Group scorecard is used in assessing 
incentives for executive directors and other UK 
employees.

•  Members of the Management Team are also 
eligible for LTIP awards, granted annually and 
assessed on the same performance measures 
and targets, with awards typically at a lower 
level. 

•  LTIP awards may also be granted to other 

employees in the Group which may be subject to 
the same or different performance conditions.

188

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportOther remuneration

Policy

Alignment with UK employees 

Sharesave
Provides an opportunity 
for all employees to 
invest voluntarily in the 
Group.

•  Participants are able to open a savings contract 
to fund the exercise of an option over shares. 
•  The option price is set at a discount of up to  

20 per cent of the share price at the date of the 
invitation to participate. 

•  All employees are eligible to participate in 

Sharesave, which enables employees to share in 
the success of the Group at a discounted share 
price.

•  Savings per month of between £5 and the 

maximum set by the Group, which is currently 
£250.

Shareholding 
requirements
Provides alignment with 
the interests of 
shareholders during 
employment.

•  The CEO and the GCFO are required to hold  

•  Formal shareholding and post-employment 

250 per cent and 200 per cent of salary in shares, 
respectively. 

shareholding requirements are operated for the 
executive directors only. 

•  Post-employment shareholding requirement in 

place for two years following cessation of 
employment. The amount to be held is as 
described above or, if lower, the actual 
shareholding on departure.

•  However, material risk takers are also required to 
hold shares in-line with regulatory deferral and 
retention requirements.

Appropriateness of executive directors’ remuneration
We maintain a consistent remuneration approach for all employees, in line with our Fair Pay Charter. Remuneration for 
executive directors is reviewed annually against internal and external measures to ensure appropriate levels, aligned with the 
approach for other employees.

Executive director policy at target opportunity compared with industry peers
We compete for talent in a global marketplace, with many of our key competitors based outside the UK. We review executive 
director fixed and variable remuneration opportunity against a peer group of international banks to ensure that it remains 
appropriately competitive. This peer group reflects both our global footprint and where we compete for talent. Market data 
used in benchmarking is based on the latest published report and accounts. In addition, we consider executive director 
remuneration against FTSE30 companies, with data sourced from an external provider.

Bank peer group

CEO

GCFO1

FTSE 30

CEO

GCFO1

Bottom quartile

3rd quartile

2nd quartile

Top quartile

Executive director target opportunity

The current bank peer group comprises: ANZ, Bank of America, Bank of Nova Scotia, Barclays, BBVA, BNP Paribas, CIBC, Citigroup, DBS, Deutsche Bank, FirstRand, 
HSBC, ICICI, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Lloyds Banking Group, National Australia Bank, NatWest, OCBC, Santander, Société Générale, UBS, United Overseas Bank
1  GCFO total compensation is based on Diego De Giorgi’s target opportunity

Executive director remuneration compared with wider workforce 
The balance between fixed and variable remuneration is geared to provide a greater proportion of fixed remuneration for more 
junior employees to give more financial security. In comparison, for more senior employees, including the executive directors, the 
variable remuneration opportunity is larger reflecting their ability to influence the Group’s performance and in turn, their 
remuneration outcome.

Salary

Annual incentive

LTIP

Senior executive 
(incl executive directors)

Senior professional

37%

3,057

60%

38%

25%

40%

Intermediate professional

79%

Junior professional

Admin/Support

88%

89%

21%

12%

11%

See pages 196 to 198 for how Bill’s remuneration links to Group performance, individual performance, and risk, control and conduct-related matters

189

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ report Directors’ remuneration report

Remuneration alignment

Alignment with...

Our culture 

Our strategy 

Remuneration decisions made 
across the Group, including for 
our executive directors, align 
with our strategic priorities 
and our Stands, including our 
commitment to sustainable 
social and economic 
development:

•  Performance measures in our Group 
and LTIP scorecards are designed to 
drive achievement of the financial 
and strategic goals that will deliver 
long-term sustainable value for our 
stakeholders. 

•  Sustainability and our Stands are 
key considerations for setting and 
measuring financial and strategic 
targets.

•  If scorecard outcomes are not 

consistent with progress against 
our strategic commitments the 
Committee has the discretion to make 
adjustments.

See page 186 for further details on how our 
incentive plans are aligned to our strategy

Our performance and 
reward framework supports 
us in embedding a high 
performance culture and 
aligns with our principle that 
colleagues should share in 
the success of the Group. For 
example:

•  All remuneration decisions are 

grounded in our Fair Pay Charter.

See page 194 for further details on our Fair 
Pay Charter 

•  The wider workforce and our 

executive directors participate 
in continuous performance 
management and feedback, to 
ensure that performance is discussed 
and assessed throughout the year. 

•  Employee performance is assessed 
based on what is achieved and how 
it is achieved in line with our valued 
behaviours. Our remuneration 
structure and policies ensure that 
behaviours consistent with these 
values are appropriately recognised 
and rewarded. 

•  Our LTIP further supports this with an 
assessment to ensure appropriate 
levels of conduct have been 
demonstrated to meet our conduct 
gateway requirement. 

Our approach  
to risk and control

The determination of our 
remuneration policy and 
outcomes align with the 
Group’s risk and control 
framework. In particular:

•  Our scorecards include risk and 

control measures, and the Committee 
has the discretion to adjust incentive 
outcomes for risk and control matters 
that are not reflected in the 
scorecards. 

•  The Committee can apply a 

discretionary risk adjustment in 
respect of the Group scorecard 
outcome and has a track record of 
applying discretion appropriately. 

•  Long-term sustainable performance is 
supported through the ability to make 
adjustments to variable remuneration 
for risk, control and conduct 
behaviours, the deferral of variable 
remuneration, and the ability to apply 
malus and clawback where 
appropriate. 

See page 215 for further details

•  Incentives for employees engaged in 
Audit, Risk and Compliance functions 
are set independent of the businesses 
they oversee.

[[Managing risk and control]]

The Group has a robust formal process for reviewing risk and control matters and reflecting these in remuneration outcomes at 
both an individual and Group level. All material risk events (MREs) are reviewed by a dedicated group of senior colleagues in 
Control Functions to ensure lessons are learned and appropriate actions are taken for accountable individuals. If necessary, a 
deep dive will be commissioned to understand risk, control and conduct issues in a particular location or business area. The 
most severe MREs are escalated for oversight by the Remuneration Committee. At year end, a summary of risk and control 
matters will be reviewed and discussed to determine any impact to Group incentives. The outcomes of the 2023 reviews are 
one component in the adjustment to the 2023 scorecard outcome as detailed on pages 196 and 197. Details of our approach to 
risk adjustment, including our malus and clawback provisions, are provided on page 215.

190
190

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration report  
How does our directors’ remuneration policy address other key features set out in the  
UK Corporate Governance Code?

Proportionality 
•  In line with our commitment to pay for performance, a 

Predictability 
•  The range of possible rewards to individual executive 

significant proportion of executive director pay is delivered 
through incentives based on performance metrics aligned 
with our strategy. The Committee sets robust and stretching 
targets to ensure there is a clear link between Group 
performance and executive director awards.

•  Executive directors’ interests are further aligned with 

shareholders’ long-term interests through the deferred 
release of salary, annual incentive and LTIP awards over a 
period ranging from one to eight years. Incentive awards 
are also subject to clawback provisions for up to 10 years 
from grant. 

•  Shareholding requirements are in place for executive 

directors, requiring them to build and maintain a significant 
shareholding in Company shares while in employment and 
for a period of two years post-employment. Bill and Andy 
currently exceed their respective shareholding 
requirements.

directors is set out in the scenario charts on page 205 where 
we also demonstrate the impact of a 50 per cent share 
price appreciation over the three-year performance period 
of the LTIP. 

•  In addition to maximum award levels specified in our 

remuneration policy, the value of incentive awards will vary 
depending on achievement against specified performance 
targets and the share price at the time of delivery for the 
significant part of reward which is delivered in shares.

Simplicity and clarity
•  Simplicity is a key driver for the structure of our executive 
pay, subject to adherence to regulatory requirements 
arising from operating as a UK regulated bank. 

•  Our remuneration structure comprises straightforward and 

well-understood components. The purpose, structure, 
alignment with strategy and consistency with arrangements 
for the wider workforce are clearly set out in the 
remuneration policy. 

See pages 188 and 189 for further details

•  We set and report our performance-related measures, targets 
and outcomes in a clear, transparent and balanced way.

D
i
r
e
c
t
o
r
s
’

r
e
p
o
r
t

How is our executive director remuneration aligned to stakeholder experience?

•  Remuneration outcomes reflect key financial and  
non-financial performance delivered in the year.

•  Variable remuneration awards are based on stretching 

targets.

•  A significant portion of executive remuneration is paid in 

shares and shareholding requirements apply.

•  Post-employment shareholding requirements  

further reinforce the importance of  
sustainable long-term performance. 

•  The Remuneration Committee  
Chair regularly engages with  
shareholders on remuneration  
matters to seek feedback which 
helps guide decision-making.

Investors

Employees

•  The same remuneration principles apply 
to executives and employees, including 
consistent benefit and pension provision 
by location.

See pages 188 and 189 for further details

•  Annual incentives for executive directors 
are based on the same scorecard used 
to determine discretionary incentives 
across the Group.

• 

In line with our approach to 2024 salary 
increases, focusing on junior employees 
and those in high inflation markets, 
fixed pay for Bill and Diego will  
remain unchanged.

•  Remuneration outcomes 
take into account risk, 
control and conduct 
considerations.

•  Pay structures are aligned  
to relevant best practice, 
including the application  
of deferrals and malus/
clawback.

Executive  
director  
remuneration

Regulators and 
governments

Society and 
sustainability

•  Remuneration outcomes  
from both annual incentive 
and LTIP awards consider 
performance against 
sustainability objectives.

•  The Committee tracks  
gender and ethnicity pay 
gaps, and actively monitors 
the actions being taken to 
close them.

Clients

•  Remuneration outcomes reflect performance delivered including client-related  
performance objectives (e.g. improved client satisfaction).

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023

191
191

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report 
Committee at a glance

Committee composition

Shirish  
Apte  
(Chair)

David 
Conner

Robin 
Lawther, 
CBE

Maria 
Ramos

Jasmine 
Whitbread1

Linda 
Yueh, CBE2

Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?

The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief 
Financial Officer; Group Chief Risk Officer; Group Head, HR; 
Global Head, Performance, Reward and Benefits; Group Head, 
Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; Group Company 
Secretary; Chair of the Audit Committee; Group Head, Internal 
Audit.

See pages 137 to 141 for biographical details of the 
Committee members

1  Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023
2  Linda joined the Committee on 1 January 2023

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

2/2

5/5

What are the main responsibilities of the 
Committee? 

How did the Committee spend their time  
during their 2023 meetings?

The Committee is responsible for setting the principles, 
parameters and governance framework for the Group’s 
remuneration policy and overseeing its implementation.  
This includes:

•  Determining the framework and policies for the 

remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive 
directors and other senior management considering our 
Fair Pay Charter, wider workforce remuneration and 
alignment with culture and conduct. 

•  Overseeing the alignment of reward, culture, the strategic 

priorities and our Stands.

•  Approving Group discretionary remuneration, including 
adjustment for risk, control and conduct for current and 
future risks.

•  Overseeing the Fair Pay Charter.

The Committee has written terms of reference that  
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference

Executive remuneration and policy

Senior management remuneration

Group-wide reward, the Fair Pay 
Charter and pay diversity

Business performance and  
risk assessment review

Shareholder engagement,  
regulatory and governance

Other, inc. Group Share Plans

25%

10%

25%

20%

15%

5%

[[Committee focus  
for 2023]]

During the year, the Committee determined the retirement 
arrangements and remuneration arrangements for the outgoing 
and incoming GCFO respectively, working to ensure appropriate 
arrangements were put in place to facilitate a smooth and 
effective transition to the new GCFO. 

Read more on page 184

192

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ reportDirectors’ remuneration reportHow did our shareholders vote?

Advisory vote on the 2022 
remuneration report at 2023 
AGM1

Binding vote to approve the
2022 directors’ remuneration 
policy at 2022 AGM

For

Against

Withheld

521,070,732
94.7%

29,151,006
5.3%

14,890,207

404,531,068
68.8%

183,344,607
31.2%

24,340,637

The Committee Chair continues to 
engage with shareholders to seek views 
and feedback on key decisions the 
Committee takes each year. In 2024, 
shareholders will be consulted with on 
the development of the new directors’ 
remuneration policy scheduled to be put 
to shareholders for approval at the 2025 
AGM.

1 If withheld votes are considered as part of the overall voting outcome distribution, 92.2 per cent of 
votes would have been ‘For’ the resolution

What advice does the Committee receive?

How effective was the Committee in 2023? 

PwC was re-appointed as the Committee’s remuneration 
adviser in 2021. The Committee conducts a detailed review 
of potential advisers every three or four years. 

PwC is a signatory to the voluntary remuneration consulting 
Code of Conduct. It provides other services to the Group 
including assurance, advisory, consultancy and tax advice. 
The Committee is satisfied the advice received was 
objective and independent and that no potential or actual 
conflict arose. The total fees paid to PwC (partly a fixed fee 
and partly on a time and materials basis) was GBP148,175, 
which included advice to the Committee relating to 
executive directors’ remuneration and regulatory matters.

The Group CFO and Chief Risk Officer regularly update the 
Committee on finance and risk matters. The Committee 
manages conflicts of interest when receiving views from 
senior individuals on remuneration proposals and no 
individual is involved in deciding their own pay.

The feedback from the internally conducted 2023 
Committee effectiveness review was positive. The key 
points raised and the action plan for 2024 are summarised 
below.

•  The Committee performed well against an extensive 

agenda. The Chair works effectively, prioritising key issues 
and allowing for the appropriate level of challenge and 
engagement. 

•  The Committee has a good composition of technical skills 
including understanding the work of other committees, 
with other Board members being drawn upon where 
needed.

•  Positive commentary was given on the support received 
from internal specialists (e.g. human resources, finance, 
risk) and PwC.

[[2024 action plan]]

The 2024 action plan for the Committee reflects the recommendations from the effectiveness review and 
continues to build on the progress made last year:

•  Establish the Group’s position on the removal of the bonus cap.

•  Develop the new 2025 directors’ remuneration policy.

•  Follow up on Committee suggested training to be provided in 2024.

How does the Committee understand the views of our workforce? 

87%

of colleagues responded to the 
Group’s engagement survey, My Voice, 
which seeks to understand colleague 
sentiment in respect of performance 
management, the process of giving 
and receiving feedback and reward.

The Committee recognises the importance of seeking feedback from colleagues 
on remuneration matters to inform decision-making. The Culture and 
Sustainability Committee (CSC) is responsible for the Group’s workforce 
engagement programme and provides colleague feedback to the Remuneration 
Committee to inform remuneration decision-making. 

The Board engages with and listens to the views of employees. In 2023, the Board 
hosted informal events with employees which provided an opportunity for the 
Board to understand how the Bank’s strategy and culture are being lived and 
embedded across the Group.

See our Culture and Sustainability Committee report on pages 174 to 176 and our Stakeholder 
section on pages 54 to 64 for further information on our workforce engagement framework

193

Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023Directors’ report