@ Book one: Strategic Report 

l

We are pleased to share our 
Annual Report & Accounts  
in a unique, three-book format: 

Book one: Strategic Report 

Book one: Strategic Report 

Where we discuss our growth 
opportunities and strategic performance.

Contents 

Book two: Sustainability Report 

Where we discuss our environmental, 
social and governance progress. 

Book three: Financial Report 

Where we record our financial activities, 
performance and position. 

These separate, but connected books, 
with their interconnected themes and 
narratives, allow us to present what 
we achieved in 2023 in a systemic, 
end-to-end framework. They have 
been designed to make it easier for our 
stakeholders to fully understand our 
business, how we bring quality, safety 
and sustainability to life, what we 
offer our clients and society, and the 
opportunities ahead of us.

01   Let's make the world 
amazing together 

06  Chief Executive Officer's letter 
11  Our strategy 
16  Our business model
17  Who we are
18  What we do
20  Where we operate
22  How we do it
24  How we create value 
26  Key performance indicators 
30  Financial review 
36  Operating review

36  Consumer Products
40  Corporate Assurance
43  Health and Safety
46  Industry and Infrastructure
49  World of Energy 

52  Principal risks and uncertainties 
58  TCFD statement 
67   Non-financial and sustainability 

information statement 

Let's make the world 
amazing together 
and deliver sustainable growth 
and value for all 

  Visit: intertek.com/investors 

Intertek Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023

Book two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Let's make the world amazing together 

As a purpose-led organisation, 
we are energised about 
making the world a better 
place through the partnerships 
we have built over the years 
with all our stakeholders: our 
people, customers, communities 
and shareholders. 

We are purpose-led and have a strong 
track record of value creation for all 
stakeholders. We believe that working in 
partnership and understanding the needs 
of each stakeholder is what it takes to 
create sustainable growth and value for 
all. We are proud of the progress we have 
made over the years and equally there 
is so much more we can do to make the 
world a much better place. 

We are truly energised about the future 
growth opportunities to give our clients 
an Amazing ATIC Advantage, bringing 
quality, safety and sustainability to life 
in all parts of the global economy. Our 
people look forward to capitalising on 
the strong partnerships we have with 
our customers, suppliers, shareholders 
and communities to do so. 

Let’s make the world amazing together.

01

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportLet's make the world amazing together Continued 

Colleagues 

Creating amazing opportunities for  
our 44,000 people to thrive, always 
striving to offer the best customer 
service to our clients 

We believe in the power of diversity, 
equity and inclusion. Our success is 
based on a well-established culture 
of trust among colleagues who bring 
passion and energy together with their 
highly skilled technical expertise to 
exceed the expectations of their 

customers. We deeply value the rights of 
our people across all our operations and 
throughout our business relationships. 
We want everyone to feel safe and 
engaged, with access to limitless 
personal growth opportunities. 

87 

(2022: 80) 
ATIC Engagement Index score

To know that what we're doing 
is  making a real difference — 
that's pretty empowering. 

Vinu Abraham 
Building & Construction, US 

To find out more about how we create a supportive 
and inclusive culture for all of our colleagues

  Read pages 10-17 in Book two 

02

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportLet's make the world amazing together Continued 

Customers

Supporting 400,000+ clients with 
innovative solutions that enable them to 
operate with higher standards on quality, 
safety and sustainability in each part of 
their value chain 

We provide our customers with our industry 
leading ATIC solutions to ensure their 
products meet rigorous quality, safety, 
regulatory, brand and sustainability 
standards. With our expertise, they are able 
to power ahead safely, to navigate complex 
regulatory landscapes, gain access to new 
global markets, and demonstrate systemic 
and end-to-end assurance on all aspects of 

their sustainability operations. Our clients 
are increasing their focus on Risk-based 
Quality Assurance to operate with 
higher standards on quality, safety and 
sustainability in each part of their value 
chain, triggering a higher demand for 
our ATIC solutions, which are powered 
by our Science-based Customer Excellence 
ATIC Advantage. 

To find out more about the amazing work  
we are doing for our customers

  Read the operating review on pages 36–51 

03

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportLet's make the world amazing together Continued 

Communities 

Supporting and enhancing our 
communities and the environment 
across our global network of  
state-of-the-art operations in 
more than 100 countries 

Intertek people are always working 
to enrich the communities in which 
we operate by actively engaging in 
relevant initiatives such as community 
programmes, volunteer activities, 
partnerships with charities and social 
development projects. Through these 

efforts and making use of our Science- 
based expertise, we are able to address 
specific local social and environmental 
needs, contributing to community 
wellbeing and supporting sustainable 
practices that will help build an ever 
better world. 

Solar-powered street lights for 
rural Gurugram, India 
In partnership with local charity Deep Welfare 
Organisation, we installed solar-powered 
street lights in five villages in Gurugram, 
benefitting around 36,000 people.

Read more on page 35 of Book two 

04

To find out more about how we are making 
the world amazing for our communities

  Read more on pages 33-39 of Book two 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportLet's make the world amazing together Continued 

Shareholders 

Operating a high-quality earnings 
model with a proven track record 
of sustainable value creation over 
the long term 

As a purpose-led business focused on 
growth, Intertek delivers sustainable 
long-term value for our stakeholders. 
We operate a differentiated, high-quality 
growth business with excellent 
fundamentals and intrinsic defensive 
characteristics, giving our customers the 
Intertek Science-based ATIC Advantage 
to strengthen their businesses. Our 
approach to value creation is based on 
the compounding effect, year after year, 

of margin accretive revenue growth, strong 
cash generation and disciplined investments 
in high-growth and high-margin sectors. 
With our high-quality compounder earnings 
model, we are focused on delivering 
sustainable growth and value, harnessing 
the attractive structural growth drivers 
present across our global markets and 
unlocking the significant value growth 
opportunity ahead. 

9% CAGR

2015-2023 total shareholder return 

To find out more about how we create 
long-term value for our shareholders

  Read our financial highlights on page 8

05

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter 

Chief Executive Officer's letter 

let' s make the world 
amazing for all 
sta keholders 

I would like to recognise 
the contribution of our truly 
amazing people, who have 
delivered a strong performance 
in 2023 for our company, our 
clients, our shareholders and 
society as a whole. 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer

06

In doing so, we have continued to 
provide our many hundred thousand 
clients the comprehensive ATIC 
solutions they need, making us 
their most trusted and valued 
partner in meeting their Risk-based 
TQA needs. With our constant 
focus on improving our reach, 
our insight and our capabilities, 
we continued to deepen existing 
relationships and attract new ones. 

We launched our AAA differentiated 
growth strategy in 2023, taking an 
evolutionary approach, building on 
our strengths to accelerate growth 
for all, benefitting from the increased 
investments of our clients in Total 
Quality Assurance. We will capitalise 
on our proven high-quality earnings 
model to unlock the significant 
value growth opportunity ahead, 
while reinventing and improving 
ourselves in those areas where we 
can make an even greater difference 
than we are achieving today. 

At Intertek, our purpose- 
led approach is making 
the world ever better, 
delivering sustainable 
growth and value for 
every stakeholder as an 
amazing force for good – 
from our people to our 
clients, our communities 
and our shareholders – 
all the time. 

The Science-based Customer 
Excellence of our talented colleagues 
around the world gives us a unique 
competitive advantage, enabling 
our clients everywhere to power 
ahead safely and sustainably. 

During the year we invested further in 
our industry-leading ATIC (Assurance, 
Testing, Inspection and Certification) 
customer value proposition that 
we pioneered in 2016, creating the 
concept of Risk-based Total Quality 
Assurance ('TQA') that redefined our 
industry. It’s an approach that was 
ahead of its time then and that has 
underpinned our success in bringing 
quality, safety and sustainability 
to life, making us mission critical 
to our clients and society. 

  Read more about ATIC on page 18 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportHigh-quality earnings model 
Our proven, cash-generative earnings model is at the core of what makes us 
successful. It is based on the delivery of our unique TQA value proposition. The 
profitable delivery of ATIC services to customers operating in the structurally 
attractive Consumer Products, Corporate Assurance, Health and Safety, 
Industry and Infrastructure, and World of Energy sectors is dependent on our 
capital-light business model, and entrepreneurial and Customer 1st culture, 
which also enables us to respond quickly to new growth opportunities. 

To maximise returns, we continue to invest in high-growth, high-margin 
areas and maintain a disciplined approach to capital allocation.

GDP+ organic 
revenue growth 
in real terms 

Investments in  
high-growth and  
high-margin  
sectors

Margin-accretive 
revenue growth 

Intertek Virtuous 
Economics 

Disciplined 
capital allocation 

Strong free 
cash flow 

07

Chief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Excellence ATIC Advantage. Over the last 
nine years, from 2014-2023, we have 
delivered a CAGR of 5.3%, 6.1% and 6.0% 
for revenue, operating profit and EPS, 
notwithstanding the impact of Covid. 
In May 2023, we unveiled our Intertek 
AAA differentiated growth strategy to 
capitalise on the best-in-class operating 
platform we have built and target the 
areas where we have opportunities to 
get better. Our highly engaged, customer- 
centric organisation is laser-focused 
to take Intertek to greater heights 
putting our AAA strategy in action 
and continuing to deliver sustainable 
growth and value for all stakeholders. 

Based on our positive momentum, we 
expect the Group will deliver a robust 
performance in 2024 with mid-single 
digit LFL revenue growth at constant 
currency, margin progression and a 
strong cash flow performance. We are 
on track to get back to our peak margin 
of 17.5% and beyond in the medium- 
term, capitalising on the revenue growth 
acceleration we are seeing for our ATIC 
solutions, our disciplined performance 
management and our investments in 
high growth and high margin segments. 

We believe in the value of accretive 
disciplined capital allocation. In 
recognition of our highly cash generative 
earnings model, our strong financial 
position, the Board’s confidence in the 
attractive long-term growth prospects 
for the Group and its ability to fund 
continued growth investments, we are 
increasing our targeted dividend payout 
ratio to circa 65% of earnings from 2024. 

As we move through 2024, our good 
to great journey continues as we 
consistently add to our core areas of 
excellence and expertise. During 2023, 
we made progress embedding recent 
acquisitions, making new ones, and 
launching new innovations and centres 
of excellence throughout the business. 

We are well positioned to help the world 
operate with ever-higher quality, safety 
and sustainability standards. We are 
working harder than ever before to 
ensure that everybody, everywhere has 
the opportunity to benefit from the 
quality excellence that our TQA solutions 
deliver, enabling clients to resolve the 
complex operating challenges they face. 

Results in 2023 
I would like to recognise all my colleagues 
for their unwavering support enabling 
us to deliver a strong 2023 performance 
in revenue growth, margin, EPS, cash 
and ROIC. Our revenue grew by 7.1% 
at constant currency driven by a LFL 
revenue growth of 6.2%, the highest in 
the last 10 years, and the contribution 
of our acquisitions. Our systemic 
performance management drove strong 
profit conversion with margins rising 
60bps at constant currency, driving EPS 
growth of 11.0% at constant currency. 
Cash conversion at 122% was excellent. 
We have delivered our highest ever cash 
from operations of £749m resulting 
in our net debt declining by £127m to 
£611m. We have a strong balance sheet 
giving us the ability to invest in growth. 
ROIC increased by 250bps to 20.5%. 

Our clients are increasing their focus 
on Risk-based Quality Assurance to 
operate with higher standards on quality, 
safety and sustainability in each part 
of their value chain, triggering a higher 
demand for our ATIC solutions which are 
powered by our Science-based Customer 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Strategic highlights 

Sustainability highlights 

•  As a purpose-led organisation, we 
are energised about making the 
world a better place through the 
partnerships we have built over the 
years with all our stakeholders. 

•  The Science-based Customer Excellence

of our talented colleagues gives us 
a unique competitive advantage, 
enabling organisations to power 
ahead safely and sustainably. 

•  Our clients are increasing their focus 
on Risk-based Quality Assurance to 
operate with higher standards across 
their value chain, triggering a higher 
demand for our ATIC solutions. 

•  We launched our AAA differentiated 

growth strategy to accelerate 
growth for all, benefitting from 
the increased investments of our 
clients in Total Quality Assurance. 

•  We will capitalise on our proven high- 
quality earnings model to unlock the 
significant value growth opportunity 
ahead, while improving ourselves 
in those areas where we can make 
an even greater difference. 

•  We are well positioned to continue 
to deliver sustainable growth and 
value for all our stakeholders. 

•  Levels of Hazard Observations increased, 
reflecting greater levels of activity across 
our sites as well as greater awareness 
and reporting of health & safety overall. 

•  Since 2015, we have used the Net 
Promoter Score (‘NPS’) process to 
listen to our customers, enabling 
us to improve our customer service 
over the years consistently. 

•  We are driving environmental 

performance across our operations 
through science-based reduction 
targets to 2030. Our rigorous 
monthly performance management of 
climate-related action plans delivered 
operational market-based emissions 
reductions of 10.8% against 2022 and 
36.7% against our base year 2019. 

•  In 2023, our greenhouse gas ('GHG') 
emissions reduction targets were
validated by the Science Based 
Targets initiative ('SBTi'). 

•  We recognise the importance of employee 

engagement in driving sustainable 
performance for all stakeholders, and we 
measure employee engagement against 
our Intertek ATIC Engagement Index. 
Our 2023 score was 87 (2022: 80). 

•  Our voluntary permanent employee 
turnover improved to a low rate 
of 12.3% (2022: 14.0%).

Financial highlights 

•  Revenue of £3,328.7m, +7.1% at constant 

Rev

enu

e

currency and +4.3% at actual rates 

•  Highest LFL revenue growth in the last 
10 years with 6.2% LFL revenue growth 
at constant currency 

•  LFL of 8.2% in Corporate Assurance, Health 
and Safety, Industry and Infrastructure, 
and World of Energy combined; Consumer 
Products LFL of 1.3% 

•  JLA, SAI and CEA acquisitions performing 

well, and Controle Analítico and PlayerLync
integrations on track 

•  Adjusted operating profit of £551.1m, 

+10.9% at constant currency and +6.0% 
at actual rates 

•  Adjusted operating margin of 16.6%, 

+60bps at constant currency and +30bps 
at actual rates 

•  Adjusted diluted EPS of 223.0p, +11.0% 

at constant currency and +5.6% at 
actual rates 

•  Daily cash discipline delivers an all-time 
high operating cash flow of £749.0m 
with cash conversion of 122% 

•  Strong balance sheet; net debt reduced 
by £127m to £611m, and leverage ratio 
improved to 0.8x 

•  ROIC of 20.5%, +250bps year-on-year at 
constant currency and at actual rates 

•  Cost reduction programme delivered 
savings of £13m in 2023 and £10m 
expected in 2024 

•  Proven high quality compounding model; 

On track to deliver our medium-term margin 
target of 17.5%+ 

•  Robust 2024 outlook: Mid-single digit LFL 
at constant currency, margin progression 
and strong cash flow 

•  Full Year dividend of 111.7p up 5.6% 

year-on-year; increasing targeted dividend 
payout to circa 65% from 2024 

08

32
,
£3

9m

(2022: £3,193m)

Like-for-like revenue1

£3,301m

(2022: £3,193m)

Adjusted free cash flow1, 2

Adjusted operating profit1,2

£378m

(2022: £386m)

£551m

(2022: £520m)

Statutory operating profit 

Return on Invested Capital1

£486m

(2022: £452m)

20.5%

(2022: 18.0%) 

Adjusted operating margin1,2

Statutory operating margin 

16.6%

(2022: 16.3%) 

Dividend per share3

111.7p

(2022: 105.8p)

Statutory diluted EPS 

183.4p

(2022: 178.4p)

14.6%

(2022: 14.2%) 

Adjusted diluted EPS1,2

223.0p

(2022: 211.1p)

1.  Definitions of the alternative performance 

measures, metrics and constant rates can be
found in Book three, page 64. 

2.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating 

profit margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) and adjusted free cash flow are non-GAAP 
measures. Adjusted measures are stated before 
Separately Disclosed Items, which are described in
note 3 to the financial statements in Book three, 
page 11. Reconciliations between statutory and 
adjusted measures, as well as return on invested 
capital and cash conversion, are shown in the 
Financial Review. 

3.  Dividend per share for 2023 is based on the 

interim dividend paid of 37.7p (2022: 34.2p) plus
the proposed final dividend of 74.0p 
(2022: 71.6p). 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Action 

Delivering best in class digital experience 
on intertek.com 

At the end of 2023, we proudly 
launched our redesigned website 
intertek.com, a higher energy and 
more immersive platform for a best 
in class customer experience. 

Built on cutting-edge technology, 
the website is more user-friendly, 
with easier and faster navigation, 
and hosts a range of rich content, 
giving visitors increased insight into 
the Science-based Expertise behind 
our unique, industry-leading ATIC 
solutions. 

The new design has been tailored 
to a range of different audiences, 
meaning that customers, investors, 
analysts, employees and even 
casual visitors can all come away 
with a greater appreciation of how 
Intertek is helping to bring quality, 
safety and sustainability to life, 
every day. 

To stay up-to-date with our latest 
news and developments, visitors 
can sign up for online alerts.

  Visit: intertek.com 

Chief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Building a safer and more sustainable 
world by harnessing the increased 
demand for our ATIC solutions 

In a post-Covid world, corporations are investing more 
in quality, safety and sustainability, accelerating the 
demand for our ATIC industry-leading solutions. 

We operate in an industry with compelling structural 
growth drivers. As the global population grows, 
regulation becomes more complex and consumers focus 
more than ever before on safety, performance and 
quality. As a result, the need for end-to-end traceability 
continues to become more urgent and the transition to 
renewable energy increasingly important and rapid. 

Based on our customer research, these attractive 
structural growth drivers are being augmented 
by the following set of emerging trends. 

Higher investments in safer supply 
Covid-19 has proved to be a catalyst for many corporations 
to improve the resilience of their supply chains. We are 
seeing a significant change of focus from our clients when 
it comes to managing their value chains, as they recognise 
the need for better data throughout their supply chains, 
tighter risk management with razor-sharp business continuity 
planning, and a more diversified portfolio strategy. All this 
means they are more prepared to invest in their processes, 
technology, training and independent assurance. 

Higher investments in innovation 
Our clients have also realised that they need to invest 
more in product and service innovation. That’s the only 
way they can meet the changing needs of their customers. 
In a 2023 survey by Capgemini, 67% of Research & 
Development leaders expect to increase their investments 
in R&D. For us, these investments in innovation add 
up to a higher number of Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, 
and tests per SKU. SKUs are vital tools for retailers and 
wholesalers, allowing them to identify products and 
monitor stock levels across systems and channels. 

A step change in sustainability 
Sustainability is the movement of our time, and the 
demand for clear and transparent sustainability-related 
information is growing with every government regulation. 
Consumers are looking for companies they can trust, 
and ones that align with their own values. Meanwhile 
investors are seeking more transparency, and stakeholder 
expectations are rising. With our industry-leading Total 
Sustainability Assurance solutions, we provide a unique 
end-to-end solution that includes our wide variety of 
sustainability services and independent certifications to 
meaningfully demonstrate commitment to sustainability. 

Higher growth in the world of energy 
The growth opportunities in the world of energy are 
truly exciting, as the demand for energy grows and the 
transition to greener energy accelerates. Having seen 
the recent concerns over energy security and given the 
under-investments in traditional oil and gas exploration 
and production in the last decade, along with the lack of 
scale for renewables, investments for production in both 
sectors are set to increase. This is a significant opportunity 
for Intertek, and we're working to lead the way with our 
science-based fuels innovation and sustainability solutions. 

Increase in new clients 
There is also significant growth in the number of companies 
globally, largely due to the lower barriers to entry in many 
sectors for any brand with e-commerce capabilities. So 
many of these young companies have one key thing in 
common – a lack of Quality Assurance expertise. This 
makes them perfect clients for our Global Market Access 
solutions and, as a decentralised customer-focused 
organisation, we have an amazing track record of winning 
new clients and maintaining long-term client relationships.

  Read more about ATIC on page 18

09

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

To seize the significant growth value 
opportunity ahead we will be laser- 
focused on three strategic priorities and 
three strategic enablers. Our strategic 
priorities are defined as Science-based 
Customer Excellence TQA, Brand 
Push & Pull, and Winning Innovations, 
and our three strategic enablers 
are based on 10X Purpose-based 
Engagement, Sustainability Excellence 
and Margin Accretive Investments. 
We will both further improve where 
we are already strong and address 
the areas where we can get better. 

At the Capital Markets Event we set 
out how our passionate, innovative 
and customer-centric organisation is 
energised to take Intertek to greater 
heights delivering AAA performance 
for all stakeholders. We are focused on 
delivering value consistently, targeting 
mid-single digit LFL revenue growth, 
margin accretion to return to our 17.5% 
peak margin and beyond, strong cash 
generation and a more agile organisation 
while pursuing disciplined investments in 
attractive growth and margin sectors.

  See our business model on pages 16-25 

Our high-quality portfolio is poised for faster growth: 
•  The depth and breadth of our ATIC solutions positions us well to seize the 

increased corporate needs for Risk-based Quality Assurance 

•  All of our global business lines have plans in place to seize the exciting growth 

drivers in each of our divisions 

•  At the local level, our country-business mix is strong, with the majority of our 

revenues exposed to fast-growth segments 

•  Geographically, we have the right exposure to the structural growth 

opportunities across our global markets

  Visit: intertek.com/investors/ 

capital-markets-event-presentations/

Intertek ‘AAA’ 
differentiated 
growth strategy 

We have made strong progress between 
2014 and 2023 delivering sustainable 
growth and value for our stakeholders, 
and we are very excited about the 
significant growth value opportunity 
ahead, capitalising on our Science-based 
Customer Excellence TQA advantage. 

At our Capital Markets Event last year, we 
unveiled our Intertek AAA differentiated 
growth strategy to capitalise on the 
best in class 5x5 operating platform 
we have built in recent years and 
to target the areas where we have 
opportunities to get better. 

Our Intertek AAA differentiated 
growth strategy is about continuing 
our good to great journey and 
unlocking the significant value growth 
opportunity ahead by being the 
best and creating significant value 
for every stakeholder every day. 

We want to be the most trusted TQA 
partner for our customers, the employer 
of choice with our employees, to 
demonstrate Sustainability Excellence 
everywhere in our community and 
deliver sustainable growth and 
value for our shareholders. 

10

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Introducing our Amazing ATIC Advantage good to great strategy 

AAA means giving  
our clients an 'Amazing  
ATIC Advantage' to make 
their businesses stronger 

It’s about being the absolute  
industry champion by providing  
clients with the best ATIC solutions. 

Being the best for  
every stakeholder  
all the time 

We want to be the most trusted  
TQA partner for our customers,  
the employer of choice for our 
employees, to demonstrate 
Sustainability Excellence 
everywhere in our community 
and deliver significant growth 
and value for our shareholders. 

Customers 
Be the most trusted 
TQA partner 

To achieve this ambition, we  
will focus on three goals: 

•  10X purpose-led engagement  

in every team 

•  Higher revenue with  
existing customers 

•  Step up the acquisition 

of new clients 

Our goals

Our AAA differentiated 
growth strategy 

We will reach our goals by implementing our 
AAA differentiated growth strategy to unlock 
the significant value growth opportunity ahead. 

Our strategic 
priorities 

Our strategic 
enablers 

Science-based TQA  
Customer Excellence 
We invest in the skills we 
need to deliver operational 
excellence and superior 
customer service 

10X Purpose-based 
Engagement 
Working with Gallup, we’re 
giving our teams the data 
they need to unleash their 
full potential 

+

+

Brand Push & Pull 
We are leveraging the strength 
of our brand to become a 
B2B2C brand, a real first in 
our industry 

Sustainability 
Excellence 
Our integrated control and 
compliance approach ensures 
we deliver on all aspects 
of sustainability 

+

+

Winning Innovations 
Our innovative solutions help 
clients resolve their quality, 
safety and sustainability 
challenges 

Margin Accretive  
Investments 
Our investments help us 
leverage our scale and ensure 
our portfolio is poised for 
faster growth 

Shareholders
Sustainable growth  
and value 

Employees 
Employer of choice 
every day 

Community 
Sustainability 
Excellence  
everywhere 

11

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Leading the industry 
through innovation 
and M&A 
True to our pioneering spirit, we at 
Intertek continue to constantly reinvent 
ourselves, delivering winning ATIC 
solutions which allow our clients to 
resolve the complex Quality Assurance 
challenges they face. That’s why we 
launched Global Market Access ('GMA'), 
a one-stop digital knowledge platform 
which helps retailers of soft goods, 
hard goods and personal protective 
equipment better understand and 
comply with regulations across 
the world, facilitating significant 
improvements in consumer safety. 

Likewise, the launch in Türkiye of our 
pioneering new platform iCare has made 
it possible for fashion manufacturers 
to access real-time information about 
the status and progress of their 
submitted samples in just a few clicks, 
meaning they can effortlessly manage 
all their testing projects through one 
centralised platform, accessible 24/7. 

We also set up several new centres 
of expertise, including our state-of- 
the-art Battery Xcellence Centre in 
Mestre, near Venice in Italy, and our 
Electrification Centre of Excellence in 
Plymouth, Detroit, allowing us to meet 
rising demand from two of the world’s 
fastest growing sectors for Intertek’s 
Science-based TQA solutions. 

Another highlight from 2023 was the 
introduction of advanced PhotonAssay 
technology into our Minerals laboratory 
in Tarkwa, Ghana – a revolutionary new 
technique that delivers faster results and 
uses fewer hazardous chemicals than 
other testing procedures, minimising 
our impact on the environment. 

Finally, we have also seized a number 
of attractive growth opportunities, 
strengthening our portfolio in high- 
growth, high-margin areas through 
recent acquisitions like SAI Global 
Assurance, JLA Brasil Laboratório 
de Análises de Alimentos S.A., Clean 
Energy Associates LLC and Controle 
Analítico Análises Técnicas Ltda that 
have allowed us to further expand our 
share of the global Quality Assurance 
market and have been successfully 
integrated and are performing well 
and in line with our expectations. 

The acquisition of PlayerLync Holdings 
Inc., a leading provider of training and 
learning content to frontline workforces 
at some of the world’s leading brands, 
leaves us exceptionally well-placed to 
take advantage of fast-growing market 
demand for software-based, technology- 
enabled People Assurance services. 

These developments reflect the 
commitment we share at Intertek to 
drive continuous innovation which 
powers new growth opportunities 
and helps to make our world a safer, 
more sustainable, and amazing place. 

We will continue to look at M&A 
opportunities in attractive high-margin 
and high-growth areas to broaden our 
ATIC portfolio of solutions with new 
services we can offer to our clients 
and to expand our regional coverage.

  Read more about our innovations in the  

Operating review on pages 36-51

12

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Total Sustainability Assurance 
TSA is a global programme that leverages our footprint in over 100 countries 
and covers all industries. We have built a team of sustainability experts in 
every major region, who can help with both a global and local perspective. 
Read more about how we help our clients meet their sustainability 
goals in the Sustainability Report, Book two, pages 18-25. 

Intertek Operational 
Sustainability Solutions 
enable companies to 
understand, achieve and 
validate their existing and 
emerging sustainability 
goals for their products, 
assets, facilities, systems, 
processes and the 
environment. 

Providing independent 
verification of sustainability 
disclosures and reporting, 
Intertek ESG Assurance 
enables companies to 
identify areas of risk and 
impact, define their 
sustainability strategies 
and prepare ESG reports. 

Intertek Corporate 
Sustainability Certification 
covers topics from 
Quality and Safety 
to the Environment 
and Communication & 
Disclosure, enabling clients 
to verify their corporate 
sustainability performance 
across the ten most 
essential corporate 
sustainability subject areas. 

Among other key developments 
during the year, we received AAA 
accreditation from the MSCI ESG ratings 
and were included for the seventh 
consecutive year in the FTSE4Good 
index. These and many other initiatives, 
challenges and achievements relating 
to the environment are described in 
depth in our Sustainability Report. 

We continued to deliver progress on 
our health & safety performance, 
with a low Total Recordable Incident 
Rate. We also recorded an employee- 
engagement score of 87 against our 
Intertek ATIC Engagement Index, 
compared with 80 in 2022. And our 
voluntary permanent employee turnover 
during the year stood at the low rate 
of 12.3% compared to 14.0% in 2022.

  Read more about Sustainability Excellence  

in Book two 

Our TSA approach uses the deep 
scientific, engineering and auditing 
expertise of our sustainability teams to 
meet our clients' needs; with industry- 
agnostic, industry-specific or tailored 
solutions; with holistic solutions 
covering everything from consulting 
and gap assessment, to training, to 
regulatory reporting and corporate 
certification; and with actual, real- 
world improvements in sustainability 
in their operations and value chains. 

At Intertek, we live by the same values 
that our wide range of sustainability 
services enable our clients to embrace. 
We have also committed to ambitious 
science-based targets to reduce 
our own operational emissions and 
attain net zero carbon emissions 
across our entire footprint by 2050. 

I am particularly pleased that during the 
year we received validation from the 
Science-Based Targets initiative ('SBTi') 
for our targets relating to reducing 
greenhouse gas ('GHG') emissions. 

I am delighted that in validating these 
targets, the SBTi has found that we 
are in line with the ambition to restrict 
global temperature increases to 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels by 2050. I am 
also happy to report that our rigorous 
monthly performance management of 
climate-related action plans delivered 
operational market-based emissions 
reductions of 10.8% against 2022 and 
36.7% against our base year 2019. 

Sustainability at the heart 
of everything we do 
Nowhere is the growth acceleration 
we are seeing stronger than in the 
area of sustainability. This is the 
movement of our time and is central 
to everything we do at Intertek – 
anchored in our Purpose, our Vision, 
our Values, and now in our AAA 
differentiated growth strategy as well. 

Sustainability is important to all 
stakeholders in society who are 
consistently demanding faster 
progress and greater transparency 
in sustainability reporting. 

Companies everywhere therefore 
continuously need to upgrade 
and reinvent how they manage 
their sustainability agenda, 
particularly with regard to how 
they disclose their performance. 

This is why, under our global Total 
Sustainability Assurance ('TSA') 
programme, we provide our clients 
with proven independent, systemic 
and end-to-end assurance on all 
aspects of their sustainability 
strategies, activities and operations. 

The TSA programme comprises 
three elements: 
•  Intertek Operational Sustainability

Solutions 

•  Intertek ESG Assurance 

•  Intertek Corporate Sustainability 

Certification 

Visit: intertek.com/sustainability/ 

13

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

Connect with our 'You'll be amazed' campaign 

intertek.com/amazed 

linkedin.com/company/intertek

You’ll be amazed 
As an industry pioneer, on our good 
to great journey, we have been 
focused across all of our business 
lines on making Intertek the global 
icon for Total Quality Assurance. 

It is to bring awareness of the sheer 
scope of our amazing people’s expertise 
that we have launched the ‘You’ll 
be amazed where you find Intertek’ 
campaign, the industry’s first ever brand 
campaign that reaches out directly to 
consumers, highlighting the mission- 
critical role that Intertek plays in areas 
from pioneering cancer research to 
ensuring the safety of wind turbines and 
helping to assure that the fuel inside Air 
Force One is fit for flight before take-off. 

By targeting a consumer audience 
for the first time, the campaign aims 
to create awareness outside a purely 
business-to-business environment. 
This campaign celebrates that Intertek 
has a positive impact on all aspects of 
modern life, by shining a light on the 
incredible work of our colleagues through 
social media content and stories. 

By helping to make our brand a 
household name for quality, safety and 
sustainability around the world, it will 
place us more front-of-mind for new 
decision makers as we become the B2B2C 
brand icon for Total Quality Assurance. 

14

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's letter Continued 

I am truly proud to be working 
alongside them all to make the world 
amazing. Read more about our culture 
and people in the Sustainability 
Report, Book two pages 10-17. 

During the year, we also announced 
the establishment of a new Group 
Executive Committee to take advantage 
of the exciting growth opportunities 
ahead, in a world where companies 
are increasing their focus on Risk- 
based Quality Assurance to make 
their businesses stronger. Read more 
about our Group Executive Committee 
on page 53 in the Directors' Report 
in Sustainability Report, Book two. 

Our goal is to have fully engaged 
employees working in a safe environment. 

Our amazing people 
I would like to highlight the contribution 
of our truly amazing people, who 
once again have delivered a strong 
performance for our company, our clients, 
our shareholders and society as a whole. 

Across the organisation, our people are 
truly engaged about the opportunity 
we have to deliver on our Purpose of 
bringing quality, safety and sustainability 
to life. This genuine commitment and 
customer-centric passion is at the heart 
of our culture, and our determination to 
be the agents of positive change around 
the world is evident in everything we do. 

We have a highly disciplined approach 
to performance management, which 
underpins our operational excellence 
and continuous improvement approach 
in everything we do. Our commitment 
to excellence involves the constant 
measurement of our progress against 
a range of operational metrics, using 
data intelligence to meticulously 
gauge and understand our customer 
service levels and turnaround times. 

This approach, along with our unwavering 
focus on quality at every site, is crucial 
to our ability to deliver constant 
improvement, with our commitment 
to operational and health & safety 
excellence to ensure that our customers 
always receive a superior service. 

Our ability to do this comes down to the 
incredible energy of our 44,000 people 
across the world, and I thank each and 
every one of them for their unwavering 
support, applying their Science-based 
Customer Excellence that powers our 
AAA differentiated growth strategy. 

15

As we work with our clients to make 
the world amazing together, we 
are energised by the future growth 
opportunities we can unlock by bringing 
our clients the benefits of our Science- 
based Customer Excellence Advantage. 

That’s how we’ll continue to bring quality, 
safety and sustainability to life in all 
parts of the global economy, building 
on the uniquely strong partnerships 
we have in place – not only with our 
customers, but also with our people, 
suppliers, shareholders and communities. 

Let’s make the world amazing together! 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer

Looking ahead: 
let’s make the world 
amazing together 
The world has made tremendous 
progress in the last 50 years to 
operate with higher quality, safety and 
sustainability standards. As I look ahead 
to 2024 and beyond, I am confident 
that we will continue to benefit from 
the acceleration in growth for our 
ATIC solutions as our clients increase 
their investments in safer supply 
chains, innovation and sustainability. 

What we do is mission critical for the 
world’s supply chains to operate safely 
24/7. We are purpose-led and passionate 
about bringing quality, safety and 
sustainability to life, leveraging our 
differentiated, high-energy, people- 
centric culture to focus on maintaining 
our strong track record of delivering 
sustainable value for all stakeholders. 
This makes us a force for good, 
committed to helping the world become 
amazing now and into the future. 

We have been a pioneer for more than 
130 years, providing Total Quality 
Assurance to give our customers the 
peace of mind they need to operate 
safely and make their businesses 
stronger with our ATIC solutions. 
Our ATIC services are provided to all 
industries, touching almost every aspect 
of life from the ordinary to the incredible, 
with a global network of state-of-the-art 
operations in more than 100 countries. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model 

Our business model 

How we apply

our passionate 
culture, science- 
based expertise, 
and resources
to create sustainable value 

16

 Who we are 
We are passionate about our Purpose and 
committed to being ever better. Our people are 
guided by science, and sustainability is central 
to everything we do.

Page 17 

 What we do 
Intertek’s unrivalled Total Quality Assurance is 
delivered consistently with precision, pace and 
passion. Science-based Customer Excellence is 
what makes us different.

Page 18 

 Where we operate 
We report revenue, operating profit and margin 
in five divisions: Consumer Products, Corporate 
Assurance, Health and Safety, Industry and 
Infrastructure, and World of Energy.

Page 20 

 How we do it 
The industry-leading solutions we provide are 
delivered with an unwavering commitment to our 
customers and by investing in our global network.

Page 22 

 How we create value 

Page 24 

We are a force for good in the world, and our 
solutions create meaningful and sustainable 
long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

Our Values 
We are a global family 
that values diversity. 

We always do the right thing, 
with precision, pace and passion. 

We trust each other and  
have fun winning together. 

We own and shape our future. 

We create sustainable  
growth. For all. 

Who we are 

We are passionate about 
our Purpose and 'Doing 
Business the Right Way'. 
We strive to make the  
world a better, safer and 
more sustainable place for 
all, now and for future 
generations. 

Ever better 
As a company we are committed to 
becoming ever better in everything 
we do. That means more than simply 
seeking ways to constantly improve 
our operations for enhanced efficiency 
and effectiveness. It means investing 
in our Science-based Customer 
Excellence approach to provide superior 
services, enabling our 400,000+ 
clients to become ever better too. 

As the world changes, supply chains are 
rapidly growing in size and complexity, 
bringing unprecedented levels of 
risk. As a result, it can become more 
difficult for businesses to operate 
safely and sustainably while delivering 
quality products and services. In 
these challenging times, companies 
need a trusted partner, which is 
why we provide our clients with a 
unique risk-based approach to Quality 
Assurance. We call this Total Quality 
Assurance and only Intertek offers it. 

Our Purpose 
Bringing quality, safety  
and sustainability to life. 

Our Vision 
To be the world’s most 
trusted partner for 
Quality Assurance.

Our people, culture and values 
We value diversity and our core 
strength is, and always will be, our 
people. We are guided by science, and 
it’s the way our colleagues combine 
passion and innovation with customer 
commitment that sets us apart. 

Our decentralised operating culture 
is built around strong values. These 
values are inspirational and help us to 
drive sustainable growth for all. They 
guide our behaviours every single 
day, underpinning the way we work, 
guiding decision making and connecting 
colleagues across the world. 

Sustainability is central to everything 
we do and we demonstrate our 
commitment and passion to help our 
clients make a difference, as well as 
bettering ourselves every day. 

  Read more about Sustainability Excellence  

in Book two 

17

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

What we do 

End-to-end ATIC services 

Assurance 
(21% Group revenue) 

Tes ting 
(46% Group revenue)

But the ATIC solutions we offer go 
beyond the quality and safety of a 
corporation’s physical components, 
products and assets. They go to the 
heart of the reliability of their operating 
processes and quality management. We 
call this Total Quality Assurance because 
it enables our clients to mitigate risk 
at every stage of their operations. 

In short, we help our clients operate 
in safety and make their businesses 
stronger, making the world 
amazing – a better, safer and more 
sustainable place for everybody. 

Enabling our customers to identify and mitigate intrinsic risk in 
their operations, their supply and distribution chains and 
quality management systems. 

Evaluating how our customers’ products and services  
meet and exceed quality, safety, sustainability and  
performance standards. 

Assurance goes beyond testing, inspection and certification to look 
at the underlying elements that make a company and its products 
successful. Intertek’s assurance solutions provide total peace of 
mind to our clients that their operating procedures, systems and 
people are functioning properly to provide competitive advantage. 

Our extensive auditing, performance benchmarking and supply chain 
services provide insight into every aspect of a company's operations, 
right across the value chain, enabling informed business decisions. 
Our training services ensure workforce competencies are current and 
relevant. Our experts around the globe bring their knowledge to 
clients on assessing overall performance, the quality and productivity 
of laboratories, identifying and mitigating risks, streamlining 
manufacturing processes and supply chains, and so much more. 

Intertek’s testing services support the quality, performance, 
regulatory compliance, safety, benchmarking, evaluation, validation, 
analysis, and other requirements for products, components, raw 
materials, sites, and facilities. 

Our field and in-house laboratory testing services provide the 
data our clients need to optimise the production process and get 
products to market quickly and economically. 

Our experts and global resources are equipped to meet testing, 
timelines and product needs. As regulations change and technology 
is created or innovated, our knowledge and industry expertise 
ensure products and businesses are prepared to meet evolving 
demands. 

  Visit: intertek.com/assurance/

  Visit: intertek.com/testing/

Inspection 
(25% Group revenue) 

Certification 
(8% Group revenue) 

Validating the specifications, value and safety of our 
customers’ raw materials, products and assets. 

Formally confirming that our customers’ products and services 
meet all trusted external and internal standards. 

Independent third-party inspections help our clients around 
the world protect their financial, branding and legal interests 
throughout the entire supply chain. We offer inspection services to 
manufacturers, retailers, traders, plant operators, governments and 
other buyers and sellers of materials and products. 

Inspections help minimise the risk of defective products by 
ensuring they meet customer standards as well as industry and 
government regulations. This serves to protect business interests, 
manage risk and ensure quality products are manufactured and 
delivered to their final destination at the correct specifications. 

Our experienced inspectors help identify products and shipments 
which may contain non-standard or non-compliant components and 
materials. We also support the end-to-end life management of 
facilities such as power plants and oil refineries. 

Intertek maintains extensive global accreditations, and we are 
recognised for our testing and certification services. 

With both international and local proficiency, Intertek brings the 
qualifications customers need to get products in front of the right 
eyes. We offer certification programmes that achieve market entry 
into a variety of global destinations, programmes for a more 
eco-friendly environment, and programmes to verify social 
accountability compliance for companies and their suppliers. 

We help clients showcase and maintain products’ safety and 
performance. Our leadership and expertise in regulatory standards 
and certifications keep clients ahead of changes and challenges, 
and our knowledge of the process from sourcing to market position 
creates efficient, cost-effective solutions that meet best industry 
practices. 

  Visit: intertek.com/inspection/

  Visit: intertek.com/certification/

At Intertek, we bring our 
clients the benefits of 
our unique risk-based 
assurance solution: Total 
Quality Assurance. 

For more than 130 years, we’ve been 
a pioneer, innovating to mitigate 
risk and bring quality and safety to 
organisations. From our beginnings, 
certifying grain cargoes and then testing 
and ensuring the safety of Thomas 
Edison's products, we have become a 
global force for good: today, we are an 
industry leader committed to bringing 
quality, safety and sustainability to 
life with precision, pace and passion. 

Our work covers everything from testing 
toys to inspecting power stations, from 
supporting excellence in electric mobility 
to promoting circularity in tourism, from 
certifying vaccines to providing end- 
to-end Quality Assurance across every 
aspect of an organisation’s operations 
and supply chain. Our innovation-led, 
end-to-end value proposition supports 
our clients 24/7, providing a unique and 
fully integrated portfolio of Assurance, 
Testing, Inspection and Certification 
('ATIC') services in a way that delivers 
complete peace of mind across all 
products, services and operating systems. 

18

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

Our TQA value proposition

Intertek’s innovation-led, end-to-end value proposition helps organisations to 
mitigate risk at every stage and operate safely, effectively and with complete 
peace of mind in a complex world. 

Research & 
development 

Consumer 
management 

Raw materials  
sourcing 

Distribution & 
retail channels 

Component 
suppliers 

Transportation 

Manufacturing 

Most trusted partner 
for Quality Assurance 

Our leading ATIC solutions are mission 
critical for the world to operate safely. 
To become the most trusted partner 
for Quality Assurance, our Science- 
based TQA Experts always work to 
deliver end-to-end quality, safety and 
sustainability solutions that exceed 
customer expectations. This clearly 
sets us apart, meaning our clients 
can rely on us to always deliver rapid 
and accurate insight feedback. 

Customer promise 

Total Quality Assurance 
expertise delivered 
consistently with precision, 
pace and passion, enabling 
our customers to power 
ahead safely. 

We underpin this commitment 
with thousands of customer 
interviews every month, 
ensuring we understand their 
priorities and continuously 
invest in the mission-critical 
innovation they need. 

19

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

Where we operate

Consumer Products 

  Read more on page 36

Five divisions, one  
focus – to drive 
amazing growth in 
high-margin sectors 

To reflect the value creation 
drivers identified in the Intertek 
AAA differentiated growth 
strategy, we have enhanced  
our segmental disclosures and 
are reporting our revenue, 
operating profit and margin 
in five divisions. 

20

Revenue 

£935.8m 

Adjusted operating profit 

£246.8m

Adjusted operating margin 

26.4%

Percentage of Group revenue 

28%

Our Consumer Products division focuses 
on the ATIC solutions we offer to our 
clients to develop and sell better, safer, 
and more sustainable products. 

Global Business Units 
Softlines 

Hardlines 

Electrical &  
Connected World 

Government & Trade Services 

Structural growth drivers 
•  Growth in brands, SKUs & 

e-commerce

•  Regulation

•  Sustainability

•  Technology 
•  Growing middle classes

Corporate Assurance

  Read more on page 40 

Our Corporate Assurance division focuses 
on the industry agnostic Assurance 
solutions we offer to our clients to make 
their value chains more sustainable and 
more resilient. 

Global Business Units 
Business Assurance 

Assuris 

Structural growth drivers 
•  Sustainability

•  Supply chain resilience

•  Enterprise cyber-security

•  People Assurance

•  Regulatory Assurance 

Revenue 

£47 7.5 m 

Adjusted operating profit 

£109.4m 

Adjusted operating margin 

22.9%

Percentage of Group revenue 

14%

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
Our business model Continued 

Health and Safety

  Read more on page 43 

World of Energy

  Read more on page 49 

Our Health and Safety division focuses 
on the ATIC solutions we offer to our 
clients to make sure we all enjoy a 
healthier and safer life. 

Global Business Units 
AgriWorld 

Food 

Chemicals & Pharma 

Structural growth drivers 
•  Healthier foods

•  Growing populations

•  Sustainable food sourcing

•  Regulations

•  New molecules

Revenue 

£326.3m 
£43.2m 

Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusted operating margin 

13.2%

Percentage of Group revenue 

10%

Industry and Infrastructure

  Read more on page 46 

Revenue 

£728.6m 

Adjusted operating profit 

£65.6m 

Adjusted operating margin 

9.0%

Percentage of Group revenue 

22%

Our World of Energy division focuses 
on the ATIC solutions we offer to 
our clients to develop better and 
greener fuels as well as renewables. 

Global Business Units 
Caleb Brett 

Transportation Technologies 

Clean Energy Associates 

Structural growth drivers 
•  Renewable energy 

•  Energy consumption

•  Population growth/social mobility

•  EV/Hybrid

•  Greener fuels

Our Industry and Infrastructure division 
focuses on the ATIC solutions our clients 
need to develop and build better, safer 
and greener infrastructure. 

Global Business Units 
Industry Services 

Minerals 

Building & Construction 

Structural growth drivers 
•  Energy consumption

•  Energy transition

•  Population growth

•  Infrastructure investment

•  Greener buildings

Revenue 

£860.5m 

Adjusted operating profit 

£86.1m

Adjusted operating margin 

10.0%

Percentage of Group revenue 

26%

21

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Our business model Continued 

How we do it 

Our global network 

As the world becomes 
more complex and 
interconnected, our 
customers face increased 
risks to quality, safety and 
sustainability. 

As the global leader in Risk-based Quality 
Assurance, we are uniquely positioned 
to help customers gain an advantage 
by mitigating risk. We enable them to 
grow by building trusted relationships, 
listening to their needs, developing 
insights and using our data-science to 
create amazing, innovative Total Quality 
Assurance solutions that make the world 
better, safer and more sustainable. 

But it’s not just what we do that makes 
us unique. The way in which we do it 
and how we engage with our customers 

also have a powerful positive impact. 
Our expertise is guided by science 
and delivered with an unwavering 
commitment to give our clients an 
Amazing ATIC Advantage. The interviews 
we carry out every month through 
our Net Promoter Score programme, 
measure the percentage of customers 
likely to recommend our services. This 
is an invaluable tool in helping us get to 
know our customers, understand their 
evolving needs and ensure we deliver an 
incredible service at every Intertek site. 

Every one of our 44,000 employees in 
our global network, based in more than 
100 countries, works hard to understand 
the challenges our customers face. Then, 
by working in close partnership with one 
another, we can collectively focus on 
making the world amazing, together.

22

1,000+

Laboratories and offic

es 

44,000

Employees

3,000

Auditors

100+

Countries

150,000+

Audits

100+

Languages

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our business model Continued 

Our Science-based TQA experts provide clients with innovative 
ATIC solutions in our industry-focused Centres of Excellence. 

Our Centres of Excellence 

Electrification Centre of Excellence in 
Plymouth, US: Supporting the transition 
towards electric mobility 

What it is: Strategically 
located near Detroit in the 
epicentre of the automotive 
industry, our Electrification 
Centre of Excellence in 
Plymouth, Michigan, offers 
some of the most extensive 
testing capabilities in North 
America for electric vehicle 
batteries and supply 
equipment. Through science- 
based Total Quality Assurance 
solutions, this facility plays 
a crucial role in supporting 
manufacturers in the transition 
to greener transport. 

Customer benefit: With sales 
of electric vehicles growing 
rapidly, our Electrification 
Centre of Excellence helps 
meet the automotive 
industry’s increasing need 
for regulatory support and 
safety and validation testing. 
As electrification technologies 
continue to advance, the 
facility will support the safety, 
performance and functionality 
of electric vehicles, battery 
packs, charging systems and 
their related components.

  Visit: 

intertek.com/automotive/detroit 

23

Battery Xcellence Centre Supporting 
sustainable energy solutions worldwide 

Electric Vehicle ('EV') Centre of 
Excellence in Milton Keynes, UK

Our EV Centre of Excellence testing facility in 
the UK supports manufacturers to develop next- 
generation electric propulsion systems, from high- 
speed motor testing to full vehicle validation 
capabilities. Our global network of automotive 
testing facilities can support manufacturers and 
suppliers with a wide portfolio of bespoke solutions 
and capabilities, such as engine and hybrid testing, 
EV fluids, and fuel, additive and lubricant testing. 

Maison Centre of Excellence in 
Florence, Italy 

Based in Lastra a Signa, the heart of Italy's garment 
manufacturing district, Intertek's Maison Centre 
of Excellence is our innovative experiential space 
and adjacent world-class lab where science meets 
luxury. Bringing together – virtually or face to face 
– our industry experts, forward-thinking luxury and 
fashion brands, industry leaders, academics and 
a host of textile industry participants to collaborate 
and take bold new ideas and turn them into reality. 

Minerals Global Centre of Excellence in 
Perth, Western Australia 

A technology and innovation centre with a focus on 
automation and sustainability to provide our Minerals 
clients with faster, safer, higher quality, and more 
efficient analytical solutions. Located in Perth Australia, 
a key hub for the minerals and mining industry, this 
state-of-the-art lab gives our customers access to 
trusted expertise across the minerals supply chain. 

Customer benefit: On the 
road to net zero, energy 
storage is increasingly critical, 
and this new facility helps 
customers in Italy and the 
South Europe region navigate 
the rapidly evolving regulatory 
environment for batteries and 
battery-operated products. 
Our Italian team will support 
businesses across a range of 
sectors – including automotive, 
transportation, energy and 
consumer goods – in taking 
their products from design 
to compliance evaluation 
and global market access. 

  Visit: intertek.com/batteries 

What it is: Our new 'Battery 
Xcellence Centre' in Mestre, 
Italy, features the latest 
technologies for testing 
battery and energy storage 
systems, along with unrivalled 
industry expertise. With 
equipment including battery 
cyclers, climatic and salt-spray 
chambers, anti-fire containers 
and an altitude test chamber, 
the centre meets the testing 
needs for transportation and 
storage safety, functional 
safety, and performance for 
a wide range of cells and 
battery packs. This state-of- 
the-art facility in Italy joins our 
global network of specialist 
centres strategically located 
in key markets including the 
USA, China, Taiwan, India, 
Hong Kong and Europe. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

How we create value

People 

Customers 

Our Purpose is to bring 
quality, safety and 
sustainability to life. 
Here, we explain how we do 
this for our Stakeholders. 

Section 172 statement 
In its discussions and decisions during 
the year, the Board of Directors has 
acted in the way that it considers, in 
good faith, would be most likely to 
promote the success of the Group for 
the benefit of its members as a whole 
(having regard to stakeholders and the 
matters set out in sub-sections 172(1) 
(a)–(f) of the 2006 Companies Act). 

Details of how the Board has engaged 
with stakeholders and how it has had 
regard to their interests is set out in 
Book two.

  Section 172 is set out on pages 56–61  

in Book two 

24

We create amazing opportunities for our 44,000 
people to thrive, always striving to offer the best 
customer service to our clients. 

Why they are important to us 
Our people are our most valuable asset and are critical to our 
success. Customer-centric and passionate about what they do, 
they deliver sustainable value through unmatched expertise 
and quality of work for our customers every day. 

How we engage 
We create a high-performance, growth-oriented, inclusive and 
caring culture with clear, transparent communication and regular 
recognition, in which each colleague has a personal growth plan. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Launch of Champions engagement programme

•  Consistent performance management approach, talent 

development and growth planning 

•  '10X Leadership' development events and '10X Coaching' 

for executives 

•  Training sessions on diversity, equity and inclusion through

our MOSIAC programme 

•  Enriched extensive learning and development material 
through Lucie, our global Learning Management System

•  Engaging employee communication channels

We support 400,000+ clients with innovative 
solutions that enable them to operate with 
higher standards on quality, safety and 
sustainability in each part of their value chain. 

Why they are important to us 
Our customers are at the centre of everything we do, and 
delivering the highest standards of customer service is a crucial 
aspect of becoming the world’s most trusted TQA partner. 

How we engage 
We continuously engage and build our relationships with 
customers, and closely analyse our NPS data. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Communication, partnership and 24/7 support

•  Refreshed intertek.com to provide best-in-class digital 

customer experience 

•  Fast development of innovative Risk-based Quality 

Assurance solutions 

•  Training and webinars from all business lines, covering

all industries 

•  Digital customer portals for improved efficiency,

productivity and visibility 

•  Digital directories providing our clients' customers with

access to product and supply chain information 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

Investors 

Communities 

Governments and regulators 

We operate a high-quality earnings model with a 
proven track record of sustainable value creation 
over the long-term. 

We support and enhance our communities and the 
environment across our global network of state- 
of-the-art operations in more than 100 countries. 

Why they are important to us 
Delivering for our investors drives our ongoing success, 
enabling us to deliver for all stakeholders today and tomorrow. 

How we engage 
We engage with existing and potential investors and sell-side 
analysts through regular trading updates, investor 
conferences and roadshows throughout the year. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Stock exchange announcements, including financial results 
•  Investor roadshows and participation in investor conferences 
•  May 2023 Capital Markets Event 

•  Meetings and calls 

•  Annual General Meeting 

•  Annual Report, ESG Reporting Index 
•  Shareholder information on intertek.com 
•  Improved Investor section on intertek.com 

Why they are important to us 
Our businesses and people are part of the communities 
in which we work and are dedicated to supporting 
organisations and initiatives that improve the environment, 
and the lives of local people. We are a force for good, close 
to home, that makes the world amazing for everyone. 

How we engage 
Our businesses regularly engage with and contribute 
to our communities, and many colleagues support 
local and charitable causes that reflect the 
diversity of our communities and people. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Support for and partnerships with charities and NGOs 

•  Focused activities to improve local communities 

and environments 

•  BBEB.com platform to share impactful stories and inspire 

positive change in the world 

Governments and regulators expect compliance 
with all global, regional and local regulation, 
responsible business practices and collaboration 
on the transition to net zero. 

Why they are important to us 
‘Doing Business the Right Way’ is part of who we are. As a 
responsible business, we are dedicated to engaging positively 
with governments and regulators to support our communities 
and comply with global, regional and local regulations. 

How we engage 
We interact with trade associations and governmental 
authorities to provide input into industry and regulatory 
improvements in product safety, quality, sustainability and 
risk assurance. Interactions with governments, governmental 
authorities and regulators are reviewed by our Group Legal 
& Risk functions to ensure we fully comply with all laws 
and regulations. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Our businesses’ economic and tax contribution 

to governments and communities supports the basic 
infrastructure of society

25

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators 

Key performance indicators 

Financial 

Strong 2023 performance 
in revenue, margin, EPS, 
cash and ROIC 

Disciplined performance management 
focused on margin accretive revenue 
growth with strong cash conversion 
and capital allocation to drive strong 
returns on invested capital 

26

The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) 
to monitor performance and measure the financial impact of 
the Group’s strategy. Where applicable, KPIs are based on 
adjusted measures in order to provide a meaningful and 
consistent year-on-year comparison. An explanation and 
reconciliation of statutory to adjusted performance measures 
is given on page 33. A glossary of performance measures is 
provided in Book three, page 64.

Key 

Adjusted actual rates 

Adjusted constant rates 

2023 Adjusted 

2022 Adjusted 

Statutory actual rates 

Statutory 

1.  Revenue, adjusted operating profit and ROIC are recalculated using 2022 exchange rates to form the basis

for Executive Director remuneration, as described in more detail in Book two, page 94. 

2.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash flow from operations, adjusted free cash flow and
adjusted diluted earnings per share are stated before Separately Disclosed Items, which are described on page 32. 
There is no difference between adjusted and statutory revenue. 

3.  Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend of 37.7p (2022: 34.2p) plus the proposed final dividend of 74.0p

(2022: 71.6p). 

4.  2022 ROIC has been prepared using 2023 average exchange rates for adjusted operating profit and adjusted tax,

and year-end 2023 exchange rates for invested capital. 2022 ROIC at actual rates was 18.0%. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Revenue1 (£m) 
Revenue growth measures how well the Group is 
expanding its business and includes currency impacts. 

Like-for-like revenue (£m) 
Revenue growth, including acquisitions following their 12-month 
anniversary of ownership and excluding the historical 
contribution of any business disposals/closures excluding 
acquisitions and disposals. 

Cash flow from operations2 (£m) 
Shows the ability of the Group to turn profit into cash. 

4.3% 

7.1% 

3.4% 

6.2% 

3.7% 

3.1%

2023 

2022 

3,329 

2023 

3,193 

2022 

3,301 

3,193 

2023 

2022 

726 

704 

749 

722 

Operating profit1,2 (£m) 
Measures profitability of the Group and includes 
currency impacts. 

Operating margin1,2 (%) 
Measures profitability as a proportion of revenue. 

Return on invested capital at  
constant rates1,4 (%) 
Measures how effectively the Group generates  
profit from its invested capital. 

6.0% 

10.9% 

7.5% 

30bps 

60bps 

40bps 

250bps 

250bps 

2023 

2022 

486 

452

551 

520 

2023 

2022 

14.6 

14.2 

16.6 

16.3 

2023 

2022 

Diluted earnings per share2 (pence) 
A key measure of value creation for the Board and for shareholders. 

Dividend per share3 (pence) 
Measures returns provided to shareholders. 

Adjusted free cash flow2 (£m) 
Measures the cash available to shareholders.

5.6% 

11.0% 

2.8% 

5.6% 

183.4 

178.4 

223.0 

2023 

211.1 

2022 

111.7 

105.8 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

27

20.5 

18.0 

(2.0%) 

378.4 

386.3 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Non-financial

Health & safety 

Customer satisfaction 

We measure our success by tracking both non-financial 
and financial key performance indicators that reflect 
our strategic priorities. We continue to review the 
sustainability areas that are most material and relevant to 
our stakeholders and have set ourselves targets in those 
areas that are aligned to our corporate strategy. 

Total Recordable Incident Rate ('TRIR') 
Recordable incidents include medical treatment 
incidents, lost time incidents and fatalities per 
200,000 hours worked. 

Customer focus 
Average number of Net Promoter Score ('NPS') 
interviews carried out each month. 

Why we measure it 
A reduction in incidents is an important 
measure of the effectiveness of our safety 
culture. It also lowers rates of absenteeism 
and costs associated with work-related injuries 
and illnesses. 

Why we measure it 
Customers are our priority. Since 2015, we 
have used the NPS process to listen to our 
customers. These insights give us a deep 
understanding of what our customers need 
and want, fuelling our innovations. 

Total Recordable Incident Rate 

Average NPS interviews per month 

0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

5,700 

5,400 

6,000 

6,000

1.  Eligible employees include those with access to the LUCIE training platform and those receiving compliance

training face to face. New joiners complete training throughout the year as part of their induction. 

Target 
TRIR of less than 0.5 per 200,000 hours worked. 

Target 
We will continue to aim to conduct at least  
6,000 NPS interviews per month. 

28

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Environment 

Employees 

Diversity, equity and inclusion 

Compliance

Operational emissions 
With the adoption of our new near-term absolute 
emissions reduction targets, we now measure 
our environmental performance against this. 
Operational emissions comprise our scope 1, 
scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel and 
employee commuting). 

  More from page 26 in Book two 

Voluntary permanent employee  
turnover and employee engagement 
Voluntary permanent leavers are employees who 
choose to leave the Group themselves. This does  
not include employees on a fixed-term contract. 

Intertek ATIC Engagement Index – based on the  
key drivers of sustainable value creation and 
which measures engagement on a monthly basis 
in every operation with the following metrics: 
Net Promoter Score, Customer Retention, 
Quality, Voluntary Permanent Employee 
Turnover and Total Recordable Incident Rate. 

Gender balance 
Percentage of women in senior management 
roles (Group Executive Committee and their 
direct reports). 

Compliance training 
Completion of annual compliance training by 
eligible employees1 (online or face to face,  
when available) during the training window. 

  More from page 10 in Book two

  More from page 40 in Book two

Why we measure it 
We measure our carbon emissions to reduce  
our impact on the environment and increase 
operational efficiency. We track both location- 
based and marked-based scope 2 emissions. 

Why we measure it 
Ensuring employees are engaged is essential 
to talent retention and we measure and monitor 
this closely at a global and local level through 
our voluntary turnover rate. 

Why we measure it 
We promote diversity in all its forms, including 
gender, age, sexual orientation and disability, as 
well as having an ethnic and social make-up that 
reflects broader society. Achieving better 
gender balance is a driver of progress. 

Why we measure it 
Our commitment to the highest standards of 
integrity and professional ethics is embedded 
in the Group’s culture through the integrity 
principles set out in our Code of Ethics. Every 
year, to support continuing understanding in 
this area, our people are required to complete 
our comprehensive training course. 

Employee voluntary turnover and 
Intertek ATIC Engagement index 

Key financials 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

Operational emissions (in tCO2e) 

300,000 
250,000 
200,000 
150,000 
100,000 
50,000 
0

Employee 
voluntary turnover 
(% of permanent 
employees) 

Intertek ATIC 
Engagement 
index score 

2019  2020  2021  2022  2023

9% 

13% 

14%  12.3% 

89 

80 

80 

87 

Male 

Female 

Women in senior management (%) 

Training completion by eligible employees1 (%) 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

76.4 

23.6 

79.2 

20.8 

77.0 

23.0 

76.7 

23.3 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

97.6 

96.8 

94.2 

95.6 

Target 
2030: Reduce absolute scope 1, scope 2 
and scope 3 (business travel and employee 
commuting) by 50% vs 2019 base line. 

Target 
We aim to keep our voluntary permanent 
turnover rate below 15% and increase our  
Intertek ATIC Engagement Index to 90. 

Target 
2025: We aim to increase the proportion of 
women in senior leadership roles to 30%. 

Target 
We aim to achieve 100% completion of our 
annual compliance training by eligible employees. 

29

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportFinancial review 

Financial review 

Financial highlights 

Intertek 's AAA differentiated 
growth strategy is delivering 
earnings growth and strong 
cash flow 

Our proven high-quality earnings 
model and daily cash discipline 
have delivered earnings growth 
and an all-time high adjusted 
operating cash flow, driving a 
reduction in net debt, negative 
working capital and a strong 
balance sheet. 

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer

30

£3,329m

Revenue up
4.3% 7.1% 

£486m

Statutory operating p
7.5%  13.0% 

rofit up 

£551m

14.6%

Adjusted operating
6.0% 10.9% 

 profit up 

Statutory operating margin up 
40bps 80bps 

16.6%

Adjusted operating margin up 
30bps 60bps 

183.4p

Statutory diluted EP
2.8% 9.2% 

S up 

111.7p

Dividend per share u
5.6% 

p 

Negative

Working capital

£378m

Adjusted free cash fl
(2.0%) 

ow down 

20.5%

Return on Invested Capital up 
250bps 250bps 

• Actual rates 
• Constant rates

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial review Continued 

Results for the year 

Key financials 

Adjusted 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Diluted EPS 

Profit after tax 

Cash flow from operations 

Statutory 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Diluted EPS 

Profit after tax 

Cash flow from operations 

Dividend per share 

Dividends paid in the year 

Dividend 
Reflecting the Group’s strong cash generation in 2023, the Board recommends 
a full year dividend of 111.7p per share, a year-on-year increase of 5.6%. 

The full year dividend of 111.7p represents a total cost of £181.2m, or 50% 
of adjusted profit attributable to shareholders of the Group for 2023 (2022: 
£170.6m and 50%). The dividend is covered 2.0 times by earnings (2022: 2.0 times), 
based on adjusted diluted earnings per share divided by dividend per share. 

Consolidated income statement commentary 
Total reported Group revenue increased by 4.3%, with 0.9% growth 
contributed by acquisitions, a like-for-like ('LFL') revenue increase of 
6.2% and a decrease of 280bps from foreign exchange, reflecting 
sterling appreciation against most of the Group's trading currencies. 

The Group’s LFL revenue at constant rates consisted of an increase 
of 1.3% in Consumer Products, 9.0% in Corporate Assurance, 7.0% in 
Health and Safety, 7.9% in Industry and Infrastructure, and 8.7% in 
World of Energy. 

We delivered an adjusted operating profit performance of £551.1m 
(2022: £520.1m), up 10.9% at constant rates and 6.0% at actual rates. 

The Group's adjusted operating margin was 16.6% (2022: 16.3%), 
an increase of 60bps from the prior year at constant exchange rates 
and 30bps at actual rates. 

The Group’s statutory operating profit after Separately Disclosed Items 
('SDIs') for the period was £486.2m (2022: £452.4m), up 13.0% at 
constant rates. The statutory margin was 14.6% (2022: 14.2%). The 
Group’s statutory profit for the year after tax was £318.1m (2022: 
£306.8m). 

Net financing costs 
Adjusted net financing costs were £43.9m, an increase of £12.0m on 
2022 resulting from a combination of higher interest expense and the 
impact of foreign exchange rates. This comprised £3.8m (2022: £2.2m) of 
finance income and £47.7m (2022: £34.1m) of finance expense. Statutory 
net financing costs of £63.9m (2022: £32.6m) included £20.0m of costs 
(2022: £0.7m) relating to SDIs, predominantly driven by changes in the 
fair value of contingent consideration related to acquisitions. 

Tax 
The adjusted effective tax rate was 24.6%, a decrease of 1.7% on the 
prior year (2022: 26.3%). The tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of 
£104.2m (2022: £113.0m), equates to an effective rate of 24.7% (2022: 
26.9%), the decrease mainly driven by the geographical mix of profits. 
The cash tax on adjusted profit before tax was 23.5% (2022: 21.9%). 

Earnings per share 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share ('EPS') at actual exchange rates 
was 5.6% higher at 223.0p (2022: 211.1p). Diluted EPS after SDIs 
was 183.4p (2022: 178.4p) per share and basic EPS after SDIs was 
184.4p (2022: 179.2p). 

31

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

551.1 

520.1 

223.0p 

211.1p 

382.4 

749.0 

359.8 

722.0 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

486.2 

452.4 

183.4p 

178.4p 

318.1 

725.9 

306.8 

704.1 

111.7p 

105.8p 

176.3 

170.6

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportFinancial review Continued 

Five-year performance – adjusted diluted EPS1 (pence) 

+2 .4% CAGR3

Dividend per share2 (pence) 

+2 .4% CAGR3

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

2019 

2018 

223.0 

2023 

211.1 

2022 

190.8 

2021 

170.9 

2020 

212.5 

2019 

198.3 

2018 

Acquisitions and investment 
One of the key corporate goals of the Group’s strategy is 
delivering an accretive, disciplined capital allocation policy. 

As a result, the Group invests both organically and by acquiring 
or investing in complementary businesses to strengthen our 
portfolio in the locations demanded by clients. This approach 
enables the Group to focus on those existing business lines or 
countries with good growth and margin prospects where we have 
market-leading positions or to enter exciting new growth areas 
offering the latest technologies and Quality Assurance services. 

Acquisitions 
The Group completed two acquisitions in the year (2022: 
one) with cash consideration paid of £40.5m (2022: £65.9m), 
net of cash acquired of £3.1m (2022: £13.4m), and a 
further contingent consideration payable of £3.7m. 

111.7 

105.8 

105.8 

105.8 

105.8 

99.1 

1.  Presentation of results: To provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s business, some figures discussed in this review are presented as
adjusted, before SDIs (see note 3 to the financial statements in Book three, page 11). A reconciliation between adjusted and statutory performance measures is set out on the overleaf. Figures before 
1 January 2019 (when IFRS 16 was adopted) are on an IAS 17 basis. 

2.  Dividend per share for 2023 is based on the interim dividend paid of 37.7p (2022: 34.2p) plus the proposed final dividend of 74.0p (2022: 71.6p). 
3.  CAGR represents the compound annual growth rate from 2018 to 2023. 

In March 2023, the Group acquired Controle Analítico Análises 
Técnicas Ltda ('Controle Analítico'), a leading provider of environmental 
analysis, with a focus on water testing, based in Brazil. 

The underlying performance of the business, by division, is shown in the table below: 

Revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

Change at 
2023 
actual rates 
%

Change at 
constant 
rates 
%

 (2.9) 

6.1 

7.9 

5.7 

10.1 

4.3 

1.3 

9.5 

9.1 

7.9 

11.7 

7.1 

2023 
£m 

935.8

477.5 

326.3 

860.5 

728.6 

3,328.7 

Notes 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

14 

6 

7 

Change at 
2023 
actual rates 
%

Change at 
constant 
rates 
%

(8.1) 

(2.6) 

14.6 

6.1 

19.7 

50.8 

6.0 

3.9 

6.3 

5.6 

19.2 

9.4 

22.0 

57.3 

10.9 

9.2 

11.7 

11.0

2023 
£m 

246.8 

109.4 

43.2 

86.1 

65.6 

551.1 

(43.9) 

507.2 

(124.8) 

382.4 

223.0p 

Consumer Products

Corporate Assurance

Health and Safety

Industry and Infrastructure

World of Energy

Group total 

Net financing costs 

Adjusted profit before income tax 

Adjusted income tax expense

Adjusted profit for the year 

Adjusted diluted EPS (pence)

32

In August 2023, the Group acquired PlayerLync Holdings, Inc. 
('PlayerLync'), a leading SaaS-based platform, based in the USA. 

In 2023, £2.7m (2022: £nil) was spent in relation to 
consideration for prior year acquisitions. 

Organic investment 
The Group invested £116.9m (2022: £116.5m) organically 
in laboratory expansions, new technologies (including 
software) and equipment and other facilities. This 
investment represented 3.5% of revenue (2022: 3.6%). 

Pensions 
The Group’s pension moved to a net surplus of £17.0m (2022: £19.1m 
surplus) driven by periodic updates to our actuarial assumptions. 

Separately Disclosed Items (‘SDIs’) 
A number of items are separately disclosed in the financial 
statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with a 
clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating 
performance of the Group’s business. Reconciliations of the 
statutory to adjusted measures are given overleaf. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportFinancial review Continued 

2023 reconciliation of statutory  
to adjusted performance measures 

£m 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Operating margin (%) 

Net financing costs 

Income tax expense 

Profit for the year 

Cash flow from operations 

Basic EPS (pence) 

Diluted EPS (pence) 

Statutory 

SDIs 

Adjusted 

3,328.7

–

3,328.7 

486.2 

14.6% 

(63.9) 

64.9 

2.0% 

20.0 

551.1 

16.6% 

(43.9) 

(104.2) 

(20.6) 

(124.8) 

318.1 

725.9 

184.4p 

183.4p 

64.3 

23.1 

382.4 

749.0 

39.8p 

224.2p 

39.6p 

223.0p 

2022 reconciliation of statutory  
to adjusted performance measures 

Statutory 

SDIs 

Adjusted 

3,192.9

– 

3,192.9 

Key performance indicators 
The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) to 
monitor the financial performance of the Group and its operating 
divisions. The specific metrics and associated definitions are disclosed 
on pages 26 and 27. 

LFL revenue at constant currency is presented to show the Group’s 
revenue excluding the effects of the change in the scope of the 
consolidation (acquisitions following their 12-month anniversary of 
ownership, and removes the historical contribution of any business 
disposals/closures) and removing the impact of currency translation 
from the Group’s growth figures. 

Like-for-like revenue at 
constant currency 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

Change 
%

Reported revenue 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

4.3 

less: Acquisitions/disposals 
revenue 

(27.8) 

– 

LFL revenue 

3,300.9 

3,192.9 

3.4 

£m 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Operating margin (%) 

Net financing costs 

Income tax expense 

Profit for the year 

Cash flow from operations 

Basic EPS (pence) 

Diluted EPS (pence) 

452.4 

14.2% 

(32.6) 

(113.0) 

306.8 

704.1 

179.2p 

178.4p 

67.7 

2.1% 

0.7 

520.1 

16.3% 

(31.9) 

Impact of foreign exchange 
movements

LFL revenue at constant 
currency 

–

(83.9) 

3,300.9 

3,109.0 

6.2 

(15.4) 

(128.4) 

53.0 

17.9 

32.8p 

32.7p 

359.8 

722.0 

212.0p 

211.1p 

The rate of Return On Invested Capital (‘ROIC’), defined as adjusted 
operating profit less adjusted taxes divided by invested capital, 
measures the efficiency of Group investments. This is a key measure to 
assess the efficiency of investment decisions and is also an important 
criterion in the decision-making process. 

ROIC in 2023 of 20.5% compares to 18.0% in the prior year at constant 
exchange rates (2022: 18.0% at actual exchange rates).

When applicable, these SDIs include amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles; impairment of goodwill and other assets; the profit or loss 
on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed assets; costs related 
to acquisition activity; the cost of any fundamental restructuring; 
the costs of any significant strategic projects; material claims and 
settlements; and unrealised market or fair value gains or losses on 
financial assets or liabilities, including contingent consideration. 

Adjusted operating profit excludes the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, as we do not 
believe that the amortisation charge in the income statement provides 
useful information about the cash costs of running our business as 
these assets will be supported and maintained by ongoing marketing 
and promotional expenditure, which is already reflected in operating 
costs. Amortisation of software, however, is included in adjusted 
operating profit as it is similar in nature to other capital expenditure. 

The costs associated with our cost reduction programme are 
excluded from adjusted operating profit where they represent 
changes associated with operational streamlining, technology 
upgrades and related asset write-offs and are costs that are 
not expected to reoccur. The restructuring programme, which 
began in 2022, is expected to last up to five years. The treatment 
as SDI is consistent with the disclosure of costs for similar 
restructuring and strategic programmes previously undertaken. 

The impairment of goodwill and other assets that by their nature 
or size are not expected to recur, the profit and loss on disposals 
of businesses or other significant assets, and the costs associated 
with successful, active or aborted acquisitions are excluded from 
adjusted operating profit in order to provide useful information 
regarding the underlying performance of the Group’s operations. 

The SDIs charge for 2023 comprises amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles of £34.2m (2022: £34.8m); acquisition and integration 
costs relating to successful, active or aborted acquisitions of £8.3m 
(2022: £5.5m); and restructuring costs of £22.4m (2022: £27.4m). 

Further information on SDIs is given in note 3 to the 
financial statements in Book three, page 11. 

33

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportFinancial review Continued 

Free cash flow reconciliation 

Cash flow from operations 

less: Net capital expenditure 

add back: Interest received 

less: Interest paid 

less: Income tax paid 

less: Lease liabilities paid 

Free cash flow 

add back: SDI cash outflow 

Adjusted free cash flow 

2023 
£m 

725.9 

2022 
£m 

704.1 

(105.4) 

(112.3) 

3.5 

(71.9) 

2.2 

( 37.5 ) 

(119.0) 

(106.7) 

(77.8) 

(81.4) 

355.3 

23.1 

378.4 

368.4 

17.9 

386.3 

Net debt 
The Group ended the period in a strong financial position. Financial 
net debt was £610.6m, a decrease of £127.3m on 31 December 2022. 
The undrawn headroom on the Group’s existing committed borrowing 
facilities at 31 December 2023 was £664.3m (2022: £707.3m) and 
cash and cash equivalents were £298.6m (2022: £320.7m), 
representing significant total liquidity. 

Total net debt, including the impact of the IFRS 16 lease liability, was 
£918.4m (2022: £1,060.1m). 

The Group has a well-balanced loan portfolio to enable the funding of 
future growth opportunities with a maturity profile as shown overleaf. 

Working capital 
During 2023, we have continued our working capital focus and, through 
disciplined performance management, we have increased our negative 
working capital position to negative £78.8m (2022: negative £47.8m). 
Working capital has moved to (2.4%) of revenue, reflecting 90bps 
improvement compared to 2022. 

Five year trend – working capital1 as % of revenue 

(630bps)

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

2019 

2018 

(2.4) 

(1.5) 

(1.6) 

(0.1) 

3.4 

3.9 

1.  Working capital is defined under the consolidated statement of financial position within the 

financial statements in Book three, page 3. 

2.  Figures before 1 January 2019 (when IFRS 16 was adopted) are on an IAS 17 basis. 

Adjusted free cash flow (£m) 

0.3% CAGR1

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

2019 

2018 

378.4 

386.3 

401.8 

435.6 

395.3 

372.6 

1.  CAGR represents the compound annual growth rate from 2018 to 2023. 

Return On Invested Capital 
at constant currency 

Adjusted operating profit 

2023 
£m 

551.1 

2022 
£m 

497.0 

less: Adjusted tax1

(135.6) 

(130.7) 

Adjusted profit after tax 

415.5 

366.3 

Invested capital2

2,023.1 

2,032.5 

Change 
%

10.9 

3.7 

13.4 

(0.5) 

ROIC % 

20.5% 

18.0% 

250bps 

1.  Calculated by applying the adjusted effective tax rate (2023: 24.6%, 2022: 26.3%) to adjusted

operating profit. 

2.  Net assets excluding tax balances, net financial debt and net pension liabilities. 

Cash flow and net debt 
Cash flow 
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash resources 
to fund its investment plans. One of the key metrics for measuring the 
ability of the business to generate cash is cash flow from operations. 
Due to the cash payments associated with the SDIs, and to provide a 
complete picture of the underlying performance of the Group, adjusted 
cash flow from operations is shown below to illustrate the cash 
generated by the Group: 

Cash conversion 

Cash flow from operations 

add back: Cash flow relating 
to SDIs 

Adjusted cash flow 
from operations 

add back: Special 
contributions to pension 
schemes

2023 
£m 

725.9 

2022 
£m 

704.1 

Change 
%

3.1 

23.1 

17.9 

749.0 

722.0 

3.7 

Repayment of lease liability 

(77.8) 

Cash flow for cash conversion 

671.2 

– 

2.0 

(81.4) 

642.6 

– 

(4.4) 

4.5 

Cash conversion % 

121.8% 

123.6% 

(180bps)

34

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportBorrowings by maturity profile 
(At 31 December 2023) 

1

2

1. 

Less than one year  11% 

2.

One to five years 

3. 

Over five years 

61% 

28% 

3

Under existing facilities, the Group has available debt headroom 
of £664.3m at 31 December 2023 (2022: £707.3m). The components 
of net debt at 31 December 2023 are outlined below: 

1 January 
2023 
£m 

320.7 

Cash1

Borrowings2

(1,058.6) 

Cash and  
non-cash 
movements 
£m 

Exchange 
adjustments 
£m 

31 December 
2023 
£m 

13.7 

87.5 

(35.8) 

298.6 

61.9 

(909.2) 

Financial review Continued 

To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement volatility in 
relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, the Group ensures 
that any foreign currency borrowings are matched to the value of its 
overseas assets in that currency (an ‘effective’ hedge). 

The Group borrows primarily in US dollars, and any currency translation 
exposures on the borrowings are offset by the currency translation on 
the US dollar and US dollar-related overseas assets of the Group. 

The composition of the Group’s gross borrowings in 2023, analysed by 
currency, is as follows: 

Borrowings by currency 
(At 31 December 2023) 

1

2

1. 

EUR 

2. 

USD 

18% 

82% 

Value of £1 

US dollar 

Euro 

Chinese 
renminbi 

Hong Kong 
dollar 

Australian 
dollar 

Statement of  
financial position rates 

Income statement  
rates 

2023 

1.28 

1.15 

2022 

1.20 

1.13 

2023 

1.24 

1.15 

2022 

1.24 

1.17 

9.14 

8.45 

8.81 

8.31 

10.0 

9.37 

9.71 

9.68 

1.87 

1.78 

1.87 

1.78 

Significant accounting policies 
The consolidated financial statements in Book three are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the UK. Details of the Group’s 
significant accounting policies are shown in note 1 to the financial 
statements in Book three, page 7. 

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer

Financial 
net debt 

(737.9) 

101.2 

Lease liabilities2

(322.2) 

(0.5) 

Net debt 

(1,060.1) 

100.7 

26.1 

14.9 

41.0 

(610.6) 

(307.8) 

(918.4) 

Foreign currency movements 
The Group transacts in over 80 currencies across more than 100 
countries, and revenue and profit are impacted by currency fluctuations. 
However, the diversification of the Group’s revenue base provides a 
partial dilution to this exposure. 

1.  As disclosed in note 14 of the financial statements in Book three, page 27. 
2.  Borrowings include £1.6m of non-cash movements related to amortisation of facility fees (see 
note 14 of the financial statements in Book three, page 27). Lease liabilities include £78.3m of 
non-cash movements. 

At constant rates, revenue grew 7.1% (actual rates 4.3%) and adjusted 
operating profit grew 10.9% (actual rates 6.0%). 

The exchange rates used to translate the statement of financial 
position and the income statement into the Group’s functional currency, 
sterling, for the five most material currencies used in the Group are 
shown as follows: 

35

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review 

Operating review 

Consumer Products 
Low-single digit LFL revenue growth 

products, materials and technologies, 
as well as the import of goods in their 
markets, based on acceptable quality 
and safety standards. Ultimately, we 
assist them in getting their products to 
market quickly and safely, to continually 
meet evolving consumer demands. 

2023 performance 
In 2023, our Consumer Products- 
related business reported revenue of 
£935.8m, up year-on-year by 1.3% at 
constant rates but down 2.9% at actual 
rates. We delivered operating profit 
of £246.8m, 2.6% lower year-on-year 
at constant currency and down 8.1% 
year-on-year at actual rates. Margin 
was 26.4%, down 100bps year-on-year 
at constant currency, the decrease 
attributable to the revenue decline 
in GTS, and the low-single digit LFL 
performance in Softlines and Hardlines. 

Intertek value proposition 
Our Consumer Products division focuses 
on the ATIC solutions we offer to our 
clients to develop and sell better, safer, 
and more sustainable products to their 
own clients. This division was 28% of 
our revenue in 2023 and includes the 
following business lines: Softlines, 
Hardlines, Electrical & Connected World 
and Government & Trade Services. 

As a trusted partner to the world’s 
leading retailers, manufacturers 
and distributors, the division 
supports a wide range of industries 
including textiles, footwear, 
toys, hardlines, home appliances, 
consumer electronics, information 
and communication technology, 
automotive, aerospace, lighting, building 
products, industrial and renewable 
energy products, and healthcare. 

Strategy 
Our TQA value proposition provides a 
systemic approach to support the Quality 
Assurance efforts of our Consumer 
Products-related customers in each 
of the areas of their operations. To do 
this we leverage our global network of 
accredited facilities and world leading 
technical experts to help our clients 
meet high quality safety, regulatory 
and brand standards, develop new 

Business lines 

Softlines 

Electrical & Connected World 

Providing a range of solutions for 
textiles, garments, footwear and 
personal protective equipment. 

Our role: Our solutions enable fashion 
retailers, brands and manufacturers to 
gatekeep regulatory compliance, while 
continuously improving their product 
performance in terms of quality, safety 
and sustainability. 

Hardlines 

Comprehensive solutions for a wide 
variety of toys and hardgoods. 

Our role: Solutions for toys, children’s 
and juvenile products, household products, 
furniture, and office supplies. We help our 
customers meet regulatory and retailer- 
specific requirements, improve product 
performance and differentiation through 
benchmarking, and facilitate global 
market access. 

Helping clients meet safety, 
performance, environmental and 
quality requirements and delivering 
best in class networking and cyber 
security solutions for today’s 
wireless and connected devices. 

Our role: We bring more than 100 years of 
product testing and certification expertise to 
a wide range of industries, such as Medical, 
Lighting, Energy, Appliances & Electronics, 
Industrial Equipment, and IT & Telecom 
Equipment. We also provide comprehensive 
hardware, software, and cyber security 
solutions to help clients rapidly launch secure 
and reliable products in each industry and 
sector around the world. 

Government & Trade Services 

Providing conformity assessment 
services to governments, regulatory 
bodies, exporters and importers to 
support trade compliance. 

Our role: We support governments, customs 
authorities, exporters and importers by 
ensuring imported goods comply with 
international safety and quality standards. 
Our worldwide network of offices delivers 
rapid inspection and certification. 

Revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

£935.8m 
£24 6.8m 

Adjusted operating margin

26.4%

Percentage of Group revenue 

28%

36

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report•  Our GTS business provides certification 

services to governments in the 
Middle East and Africa to facilitate 
the import of goods in their markets, 
based on acceptable quality and 
safety standards. We saw double- 
digit negative LFL revenue growth 
globally as the expansion in the 
supply chain activities of our clients 
in the Middle East and Africa was 
offset by the impact of the non- 
renewal of two contracts in 2022. 

•  Our Softlines business delivered 
low-single digit LFL revenue 
growth benefitting from growth 
in e-commerce, growth in 
Risk-based Quality Assurance 
and increased investments in 
end-to-end sustainability. 

•  Hardlines reported stable LFL revenue 

benefitting from the growth in 
e-commerce, the increased consumer 
demand for home furniture and 
toys as well as the investments 
of our clients in sustainability. 

•  With increased ATIC activities driven 
by greater regulatory standards in 
energy efficiency, higher demand for 
medical devices and 5G investments, 
our Electrical & Connected World 
business delivered mid-single 
digit LFL revenue growth. 

Operating review Continued 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our Consumer 
Products division to deliver low- to 
mid-single digit LFL revenue growth 
at constant currency. 

Mid- to long-term  
growth outlook 
Our Consumer Products division will 
benefit from growth in new brands, 
SKUs & e-commerce, increased 
regulation, a greater focus on 
sustainability, technology, as well as a 
growing middle class. We expect low- 
to mid-single LFL revenue growth in 
the medium term at constant currency. 

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

2023 
£m 

935.8 

935.8 

246.8 

2022 
£m 

964.2 

964.2 

268.5 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

(2.9%) 

(2.9%) 

(8.1%) 

1.3% 

1.3% 

(2.6%) 

Adjusted operating margin 

26.4% 

27.8% 

(140bps) 

(100bps) 

37

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Inview – Advanced remote auditing 
and inspection services 

What it is: Inview is our state- 
of-the-art remote audit and inspection 
solution, enabling our experts to 
conduct thorough inspections or 
audit via live video. The tool also has 
augmented reality features, optical 
character recognition data capture 
features and several other features to 
facilitate inspection. This innovative 
approach utilises handheld mobile 
devices and glass-based devices, 

allowing our team to adhere to the 
same stringent quality procedures as 
traditional on-site inspections. It is 
particularly effective for pre-shipment 
and commercial inspections of goods. 

Customer benefit: This modern 
solution offers more comprehensive 
insights into both the inspection process 
and its results. Recently upgraded, 
Inview now gathers even more detailed 

information from each audit and 
inspection. This enhanced data 
collection not only benefits 
companies by providing deeper 
insights but also contributes to 
reducing their carbon footprint.

 intertek.com/inview/

38

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Global Market  
Access – 24/7 access  
to curated and  
up-to-date compliance 
information

What it is: Global Market Access is a 
one-stop digital knowledge portal, 
developed to increase regulatory 
compliance for improved consumer 
safety and to protect corporate 
reputations. Covering more than 180 
consumer product types for 40 
different markets – from soft goods 
such as apparel and textiles, to hard 
goods such as cookware and furniture 
– it helps retailers and manufacturers 
comply with the regulations in force in 
different markets across the world. 

Customer benefit: This self-help  
portal enables compliance and quality 
managers to obtain up-to-date 
regulatory, testing and recall 
information tailored to their needs – 
all in one place, with just a few clicks, 
instantly. Currently, we offer four 
e-services on the portal, including 
Regulatory Sheet, Test Plan, Recall 
Summary and Gap Analysis, all helping 
our customers bring their products to 
global markets more quickly.

  intertek.com/ 

electrical/global-market-access/ 

Intertek in Action 

Hydrogen Assurance –  
Expert advisory and 
assurance solutions for 
hydrogen-based projects 

What it is: Our Hydrogen Assurance 
platform provides quality, safety and 
sustainability assurance across the entire 
hydrogen value chain, from the early 
stages of project feasibility and product 
design, through hydrogen production, 
delivery and storage, to end-use product 
compliance and certification. This 
includes comprehensive testing and 
certification of hydrogen refuelling 
stations and dispensing and compression 
systems. 

Customer benefit: The platform  
gives our customers access to leading 
hydrogen expertise and engineering 
resources. Its design services help bring 
products to market, while electrolyser 
bankability services ensure projects 
are financially viable and sustainable. 
Combining these with guidance on 
regulatory and compliance requirements, 
Hydrogen Assurance supports the safe 
and successful development and 
execution of hydrogen-based projects.

  intertek.com/hydrogen/ 

39

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
Operating review Continued

Corporate Assurance
High-single digit LFL revenue growth 

Revenue

£477.5m

Adjusted operating profit

£109.4m

Adjusted operating margin

22.9%

Percentage of Group revenue

14%

Intertek value proposition
Our Corporate Assurance division focuses 
on the industry agnostic Assurance 
solutions we offer to our clients to make 
their value chains more sustainable and 
more resilient end-to-end. This division 
was 14% of our revenue in 2023 and 
includes Business Assurance and Assuris. 

Strategy
Business Assurance and Assuris are 
central to our ATIC offering and are some 
of the most exciting businesses within 
Intertek, given the increased focus on 
operational risk management within the 
value chain of every company. Intertek 
Business Assurance provides a full range 
of business process audit and support 
services, including accredited third-
party management systems auditing 
and certification, second-party supplier 
auditing and supply chain solutions, 
sustainability data verification, process 
performance analysis and training. 
Assuris’ global network of experts 
provides a global network of scientists, 
engineers, and regulatory specialists to 
provide support to navigate complex 
scientific, regulatory, environmental, 
health, safety, and quality challenges 
throughout the value chain of our clients.

2023 performance
In 2023, our Corporate Assurance-related 
business delivered revenue of £477.5m, 
up year-on-year by 9.5% at constant 
currency and 6.1% at actual rates. LFL 
revenue growth was 9.0% at constant 
currency. Operating profit was £109.4m, 
up 19.2% year-on-year at constant 
currency and up 14.6% at actual rates 
with a margin of 22.9%, 190bps higher 
year-on-year at constant currency, 
as we benefitted from operating 
leverage and productivity gains.

Business lines

Business Assurance 

Providing a full range of business 
process audit and support 
solutions. 

Our role: We enable our clients to improve 
their operations, meet regulatory 
requirements, mitigate business risks, reduce 
their environmental impact, qualify their 
suppliers, and help them achieve their 
business objectives.

Intertek Assuris

Helping clients reduce risk, access 
global markets, promote health  
and safety, and protect the 
environment. 

Our role: Intertek Assuris provides global 
regulatory support and scientific 
substantiation to enable market access, 
implements quality management systems, 
assesses essential safety concerns and 
provides clients with a pathway to 
decarbonisation.

40

Intertek Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2023

Book one: Strategic Report

Book two: Sustainability Report

Book three: Financial Report

•  Business Assurance delivered 

double-digit LFL revenue growth as the 
business saw increased investments by 
our clients to improve the resilience of 
their supply chains, the continuous 
focus on ethical supply and the 
increased need for sustainability 
assurance. 

•  The Assuris business delivered stable 
LFL revenue as we benefitted from 
improved demand for our regulatory 
assurance solutions and from increased
corporate investments in ESG. 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our Corporate 
Assurance division to deliver high- 
single digit LFL revenue growth at 
constant currency. 

Mid- to long-term 
growth outlook 
Our Corporate Assurance division will 
benefit from a greater corporate focus 
on sustainability, the need for 
increased supply chain resilience, 
enterprise cyber security, People 
Assurance services and regulatory 
assurance. We expect high-single to 
double digit LFL revenue growth in the 
medium term at constant currency. 

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

2023 
£m 

477.5 

475.5 

109.4 

2022 
£m 

450.0 

450.0 

95.5 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

6.1% 

5.7% 

9.5% 

9.0% 

14.6% 

19.2% 

Adjusted operating margin 

22.9% 

21.2% 

170bps 

190bps 

41

Operating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek Inlight – 
Enhancing supply chain 
risk management and 
brand protection 

What it is: Intertek Inlight is a 
comprehensive platform designed to 
help organisations gain a deeper 
understanding of their supply chain 
risks and sustainability. Leveraging 
Intertek's status as having the largest 
network of compliance auditors 
worldwide, Inlight offers a customisable 
assurance platform. It utilises data 
from over 100,000 annual audits and 
integrates Intertek's real-time risk 
analysis capabilities.

  intertek.com/inlight/ 

Customer benefit: The platform 
provides reliable information about 
suppliers' capabilities and compliance 
levels, coupled with tools for the early 
detection of potential risks. This 
functionality enables companies to 
develop a clear visibility and transparency 
of their supply chains, create detailed risk 
profiles for their suppliers, and make more 
informed decisions. 

Inlight is an invaluable tool for 
businesses aiming to protect their brand 
integrity, ensuring that they are working 
with compliant and sustainable suppliers. 
By offering insights into supply chain 
dynamics, Inlight empowers companies 
to navigate complex global supply 
networks with confidence and foresight. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

PlayerLync – Enhancing our 
People Assurance offering 

What it is: PlayerLync is a leading SaaS-based 
platform which combines mobile content 
management, operational and compliance support 
in a single native app. In 2023, the platform 
became part of Intertek’s People Assurance 
business, building on our earlier pioneering 
acquisition of Alchemy/Wisetail by adding robust 
mobile content management, communication 
and offline synchronisation capabilities. 

®

Customer benefit: With approximately 80% 
of the global workforce operating in deskless 
roles today, the demand for bespoke People 
Assurance solutions and mobile-based learning 
delivered at the point of need continues to grow, 
driven by increasing regulation and heightened 
end-customer expectations. Software- 
based technology solutions that offer mobile 
training, learning and development content are 
therefore becoming ever more important, and 
the combination of Wisetail and PlayerLync is 
exceptionally well-placed to meet those needs. 

Intertek in Action 

Green R&D – Balancing 
sustainability, safety 
and quality 

What it is: Green R&D is a 
science-driven solution that 
offers comprehensive insights into 
product development, focusing on 
safety, quality and sustainability. It 
encompasses detailed performance 
testing, analysis, regulatory 
compliance and environmental 
assessments, providing a holistic 
view of a product's journey. 

  intertek.com/assuris/sustainability/ 

green-product-development-assurance/ 

Customer benefit: The key benefit 
for customers lies in the growing 
demand for eco-friendly products. 
Today's consumers are increasingly 
conscious about the environmental 
impact of their purchases. 

Green R&D services enable companies 
to respond to this shift by ensuring 
their products are developed with 
minimal environmental impact. This 
approach helps companies mitigate 
risks and protect their brand reputation 
by achieving an optimal balance 
between product quality, safety 
and performance, while adhering to 
environmental standards. It offers a 
strategic advantage in a marketplace 
where ecological considerations are 
becoming increasingly pivotal.

42

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Health and Safety 
High-single digit LFL revenue growth 

2023 performance 
In 2023, our Health and Safety-related 
business reported revenue of £326.3m, 
up year-on-year by 9.1% at constant 
currency and by 7.9% at actual rates. LFL 
revenue growth was 7.0% at constant 
currency. Operating profit of £43.2m 
was up 9.4% year-on-year at constant 
currency and 6.1% at actual rates. Due 
to country-mix effect in AgriWorld and 
investments in capability in Chemicals 
& Pharma, margin of 13.2% was flat 
year-on-year at constant currency. 

Revenue 

£326.3m 

Adjusted operating p

rofit 

£43.2m 

Adjusted operating margin

13.2%

Percentage of Group revenue 

10%

Intertek value proposition 
Our Health and Safety division focuses 
on the ATIC solutions we offer to our 
clients to make sure we all enjoy a 
healthier and safer life. This division 
was 10% of our revenue in 2023 and 
includes our AgriWorld, Food, and 
Chemicals & Pharma business lines. 

Strategy 
Our TQA value proposition provides our 
Health and Safety-related customers 
with a systemic, end-to-end ATIC 
offering at every stage of the supply 
chain. In an industry with significant 
structural growth drivers, our science- 
based approach supports clients as 
the sustained demand for food safety 
testing activities increases along with 
higher demand for hygiene and safety 
audits in factories. Our longstanding 
experience and expertise in the 
Chemicals & Pharma industries enables 
clients to mitigate risks associated with 
product quality and safety and processes, 
supporting them with their product 
development, regulatory authorisation, 
chemical testing and production. 

Business lines 

AgriWorld 

Chemicals & Pharma 

Enabling clients' product 
development, regulatory 
authorisation and production. 

Our role: Our analytical and assurance 
solutions accelerate product development 
and mitigate risks associated with product 
quality and safety, processes, and supply 
chains for the pharmaceutical, chemical, 
polymer, packaging, medical device, and 
cosmetic sectors. 

Providing assurance, testing, 
inspection and certification 
services across the entire 
agricultural supply chain. 

Our role: We offer an extensive array of 
services including inspection services, 
monitoring the quality and quantity of cargo 
from source to destination; and high-quality 
analysis for the Agri-biotech and breeding 
industries and assurance services supporting 
sustainable farming practices. Our global 
experts offer seamless support, and provide 
traceability throughout the entire supply chain. 

Food 

Providing testing, inspection, 
auditing, certification and advisory 
services to food companies. 

Our role: We help major global brands to 
launch new food products, support food 
health initiatives, ensure safety and quality 
across the supply chain, help reduce 
food-borne diseases, and enable developing 
nations to increase their global food exports. 

43

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

•  AgriWorld provides inspection activities
to ensure that the global food supply 
chain operates fully and safely. The 
business reported mid-single digit LFL 
revenue growth. We continue to see an 
increase in demand for inspection 
activities driven by sustained growth in 
the global food industry. 

•  Our Food business registered 

high-single digit LFL revenue growth 
globally resulting from increased 
demand for food safety testing 
activities and hygiene and safety 
audits in factories. 

•  In Chemicals & Pharma we saw 

high-single digit LFL revenue growth 
globally reflecting improved demand for 
regulatory assurance and chemical 
testing and from the increased R&D 
investments of the pharma industry. 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our Health and 
Safety division to deliver mid-single 
digit LFL revenue growth. 

Mid- to long-term 
growth outlook 
Our Health and Safety division will 
benefit from the demand for healthier 
and more sustainable food to support 
a growing global population, increased 
regulation, and new R&D investments 
in the pharma industry. We expect 
mid- to high-single digit LFL revenue 
growth in the medium term at 
constant currency.

Intertek and World Coffee Research – 
Enhancing Arabica coffee research  
through collaborative partnership 

What it is: Our AgriTech team is collaborating 
with World Coffee Research ('WCR'), a leading 
non-profit organisation focused on improving the 
future of the coffee industry. We are contributing 
to WCR's innovative open-access database, which 
contains crucial genetic information on Arabica 
coffee. Our role involves providing specialised 
training in sampling techniques, performing DNA 
extraction, offering genotyping services and 
delivering comprehensive technical support. 

Customer benefit: This collaboration offers 
significant benefits to the coffee community, 
including researchers, farmers and industry 
professionals. The availability of a centralised and 
accessible genetic database is set to transform 
the field of coffee research. It simplifies the 
process of identifying and authenticating coffee 
varieties, leading to substantial cost reductions. 

Our partnership with WCR not only aids in 
advancing agricultural technology but also 
helps in lowering quality control expenses, 
thereby contributing to the cultivation of 
higher-quality coffee plants. This initiative 
represents a major step forward in ensuring the 
sustainability and quality of the coffee industry. 

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

2023 
£m 

326.3 

319.9 

43.2 

2022 
£m 

302.3 

302.3 

40.7 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

7.9% 

5.8% 

6.1% 

9.1% 

7.0% 

9.4% 

– 

Adjusted operating margin 

13.2% 

13.5% 

(30bps) 

44

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Controle Analítico –  
Intertek enhances  
presence in attractive 
environmental testing 
market 

What it is: Controle Analítico is a 
leading provider of environmental 
analysis, with a focus on drinking 
and waste water, soil, and waste 
testing, based in Brazil. With 
heightened societal awareness 
around environmental health and 
sustainability, and population growth 
placing greater demand on critical 
infrastructure, broadening access to 
sanitation and clean water services 
has become increasingly important 
for stakeholders around the world.

Customer benefit: In Brazil, 
legislation aimed at providing at 
least 99% of the population with 
safe drinking water and 90% of all 
in-country households with sanitation 
services by the year 2033 is expected 
to require approximately US$128 
billion of investment this decade. The 
acquisition of Controle Analítico in April 
2023 complemented Intertek’s leading 
Food and Agri Total Quality Assurance 
solutions in Brazil, expanding our 
presence and providing a wider and 
much-needed service offering in the 
Environmental testing market. 

Intertek in Action 

Crystek –  
Innovating to predict 
and prevent honey 
crystallisation 

What it is: Crystek, developed by 
Intertek, provides services to evaluate 
and estimate a honey sample’s 
tendency to crystallise, as well as to 
advise on and improve the quality 
of the honey and its production. 

Customer benefit: Honey 
crystallisation is a natural phenomenon 
where honey turns from liquid to a 
semi-solid state. The start of this 
natural process depends on the honey’s 
characteristics and the production 
process. Intertek has developed a 
physical instrument that can be used to 
understand which part – characteristics 
or production – has the biggest impact 
on crystallisation, with experts available 
to support on-site or remotely. 

Intertek is one of the world-leading 
experts in the analysis of honey and 
hive products. The combination of 
Crystek and our unique expertise 
allows us to help manufacturers 
develop the best process to prevent 
crystallisation from taking place.

  intertek.com/food/crystek/ 

45

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Industry and Infrastructure 
High-single digit LFL revenue growth 

Revenue 

£860.5m 
£86.1m

Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusted operating margin

10.0%

Percentage of Group revenue 

26%

Intertek value proposition 
Our Industry and Infrastructure division 
focuses on the ATIC solutions our 
clients need to develop and build better, 
safer and greener infrastructure. This 
division was 26% of our revenue in 
2023 and includes Industry Services, 
Minerals and Building & Construction. 

Strategy 
Our TQA value proposition helps 
our customers to mitigate the risks 
associated with technical failure or 
delay, ensuring that their projects 
proceed on time and meet the highest 
quality standards as demand for more 
environmentally friendly buildings and 
infrastructure grows. By helping to 
improve safety conditions and reduce 
commercial risk, our broad range 
of assurance, testing, inspection, 
certification and engineering services 
allows us to assist clients in protecting 
both the quantity and quality of 
their mined and drilled products. 

46

2023 performance 
In 2023, our Industry and Infrastructure- 
related business delivered revenue of 
£860.5m, up 7.9% at constant currency 
and up 5.7% at actual rates. Operating 
profit of £86.1m was up 22.0% year- 
on-year at constant currency and up 
19.7% year-on-year at actual rates. 
Margin improved by 110bps year-on- 
year at constant currency to 10.0% 
as we benefitted from operating 
leverage and productivity gains.

Business lines 

 Industry Services 

 Building & Construction 

Ensuring the safe and optimised use 
of customers’ assets and minimising 
quality risks in their supply chains. 

Our role: Our Industry Services business line 
uses its in-depth knowledge of industries such 
as renewable energy, oil and gas, and 
petrochemicals to provide customers with a 
diverse and technologically advanced range of 
TQA solutions. The services we offer include 
technical inspection, non-destructive and 
materials testing, and asset performance 
management.

Providing testing, inspection, 
certification and engineering 
services to the construction 
industry. 

Our role: We offer a full suite of product- 
related testing and certification capabilities, 
plus project-related assurance, testing, 
inspection, and consulting services that are 
unparalleled in the building and construction 
market. 

 Minerals 

Providing a wide range of services 
to the mining and minerals 
exploration industry. 

Our role: Located in key mining locations 
across the globe, and operating an extensive 
network of mineral laboratories, Intertek 
Minerals offers expert inspection, analytical 
testing and advisory services to the Minerals, 
Exploration, Ore and Mining industries. We 
cover each step of the supply chain from 
exploration, production, sampling and 
inspection, to commercial trade settlement 
analysis. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Operating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek Aware – Improving the safety, 
efficiency and performance of complex 
equipment 

MiQ – Helping energy 
producers minimise 
methane emissions 

What it is: Developed through 
Intertek Industry Services, Intertek 
Aware is a Digital Twin offering which 
integrates data from IoT sensors, 
robotic feedback and powerful 
software, fuelled by analytics, to 
create an accurate visual replica of 
your industrial world. The software 
empowers energy asset owners 
and operators to improve reliability, 
increase safety, estimate remaining 
useful life and manage inspection 
data, as well as helps to reduce costs. 

Customer benefit: Aware harnesses 
online and offline data to fuel smarter 
decisions on operations, maintenance, 
outages and inspections. The software 
helps to avoid forced outages, 
visualises problem areas and tracks 
risk-based inspections, failures and 
repairs. It also helps to meet code 
compliance requirements with faster, 
standardised documentation.

  intertek.com/asset-integrity-management/ 
asset-performance-management-software/ 

What it is: MiQ is a leading certification 
standard for methane emissions. As 
an accredited MiQ auditor, Intertek 
independently certifies natural gas 
extraction and production facilities 
(onshore and offshore), using data-led 
grading to identify gas with higher or 
lower emissions. To provide a grade 
for a producer or facility, we evaluate 
methane intensity, company practices 
and monitoring technology. 

Customer benefit: While reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions focuses 
on CO2, there is increasing awareness 
that methane is 80 times more potent 
in its first 20 years, so reducing it 
can have a much greater immediate 
effect on managing climate change. By 
providing grades that enable producers 
to differentiate their natural gas, MiQ 
certification promotes incentives 
for cutting methane emissions.

  intertek.com/oil-gas/ 

methane-emissions-verification/ 

•  Industry Services includes our 

Capex Inspection services and Opex 
Maintenance services and delivered 
double-digit LFL revenue growth 
as we benefitted from increased 
capex investment in traditional Oil 
and Gas exploration and production 
as well as in renewables. 

•  The continuing high demand for 
testing and inspection activities 
drove high-single digit LFL revenue 
growth in our Minerals business. 

•  Growing demand for more 

environmentally friendly buildings and 
the increased number of infrastructure 
projects in North America produced 
mid-single digit LFL revenue growth for 
our Building & Construction business. 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our Industry and 
Infrastructure division to deliver 
high-single digit LFL revenue growth 
at constant currency. 

Mid- to long-term 
growth outlook 
The Industry and Infrastructure division 
will benefit from increased investment 
from energy companies to meet 
growing demand and consumption 
of energy from the growing global 
population, the scaling up of 
Renewables, increase R&D investments 
that OEMs are making in EV/Hybrid 
vehicles and from the development 
of greener fuels. We expect mid- to 
high-single digit LFL revenue growth in 
the medium term at constant currency.

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusted operating margin 

47

2023 
£m 

860.5 

860.5 

86.1 

10.0% 

2022 
£m 

814.4 

814.4 

71.9 

8.8% 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

5.7% 

5.7% 

7.9% 

7.9% 

19.7% 

22.0% 

120bps 

110bps 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek Moody – 
Leveraging a legacy  
of engineering-based 
excellence 

What it is: The Moody legacy is 
synonymous with engineering-based 
technical assurance. Building on a 
more than 100-year history, that 
foundational heritage of experience 
and expertise was reignited with 
the return of the Intertek Moody 
brand. Bringing back the brand not 
only harnesses its industry-leading 
recognition and honours one of 
Intertek’s founding pioneers, but 
also reinforces the strength and 
stability forged by the storied 
Moody legacy that still drives our 
global expertise, pioneering industry 
innovations and local presence. 

Customer benefit: As industries 
strive to meet growing global energy 
and infrastructure demands, the 
need for quality, safety and reliability 
is paramount. Delivering in-depth 
expertise and local knowledge on a 
global scale, Intertek Moody has a 
history of being where our customers 
need us, across the entire supply 
chain and all stages of a project’s 
life cycle. Our first-class proactive 
and valued solutions, such as 
inspection, expediting and project 
management assistance help reduce 
risks, increase quality, optimise 
efficiency and improve safety. 

  intertek.com/moody/ 

Intertek in Action 

PhotonAssay – Enhancing efficiency and  
sustainability in West African gold testing 

What it is: PhotonAssay is a 
revolutionary analytical technique, 
heralding a new era of speed, accuracy 
and safety in gold analysis. We have 
introduced the technology at our minerals 
laboratory in Tarkwa, Ghana, which is 
central to our decades-long support 
for the West African mining industry. 
Unlike traditional methods, PhotonAssay 
employs high-intensity X-rays to 
excite gold atoms, producing unique 
gamma-ray signatures, which are then 
measured to determine gold content. 

Customer benefit: The innovative 
technology delivers accurate results 
in a fraction of the time taken 
by conventional methods. It also 
significantly reduces the use of 
hazardous chemicals, minimising the 
environmental impact of testing 
procedures. The PhotonAssay unit's 
ability to deliver rapid, accurate and 
environmentally conscious results will 
assist to improve the sustainability of 
our clients' operations and contribute to 
the region's overall economic growth. 

  intertek.com/minerals/photon-assay/ 

48

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

World of Energy 
High-single digit LFL revenue growth 

Our partner firm CEA is a market-leading 
provider of Quality Assurance, supply- 
chain traceability and technical services 
to the fast-growing solar energy 
sector. Its leading assurance service 
offering includes in-line monitoring 
that allows clients to oversee the 
management and traceability of their 
supply chains, offering a comprehensive, 
end-to-end service to support 
customers on their decarbonisation 
and energy sustainability journeys. 

2023 performance 
In 2023, our World of Energy-related 
business delivered revenue of £728.6m, 
up year-on-year by 11.7% at constant 
currency and 10.1% at actual rates. LFL 
revenue growth was 8.7% at constant 
currency. Operating profit of £65.6m was 
up 57.3% at constant currency and 50.8% 
at actual rates with margin improving by 
260bps at constant currency to 9.0%, as 
we benefitted from operating leverage, 
productivity gains and portfolio mix. 

Intertek value proposition 
Our World of Energy division focuses on 
the ATIC solutions we offer to our clients 
to develop renewables as well as better 
and greener fuels. This division was 22% 
of our revenue in 2023 and includes 
Caleb Brett, Transportation Technologies 
and Clean Energy Associates ('CEA'). 

Strategy 
Our TQA value proposition provides 
world-leading expertise to enable our 
clients to benefit from the significant 
opportunities in the World of Energy. 
We do this by providing specialist cargo 
inspection, analytical assessment, 
calibration and related research and 
technical services to the world's 
petroleum and biofuels industries. 

We provide rapid testing and validation 
services to the transportation 
industry, leveraging our Transportation 
Technologies subject matter 
expertise that is recognised by 
leading manufacturers worldwide. We 
evaluate everything from automobiles 
and energy storage to airplanes, and 
deliver top-tier testing for emerging 
technologies, such as autonomous 
and electric/hybrid vehicles. 

Business lines 

Caleb Brett 

Clean Energy Associates ('CEA') 

Specialised cargo inspection and 
analytical assessment services to 
the oil and gas, chemical and other 
commodities markets. 

Provides quality assurance, supply 
chain and technical services to the 
fast-growing solar energy, energy 
storage and green hydrogen sectors. 

Our role: We offer global 24/7/365 services 
covering cargo and inventory inspection 
services, analytical assessment, calibration 
and related research and technical services to 
the world’s petroleum and biofuels industries. 

Our role: CEA helps maximise the quality, 
safety and performance of clients’ operational 
assets, manages global solar PV, green 
hydrogen and energy storage supply chains, 
and provides a complete quality assurance 
solution through data, analysis and oversight. 

Transportation Technologies 

Providing diverse, rapid testing 
and validation services to the 
transportation industry. 

Our role: Our Transportation Technologies 
expertise is recognised by leading 
manufacturers worldwide. We evaluate 
everything from automobiles and energy 
storage to airplanes, and deliver top-tier 
testing for emerging markets, such as 
autonomous and electric/ hybrid vehicles. 

Revenue 

£728.6m 

Adjusted operating profit 

£65.6m

Adjusted operating margin

9.0%

Percentage of Group revenue 

22%

49

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Operating review Continued 

•  Caleb Brett, the global leader in the 

Crude Oil and Refined products global
trading markets, benefitted from 
improved momentum driven by 
increased global mobility and higher 
testing activities for biofuels with 
high-single digit LFL revenue growth. 
•  Transportation Technologies delivered 
mid-single digit LFL revenue growth 
globally driven by increased investment 
in new powertrains to lower CO2/NOx
emissions and in traditional combustion
engines to improve fuel efficiency. 

•  Our CEA business delivered double digit 
LFL revenue growth, benefitting from 
the increased investments in solar 
panels which is the fastest growing 
form of renewable energy. 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our World of Energy 
division to deliver mid-single digit LFL 
revenue growth at constant currency. 

Mid- to long-term 
growth outlook 
The World of Energy division will 
benefit from increased investment 
from energy companies to meet 
growing demand and consumption 
of energy from the growing 
global population, the scaling up 
of renewables, increased R&D 
investments that OEMs are making 
in EV/Hybrid vehicles and from the 
development of greener fuels. We 
expect low- to mid-single digit LFL 
revenue growth in the medium 
term at constant currency.

Intertek in Action 

Electrification Centre of Excellence, 
Plymouth, Michigan – Supporting the 
move towards electric mobility 

What it is: Strategically located 
near Detroit in the epicentre of the 
automotive industry, our Electrification 
Centre of Excellence in Plymouth, 
Michigan, offers some of the most 
extensive testing capabilities in North 
America for electric vehicle batteries 
and supply equipment. Through 
science-based Total Quality Assurance 
solutions, this facility plays a crucial 
role in supporting manufacturers in 
the transition to greener transport. 

Customer benefit: With sales of 
electric vehicles growing rapidly, our 
Electrification Centre of Excellence 
helps meet the automotive industry’s 
increasing need for regulatory support 
and safety and validation testing. 
As electrification technologies 
continue to advance, the facility will 
support the safety, performance and 
functionality of electric vehicles, 
battery packs, charging systems 
and their related components. 

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusted operating margin 

50

2023 
£m 

728.6 

709.2 

65.6 

9.0% 

2022 
£m 

662.0 

662.0 

43.5 

6.6% 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

10.1% 

7.1% 

50.8% 

11.7% 

8.7% 

57.3% 

240bps 

260bps 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek and Zero Petroleum – Pioneering the 
future of synthetic, carbon-neutral fuels 

What it is: Intertek is collaborating 
with Zero Petroleum, an innovative 
energy company at the forefront 
of developing synthetic, carbon- 
neutral alternatives to traditional 
fossil fuels. Our role is vital in this 
partnership, as we are responsible for 
thoroughly assessing the composition 
and emissions of these synthetic 
fuels and verifying their compliance 
with stringent industry standards 
and regulatory requirements. 

Customer benefit: The overall 
benefits of Zero synthetic fuels are 
substantial in the context of the 
global energy transition. These efuels, 
uniquely created from air and water, 
offer potentially unlimited scale and 
represent a significant advancement 
in moving towards cleaner, more 
sustainable energy sources. Designed to 
directly replace conventional petroleum- 
based fuels, they are applicable 
across various sectors, including 
transportation, aviation and agriculture. 

A key advantage of Zero synthetic 
fuels is their compatibility with 
existing engines, allowing for seamless 
integration without the necessity 
for any modifications or adaptations. 
This compatibility underscores the 
potential of Zero synthetic fuels to 
significantly contribute to reducing 
carbon emissions and advancing 
environmental sustainability.

51

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties 

have assessed climate change will 
not have a meaningful impact on the 
viability of the Group over the five- 
year period to 31 December 2028. 

The Group has a broad customer base 
across its multiple business lines and 
in its different geographic regions, 
and is supported by a robust balance 
sheet and strong operational cash 
flows. The Board considers that 
the diverse nature of business lines 
and geographies in which the Group 
operates significantly mitigates the 
impact that any of these scenarios 
might have on the Group’s viability. 

Based on this assessment, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will 
be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the period to 31 December 2028. The 
statement on going concern is in the 
Directors’ report in Book two, on page 73. 

Principal risks 
The Group is affected by a number of 
risk factors, some of which, including 
macroeconomic and industry-specific 
cyclical risks, are largely outside the 
Group’s control. Some risks are particular 
to Intertek’s operations. The principal 
risks of which the Group is aware 
are detailed on the following pages, 
including a commentary on how the 
Group mitigates these risks. These 
risks and uncertainties do not appear 
in any particular order of potential 
materiality or probability of occurrence. 

There may be other risks that are 
currently unknown or regarded as 
immaterial which could turn out to be 
material. Any of these risks could have 
the potential to impact the performance 
of the Group, its assets, liquidity, 
capital resources and its reputation. 

Changes to principal risks 
Our principal risks continue to evolve 
in response to our changing risk 
environment. We have removed 
Covid-19 as a principal risk for 2023; 
this follows the decision by the Word 
Health Organisation on 5 May 2023 
to declare that the pandemic was no 
longer a Public Health Emergency 
of International Concern. 

Long-term viability statement 
In accordance with provision 31 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors have assessed the 
viability of the Group over a five-year 
period to 31 December 2028, by 

carrying out a robust assessment of 
the potential impact of the principal 
risks and uncertainties on the Group’s 
current position, including those that 
would threaten the Group’s business 
model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. This is documented 
on the following pages. 

The Directors have determined that a 
five-year period is an appropriate period 
over which to provide the viability 
statement of the Group, as the Group’s 
strategic review covers a five-year period. 

Furthermore, the Directors believe 
the five-year period appropriately 
reflects the average business cycles of 
the business lines in which the Group 
operates, particularly in relation to capital 
expenditure investment horizons. In 
modelling the viability scenario, we have 
made the assumption that we will be able 
to refinance external debt and renew 
committed facilities as they become due. 

In addition to the bottom-up strategic 
review process where the prospects 
of each business line are reviewed, 
an assessment has been made of the 
potential operational and financial 
impacts on the Group of the principal 
risks and uncertainties outlined in the 
following pages. The Directors have 
also assessed certain combinations of 
these principal risks and uncertainties 
in a number of severe, but plausible, 
scenarios, as well as the effectiveness 
of any mitigating actions as set out 
in the table on page 53. The Directors 

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Assessing and 
managing our risks 

This section sets out 
a description of the 
principal risks and 
uncertainties that could 
have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s 
strategy, performance, 
results, financial condition 
and reputation. 

Risk framework 
The Board has overall responsibility 
for the establishment and oversight 
of the Group’s risk management 
framework. This work is complemented 
by the Group Risk Committee, whose 
purpose is to manage, assess and 
promote the continuous improvement 
of the Group’s risk management, 
controls and assurance systems. 

This risk governance framework is 
described in more detail in the Directors’ 
report in Book two, on pages 46 and 65.

The Group Audit Director and the 
Group General Counsel, who report to 
the Chief Financial Officer and Chief 
Executive Officer, respectively, have 
accountability for reporting the key risks 
that the Group faces, the controls and 
assurance processes in place and any 
mitigating actions or controls. Both roles 
report to the Audit Committee, attend 
its meetings and meet with individual 
members each year as required. 

Risks are formally identified and recorded 
in a risk register which is owned by 
each of the Group’s divisional, regional 
and functional risk committees. Risk 
registers are updated throughout 
the year by these risk committees 
and are used to plan the Group’s 
internal audit and risk strategy. 

In addition to the risk registers, relevant 
operational and functional leaders for 
each site are required to complete a 
year-end compliance certification to 
confirm that management controls have 
been effectively applied during the year. 
The return covers Sales, Operations, IT, 
Finance, Sustainability and People. 

52

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties Continued

  Scenario 

Associated principal risks 

Description 

Failure to identify, understand and 
respond to regulatory or political changes 
results in loss of revenue, profitability, 
market share and/or adversely changes 
the competitive landscape. 

Failure to respond/adapt to a customer 
service issue leads to a loss of key 
customers and detrimentally impacts 
reputation. 

An ethical and/or quality breach leads 
to litigation (including significant fines 
and debarment from certain territories/ 
activities), reputational damage, loss 
of accreditation and erosion of 
customer confidence. 

A serious data security/IT systems breach 
results in a significant financial penalty 
and a loss of reputation among customers.

Regulatory  
environment 
change 

•  Industry and competitive landscape

•  Customer service

•  Regulatory and political landscape

•  People retention

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Industry and competitive landscape

•  Customer service

•  Business ethics

•  People retention

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Business ethics

•  People retention

•  Financial risk

•  Health, safety and wellbeing

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Customer service

•  People retention

•  IT systems and data security

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

Customer service 
issue 

Ethical and/or  
quality breach 

IT systems 
breach 

53

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties Continued 

2

Customer service 

3

People retention

A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide customer 
innovation or to deliver our services in accordance with our 
customers’ expectations and our customer promise.

The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to attract and 
retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge in order 
to take advantage of all growth opportunities. 

Possible impact 
•  Customer dissatisfaction and customer loss.
•  Gradual erosion of market share and reputation if competitors are 
perceived to have better, more responsive or more consistent 
service offerings. 

Possible impact 
•  Poor management succession.
•  Lack of continuity.
•  Failure to optimise growth. 
• 
•  Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share. 

Impact on quality, reputation and customer confidence.

Mitigation 
•  Net Promoter Score (‘NPS’) customer satisfaction, customer 

sales trends and turnaround time tracking. 

•  Global and Local Key Account Management (‘GKAM’/’LKAM’) 

initiatives in place. 

•  Customer feedback meetings.
•  Customer claims/complaints reporting.

Mitigation 
•  HR strategy policies and systems. 
•  Development and reward programme to retain and motivate 

employees. 

•  Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of 

leadership and expertise. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022.

Operational 

1

Reputation

Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and growing its 
business. Reputation risk can occur in a number of ways: directly 
as the result of the actions of the Group or a Group company 
itself; indirectly due to the actions of an employee or employees; 
or through the actions of other parties, such as joint venture 
partners, suppliers, customers or other industry participants. 

Possible impact 
•  Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
•  Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs and wasted 

management time. 

•  Destruction of shareholder value.
•  Loss of existing or new business.
•  Loss of key staff. 

Mitigation 
•  Quality Management Systems; adherence to these is regularly 

audited and reviewed by external parties, including accreditation
bodies. 

•  Risk Management Framework and associated controls and 

assurance processes, including contractual review and liability 
caps where appropriate. 

•  Code of Ethics, which is communicated to all staff, who undergo 

regular training. 

•  Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate 

behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting 
on the Group’s behalf. 

•  Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk 

Committee, where staff are encouraged to report, without risk,
any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the 
reputation of the Group. 

•  Relationship management and communication with external

stakeholders. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. The Group continues to 
invest in staff development, quality systems and standard processes to 
prevent operational failures. 

54

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

4 Macroeconomic

5

Health, safety and 
wellbeing 

6

 Industry and
competitive landscape

Macroeconomic factors such as a global/market downturn, inflation, 
supply chain and logistics restrictions, materials shortages, and 
contraction/changing requirements in certain sectors. 

Any health and safety incident arising from our activities. This could 
result in injury to Intertek’s employees, subcontractors, customers 
and/or any other stakeholders affected. Wellbeing impacts on our 
people resulting from pandemics and other similar events. 

A failure to identify, manage and take advantage of emerging and 
future risks. 
Examples include the opportunities provided by new markets and 
customers, a failure to innovate in terms of service offering and 
delivery, the challenge of radically new and different business 
models; the failure to foresee the impact of, or adequately respond 
to and comply with, changing or new laws and regulations; a failure 
to anticipate and address the operational, strategic, regulatory and 
reputational impact of climate change and environmental factors; 
and a failure to identify and take advantage of the impact of 
changes to our clients’ operations and supply chains. 

Possible impact 
• 
Impact on revenue.
•  Falling market share. 
•  Shrinking customer base.
Impact on share price.
• 

Possible impact 
• 
Individual or multiple injuries to employees and others.
•  Litigation or legal/regulatory enforcement action (including

prosecution) leading to reputational damage. 

•  Loss of accreditation.
•  Erosion of customer confidence.
•  Wellbeing – individual or multiple instances of stress-related issues 

and/or illnesses, absenteeism, and related impacts on morale. 

Possible impact 
•  Failure to maximise revenue opportunities.
•  Failure to take advantage of new opportunities.
•  Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
•  Erosion of market share.
• 
Impact on share price.
•  Sanctions and fines for non-compliance with new laws, etc.

Mitigation 
•  We continue to focus on developing business in new markets and for 

Mitigation 
•  Quality management and associated controls, including safety 

new customers. 

•  We continue to focus on innovations in our service offerings.
•  We continue to monitor trends and customer pipelines.
•  We conduct regular strategic and business line reviews, including 

budget forecasting. 

•  We continue to monitor the impacts of external risk factors and have 

access to data and analysis from our external advisers. 

training, appropriate PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), Health
and Safety policies (including due diligence on sub-contractors), 
meetings and communication. 

•  Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount. 
It is expected that Intertek employees will operate to the highest 
standards of health and safety at all times and there are controls in 
place to reduce incidents. 
•  Business continuity planning.
•  Employee wellbeing programme.

Mitigation 
•  GKAM and LKAM initiatives in place.
•  Diversification of customer base. 
•  Focus on new services and acquisitions.
•  Tracking new laws and regulations.
•  Regular strategic and business line reviews. 
•  Development of ATIC-selling initiatives.
•  NPS customer research to understand customer satisfaction.
•  Continuing to drive innovation at the core. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

55

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

Operational (continued) 

7

IT systems and 
data security

Systems integrity: major IT systems integrity issue, or data 
security breach, either due to internal or external factors such 
as deliberate interference or power shortages/cuts, etc. 
Systems functionality: a failure to define the right IT strategies, 
maintain existing IT systems or implement new IT systems with 
the required functionality and which are fit for purpose, in each 
case to support the Group’s growth, innovation and competitive 
customer offering. 
Data security: a failure to adequately protect the Group’s 
confidential information, customer confidential information or 
the personal data of the Group’s employees, customers or other 
stakeholders. 

Possible impact 
•  Loss of revenue due to down time.
•  Potential loss of sensitive data with associated legal implications,

including regulatory sanctions and potential fines. 
•  Potential costs of IT systems' replacement and repair. 
•  Loss of customer confidence.
•  Damage to reputation. 
•  Loss of revenue/profitability if we fail to adopt an IT investment 
strategy which supports the Group's growth, innovation and 
customer offering. 

Information systems policy and governance structure.

Mitigation 
• 
•  Regular system maintenance.
•  Backup systems in place.
•  Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved

to minimise the impact if a failure does occur. 

•  Global Information Security policies in place (IT, Data Protection, 

CyberSecurity). 

•  Adherence to IT finance systems controls (part of Core Mandatory 

Controls ('CMCs')). 

•  Adherence to IT general controls. 
• 
Internal and external audit testing.
•  Processes to ensure compliance with GDPR. 

8

Contracting

Agreeing unfavourable terms with customers and/or suppliers as a 
result of not following agreed contract review processes, and/or 
failing to negotiate appropriate terms. 

Possible impact 
•  Margin−decretive work.
•  Onerous liabilities and exposures.
•  Non-optimised pricing.
•  Financial exposures due to claims and litigation.

Mitigation 
•  Any deviations from our standard contract terms are subject to 
legal review and approval, and all contracts must be approved in 
line with our Authorities Grid (which sets out approval limits based 
on contract values and other relevant factors). 

•  We continue to operate our claims notification procedure, including

claims management and insurer liaison where needed. 

•  Both our contracting and claims processes are supported by 

training programmes for relevant staff, and the use of relevant 
systems and databases. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

56

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

Legal and Regulatory 

9

Regulatory and  
political landscape 

10

Business ethics

Financial 

11

Financial risk

A failure to identify and respond appropriately to a change in law 
and/or regulation, or to a political decision, event or condition which 
could impact demand for the Group’s services or the Group’s ability 
to grow, innovate and/or provide a competitive customer offering in 
any existing or new industry sector or market. 

Non-compliance with Intertek’s Code of Ethics (‘the Code’) and/or 
related laws such as anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and fair 
competition legislation. Non-compliance could be either accidental 
or deliberate, and committed either by our people or sub-contractors 
who must also abide by the Code. 

Risk of theft, fraud or financial misstatement by employees. On 
acquisitions or investments, the financial risk or exposure arising 
from due diligence, integration or performance delivery failures. 

Possible impact 
•  Loss of revenue, profitability and/or market share. 
• 
Increase to costs of operations, reduction in profitability. 
•  Reduction in the attractiveness of investment in specific 

businesses, sectors or markets and/or adverse change in the 
competitive landscape. 

Possible impact 
•  Litigation, including significant fines and debarment from certain

territories/activities. 
•  Reputational damage.
•  Loss of accreditation.
•  Erosion of customer confidence.
• 

Impact on share price.

Mitigation 
•  Monitoring of regulatory environment and political developments.
•  Analysis of impact of regulatory and political changes on operational 

Standard Operating Procedures ('SOPs') and Group policies. 

•  Membership of relevant associations, e.g. TIC Council with related
advocacy and liaison activities, including in relation to developing 
climate-related or environmental regulations. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

57

Mitigation 
•  Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
•  Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk Committee,
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or 
other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 

•  Enhanced processes for engagement with suppliers and third 

parties. 

•  Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour
by any individual employed by the Group or acting on the Group’s 
behalf. 

•  The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of 
local legal and regulatory requirements. There are also extensive 
internal compliance and audit systems to facilitate compliance. 
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations are uncertain. 
•  The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance
with the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and 
internal policy. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 
Ongoing annual confirmations ensure that staff verify compliance with 
the Code. 
During 2023, 106 (2022: 91) non-compliance issues were reported 
through the whistleblowing hotline and other routes. All were 
investigated, with 39 (2022: 24) substantiated and appropriate 
corrective and disciplinary action taken. 

Possible impact 
•  Financial losses with a direct impact on the bottom line. 
•  Large-scale losses can affect financial results.
•  Potential legal proceedings leading to costs and/or 

management time. 

•  Corresponding loss of value and reputation could result in funding 

being withdrawn or provided at higher interest rates. 

•  Possible adverse publicity.

Mitigation 
•  The Group has financial, management and systems controls in 

place to ensure that the Group’s assets are protected from major 
financial risks. 

•  Adherence to Authorities Grid (which sets approval limits for

financial transactions). 

•  Stringent controls on working capital and cash collection.
•  Legal, financial and other due diligence on M&A and other 

investments. 

•  Monitoring adherence to our CMCs and tracking of remediations by 

our compliance and finance controls teams and using our framework 
of risk committees. 

•  A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that 
monthly financial results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also 
operates a rigorous programme of internal audits and there are also 
management reviews. Independent external auditors review the 
Group’s half-year results and audit the Group’s annual financial 
statements. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 
We continue to review and update the CMCs on an annual basis and 
use them for year-end compliance certification. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
 
 
TCFD statement 

TCFD statement 

Our TCFD journey 

We believe that, as a sustainable business 
and a leading provider of sustainability 
solutions to more than 400,000 
companies, Intertek has an important 
role to play in taking action on climate 
change and supporting the transition 
to a low-carbon economy – both for our 
clients and in our own value chain. 

We are also committed to total 
transparency on the effect of climate 
change and the risks and opportunities 
of decarbonisation on our operations, 
strategy and financial planning – including 
by implementing the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') in full. 

We have set ambitious targets to get 
to net zero emissions by 2050, with 
interim targets to 2030, which have 
been validated by the SBTi. In 2023, 
our rigorous monthly performance 
management of climate-related 
action plans delivered operational 
market-based emissions reductions 
of 10.8% against 2022. 

Putting climate change and 
decarbonisation in context 

Climate change policies, disclosure 
requirements, and public, 
consumer and investor pressure 
have led to a “race to net zero” by 
governments and corporations – 
with the aim being decarbonisation 
of the global economy in line 
with Paris Agreement goals 
to limit global warming. 

Decarbonisation to a point of net 
zero carbon emissions will involve 
economic, political and societal 
changes. The key to achieving it 
lies in the energy transition – a 
shift from reliance on fossil fuels 
to renewables and green energy 
sources, with the significant changes 
in energy infrastructure that 
involves. It will require a reduction 
in the carbon footprint of global 
activities: transport and travel; 
facilities and construction; supplies 

consumed; and goods and services 
produced. The likelihood – based 
on the current rate of progress – is 
that achieving net zero within the 
Paris Agreement timeframe will 
require the scale development and 
use of new carbon capture and 
storage technologies, together 
with breakthrough innovations to 
accelerate the reduction of carbon 
emissions linked to manufacturing, 
transportation and consumption. 

Conversely, if decarbonisation 
goals are not met, the effects 
of climate change will increase 
and extreme weather events 
will be more likely. Governments 
and corporations will need to 
consider mitigating the risks of this 
outcome by ensuring that their 
energy, manufacturing and supply 
networks are resilient and secure. 

58

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur TCFD journey 

8 Systemic CO2 emission 
1 collection in all sites/ 
0
2 operations 

TCFD statement Continued 

2 Compliant with TCFD 
2
0
2

recommendations 

2 CO2 reduction targets 
2
for all employees 
0
2 included in yearly 
compensation 

2 Country-specific targets 
2
and action plans to 
0
2 reduce emissions 

7 First Group-wide 
1
0 GHG emission 
2 reduction target set 

1 Commitment to net 
2
0 zero by 2050 
2

3 SBTi  
2
0
2

Validation 

  Voluntary 
0 disclosure 
2
0 against TCFD 
2

recommendations 

  Systemic monthly 
2 performance management 
2
0 of emission reductions 
2 and action plans 

59

Our TCFD compliance statement 
The TCFD requires the disclosure 
of information aligned to its core 
elements – governance, strategy, 
risk management, and metrics and 
targets. The TCFD aims to improve the 
disclosure of climate-related risks and 
opportunities and provide stakeholders 
with the necessary information to 
undertake robust and consistent 
analyses of the potential financial 
impacts of climate change. We recognise 
the value that the recommendations 
bring and continue to align and enhance 
our climate-related disclosures. 

We set out below our climate-related 
financial disclosures which are consistent 
with all TCFD recommendations 
and recommended disclosures1. 

Our TCFD disclosures are set 
out in five sections: 

Section 1: our governance of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities 

Section 2: how we consider climate 
change in our strategy 

Section 3: our climate-related risk 
management approach 

Section 4: our climate-related 
metrics and targets 

Section 5: our climate change 
methodology and approach 

We have integrated climate-related 
disclosures throughout our Annual 
Report. These are included through 
cross-references to other sections 
containing further relevant information. 

1.  Figure 4 of Section C of the report entitled 

“Recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures” published 
in June 2017 by the TCFD.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCFD statement Continued 

Section 1: Governance

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities 

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities

•  Our Governance structure (Book two, pages 46-47)

•  our Beyond Net Zero Steering Committee (whose members include our Group CEO, Group Company 

Secretary, Group Head of Sustainability, EVP – Sustainability, SVP – Corporate Development and Group Chief 
Marketing & Communications Officer), which has oversight of our Total Sustainability agenda including 
internal and external climate-related actions over and above our GHG and net zero commitments; and 

•   Internal control and risk management (Book two, 

•  our specific CEO-led working group on TCFD / climate-related risks and opportunities.

page 65) 

1 a) Our Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 
Our Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate- 
related risks are integrated into every Board agenda as part of the Board’s review of risks and our integrated 
risk, control and compliance approach. Climate-related issues are considered as part of the Board’s strategic 
review sessions and reflected in the Board’s strategic review and guidance. 

The Board takes emerging and systemic climate-related risks and opportunities into account: 
1. when considering the Group Risk footprint and our internal controls/risk management policies at each Board 

meeting; and 

2. in reviewing the Group’s principal risks and in the risk modelling that feeds into the longer-term viability 

statement. 

During the year the Board was able to draw on the climate-related expertise of Gill Rider, who is also a member 
of Pennon Group plc’s ESG committee and President of the Marine Biological Association, and Tamara Ingram, 
who is chair of the ESG committee for Marks and Spencer Group plc. 

The Group’s Head of Sustainability and EVP – Sustainability report to the Board on our climate-related risks and 
opportunities, respectively, from an internal and external perspective, as part of an annual in-depth Intertek 
Total Sustainability review. In addition, the Board receives specific updates on our TCFD approach and progress 
during the year. The Board monitors and oversees our progress against our science-based targets and our 
climate-related action plans. 

1 b) Management’s role in identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
We believe that assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities is an integral part of our 
overall integrated risk management approach. Our framework of regional, divisional and functional risk 
committees, considers climate-related risks and opportunities and identifies and implements appropriate 
action plans. This creates an awareness and ownership of climate-related risks and opportunities within our 
operational, HR, compliance, finance and insurance leadership. 

In addition, climate-related risks and opportunities are identified, managed and tracked by: 

•  our Net Zero Steering Committee (whose members include our Group CEO, Group CFO, Group Company 

Secretary, EVP – Sustainability, Head of Finance – Sustainability and Group Head of Risk) focuses on the 
implementation and performance of our net zero roadmap and our science-based emission reduction targets 
to meet our ambition to get us to net zero by 2050; 

60

Our approach means that we can apply the management expertise we have from providing TCFD and other 
climate-related ESG Assurance solutions to our clients in the assessment and management of our own risks 
and opportunities. 

Section 2: Strategy 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium, and long term 

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning 

c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower 
scenario 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (pages 52-57)

•  Strategic Report; Our business model (pages 16-25)

•  Sustainability Report (Book two)

•  Financial Report (Book three)

•  Strategic Report; Our business model]

•  Sustainability Report (Book two)

•  Financial Report (Book three)

At the high level, our ambition is to become a net zero emissions business by 2050 while mitigating the 
physical impact of climate change on our operations and supporting our clients with sustainability solutions. 

Innovative sustainability services have been at the core of our business and strategy for over 100 years. Today’s 
“race to net zero” by governments and corporations is beneficial to Intertek given our investments in sustainability 
– including our operational sustainability solutions; our carbon emissions certification, CarbonClear™; our ESG 
disclosures verification; and our corporate sustainability certification, TSA. Ongoing dependency on traditional oil
and gas, and the significant investments required to scale up renewable energy, will mean our Industry Services 
businesses should benefit from traditional energy investment and the parallel developments in the renewables 
space – and our differentiated World of Energy value proposition and our total energy expertise position us 
strongly to take advantage of the global energy transition required to get to net zero. 

The world will face difficulties in meeting Paris Agreement targets and addressing climate change unless: 
all companies, public and private, commit to reduce carbon emissions to net zero; significantly increased 
investments are made in renewables; and there is breakthrough innovation to accelerate carbon emission 
reductions and facilitate carbon storage and capture. This negative outcome should lead to increased demand 
for our services as it will lead to an increased focus on developing low-carbon products and other innovations 
and technologies that will reduce emissions, including increased investment in carbon capture and storage.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

2 a) Our climate-related risks and opportunities 
Based on our supply and demand model and decarbonisation scenarios (details of which are set out in section 
5), our view of Intertek’s climate-related risks and opportunities is as follows. 

Climate-related opportunities

  Opportunity area 

Description of opportunities 

Energy 
transition 

The key question for our energy-related businesses is what the risks and opportunities of 
a transition to lower carbon / renewable energy will look like, and over what timeframe. 

The world will be dependent on traditional oil and gas for longer than people think: there 
has been under-investment in oil and gas exploration since 2015; there is structural 
under-investment in alternative energy sources; renewables will take time to scale, 
creating risks for governments and economies in moving away too quickly from traditional 
energy sources. 

This will require our clients to make incremental investments in traditional oil and gas 
infrastructure and E&P. Our Industry Services businesses should therefore benefit over 
the next 20 to 25 years both from traditional energy investment and the parallel 
developments in the renewables space. 

Our Caleb Brett business should benefit from the increasing global demand for oil and gas 
in the short-term, and in the medium- to long-term continue to benefit from an increase in 
the production and consumption of oil-related products as well as the development / 
growth of greener fuels – biofuels and synthetic. Our clients will need to make significant 
investments in traditional oil and gas if they are to continue to meet the growing global 
energy demand. 

The carbon capture and carbon removal technologies which will be required to achieve net 
zero targets are currently at an early stage of development and it is likely that increased 
investments will be required to accelerate their production and availability: this should 
benefit our engineering-based inspection businesses within Industry Services. 

The energy transition that certain of our traditional oil and gas clients face as they move 
to being total energy providers underlines the importance of our differentiated World of 
Energy value proposition. Intertek’s range of energy expertise is able to support our 
clients across the full World of Energy spectrum: from traditional oil and gas, petroleum 
refining and distribution, petrochemicals and power generation to nuclear power, solar, 
biofuels, tidal, wave and wind power. This gives Intertek a high-level, cross-sectional view 
of energy industry topics and trends that we believe will position us strongly to take 
advantage of current and future business development linked to energy transition.

  Opportunity area 

Description of opportunities 

Carbon 
footprint 
transition 

For our Consumer Products businesses, the risks and opportunities of decarbonisation 
will be linked to our clients’ transition to lower-carbon logistics, manufacturing/production 
and supply chain networks. 

We expect consumer spending on products to continue to increase and the number of 
SKUs produced to also increase. An increasing consumer and regulatory focus on 
sustainability will lead to changes in demand for products with lower carbon footprints. 
Equally, manufacturers’ own sustainability goals will lead them to seek raw materials with 
lower carbon footprints and to develop lower carbon footprint products. 

We believe that corporations will face difficulties in achieving their net zero targets given 
the financial, organisational and practical complexities of transitioning to low-carbon 
footprint operations. We therefore expect the demand for existing products to stay high 
for longer. Given the difficulties in getting to net zero without R&D and investments in 
logistics and supply chains, our Consumer Products businesses will benefit from higher 
corporate investments in R&D to design low-carbon products at the start of the value 
chain and from investments in supply chain relocations closer to home markets to reduce 
carbon footprints and increase resilience. 

Policy 

Climate-related laws and regulations will increase over time. 

In the short term, governments are likely to limit policies which require mandatory 
behavioural changes to the industry sectors which are the most critical to 
decarbonisation: energy; infrastructure; and transportation. It is likely that corporates in 
other industry sectors will be encouraged to decarbonise by increasing disclosure and 
transparency requirements. 

The regulatory approach over the medium to longer-term will change depending on 
companies’ / countries’ success in meeting Paris Agreement targets and regulation will 
become less voluntary and more mandatory over time if those targets are likely to be 
missed based on existing behaviours. 

We expect to benefit from increased regulation to drive investment and product 
development by our clients in the energy, infrastructure and transportation sectors. 

We expect our Business Assurance businesses to benefit from an increase in supplier 
audit and management solutions as corporations seek to address their scope 3 / supply 
chain carbon emissions. 

ESG disclosure requirements are likely to increase in response both to new regulations and 
disclosure standards and to increasing investor and stakeholder expectations. We expect 
this to lead to increased demand for our ESG disclosure / verification services.

61

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

Climate-related risks

  Risk area 

Description of risk 

Physical 
impacts 

We consider that there are three types of possible physical impacts: 
1.  Direct physical impacts, where the increased frequency and/or severity of extreme 
weather events causes an increased incidence of disruption to our own operations /
supply chain / transportation networks; 

2. Client physical impacts, where the extreme weather events cause disruption to our 

clients’ operations and therefore changes to client demand – or the geographic location 
of client demand – for our services; and 

3.  Economic physical impacts, where temperature increase and extreme weather events 
reduce economic activity, leading to a fall in demand for our services in line with fall in 
consumer demand / client production. 

Based on our natural catastrophe experience and modelling, and because of the 
capital-light nature of our operations and our ability to redirect work within our own 
network, we believe that the impacts of extreme weather events to Intertek are likely 
to be local and not material at the Group level. 

2 b) The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on our businesses, strategy 
and financial planning 
Intertek has been a global thought and innovation leader in sustainability services for decades, 
and sustainability services are core to our global business. We help customers across all aspects 
of sustainability, covering all major industries, with end-to-end sustainability solutions. 

Climate-related opportunities are one part of our overall sustainability strategy. At the high level, we believe 
that the actions which companies and corporations will need to take to transition to a low-carbon economy 
will be an opportunity for us and will accelerate the demand for our ATIC solutions, including: 

•   our climate-related operational sustainability services (such as energy efficiency, carbon footprint

or zero waste to landfill certifications); 

•   our corporate sustainability solutions (where we help corporations to establish and validate the 

effectiveness of their own sustainability programmes); and 

•   our Intertek ESG Solutions (where we independently verify our clients’ sustainability reporting 

and disclosures). 

Our World of Energy businesses continue to scale up investments in strategic growth areas driven by 
climate-related factors, such as: 

•   An increase in total energy demand driven by GDP and population growth.

•   The need to address structural underinvestment in traditional oil & gas as renewables lack scale. 

•  Technology and infrastructure investments needed to build scale renewable infrastructure.

•   The significant investments and innovations required to meet net zero pathways, including developments 

in hydrogen, synthetic fuels, carbon capture and carbon storage. 

Our strategy includes M&A investments such as our acquisition of Clean Energy Associates which has enabled 
us to expand our sustainability service offering in the fast-growing quality assurance market for solar energy 
and energy storage. It also includes organic innovations such as Intertek Hydrogen, Intertek CarbonClear™ and 
CarbonZero, and Intertek Green R&D. 

Our climate-related risks and opportunities assessment also feeds directly into our wider strategy, portfolio 
and financial planning, including our planning on: 

•   climate-change mitigation activities and our net zero action plans; and

•  the location of our facilities.

We believe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities is as follows: 

Timeframe 

Scenario 

Climate-related opportunities 

Short 

Medium 

Long 

RCP4.5 

RCP8.5 

Transition impacts 
• Energy transition

•  Carbon footprint 

transition 

Policy impacts

  Climate-related risks 

Physical impacts

Key: ◊ – ◊◊◊ = low – high impact 
* Scenario sensitivity

◊

◊

◊

◊◊ 

◊◊ 

◊◊ 

◊ 

◊◊◊

◊◊◊

◊◊◊

◊◊

* 

* 

*

Financial 
impact 

See note 1 

* 

See note 2 

We continue to develop innovative ATIC service offerings to support our clients’ low-carbon transition aims 
and to enable them to comply with the increasing regulatory requirements relating to sustainability and ESG. 

Note 1: Our pre-Covid (2014 – 2019) organic revenue CAGR was c.3%. Sustainability / ESG services were a driver of that revenue growth. 
We expect the Group revenue growth from Sustainability / ESG services to accelerate. 

Note 2: In order to assess our physical impact risk, we have worked with Willis Towers Watson ('WTW') to carry out a portfolio exposure 
assessment based on scenario modelling supported by WTW’s Climate Diagnostic technology platform. For this purpose, our portfolio includes 
943 sites (2022: 985 sites) and associated assets and revenues. 

The result is an assessment of the percentage of our portfolio that is exposed to a material level of climate-related risk over four time periods 
(today; 2030; 2050; 2100) and under two scenarios (RCP4.5 and RCP8.5). 

62

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportClimate Scenario: RCP4.5 (2–3ºC) 

2023 

2030 

2050 

2100 

TCFD statement Continued 

% of portfolio (assets & revenues) exposed to physical impact risks 

55% of portfolio exposed 
to at least 80 heatwave days 
per year by 2050, compared 
to 39% today 

53% exposed to at least 
5 days of heavy rainfall 
over 30mm by 2050 
compared to 46% today 

60 

55 

52

56 

53 

49 

46

39 

Slowly increasing portion 
of locations exposed to 
at least 4 months of 
drought per year 

10% of the portfolio 
exposed to fire weather 
conditions for at least 
80 days in a year 

11% in river flood zones 
by 2050. 1% of flooding 
improbability a year 

4% of the portfolio exposed 
to extreme risk of flooding 
from storm surge events 
and sea level rise by 2050 

Small and largely unchanged portion 
of the total portfolio exposed to severe 
windstorms generating damaging gusts 
(either from tropical cyclones i.e. hurricanes 
or extratropical cyclones i.e. winter storms) 

Heat 

Precipitation 

11 10 

7

Drought 

16 

15 

9

10  10 

8

11  11  11

4

4

4 

4 

2

3

3

3

2

2

2 

2

Fire 

River flood (defended) 

Sea level rise 

Tropical cyclone 

Extratropical cyclone 

% of portfolio (assets & revenues) exposed to physical impact risks 

Climate Scenario: RCP8.5 (4ºC) 

2023 

2030 

2050 

2100 

61% of the portfolio 
exposed to at least 80 
heatwave days per year 
by 2050, compared to 
39% today 

56% of the portfolio 
exposed to at least 5 days 
of heavy rainfall over 30mm 
by 2050 compared to 
46% today 

71 

61 

55 

39 

60 

56 

50 

46 

Increasing portion of 
locations exposed to 
at least 4 months 
of drought per year 

45 

25 

Slowly increasing portion 
of the portfolio exposed 
to fire weather conditions 
for at least 80 days in a year 

10% in river flood zones 
by 2050. 1% probability 
of flooding in a year 

4% of the portfolio 
exposed to extreme risk 
of flooding from storm surge 
events and sea level rise 
by 2050 

Small and largely unchanged portion of 
the total portfolio exposed to severe 
windstorms generating damaging gusts 
(either from tropical cyclones 
i.e. hurricanes or extratropical cyclones 
i.e. winter storms) 

Heat 

Precipitation 

Drought 

Fire 

River flood (defended) 

Sea level rise 

Tropical cyclone 

Extratropical cyclone 

10 

7

9

11  11 

11 10 11

8

4

4

4

5

2

3

3

3

2

2

2 

2

17 

Figure 1: 
Physical risk exposure 
under an RCP4.5 scenario: 

Figure 2: 
Physical risk exposure 
under an RCP8.5 scenario:

63

)

%

(
d
e
s
o
p
x
e
o

i
l

o
f
t
r
o
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

)

%

(
d
e
s
o
p
x
e
o

i
l

o
f
t
r
o
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCFD statement Continued 

Assessing the impact of acute weather events 
The likely impact of an acute weather event is a loss of revenue due to a shutdown of our facilities. It is difficult 
to provide a precise estimate of the financial impact, which depends on factors including the severity of the 
event, the geography affected and our ability to redistribute work, and the duration of the shutdown. 

Our assessment reveals a minimal increase in expected portfolio exposure to acute weather events, and we 
therefore expect the incidence and financial impact of such acute events to be similar to today. Based on 
recent experience, in FY17 hurricanes Harvey and Irma impacted the operations of our clients in southern 
regions of the USA during a three-month period, in turn impacting our business. These two operational 
disruptions reduced our revenue performance by £5m at constant currency over the period August to October 
2017, negatively impacting our divisions. Over the five-year period to date, our operations have been impacted 
by about ten extreme weather events. 

2 c) Our organisational resilience to the risks of climate change and decarbonisation scenarios 
We believe our operations and strategy have a high degree of resilience to the risks of climate change under 
both an RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenario: 

•   Our extensive network – over 1,000 labs in over 100 countries – means that we are well positioned to take 

advantage of any climate-related changes in supply chains (either changes to suppliers, to the raw materials 
being supplied or to the geographic location of supply chains). 

•   Our products inspection and assurance businesses are flexible as they use field-based inspectors and 

auditors and we can deploy personnel / sub-contractors as required. 

•   Our client-base of over 400,000 clients is diverse, with no material dependencies, which also de-risks 

geographic changes in our points of service delivery. 

•   Our capital-light earnings model de-risks us from climate-related changes to our clients’ supply chains and 

physical impacts of climate change as we have a low cost of market entry and exit. 

•   We are able to redirect work within our own network in order to mitigate the impact of climate-related 

disruptions. 

•   We do not anticipate a material impact of climate-related policies directly on our business. As a professional 

services provider, we do not operate in a sector which is likely to be a key focus for mandatory 
decarbonisation behavioural changes. Our broad geographic footprint de-risks us from the impact of national 
regulations. Our capital-light model mitigates our exposure to climate-related policies. 

The assessment shows that our broad geographic footprint and proven high-quality cash generative earnings 
model (covered in more detail in 2 c) below) is an advantage for long-term climate resilience. Nevertheless, it 
does indicate an increased physical impact exposure to our portfolio, varying by type of climate-related 
extreme weather event, under both the RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 scenarios: 
•   a low to medium increase by 2050 in exposure to chronic (extended, non-localised) weather events 

– heat, precipitation, drought, sea level rise; and

•   a low increase by 2050 in exposure to acute (localised, one-off) weather events – river floods, fire, tropical 

and non-tropical storms 

Assessing the impact of chronic weather events 
It is difficult to assess the physical impact of chronic weather events as these are likely to be regional or global 
in nature but can be largely or fully addressed with systemic risk mitigation actions at the Intertek site / 
operational level:

  Physical risk (chronic  
  weather events) 

Impact on business 

Mitigations 

Precipitation 

•  Property damage and business disruption  •  Insurance cover

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Physical / structural protections for sites 

with predicted exposure 

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Productivity changes as severe heat 
affects people and/or equipment 
•  Cost increases linked to an increased

requirement for air conditioning / cooling 

•  Increase energy efficiency / use of solar / 

renewable energy 

•  Operational impact from water scarcity 
•  Changes to demand for our services linked 

to changing consumption patterns, 
population migration or conflict 

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Focus on reducing water usage / efficiency 

Heat 

Drought 

Sea level rise 

•  Property damage and business disruption  •  Insurance cover

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Physical / structural protections for sites 

with predicted exposure 

64

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

Section 3: Risk management 

Section 4: Metrics and targets 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks. 

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organisation’s overall risk management. 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (page 52) 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (page 52) 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (pages 52-53) 

3 a) Our process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 
Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks take place within our risk committees, and 
separately using the supply-and-demand model we have built for our World of Energy businesses, and our 
work with WTW to model the exposure of our portfolio to the physical impacts of climate change. The most 
significant insight from our work with WTW was that the exposure of our portfolio to acute weather events 
was expected to increase only very marginally in the period to 2050, with any financial impact falling well 
below the threshold for materiality. 

In 2023, we have continued to review the exposure of our portfolio to physical climate change impacts using 
the live model we have built with WTW and with ongoing review as part of our integrated risk management 
process. 

3 b) How we manage climate-related risks 
Climate-related risks, and the related mitigation action plans, are reviewed at least quarterly by the Board and 
are also considered by our framework of regional, divisional and functional risk committees and our Group Risk 
Committee. The risk of physical impacts of climate change on our sites are also considered by a cross- 
functional group including members of our finance, insurance, risk and sustainability teams. The portfolio 
exposure modelling we have done with WTW allows us to assess – on a site-by-site basis – the changing 
likelihood and impact of specific climate events (such as drought, precipitation, flooding and fire) under both 
the RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenario in the short, medium and long term. We use the output of this model in our 
opportunity and risk mitigation planning, and in local site business continuity planning. 

3 c) Integration into our overall risk management 
Our climate-related opportunities are reviewed as part of our overall budget, innovation, M&A, customer 
insight and other processes. At the strategic level, the supply and demand model we have developed to look at 
how the needs of our customers across our different businesses are likely to be affected by decarbonisation 
allows us to assess how that is likely to affect their need for our end-to-end Total Quality Assurance services 
across all points of their logistics, manufacturing/production and supply chain networks. 

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line 
with its strategy and risk management process. 

b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropriate, scope 
3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. 

c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets 

•  Environment section (Book two, page 29) 

•  Environment section (Book two, page 29) 

•  Environment section (Book two, pages 27-29) 

We publicly report on our scope 1, scope 2 and relevant scope 3 GHG emissions and the carbon intensity of 
operational emissions by revenue. Environmental performance is disclosed in Book two of this Report. Our 
measurement and reporting is aligned to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(2015) and the recommendations of the TCFD. As required, we report under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations and we apply the 2019 UK Government Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines, including the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance ('SECR'). Further details 
can be found on page 29. 

We have made several climate-related public commitments, on our own and with other organisations. We have 
joined the global movement of 'Business Ambition for 1.5˚C’ and the UN Race to Zero campaign. In 2023, the 
Science Based Target initiative ('SBTi'), who defines and promotes global best practice in science-based target 
setting, validated our near-term targets: 

"Intertek Group plc commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50% by 2030 from a 2019 base 
year. Intertek Group plc also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel and 
employee commuting 50% within the same timeframe. Intertek Group plc further commits that 70% of its 
suppliers by spend covering purchased goods and services, capital goods and upstream transportation and 
distribution, will have science-based targets by 2027." 

We have rolled out country- and site-level specific targets which are reported monthly in our environmental 
dashboards. Our rigorous GHG emissions performance management programme empowers our regional teams 
to identify emissions sources, track progress against targets and KPIs, and implement concrete and measurable 
climate-related action plans. 

Our annual incentive plan continues to have an ESG element (with a 15% weighting) based on performance 
against a GHG emissions reduction target.

65

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSection 5: Our climate change methodology and approach

TCFD statement Continued 

The demand for our services depends on the supply of, and demand for, our clients’ products and services and 
their need for our Total Quality Assurance services at specific risk points in their logistics, manufacturing and 
supply chains. 

To assess the impact of global decarbonisation on Intertek and our potential climate-related risks and 
opportunities we have built a bottom-up supply and demand model for our World of Energy (Caleb Brett 
and Moody) businesses which considers how the supply and demand of our clients’ products and services, 
and therefore their need for Intertek’s services, is likely to change in line with two decarbonisation scenarios 
that are aligned to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ('IPCC') Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCPs): 

•  Intermediate (RCP 4.5): Characterised by slowly declining emissions, this pathway assumes climate 
policies will be invoked to limit emissions, resulting in likely global temperature rise of 2–3°C by 2100. 
•  High (RCP 8.5): Characterised by rising emissions, this pathway adheres to the current trajectory and 

assumes no additional efforts are made to constrain emissions, leading to likely global temperature rise of 
>4°C by 2100.

We have also used these two scenarios to evaluate Intertek’s climate-related physical risks. 

We have considered impacts over the short term (0-2 years), medium term (2 years – 2030); and long term 
(2030 – 2050). 

In assessing materiality, we have considered both financial impacts on us and other considerations such as the 
importance of key climate-related topics to our clients and other stakeholders. For financial impacts, we have 
applied a materiality threshold of £20.8m, aligned with the materiality threshold in our financial statements. 
We have considered the materiality of risks on a “net risk” basis i.e. taking into account relevant risk mitigations 
and opportunities that may be linked to those risks. 

Based on our view of global decarbonisation and the nature of our businesses and services, we have divided 
the impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on Intertek’s operations, activities and earnings model 
into three categories: 

•  Transition impacts: the impact of transitioning to low-carbon economies and societies. We further divide 

these into: energy transition impacts (the impact of transitioning to renewables and green energy sources); 
and carbon footprint transition impacts (the impact of reducing the carbon footprint of global activities 
including logistics, manufacturing/production and supply chains); 

•  Policy impacts: the impact of climate-related laws or regulations, or policies intended to drive a 

decarbonisation agenda; and 

•  Physical impacts: the impact of extreme weather events on our and/or our clients’ facilities and operations.

66

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGroup non-financial and sustainability information statement

Non-financial and sustainability information statement 

The table below is intended to help our stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters and climate-related financial disclosures in line with 
the reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. Our reporting on these topics and key performance indicators 
is contained within this Strategic Report and also in the Sustainability Report, Book two.

  Reporting requirement 

Environment 

Employees 

Social matters 

Human rights 

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 

Description, implementation, due diligence, outcomes and additional information 

Environment

Nomination Committee report 

Risk management 

People and Culture

Communities

Responsible Business

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Responsible Business 

Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud

Description of principal risks and impact of business activity 

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Description of the business model 

Key performance indicators 

Climate-related financial disclosures 

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 4 March 2024. 

On behalf of the Board 

TCFD statement 

Section 172 statement

Our business model

Financial KPIs 

Non-financial KPIs

TCFD statement

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

67

  More in Book two, pages 26-32 

  More in Book two, pages 66-69

  More in Book two, page 69

  More in Book two, pages 10-17 

  More in Book two, pages 33-39 

  More in Book two, pages 40 

  More on pages 52-57

  More in Book two, pages 40-41

  More in Book two, pages 42 and 76 

  More on pages 52-57

  More on pages 58-66

  More in Book two, page 56 

  More on pages 16-25 

  More on pages 26-27

  More on pages 28-29 

  More on pages 58-66 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes

68

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportCBP00019082504183028

Printed by a CarbonNeutral® Company certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system. 

Printed on material from well-managed, FSC® 
certified forests and other controlled sources. 

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and, on average 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled and the remaining 
1% used to generate energy. 

The paper is Carbon Balanced with World Land 
Trust, an international conservation charity, who 
offset carbon emissions through the purchase and 
preservation of high conservation value land. 
Through protecting standing forests, under 
threat of clearance, carbon is locked-in, that 
would otherwise be released. 

Intertek Group plc 
33 Cavendish Square, 
London, W1G 0PS 
United Kingdom 

Tel +44 20 7396 3400 
info@intertek.com 
intertek.com

We are pleased to share our 
Annual Report & Accounts  
in a unique, three-book format: 

Book one: Strategic Report 

Book two: Sustainability Report 

Where we discuss our growth 
opportunities and strategic performance.

Contents 

Book two: Sustainability Report 

Where we discuss our environmental, 
social and governance progress. 

Book three: Financial Report 

Where we record our financial activities, 
performance and position. 

These separate, but connected books, 
with their interconnected themes and 
narratives, allow us to present what 
we achieved in 2023 in a systemic, 
end-to-end framework. They have 
been designed to make it easier for our 
stakeholders to fully understand our 
business, how we bring quality, safety 
and sustainability to life, what we 
offer our clients and society, and the 
opportunities ahead of us. 

01   Chief Executive Officer's 
sustainability letter 

05   Our approach 
07  Our Sustainability Excellence strategy 
10  Sustainability performance 
44  Directors' report 

44  Governance at a glance
45   Compliance with the 2018 UK 

Corporate Governance Code (‘Code’)

46  Governance structure
48  Chair's introduction
50  Board of Directors
53  Group Executive Committee
54   Board leadership and 
company purpose

62   Composition, succession  

and evaluation

65  Audit, risk and internal control 
66  Nomination Committee report
70  Audit Committee report
78   Remuneration Committee report
104  Other Statutory Information 
108   Statement of Directors’ 

responsibilities 

Let's make the world 
amazing together 
and deliver sustainable growth 
and value for all

  Visit: intertek.com/investors 

Intertek Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023

Book one: Strategic Report 

Book two: Sustainability Report  Book three: Financial Report 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer's sustainability letter

Sustainability Excellence 
Our Sustainability Excellence 
approach gives us the structure and 
discipline we need to deliver against 
our own performance targets. 

That’s why Sustainability Excellence, 
which we implement across every 
Intertek operation, is firmly rooted 
in our world-leading Intertek Total 
Sustainability Assurance ('TSA') 
standards (see page 06), through which 
we’re helping organisations everywhere 
track, measure, improve and report their 
environmental and social impacts. 

During 2023, I am delighted to report 
that, once again, we made progress on 
our Sustainability Excellence agenda, 
as everyone at Intertek made their own 
contribution to creating an ever better 
world for future generations. Thanks to 
them, our sustainability focus continued 
to be on all those areas that matter most 
to all of our stakeholders, customers, 
employees, suppliers, regulators, 
communities and shareholders. 

I would therefore like to thank all 
our people for their contribution to 
our own and our customers’ success 
during the year, as we collectively led 
by example to help make the world 
ever better for everybody. Their 
commitment to the Intertek sustainability 
agenda, underpinned by our unique 
approach to Science-based Customer 
Excellence, is an essential quality 
that sets us apart in the global Total 
Quality Assurance ('TQA') industry. 

This exceptional commitment in turn 
is driven by our company culture: 
we know that ensuring ever better 
performance year after year depends 
on having an organisation that is truly 
diverse, inclusive and empowering for 
all our people. It’s only by nurturing 
a workplace that helps our people to 
grow, develop and innovate that we 
will continue to accelerate our progress 
along our good to great journey. 

Chief Executive Officer's sustainability letter 

An ever better world for 
future generations 

We know that ensuring ever 
better performance year after 
year depends on having an 
organisation that is truly diverse, 
inclusive and empowering for all 
our people. 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

01

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's sustainability letter Continued

Gaining SBTi validation was a rigorous 
process, and I was delighted that 
Intertek’s science-based targets meet 
the strict criteria and recommendations 
to confirm that we’re in line with the 
ambition to limit global temperature 
increases to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
levels. This validation effectively 
underscores the positive impact we 
have on the world, not only through the 
services we provide to our customers 
but also through our own, end-to-end 
Sustainability Excellence agenda. 

Reducing the impact of 
our global operations 
We are driving environmental performance 
across our operations through science- 
based reduction targets to 2030. 
Our rigorous monthly performance 
management of climate-related 
action plans delivered operational 
market-based emissions reductions 
of 10.8% against 2022 and 36.7% 
against our base year 2019. 

One significant action we took in this 
area during the year aims to further 
strengthen our approach to carbon 
monitoring and reporting that helps 
us reduce the impact of our global 
operations on the environment. This 
was to double the frequency of our 
previous annual employee Commuting 
Survey, which we use to understand 
the impact on our scope 3 emissions 
of colleagues travelling between 
their homes and our facilities.

  See our non-financial KPIs, Book one  

pages 28–29 

Our responsibility in action 
We believe that our areas of expertise 
mean that we at Intertek have an 
essential role to play in helping our 
clients to take action on climate 
change and support the transition 
to a low-carbon economy. 

And, as a large business in our 
own right, we have important 
responsibilities to act on sustainability. 
It’s clear to me that without setting 
an example that demonstrates our 
own commitment, we wouldn’t have 
the credibility we need to help our 
clients navigate their own journeys. 

That’s why we have committed to 
adopting ambitious science-based 
targets to reduce our operational 
emissions and achieve net zero 
emissions by 2050. I am particularly 
pleased that during the year we 
received validation from the Science 
Based Targets initiative ('SBTi') for 
our targets relating to reducing 
greenhouse gas ('GHG') emissions. 

This validation is therefore an important 
step that has further validated our 
commitment to achieving tangible 
results in line with our Purpose, 
Vision, Values and Strategy. 

We have three key targets in this area. 
First, to reduce our absolute scope 1 
and scope 2 GHG emissions by 50% 
by 2030, using 2019 as a base year. 
Second, to reduce our absolute scope 
3 emissions resulting from business 
travel and commuting by 50% over 
the same period. And third, to ensure 
that 70% of our suppliers by spend 
also have science-based targets in 
place by the 2027 financial year. 

02

Sustainability highlights 

•  Levels of Hazard Observations 

increased, reflecting greater levels 
of activity across our sites as well 
as greater awareness and reporting 
of health & safety overall. 

•  Since 2015, we have used the Net 
Promoter Score (‘NPS’) process to 
listen to our customers, enabling 
us to improve our customer service 
over the years consistently. 

•  We are driving environmental 

performance across our operations 
through science-based reduction 
targets to 2030. Our rigorous monthly 
performance management of 
climate-related action plans delivered 
operational market-based emissions 
reductions of 10.8% against 2022 and 
36.7% against our base year 2019. 

•  In 2023, our greenhouse gas ('GHG') 
emissions reduction targets were 
validated by the Science Based 
Targets initiative ('SBTi'). 

•  We recognise the importance of 
employee engagement in driving 
sustainable performance for all 
stakeholders, and we measure 
employee engagement against our 
Intertek ATIC Engagement Index. 
Our 2023 score was 87 (2022: 80). 

•  Our voluntary permanent employee 
turnover improved to a low rate 
of 12.3% (2022: 14.0%). 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Chief Executive Officer's sustainability letter Continued

This truly expresses my own firm belief 
in the immense power of diversity, 
empowering businesses to embrace 
the differences that enable us to find a 
better way ahead, deliver sustainable 
growth and make a meaningful 
contribution to society. Our MOSAIC 
programme was launched to help all 
of us to understand the power of 
embracing diversity and inclusion. 

This is designed to ensure we can 
leverage better than ever before 
that rich blend of talents from more 
than 100 different countries, all 
with different cultures, backgrounds 
and beliefs, that have made us the 
leading company we are today. 

Our TQA solutions making the world 
better, safer and more sustainable 
As a company with 44,000 amazing 
people across the world, working 
with 400,000+ clients in almost 
every industry, our TQA products 
and services are indeed making 
the world a better, safer and more 
sustainable place for everybody. 

All our ATIC services help to improve 
our clients’ businesses in many ways. 
But clients also ask us for solutions 
specifically focused on their operational 
and corporate sustainability needs. 

Measuring our best practice progress 
The SBTi was far from the only source 
of validation that we received during 
the year. We also participated in a wide 
range of other forms of Environmental, 
Social and Governance ('ESG') 
ratings, indices and frameworks that 
provide a valuable set of benchmarks 
measuring our progress in terms 
of best practice and the emerging 
sustainability challenges we all face. 

These included an AAA rating in the 
MSCI ESG Ratings assessment, while 
our Prime rating against the ISS ESG 
requirements show that we meet all the 
testing sustainability-related measures 
that relate to companies in our sector. 

We were also a constituent of the UK’s 
FTSE4Good Index for the seventh 
consecutive year, while our ESG 
rating of 18.3 from Sustainalytics 
indicates that we are at a low risk 
of any material financial impacts 
arising from ESG-related factors. 

Finally, CDP recognised our 
continuing progress as a member 
of its Climate Change Programme, 
with the award of a ‘B’ score. 

Empowering our amazing 
people to be ever better 
Most of the above recognitions relate 
solely to climate change, and our 
sustainability focus extends much 
further than on this essential area 
alone. Above anything else, we are 
a people-centric business, and we 
recognise that our people are the 
immensely powerful source of our 
Amazing ATIC Advantage, fuelled by their 
Science-based Customer Excellence. 

The areas in which we continue to 
emphasise the need for sustainability 
excellence, beyond environmental 
performance, therefore include health 
& safety, employee engagement 
and voluntary permanent employee 
turnover, customer relationships via 
our NPS, representation of women in 
senior management roles, regulatory 
compliance, and more. You can read about 
initiatives undertaken in some of these 
and other areas throughout this report. 

Clearly, we want to take the performance 
of our teams across the world to the 
highest possible levels. During the 
year, two initiatives designed to make 
us ever better stood out for me. 

One of these was the launch of our 
Champions engagement process, which 
uses Gallup’s data-science-based 
expertise to deliver a continuous process 
of survey and action planning to precisely 
measure employee engagement. Its 
findings can then be used by managers 
and their teams to take positive steps 
through action planning. The Champions 
survey will be an ongoing process from 
2024 onwards, enabling teams to track 
their progress and work together. 

For me, the second stand-out initiative of 
2023 was one that addressed diversity. 
This is particularly meaningful to me. I 
have been truly inspired by the words 
of former US President Jimmy Carter, 
when in 1976 he referred to the nation’s 
diversity in the following terms. “We 
became not a melting pot, but a beautiful 
mosaic,” he said. “Different people, 
different beliefs, different yearnings, 
different hopes, different dreams.” 

03

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChief Executive Officer's sustainability letter Continued

TSA is our unique holistic programme 
that delivers independent, end-to- 
end solutions and assurance that 
empower businesses both to achieve, 
and to communicate with confidence, 
Sustainability Excellence across all 
aspects of their operations. With teams 
of sustainability experts covering all 
industries in more than 100 countries, 
TSA comprises three core elements: 

•  Intertek Operational 

Sustainability Solutions;

•   Intertek ESG Solutions; and

•   Intertek Corporate Sustainability 

Certification. 

Our TSA approach uses the deep 
scientific, engineering and auditing 
expertise of our sustainability teams to 
meet our clients' needs: with industry 
agnostic, industry-specific or tailored 
solutions; with holistic solutions 
covering everything from consulting 
and gap assessment, to training, to 
regulatory reporting and corporate 
certification; and with actual, real- 
world improvements in sustainability 
in their operations and value chains.

  intertek.com/sustainability

Investing for sustainable growth 
As well as focusing on organic growth, 
during the year we continued to invest 
in those key areas of Intertek where 
we expect demand to grow most in 
the years ahead. We continued to 
embed those parts of the business that 
we bought in during 2022, including 
Clean Energy Associates LLC ('CEA'), 
our market-leading Quality Assurance 
provider to the fast-growing solar 
energy and energy storage sectors. 

We also opened our new Battery 
Xcellence Centre in Mestre, Italy, to 
meet the battery and energy storage 
industry’s increasing need for fast 
and reliable testing, assurance and 
certification services. And we introduced 
our new Electrification Center of 
Excellence near Detroit, Michigan, to 
support automotive manufacturers with 
Science-based TSA services in their 
ongoing shift towards electric mobility. 

Thirdly, we integrated advanced 
PhotonAssay technology into our 
Minerals laboratory at Tarkwa, Ghana, 
to improve accuracy, safety and 
sustainability in gold analysis. 

Looking ahead: an amazing 
2024 and beyond 
There is no doubt in my mind: Intertek 
is well positioned to help customers, 
regulators and other stakeholders 
meet the ever-greater demands 
on their sustainability agendas. 

Demand from shareholders, employees, 
regulators and communities means 
corporations are having to continuously 
sharpen their focus on safety, quality and 
sustainability. The end-to-end solutions 
we provide will continue to help them 
ensure their products and businesses 
are safe and sustainable and are the key 
to credibility as demand for ever-greater 
transparency continues to grow. 

Corporations of all sizes and in every 
industry will continue to need the 
support and expertise with their 
sustainability journeys that Intertek 
TSA solutions can deliver. It’s the only 
way for them to gain the peace of 
mind that comes with knowing they 
have in place the right quality, safety 
and sustainability standards, 24/7. 

Importantly, we will continue to lead by 
example by pursuing our Sustainability 
Excellence agenda, energising deeply and 
genuinely all stakeholders: our people, our 
customers, our regulators, our suppliers, 
our communities and our shareholders. 

Let’s make the world amazing together. 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer

ESG credentials 
We actively participate in a range of global ESG ratings, indices and 
frameworks to benchmark our approach against best practice 
and emerging sustainability challenges. 

Intertek received a rating of ‘AAA’ in 
the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment.1

We were included in the FTSE4Good 
Index for the seventh year running. 

Intertek is rated 'Prime', fulfilling ISS 
ESG's demanding requirements 
regarding sustainability performance in 
our sector.2

In February 2024, Intertek received an 
ESG rating of 18.3 and was assessed 
by Sustainalytics to be at low risk of 
experiencing material financial impacts 
from ESG factors.3

Intertek participates annually in 
CDP’s Climate Change Programme. 
For 2023, CDP recognised our 
progress with a 'B' score. 

1. msci.com/notice-and-disclaimer. 
2.
issgovernance.com/esg/ratings. 
3.
sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers. 

i

Sustainability Disclosure Index 

  intertek.com/about/our-responsibility 

  More information on how  

Sustainability is governed at Intertek  
can be found within our Directors’  
Report on pages 46-47 

The 2023 Intertek Sustainability 
Disclosure Index is complementary 
to our published reports and sets 
out how our latest disclosures 
map to our own Total 
Sustainability Assurance 
standards, the Global Reporting 
Initiative (‘GRI’) and applicable 
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (‘SASB’) 
requirements. 

04

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur approach 

Materiality assessment 

At Intertek, we recognise the 
importance of determining and 
prioritising the key sustainability 
topics relevant to our business and 
our stakeholders.

In 2019, we conducted an independent 
materiality assessment to ensure 
that views and emerging trends 
around Environmental, Social, and 
Governance risks and opportunities 
are being addressed by Intertek. 

While we believe that the material 
topics identified in 2019 remain true, 
some areas have evolved in terms of 
importance to the business and Intertek’s 
internal and external stakeholders.

To reflect this, in 2023 we partnered 
with a third party to carry out an interim 
materiality assessment to ensure that 
our sustainability strategy is on course, 
and that our previously defined focus 
areas continue to align with stakeholders’ 
expectations. Intertek is committed to 
identifying, prioritising and addressing 
emerging relevant sustainability issues. 

The methodology for the interim 
materiality assessment included a review 
of Intertek’s existing sustainability 
disclosures and initiatives, a peer 
and industry benchmarking analysis, 
stakeholder analysis, and an analysis 
of key reporting frameworks. This 
research complemented a small series of 
interviews with a selection of external 
and internal stakeholders. Priority issues 
were assessed from two viewpoints: the 
impact of certain issues on Intertek’s 
business and the importance of 
certain issues for our stakeholders.

Our materiality assessment reaffirmed 
that our sustainability strategy is on 
track and our previously defined focus 
areas remain relevant to both our 
business and our stakeholders today. 

It is our ambition to carry out 
regular materiality assessments 
going forward, to ensure we are 
identifying evolving areas of priority 
or concern for our stakeholders. 

Material issues 
Our material issues frame our 
reporting approach and our 
performance against these areas 
can be found on pages 07-09. 

05

Our approach

Our process and methodology 

Review of Intertek's existing materials 
Review and analysis of sustainability disclosures, Sustainability Report, 
current ratings and related initiatives 

Peer and industry analysis 
Benchmarking analysis examining sustainability reports, reporting 
frameworks and ESG-related efforts of nine companies from the TIC, 
compounder and consultancy sectors 

Stakeholder analysis 
Identification of most relevant stakeholder groups and analysis of key 
sustainability-related issues and focus areas 

Immersion interviews across the business 
15 interviews with key external and internal stakeholders on sustainability 
themes, risks, and opportunities that are relevant to Intertek 

Analysis of key raters and reporting frameworks 
Evaluation of Intertek’s ESG ratings and disclosures across  
reporting frameworks 

Material sustainability  
issues identified and mapped 
•  Amalgamation of research and analysis findings as well as interview insights. 
•  Identification, weighting and prioritisation of material issues based on 

number of mentions and assigned importance during interviews, industry 
best practices and wider stakeholder expectations. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
Our approach Continued

Ten TSA Corporate Sustainability standards

Quality & Safety 

People & Culture 

Communities 

Governance 

Risk Management

Communications & 
Disclosures 

Compliance 

Financial 

Environment 

Enterprise Security 

  To see more on the TSA standards visit intertek.com/sustainability 

Total Sustainability 
Assurance ('TSA') 
standards 

The TSA programme is based on ten 
corporate sustainability standards that 
we believe define a truly sustainable 
organisation today. 

We believe that these TSA standards are 
the most comprehensive sustainability 
standards currently available, forming 
the foundation of our approach, 
challenging us to view our processes and 
procedures through this end-to-end lens. 

Our ten TSA Corporate Sustainability 
standards demonstrate actionable, 
comparable, consistent and reliable 
disclosures and provide assurance 
beyond ESG disclosures. They recognise 
that truly sustainable solutions must 
address the important operational 
aspects of every company, to cover 
environment, products, processes, 
facilities, assets, systems, corporate 
policies and stakeholder engagement. 

To embed the requirements of all ten 
standards and review our progress, we 
carried out a self-assessment for each 
standard followed by a gap assessment 
audit of our corporate head office and 
a selection of operational sites that 
are representative of the mix of business 
lines and activities within our operations. 

The audit team comprised subject matter 
experts from our Business Assurance 
business line, who benchmarked our 
sustainability programmes against 
the requirements of each standard. 

Performance is benchmarked against 
requirements and based on maturity. 
On completion of the benchmarking 
step the audit team reported their 
findings and on the extent to which 
corporate sustainability processes 
are in place, effective and meeting 
the intent of the standard. 

The outcomes have further fed 
into our ever better approach and 
provided valuable insights which will 
enable us to align our sustainability 
initiatives and priorities further. 

06

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Our Sustainability Excellence strategy

Our Sustainability Excellence strategy 

People and Culture

Sustainability Excellence in  
every area of our operations 

Our goal is to have fully 
engaged employees 
working in a safe 
environment. 

Our Purpose is bringing quality, safety and 
sustainability to life and our Sustainability 
Excellence strategy is fundamental to our 
business. We ensure we create positive 
impacts through the work we do for our 
clients and we make progress on our own 
sustainability agenda by engaging our 
colleagues in our ever better journey. 
We do this through implementing 

detailed site-by-site action plans, 
accurate sustainability performance 
measurement and strong governance. 
We hold ourselves to account in line with 
our own TSA standards, international 
best practice, the expectations of our 
stakeholders and future regulations. 

People and  
Culture 
Page: 10 

 Material issues 

 Progress in 2023 

•  Diversity, equity and inclusion

•  Gender diversity at executive level

Over 2023, we have been focusing on creating initiatives  
that engage colleagues with our inclusive culture. 

•  Diversity of age

•  Health & safety

•  Learning & development

•  Employee engagement

We launched several initiatives designed to benefit and 
support our people no matter where in the world. 

Initiatives included the Champions engagement programme, 
the MOSAIC diversity, equity and inclusion training, '10X 
Onboarding' and the launch of iHazard, our health & safety 
awareness campaign.

Responsible 
Business 
Page: 40 

Working with 
Customers 
Page: 18 

87 

(2022: 80) 

Our people bring exceptional technical skills, expertise and 
their passion and energy to our business and we will continue 
to focus on keeping them safe and engaged, offering them 
exciting personal growth opportunities.

2023 ATIC Engagement Score 

 Priorities in 2024 

Communities 
Page: 33 

Environment 
Page: 26 

07

Number of leaders who attended 
10X Leadership events in 2023 

  Read more on pages 10–17 

180 

Link to risks:  1   3   5   7

10 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur Sustainability Excellence strategy Continued

Working with Customers 

Environment 

Ensure our customers  
can operate safely and 
sustainably.

Decarbonise our 
business by 2050.

 Material issues 

 Progress in 2023 

•  Innovation in services

•  CO2 reduction & targets
•  Climate change

We are continuing to engage with requests for carbon 
performance assessments to meet the demands of our 
customers and track and benchmark our progress. 

During 2023, we conducted an average of 5,700 customer 
interviews each month, providing deep insights into what our 
customers need and want.

 Material issues 

•  Climate change

•  CO2 reduction & targets
•  Water management

•  Waste & recycling

•  Hazardous materials

Innovative sustainability services 
have been core to our global 
business for more than 

100 year s 

 Priorities in 2024 

We will continue to provide science-led services and 
leading-edge innovations to give our customers the solutions 
they need to overcome their own risks and challenges in 
quality, safety and sustainability, enabling them to power 
ahead with confidence. 

  Read more on pages 18-25

Operational emission reductions 
2022-2023 

-1 0 .8%

Operational emission reductions 
2019-2023 

-36.7%

 Progress in 2023 

We are continuing to embed our Sustainability Excellence 
approach across the business to empower our colleagues 
to take ownership of reducing their own carbon footprint. 

Our GHG emissions reduction targets were validated by the 
Science Based Targets initiative. 

Through our GHG emissions performance management 
programme, we are continuing to empower regional teams 
to implement tangible and measurable initiatives, ensuring 
progress towards achieving our reduction targets.

 Priorities in 2024 

We will continue to focus on minimising environmental 
impacts from our operations, in compliance with 
regulations, and to live up to the requirements and 
expectations of our key stakeholders. 

  Read more on pages 26-32 

Link to risks:  1   2   4   6   7   8   9   10 

Link to risks:  1   2   6   9

08

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur Sustainability Excellence strategy Continued

Communities 

Create positive impacts 
in the communities  
where we operate.

Responsible Business 

Uncompromising on quality 
and compliance.

 Material issues 

 Progress in 2023 

•  Community engagement

•  Climate change 

•  Learning & development 

Our employees have participated in over 150 community 
projects this year with 10,415 hours volunteered to support 
community projects.

Community projects in 2023 

 Priorities in 2024 

150+ 

We are passionate about making a difference and  
will continue to take active responsibility to support  
the communities and environments where we operate  
to create sustainable growth for all. 

 Material issues 

•  Human rights

•  Supply chain impact

•  Anti-bribery & corruption

•  Business ethics & credibility

•  Cyber security

•  Data security & privacy

•  Board composition

•  ESG governance, policy & reporting

•  Tax strategy

•  Business continuity

 Progress in 2023 

We are continuing to develop a best practice compliance 
programme to ensure Intertek operates with the highest 
standards of compliance and ethical business practices. 

We are looking at how we can take steps to choose our 
suppliers based on their environmental and climate 
performance. 

 Priorities in 2024 

We will continue to develop our best practice compliance 
programme to ensure Intertek operates with the highest 
standards of compliance and ethical business practices, 
including through our supply chain partners.

  Read more on pages 33-39

  Read more on pages 40-43 

Link to risks: 

1

9 10 

Link to risks:  1   2   3   7   8   9   10

09

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance

globally. Our Group-wide ‘General 
Safe Working Guidelines’ provide 
the basis for a common and aligned 
ES&W standard for all Intertek sites. 

This includes a dedicated fire warden, 
first aider and ES&W representative at 
each location. These representatives 
are empowered not only to investigate 
incidents and implement preventative 
and corrective actions, but also to 
disseminate safety information 
through training and targeting 
continuous improvement. 

We firmly believe that to drive 
progress, the performance indicators 
we track must focus on the diligent 
implementation of robust processes 
and actions that lead to building a 
culture of proactive ES&W awareness. 

With dedicated reporting each month for 
country and business lines supplemented 
by inclusion in the 5x5 analysis for 
every site, our global network of ES&W 
representatives support continuous 
improvement. By improving our ES&W 
communication network, we not 
only have a known contact person in 
each country and location but also 
a means of channelling and sharing 
information and programmes globally. 

Intertek in Action 

Champions engagement 
programme launch 

At Intertek, we are on a good to great 
journey to becoming a global icon for 
Total Quality Assurance, and we are 
supporting our amazing people in that 
journey through our exciting new 
Champions engagement programme, 
launched in September 2023. 

Champions is data-science based, 
benefitting from the world-leading 
workplace science expertise of Gallup, 
and includes regular surveys and team 
action planning. It is led by line 
managers across Intertek, and is 
designed to be simple and quick to 
implement. We also provided a 
Champions video to help our people 
understand the process in more detail, 
and made a dedicated training 
programme available to ensure 
colleagues have all the support 
they need. 

As part of the launch, we each received 
a personal invitation from Gallup to take 
part in the first Champions Q12 survey, 
giving all colleagues the opportunity to 
rate statements precisely crafted to 
measure employee engagement. Then, 
using anonymised reports, our 
managers were able to share results 
with their teams and plan Champion 
actions together. This process will be 
repeated regularly, so that our teams 
can track their progress and work 
together on the actions they have 
agreed upon. 

The Champions engagement 
programme is a hugely important part of 
working at Intertek, enabling open and 
constructive dialogue within teams to 
create 10X purpose led engagement. 

People and Culture 

Our goal is to have  
fully engaged employees  
working in a safe  
environment 

Employee engagement, human rights 
and worker health and wellness are 
core to the long-term success of our 
business. We strive for a sustainable 
workforce that is stable, engaged 
and committed to the organisation, 
our goals and objectives. 

We made much progress in 2023, 
building upon and launching people- 
focused programmes designed to 
make the workplace ever better 
for everyone at Intertek. 

Ensuring the health, safety and 
wellbeing of our employees 
Through having fully engaged employees 
working in a safe environment we will 
be able to deliver our Total Quality 
Assurance ('TQA') Customer Promise. 

We truly value our people 
and by embracing diversity, 
we strive to build an inclusive 
and equitable organisation. 
Our success is based on 
a culture of trust among 
our colleagues across all 
our locations. 

Intertek people have exceptional 
technical skills and expertise together 
with passion and energy. As a business 
we endeavour to ensure that everyone 
feels safe, valued and able to access 
exciting personal growth opportunities. 
We respect and protect the rights 
of our people across operations and 
throughout our business relationships. 

Our People Strategy is all about 
energising our colleagues to take 
our Company to new heights. 

10

Our aim is to encourage a culture of 
proactive Employee Safety and Wellbeing 
('ES&W') awareness, industry best 
practice and continuous improvement 
to increase ES&W performance 

Customer Promise 
Intertek’s Total Quality Assurance 
expertise, delivered consistently with 
precision, pace and passion, enabling 
our customers to power ahead safely. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Workplace mental health 
At Intertek, we consider the health, 
safety and wellbeing including the 
mental health of our employees, clients 
and third parties connected with our 
business to be of paramount importance. 

In 2023, we continued to raise awareness 
for our global wellbeing programme, 
Kindness. The programme’s ‘Six Spaces 
of Wellbeing’ are available as e-learning 
modules from Lucie, our global Learning 
Management System. The ten-minute 
modules introduce the theory and science 
behind each area of wellbeing, providing 
tips and suggestions on how to benefit 
and improve in that area, exercises and 
tools to apply, and information on where 
to find out more. Our colleagues can also 
access a personal Kindness Journal, to 
help focus on their own Wellbeing goals. 

Talent attraction,  
reward and recognition 
We reach out to prospective employees 
in a variety of ways, depending on 
location and role, in compliance with 
local regulations for fair recruitment 
practices and equal opportunities. We 
post vacancies on our refreshed website 
intertek.com/careers and employ various 
ways of sourcing talented people. 
These include recruitment agencies, 
social media, printed advertisements, 
employee referrals, professional bodies 
and associations, schools, colleges 
and universities. We are committed to 
recruiting talent local to our operations 
where possible. To offer career growth 
and progression within the Group, we 
seek wherever possible to fill vacancies 
from within the business first.

  intertek.com/careers 

We post vacancies on 
our refreshed website 
intertek.com/careers 
and employ various 
ways of sourcing 
talented people 

We continue to build an open and 
trust-based environment that reports 
and learns from safety risks and 
incidents. During 2023 we have seen 
levels of Hazard Observations increase, 
reflecting greater levels of activity 
across our sites as well as greater 
awareness and reporting overall. 

The awareness of our employees 
to be alert in observing hazards and 
near misses and reporting them 
immediately was enhanced during the 
year through the successful launch 
of our iHazard campaign in March. 

The health and safety of our employees 
and contractors are the utmost priority 
at Intertek. All of our businesses have 
robust ES&W training programmes 
during our induction/on-boarding 
process, emergency responses 
procedures, intervention and reporting 
of Hazard Observations, near misses 
and safety incidents. We continue 
to provide appropriate personal 
protective equipment and continually 
expand on existing programmes and 
controls to improve the health, safety 
and wellbeing of our colleagues. 

Our target remains for our TRIR to equal 
or be less than 0.5. This target is part 
of the next phase of our ES&W cultural 
journey and supports our continued aim 
to achieve zero lost time incidents. 

11

2023 

2022 

Change 

Hazard Observations 

25,847 

20,992 

Near Misses 

First Aid 

Lost Time Incidents 

Medical Treatment Incidents 

Fatalities

Total Recordable Incident Rate ('TRIR') 

2,912 

795 

122 

101 

0

0.51 

3,328 

789 

93 

96 

0 

0.44 

23% 

(13%) 

1% 

31% 

5% 

– 

7bps 

Intertek in Action 

iHazard. See it. 
Say it. Share it. 

Our aim is to encourage a culture of 
proactive health, safety and wellbeing 
awareness, industry best practice and 
continuous improvement. Intertek is 
committed to providing safe working 
environments and ensuring that our 
colleagues have the information and 
resources they need to perform their 
duties. 

In 2023 we launched iHazard, our global 
safety awareness campaign, designed 
to ensure that all colleagues are alert in 
observing and reporting hazards, near 
misses and other incidents immediately. 

At Intertek, there are four distinct 
types of environments for the work we 
do: administration, auditing, inspection 
and laboratory. No matter where we 
work at Intertek or in which 
environment we find ourselves, each 
and every one of us has a duty to take 
care of our own safety and wellbeing, 
and that of others who may be affected 
by our actions and omissions at work. 

We trust each other to take 
responsibility for safety at work, 
ensuring it stays hazard-free, 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week. 

We are constantly improving the way 
we monitor our global safety 
performance. We know that by 
continuously reporting hazards and 
near misses, we are better able to take 
proactive steps to ensure that potential 
hazards and near misses are dealt with 
before any incident occurs. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Sharing and celebrating the amazing work we do 

‘You’ll be amazed where you find 
Intertek’ is our brand campaign, bringing 
awareness of the sheer scope of our 
amazing people’s expertise and work. 
Launched in March 2023, it highlights 
the mission critical role that Intertek 
plays in areas from pioneering cancer 
research to ensuring the safety of 
wind turbines and helping to assure 
that the fuel inside Air Force One 
is fit for flight before take-off. 

To energise our colleagues around 
the campaign, and ensure we have 
the best stories from our global 
business to share on our social 
channels and inspire our stakeholders, 
we created an ongoing monthly 
competition to recognise the best 
and most engaging stories. 

Here is a selection of winning 
'You'll be amazed' stories: 

In line with our refreshed AAA 
differentiated growth strategy, 
in March 2023, we introduced 
our exciting monthly recognition 
programme, ‘AAA Stars’. 

AAA Stars is about celebrating 
our top performers across our 
business lines and regions for their 
outstanding achievements across 
the following categories: financial 
performance, NPS, employee 
turnover, Net Zero performance and 
employee safety and wellbeing. 

Between April and November 
2023, we recognised 562 teams 
who had achieved between 
eight and ten ‘AAA Stars’. 

Talent management 
To seize the exciting growth 
opportunities arising from our TQA 
value proposition, we continually 
invest in the growth of our people. 
We aim to hire, inspire, engage and 
retain the best people to power our 
AAA differentiated growth strategy, 
providing the skills to grow our business.

  Read more about our new AAA strategy  

in Book one, pages 10-11 

With an ever better mindset we 
encourage our people to continuously 
learn new skills that help advance their 
careers and deliver our TQA Customer 
Promise. Our 10X talent-planning process 
is critical to our future success in 
delivering our strategy and fostering our 
culture and Values throughout Intertek. 

Our Purpose: 
To bring quality, safety and 
sustainability to life. 

Our Vision: 
To be the world’s most trusted 
partner for Quality Assurance. 

Our Values: 
•  We are a global family that

values diversity. 

•  We always do the right thing,

with precision, pace and passion.

•  We trust each other and have

fun winning together. 

•  We own and shape our future.

•  We create sustainable growth. 

For all. 

We fully recognise the importance 
of employee engagement in driving 
sustainable performance for all 
stakeholders. In order to measure our 
employee engagement, we follow 
the Intertek ATIC Engagement Index, 
which is based on the key drivers of 
sustainable value creation within our 
differentiated ATIC business model, 
and which measures engagement on a 
monthly basis in every operation with the 
following metrics: Net Promoter Score 
('NPS'), Customer Retention, Quality, 
Voluntary Permanent Employee Turnover 
and Total Recordable Incident Rate. 

Our ATIC Engagement Index score 
increased in 2023 with a score of 87 
(2022: 80). We believe engagement 
levels across the Group are high and 
our target is to achieve an Engagement 
Index score of 90 moving forward. 

During the year, our Voluntary Permanent 
Employee Turnover rate averaged 
a rate of 12.3% (2022: 14%). As we 
progress our People Strategy we will 
continue to aim for a rate below 15%. 

12

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

New to Lucie – our new 10X  
Onboarding programme 

In November 2023, we were thrilled to 
welcome new joiners for the first time 
through our new, global, e-enabled 
10X Onboarding experience. 

The new programme was designed 
to cover the important information 
new colleagues need for a successful 
career with Intertek, but also to deliver 
it in an easy-to-use and engaging way. 
10X Onboarding is now live on Lucie, 
our bespoke internal global Learning 
Management System, and every new 
starter is automatically enrolled on this 
programme to ensure they feel fully 
supported. Even existing colleagues 
are invited to take part in the 10X 
Onboarding experience, if they feel they 
want to get to know a little bit more 
about Intertek and our global operations. 

10X Onboarding 1.0 is a self-paced 
learning experience and includes five 
modules that are specifically designed 
to provide new starters with valuable 
knowledge and tools relating to who 
we are, what we do, our culture, 
and our resources. It then brings 
everything together in the final module 
that ensures they are ready for the 
exciting challenges ahead of them. 

All of these modules are fully accessible; 
offering closed captioning and 
voice-overs to enhance the learning 
experience. Participants collect 
stamps in their 'training passport' 
as they complete each section, 
within each module, on their journey. 
Once they collect all the required 
stamps, they receive a certificate to 
recognise their accomplishment. 

The Board as a whole is responsible 
for ensuring that appropriate human 
resources are in place to achieve 
our long-term strategy and deliver 
sustainable performance. Global 
talent and succession planning for 
the Group Executive Committee 
are discussed regularly. 

In employment-related decisions, 
we comply with all applicable 
anti-discrimination requirements 
in the relevant jurisdictions. 
We have zero tolerance for 
discrimination and harassment. 

Reward and recognition 
Reward plays a key role in attracting, 
motivating and retaining talent. 
Intertek is compliant with minimum 
wage and mandatory social 
contributions requirements in all 
jurisdictions where we operate. 

At Intertek, remuneration for all 
employees follows the same policy 
and principles as for the senior 
executives. The Remuneration 
Committee has oversight of this. Read 
more about this on pages 80-86. 

We depend on local management 
to define and maintain competitive 
compensation practices that appeal 
to both existing and future talent. 

All employees are remunerated 
in accordance with local policies 
and guidelines. The remuneration 
comprises elements which are fixed, 
and in some cases, variable. The 
fixed elements are base salary and 
benefits including pensions, where 
applicable. The variable elements include 
incentives, both short and long term. 

Across the world, employees who 
are eligible for a bonus follow 
the same metrics, thus creating 
alignment on our strategic goals 
throughout the organisation. 

Recognition plays an important 
part at Intertek, and we take every 
opportunity to recognise great 
performance across the business 
through our internal channels. 

13

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Diversity, equity and inclusion 
At Intertek, achieving ever better 
performance depends on being 
constantly open to pioneering new 
ideas that enable us to improve what 
we do and how we do it. For us, this 
means having an organisation that is 
truly diverse, equitable and inclusive.

  Read more about Board leadership and  

diversity on page 69 

There are many programmes across 
the business, providing in-house and 
external learning opportunities. We 
recognise the wide range of sectors 
we support require different types of 
technical training, education and support. 

We offer: 
•  apprenticeships; 
•   internship programmes; 
•   college degrees; 
•   professional qualifications; 

•   formal and informal workshops and 

seminars; and 

•   coaching. 

Intertek in Action 

10X Leadership and Coaching 

100%

es are offered, as a 

of our employe
minimum, yearly discussions on 
growth and development. 

During 2023, 180 of our leaders took 
part in our 10X Leadership programme, 
led by our CEO, André Lacroix. 

Our in-house 10X Coaching  
programme continues to flourish  
and we now have 27 fully certified  
10X Coaches. Our 10X Coaches are 
paired with colleagues to have truly 
transformative conversations  
that create a culture and  
environment where people can  
unleash their full potential. 

Across all other programmes 
our employees engaged with 
and completed over 720,000 
hours of training.

Skills development 
As a provider of quality, safety and 
sustainability assurance services, 
Intertek relies on a skilled workforce. 
We are committed to offering attractive 
career development opportunities and 
believe in personal growth for every 
employee. We know that when each of 
us is growing and developing, we move 
faster along our good to great journey. 

Over the years we have made 
great progress with our Leadership 
Development agenda as well as 
enhancing the tools and applications 
available to enable people to grow 
and succeed in their careers. 

We ensure that all employees receive 
adequate coaching, development 
and training to be fully competent to 
carry out their role. This is supported 
by our many Group-wide programmes 
including talent planning processes, 
the 10X Journey that provides 
structure for individual growth 
planning, our 10X Energies that help 
define winning behaviours and ‘10X 
Way!’ training to help address key 
development and training needs. 

The individual learning journey of 
each employee is supported with 
diverse learning opportunities that are 
continually refined based on business 
need, employee feedback, best practices, 
trends and new technologies. 

14

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
Sustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

A beautiful MOSAIC, 
bringing together a  
global family that  
values diversity 

At Intertek, we believe in the 
power of diversity. Diversity of 
origin, gender, religion, orientation, 
education, experience and of 
course, character. At any business, 
it is essential to put people at the 
heart of the growth strategy to 
deliver sustainable value and make a 
meaningful contribution to society. It 
all starts with diversity, as a business 
cannot create magic without it. 

By embracing our differences, 
working together, and listening to 
one another, we can find a better 
way not just to do business, but to 
live our lives. That’s why we are very 

proud to launch MOSAIC, our Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion programme, an 
exciting new platform that brings our 
people together through practical 
workshops and provides them with 
a range of valuable resources. 

Together, our people are a rich 
mosaic of diverse and talented 
experts, passionate about building 
an amazing world, and committed 
to always showing respect and 
understanding the needs of 
colleagues, customers, suppliers, 
shareholders and communities. 

We demonstrate that we are an inclusive 
and diverse global family by applying 
all employment policies and practices 
in a way that is informed, fair and 
objective. This covers all policies relating 
to recruitment, promotion, reward, 
working conditions and performance 
management. Our Inclusion and 
Diversity policy facilitates a culture of 
inclusiveness where people are able to 
perform at their best, where their views, 
opinions and talents are respected, 
harnessed and not discriminated against. 

We are committed to maintaining 
the highest standards of 
fairness, respect and safety. 

Enhanced paternity 
leave in the UK 

Always looking to improve our 
employee benefits, we announced 
an enhanced paternity leave policy in 
the UK, effective from 1 November 
2023. This new benefit provides 
paid leave for fathers taking time off 
for a new baby. This gives families 
more options on how to spend 
time with a newborn child over an 
extended period, helping them to 
balance caring responsibilities, and 
provide greater financial support. 

Intertek has a history that goes back 
over 130 years, evolving from the 
combined growth of a number of 
innovative companies from around 
the globe. Diversity has always been 
at the heart of who we are and will 
continue to provide the power behind 
our success in the future. With team 
members from over 100 countries – all 
with different backgrounds, cultures and 
beliefs – our diverse workforce makes 
us the leading company we are today. 

To achieve the optimum mix of skills, 
backgrounds and experience, workforce 
diversity needs to go beyond discussing 
the percentage of women to also 
include other diversity indicators. As a 
business we want to ensure that we 
have the right capabilities to deliver our 
strategy. We recognise the value that 
individuals of different backgrounds 
and capabilities bring to the business. 

Our diverse workforce helps us to 
understand, communicate and trade 
with our vast client base through their 
understanding of local issues and 
cultures. They add value in assuring our 
services are tailored to our customer 
needs, which underpins sales growth, 
customer retention and satisfaction. 

15

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Our overall workforce is 35% female 
representation and 65% male 
representation. We are increasing our 
focus on achieving greater gender 
balance at Senior Leader level and 
above and have seen improvements 
over the past year, particularly at Group 
Executive Committee level where female 
representation has increased from 
10% to 28%. We have also seen small 
improvements at Senior Leader level 
(from 21% to 24%). More detail on the 
gender diversity of our Board as well 
as Ethnic diversity disclosures for the 
Board and Group Executive Committee 
can be found in the Nomination 
Committee report on page 69. 

Intertek TQA Expert by level 

Intertek in Action 

Group Executive 
Committee 

Senior Leader1

Male 

Female 

13 

181 

5 

56 

Whole organisation  28,499 

15,409 

1.   Direct reports to the Group Executive Committee. 

Intertek TQA Expert by region 

Americas 

Asia 

Male 

Female 

8,272 

3,251 

12,313 

8,582 

EMEA (incl Central) 

7,914 

3,576 

Menopause support in the UK 

In August, some 20 colleagues from 
the UK Hardlines/Softlines business 
came together for the first meeting 
of the UK Menopause Network. Set 
up to provide support and education 
for anyone going through the various 
stages of menopause, the network also 
offers useful information for those not 
currently affected, who want to know 
what to expect or how they can help 
colleagues, partners, family or friends. 

With a British Menopause Society 
survey finding that 45% of women 
feel menopausal symptoms have a 
negative impact on their work – and 
25% consider leaving their job – 
this is an issue that needs serious 
consideration. Our Menopause 
Network is a good starting point, 
helping to build a supportive culture. 

Intertek in Action 

‘She Power’ week in China 

At Intertek China, International 
Women’s Day prompted a week of 
events, demonstrating the value 
we place on our female employees. 
These included the She’s Amazing 
contest, which selects outstanding 
women across our businesses in China, 
recognising their achievements and 

presenting them as role models. We also 
ran a series of training programmes 
specifically for women and launched 
a video featuring female colleagues 
and their experiences at Intertek. 

  Gender diversity 

We are determined to  
develop and retain more  
women in senior roles. 

Our goals 
Improving gender balance is critical for 
us. We continue to focus on gender 
diversity by attracting, developing 
and retaining more talented women, 
particularly at senior levels. 

We continue to pursue our goal to 
increase the number of women in senior 
management roles to 30% by 2025. 

Metrics and performance 

35%

of our global TQA Experts  
are women. 

We ensure that men and women are 
paid equally for doing equivalent roles 
and we are committed to a number 
of measures to ensure we provide an 
energising workplace, free of any gender 
bias, where employees can flourish 
based on their talent and effort. 

To strengthen this, we ensure that our 
shortlists of external hire candidates 
have a balance of gender diversity. 

We remain committed to equality 
and provide flexible working where 
possible and provide mentorship 
to women to address the gap in 
gender numbers at senior levels. 

16

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Accessible product design 

Our UK Electrical team has developed a 
new service offering to help electrical 
product manufacturers assess and 
improve the accessibility of their 
products. With 16% of the global 
population estimated to be living with 
a disability or impairment, inaccessible 
product design has a huge impact 
on consumers. Our aim is to help 
manufacturers develop next-generation 
products that are truly inclusive in their 
design, functionality and usability. 

Intertek in Action 

Accessibility training for marketing teams 

In May 2023, the global marketing team 
took part in training that provided 
guidance on ensuring Intertek's 
marketing and communications are 
inclusive and accessible to all. 

The session focused on the best ways 
to make content accessible, for example 
including alt text on imagery, ideal 
colour contrasts for design, closed 
captions for videos, as well as other 
useful tips for marketeers to implement. 

 Cultural diversity 
(arising from country of origin) 

Cultural diversity supports 
our global business and is key 
to our success. 

Our goals 
We are committed to cultural diversity 
and will ensure that Intertek’s colleagues 
are representative of the countries where 
we do business. 

Metrics and performance 

45 

different nationalities across 
our senior leadership. 

We recognise that comprehensive 
diversity monitoring is foundational to 
our diversity and inclusion strategy, 
which lies at the heart of our culture. We 
continue to monitor protected 
characteristics and to promote further 
transparency, particularly at senior level, 
we have plans to update our diversity 
monitoring. 

In addition to cultural diversity arising 
from country of origin, we have plans to 
enhance our reporting on ethnicity.

  Read more about the diversity  

of our Board on page 69

 Talent across  
all generations 

We value all of our colleagues, 
regardless of age, and have  
practices in place to develop  
and retain workers of all ages. 

Our goals 
We will continue to develop  
proactive approaches to recruitment  
to ensure we have an age-diverse and 
balanced employee age profile. 

Metrics and performance 

58%

of our global TQA Experts are under 
the age of 40. 

The technical expertise needed in many 
parts of our complex business is acquired 
over several years. This is reflected 
in the overall average age of 39. 

We will continue to promote 
and endorse fair, consistent and 
thoughtful working practices that 
are in accordance with our Values. 

At Intertek, we are proud to be an 
equal opportunities employer. 

We consider all qualified applicants 
for employment regardless 
of gender, ethnicity, religion, 
orientation, age, disabilities and 
other protected characteristics.

 Disability 
inclusion 

Adopting a universal  
design mindset. 

Our goals 
To adopt a disability inclusive  
mindset as well as deliver on our 
commitment to the Valuable 500. 

This is centred around incorporating 
disability inclusion criteria into the full 
spectrum of products and services  
we offer our clients.

Metrics and performance 
We believe that in order to create 
rapid, system-level change specific 
to disability inclusion and equity, we 
must actively seek out opportunities to 
collaborate with other businesses who 
hold the same values and are equally 
committed to affecting change. 

We also recognise the gaps in the global 
business community's knowledge 
of employees with disabilities and 
are supportive of the call for greater 
visibility of the current state of affairs. 

We are assessing the guidance recently 
published by the Valuable 500 on self- 
identification and will look to implement 
these learnings into our approach. 

17

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Working with Customers 

We ensure our customers can 
operate safely and sustainably 
in a complex world 

Innovative sustainability 
services have been core to 
our global business for more 
than 100 years. 
Through our leading-edge innovations 
and integrated ATIC solutions, we are 
uniquely placed to help our customers 
understand, achieve and validate their 
existing and emerging sustainability 
goals. 

Capturing the right  
data to optimise operations 
Identifying and managing risks that 
can impact our service quality is key 
to ensuring customer satisfaction. 
Our 5x5 metrics tool and processes 
enable the collection and review 
of performance metrics across the 
areas of sales, customers, people, 
finance and operational excellence 
that are fundamental to disciplined 
performance management. 

18

The 5x5 metrics provide every Intertek 
site and team leader with 360º insight 
into their business to guide their 
decision making and ultimately lead 
to superior business performance. 

Customer focus 
To become the most trusted partner 
for Quality Assurance, we have made a 
promise to our customers: Intertek TQA 
expertise, delivered consistently with 
precision, pace and passion, enabling 
our customers to power ahead safely. 

Intertek has a strong focus on customers, 
at all levels of the organisation, and our 
customer relationship management 
is integrated into our approach 
through a key account management 
structure and dedicated sales teams. 

Our Marketing & Sales Operations team 
works closely with business lines and 
country leadership to drive continued 
improvements across marketing, sales 
and digital tools to ensure that every 
aspect of customer engagement aligns 
with our TQA Customer Promise. 

Customer Promise 
Intertek’s Total Quality  
Assurance expertise, delivered 
consistently with precision, 
pace and passion, enabling 
our customers to power 
ahead safely. 

Listening to our customers 
Since 2015, we have used the NPS 
process to listen to our customers. These 
insights give us a deep understanding of 
what our customers need and want, 
fuelling our innovations. Our customer 
interviews keep us laser-focused on 
delivering an ‘ever better’ service. During 
2023, we conducted an average of 5,700 
interviews each month. 

Average NPS interviews per month 

5 ,70 0 

Accelerating positive 
sustainability impact 
We recognise the importance of sharing 
our own sustainability journey with our 
customer, partners and local communities. 

We actively engage with requests to 
support individual sustainability and 
carbon performance assessments, 
including EcoVadis and the CDP 
Climate Change questionnaire. 

This gives us the opportunity not 
just to meet the demands of our 
investors and customers, but also 
uncover risks and opportunities and 
track and benchmark our progress. 

We aim to collaborate as a trusted supply 
chain partner to deliver improvements 
in the areas most material over the 
long term and accelerate sustainability 
impacts. We are here to help our 
stakeholders understand sustainability, 
why it matters, and how to effectively 
integrate it within business. 

Channels of customer  
interactions

  Customer meetings 

Emails and phone calls

Web enquiry responses

Workshops and seminars

Social media  
communications 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
Sustainability performance Continued

Supporting our 
customers with their 
sustainability agendas 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Providing EDGE certification for a 
multinational financial services company 

Synthetic fuels that will power the 
engines of the future 

As a Total Quality Assurance 
provider, we are in a strong position, 
given our global scale and expertise 
to support the sustainability goals of 
our customers with our industry- 
leading Total Sustainability 
Assurance solutions. 

Intertek is helping a multinational 
financial services company to 
demonstrate its commitment to 
diversity, equity and inclusion 
('DEI') across 71 locations around 
the world by helping it renew its 
EDGE Assess certification. 

EDGE ('Economic Dividends for 
Gender Equality') is the foremost 
global standard focusing on gender 
and intersectional equity in the 
workplace. It provides a comprehensive 
framework that enables companies to 
demonstrate their commitment to DEI 
with authenticity and credibility to all 
stakeholders, including employees. 

The company initially achieved 
its EDGE Assess certification for 

gender equality in early 2022, 
encompassing nearly 80% of its global 
workforce and 68 distinct entities. 
This certification was a significant 
milestone in its DEI journey. 

The Intertek Business Assurance team 
in Italy has been actively collaborating 
with the company to renew this 
certification. As an authorised third- 
party certification body by EDGE, we 
deployed a team of 20 specialists to 
conduct thorough audits at various 
facilities belonging to the company 
during October and November 
2023. This process underscores our 
commitment to promoting gender 
equality and supporting organisations 
in their continuous efforts towards a 
more equitable and inclusive workplace. 

Intertek in Action 

New website launched 

The redesigned Intertek.com is higher 
energy and more immersive for a best in 
class customer experience, giving visitors 
fast insight into the Science-based 
Expertise behind our unique, industry- 
leading ATIC solutions.

  Visit: intertek.com 

19

We have formed a strategic and 
commercial partnership with Zero 
Petroleum, the pioneering energy 
company developing groundbreaking 
synthetic fuels for a fossil-free future. 

Zero® synthetic fuels, which are 
made from just air and water, are 
a breakthrough in the transition 
towards cleaner energy sources. 
These advanced fuels, backed by 
Formula One legend Damon Hill OBE, 
have been designed to be used as 
direct replacements for traditional 
petroleum-based fuels in various 
applications, including transportation, 
aviation and agriculture. 

This collaboration enables Intertek 
to contribute to the evolution and 
certification of Zero Petroleum's 
synthetic fuels. These efuels are 
compatible with existing engine 
designs, offering a direct replacement 
solution. They hold the potential to 
bring substantial benefits to industries 
and consumers alike, bolstering energy 
independence and aiding the journey 
towards a carbon-neutral future. 

Intertek's cutting-edge laboratories 
and specialised facilities will be 
instrumental in analysing the fuel's 
composition, emissions and compliance 
with rigorous industry standards 
and regulatory requirements. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Sustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

An innovative approach to reducing 
energy consumption 

Supporting Nestlé to fulfil its 
sustainability pledges 

and nitrogen gas for sample 
preparation and drug analysis. 
We expect this collaborative leap 
forward will lead to a 15% reduction 
in both companies' annual energy 
consumption, demonstrating our 
commitment to better environmental 
stewardship and the progress we can 
make in the pharmaceutical industry. 

Our cutting-edge Good Manufacturing 
Practices ('GMP') pharmaceutical 
laboratory in Reinach, Switzerland, 
has forged a transformative 
partnership that will revolutionise our 
approach to liquid nitrogen usage. 

Working with a neighbouring 
technology company, our GMP 
pharmaceutical laboratory in 
Reinach is replacing energy- 
intensive liquid nitrogen generators 
with an innovative tank system. 
Together, we are enhancing 
sustainability while preserving the 
essential role of liquid nitrogen 

We also support Nestlé with its CARE 
initiative, which is the company's 
Corporate Compliance Assessment 
Program. This programme covers a 
wide range of areas, including human 
resources, safety, health, environment, 
business integrity and security. A 
key focus of our collaboration is 
environmental sustainability, which 
is crucial for Nestlé as it strives to 
meet its sustainability commitments. 

We are collaborating with Nestlé to 
certify 153 of its sites under the ISO 
14001 standard, a move that spans 
15 certificates and has a strong 
presence in North America, Europe and 
the Asia, Oceania and Africa zone. 
The ISO 14001 standard plays a 
critical role in effectively managing 
environmental aspects and complying 
with regulatory requirements. Through 
this certification process, we are 
making a significant contribution 
to Nestlé's sustainability efforts, 
enabling the company to integrate 
sustainability practices into its 
core business processes and 
daily operations seamlessly. 

Intertek in Action 

Developing an open-access genetic 
fingerprinting database for coffee 

The Intertek AgriTech team is at the 
forefront of a transformative project in 
the coffee industry, collaborating with 
World Coffee Research ('WCR'), a leading 
non-profit organisation dedicated to 
fostering a sustainable future for coffee. 

This partnership focuses on developing 
an open-access database that houses 
essential genetic information about 
Arabica coffee, a resource poised 
to revolutionise the sector. 

This initiative is designed to empower 
coffee farmers globally by providing 
easy access to vital genetic data. The 
collaboration has seen our AgriTech 
experts working closely with WCR 
to offer extensive training in sample 
collection methods, conduct DNA 
extraction and provide genotyping 
services. Additionally, we have been 
instrumental in offering consistent 
technical support, aiding WCR in building 
this comprehensive genetic  
fingerprinting database. 

20

Collaborating on 
Nespresso's innovative 
coffee capsule recycling 
programme 

For several years Nespresso and 
Intertek have collaborated to oversee 
and verify Nespresso’s unique 
capsule recycling programme. 

During the recycling process, the 
capsules are shredded to separate the 
coffee grounds from the aluminium. 
The aluminium is then recycled, while 
the coffee grounds are repurposed into 
biogas and soil improver, contributing 
to environmental sustainability. 

Coffee enthusiasts have multiple 
convenient options for recycling their 
Nespresso capsules. These include 
returning used capsules to designated 
collection points, dropping them off 
at Nespresso boutiques, or utilising 
Nespresso’s innovative Recycling@Home 
service. This comprehensive recycling 
programme underscores Nespresso's 
commitment to environmental 
responsibility and Intertek's role 
in ensuring the effectiveness and 
integrity of sustainable practices. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Assisting diverse businesses with  
Total Quality Assurance 

Micro, small, and medium-sized 
enterprises (‘SMEs’) play a crucial role 
in the global economy, accounting for 
more than 90% of all businesses and 
approximately 70% of jobs worldwide. 

At Intertek, we are dedicated to 
assisting businesses of all sizes and 
sectors in achieving Total Quality 
Assurance. Our ATIC services focus on 
enhancing safety and sustainability. 

A notable example of our support 
for small businesses is our work with 
Piglets Pantry. This small enterprise 
has been awarded the BRCGS 
START! certification, a recognition 
aimed at smaller sites to foster the 
development of comprehensive food 
safety systems. This certification 
has enabled Piglets Pantry to 
demonstrate exemplary food safety 
standards and maintain robust 
traceability in its supply chain, which 
helps it deliver its homemade bakery 
delights to homes across the UK. 

Illuminating the path 
towards a brighter, 
more sustainable 
future 

Solar trackers are innovative devices 
that optimise panel positioning by 
following the sun’s path, maximising 
energy output and reducing costs. 

product, offering insights that have 
fuelled further collaborative efforts 
to minimise the environmental 
footprint of its solar trackers. 

Intertek in Action 

Developing educational resources for 
increased ESG ambitions 

When a global solar tracker manufacturer 
wanted to solidify its commitment to 
disclosing its environmental impacts, 
it partnered with our Intertek Assuris 
Sustainability team. Our tailored 
approach helped the company 
develop a comprehensive Life Cycle 
Assessment study and Environmental 
Product Declaration for its trackers. 
This has allowed the manufacturer 
to assess the entire life cycle of its 

This partnership is a testament to our 
joint commitment to sustainability. 
As the world embraces renewable 
solutions as part of the energy 
transition, Intertek illuminates 
the path towards a brighter, more 
sustainable future where solar 
power takes centre stage. 

Intertek in Malaysia has developed a 
comprehensive suite of courses for a 
semi-government professional training 
institute in Sarawak as the country 
amps up its environmental, social 
and governance ('ESG') ambitions. 

The courses, designed to get local 
professionals up to speed on the 
different ESG and greenhouse gas 
('GHG') standards and requirements, 
were based on various industry and 
country-specific standards, including 
the Global Reporting Initiative ('GRI') 

and the International Organization for 
Standardization. They cover topics such 
as risk management, supply chain risks, 
accounting and reporting, sustainability 
reporting, carbon neutrality and net zero. 

The knowledge gained from these 
courses will empower companies and 
the local workforce to meet upcoming 
ESG reporting standards and carbon 
pricing regulations in a world where 
transparency and accountability are 
becoming increasingly important. 

21

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Supporting  
CarbonLeap in fuel  
switch and carbon 
intensity reduction 

Intertek is playing a pivotal role in 
supporting CarbonLeap's initiative to 
reduce CO2 emissions, providing 
expert witness, measurement and 
verification services for fuel blending. 
This collaboration is crucial in ensuring 
the precision and effectiveness of 
CarbonLeap's CO2 savings initiatives. 

CarbonLeap, a Dutch project, focuses 
on accelerating the market for 
voluntary CO2 reductions, particularly 
through biofuel blending in marine 
and heavy road transport sectors in 
the Netherlands. The initiative is 
designed to assist cargo owners and 
their clients in decarbonising their 
supply chains through a unique 
product named Carbon Insets. 

Intertek's role involves meticulously 
witnessing, measuring and verifying 
the blending processes and carbon 
intensity of fuels used in marine and 
road transportation. Our 
comprehensive team comprises 
specialists from Intertek Caleb Brett, 
Intertek Lintec and carbon footprint 
experts from the Intertek CarbonClear 
certification group. With such a 
diverse and global team of 
professionals, we are exceptionally 
equipped to support companies in 
achieving their net zero ambitions, 
making significant strides in 
environmental sustainability. 

Intertek in Action 

Helping sports manufacturers  
make better decisions 

Lowering environmental impact while 
maintaining the top performance 
consumers demand from their 
sports gear is becoming increasingly 
important for manufacturers. 

Intertek’s impact can be seen across 
many of the world’s favourite sports. 
We are on the tennis court, golf course, 
baseball diamond, basketball court 
and soccer field, helping our sporting 
goods clients stay ahead of the game 
when it comes to understanding 
the environmental impacts of 
the gear they make and sell.

The Sustainability team at Intertek 
Assuris helps manufacturers make 
material and process decisions that make 
tennis balls, football kits or baseball 
gloves even better. Our Green Product 
Development (R&D) Assurance Solution 
empowers consumers to make more 
informed decisions when they buy 
their gear, as our clients confidently 
communicate the environmental 
impact of their products. Meanwhile, 
our integrated approach ensures the 
sustainability, quality, safety and 
performance attributes of a product 
are optimised from conception all the 
way through the product's life cycle. 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek-PSI: helping to build sustainable, 
forward-looking infrastructure 

Since late 2020, Professional Service 
Industries, Inc. (Intertek-PSI) has 
supported the Gordie Howe 
International Bridge project’s U.S. Port 
of Entry and I-75 interchange 
components in Detroit, Michigan. 

The Gordie Howe International Bridge 
is a cable-stayed bridge, currently 
under construction, across the Detroit 
River. A dedicated on-site laboratory, 
set up specifically for this project, has 
been crucial to ensuring that our 
Materials Quality Assurance ('QA') and 
Quality Control ('QC') inspection and 
testing services can meet the demands 
of the project’s tight schedule. 

Intertek-PSI's involvement in the 
project aligns perfectly with our 
sustainability ethos of prioritising 
social, environmental and economic 
responsibility in building and 
construction. Our role in supporting 
quality, design and material selections 
for durability and resilience are integral 
to the project’s overall sustainability 
efforts, ensuring that the materials and 
construction methods used contribute 
to the project's long-term environmental 
and community benefits.The bridge is 
slated to open in autumn 2025. 

22

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Sustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Delivering Environmental Assurance  
Services in Irish Offshore Waters 

The assessments provide an operational 
baseline for exploration companies 
to assess their proposed activities, 
ensuring the protection of the marine 
environment. As part of the process, our 
team supported the DECC in engaging 
with environmental stakeholders and 
members of the public to ensure that key 
environmental and social considerations 
were fully integrated into the Plan. 

Intertek completed a Strategic 
Environmental Assessment ('SEA') and 
an Appropriate Assessment ('AA') for the 
Department of the Environment, Climate 
and Communications ('DECC') in Ireland. 

These assessments were of the newly 
adopted ‘Plan for assessment of 
applications for Petroleum Exploration 
and Production Authorisations in 
Irish Offshore Waters for the Period 
to 2030’. We conducted a screening 
exercise to identify the environmental 
impacts of the exploration activities 
to fulfil the requirements for SEA 
and AA, both of which are necessary 
under European legislation. 

Preparing for Ireland’s Wave Energy Converter Project 

Intertek has successfully completed 
the management of two years 
of marine megafauna and bird 
surveys on behalf of Saoirse Wave 
Energy Ltd, a joint venture between 
Simply Blue Group and ESB. 

well as delivering the surveys over the 
two-year period, we have also been 
responsible for processing and quality 
assurance of the bird and marine 
megafauna data, including habitat 
modelling analysis and species mapping. 

Ahead of the proposed Wave Energy 
Converter ('WEC') Project on the west 
coast of Ireland, we have organised 
aerial site surveys and terrestrial 
landfall surveys to quantify the bird, 
marine mammal and other marine 
megafauna populations that are using 
the site. This data will contribute to 
the ecological impact assessment. As 

When developed, the Saoirse project 
will be the first array-scale wave energy 
conversion test and demonstration 
project in Ireland and the largest in 
the world. It has been designed to 
prove the viability of WEC technology 
through long-term deployment in the 
harsh, energetic conditions of the North 
Atlantic. Wave energy has long been 

recognised as a tremendous potential 
renewable energy resource, allowing for 
the balance of grid demand while also 
enabling the transition from fossil fuel 
energy production. The Saoirse project 
will allow Ireland to be among the first 
commercial users of this new clean 
energy resource, helping the country 
achieve its net zero goals by 2050. 

23

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Using quantification data for baseline reduction 
management of methane emissions 

Resolving safety concerns and keeping people 
safe at solar installations 

Intertek has worked closely with a 
major European energy company on 
executing the collection of methane 
emission quantification data using 
drones and other methods. 

While the reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions focuses heavily on CO2, there 
is growing awareness that methane is 
80 times more potent in its first 20 
years in the atmosphere. So, reducing 
methane emissions can have a much 
greater and immediate effect on 
managing climate change. 

Data is required to baseline and more 
accurately determine the current 
emission levels, then to measure the 
progress in management and reduction 
of those emissions. Intertek has strong 
expertise in this area having executed 
numerous methane data acquisition 
missions and is accredited under MiQ – 
the fastest growing and most trusted 
methane emissions certification 
standard – to independently certify 
natural gas extraction and production 
facilities (onshore and offshore), with 
transparent data-led grading allowing 
higher and lower emissions gas to be 
identified across the supply chain. 

Helping to restore  
soil fertility for chilli 
farmers in India 
Intertek India’s Food Lab in Hyderabad 
has been helping chilli farmers involved in 
backward integration projects, a practice 
which sees businesses take greater 
control over the earlier stages of their 
supply chains. We have supported 
farmers in the Vajedu, Cherla and 
Bhadrachalam areas in and around 
Telangana state through integrated 
pesticide management. We help to test 
their soil, water and pesticides for quality 
and suitability before crop cultivation. 
The soil is tested for fertility and the 
pesticides for purity and adulteration to 
ensure that the cultivated soil is 
sustainable for coming generations. 
These sustainable practices are enabling 
the farmers to grow good quality 
products for export to the rest of the 
world. 

Intertek Clean Energy Associates 
('CEA') audits rooftop solar 
installations, identifying significant 
risks and providing safe and effective 
solutions. 

Intertek CEA has identified a variety of 
problems at solar installations around 
the world, noting that because most 
are caused by poor installation 
practices, many can be resolved 
relatively easily before they lead to 
fires, safety risks and potentially costly 
liabilities. 

Our audit of more than 600 commercial 
rooftop solar systems in over 12 
countries found that nearly all, 97%, 

had 'major' safety concerns. The 
leading concerns were related to 
grounding issues, damaged modules, 
cross-mated connectors and poor 
terminations. All of these factors could 
lead to dire consequences, with 
hazardous equipment or current 
leakage leading to increased 
maintenance requirements and 
significant system downtime from 
short circuits or inverter faults. But 
more importantly, they could also 
endanger on-site personnel and 
significantly disrupt the businesses 
operating under the rooftop systems, 
so any risk identified must be 
remediated urgently. 

24

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Supporting ocean 
cleaner InResST®  
in creating 
environmentally 
friendly fabrics 

Intertek has conducted accounting  
and verification of InResST®'s 
manufacturing process for raw 
material processing, transportation, 
production and the packaging of two 
products. 

InResST® is a low-carbon, 
environmentally friendly innovative 
materials company. It focuses on the 
feasibility research, development, 
production and promotion of the use 
of discarded fishing nets in textiles, 
clothing and other daily products. All 
InResST® products are derived from 
abandoned nylon fishing nets 
following deep-sea fishing activities. 

Intertek works to ensure the 
sustainability of InResST®'s green 
products, providing downstream 
brand customers with credible 
environmental impact data reports on 
the company, which supports their 
protection of the marine environment. 

25

Certifying Huafu’s 
product carbon footprint 

Wastewater analysis and monitoring to 
support Peru’s fishing industry 

The fishing industry is a vital source of 
food and employment in many parts of 
the world, but it faces significant 
environmental challenges due to 
pollution from the wastewater it 
produces. If not managed properly, this 
pollution can affect soil and the air; 
however, the main concern is usually 
the return of contaminated effluents 
– liquid waste or sewage – to rivers and 
the sea. 

Peru is a leader in the production of 
fishmeal and fish oil and, within Latin 
America, one of the main exporters of 
fish products for people to eat. Intertek 
Peru's wastewater analysis and 
monitoring services allows fishing 
companies to ensure that the industry 
continues to provide an essential 
source of food with minimal 
environmental impact. 

With our support, clients can verify 
compliance with their environmental 
commitments, detect any changes in 
water bodies caused by processing 
activity and take corrective action. 
Intertek Peru's services are carried out 
in accordance with the relevant 
regulations; evaluate critical factors 
such as the concentration of 
suspended solids, oils and greases, as 
well as the presence of potentially 
harmful micro-organisms; and include 
many other chemical and biological 
tests. This detailed analysis helps our 
clients implement more sustainable and 
responsible practices, a key step 
towards more environmentally friendly 
fishing. 

Global textile leader Huafu has been 
awarded Intertek's Product Carbon 
Footprint certification for ten 
consecutive years, validating its 
commitment to sustainable product 
development. 

Huafu's dyed yarn, produced using a 
pre-dyeing and blending process in which 
some fibres are dyed before being 
blended with raw fibres, offers significant 
advantages in terms of water 
conservation and pollution reduction. 
Compared to the traditional process of 
dyeing yarn after spinning, this innovative 
approach saves more than 60% of the 
water used and reduces wastewater by 
over 60%. 

This provides notable benefits in energy 
efficiency, emission reduction and 
environmental preservation, as 
demonstrated by Intertek’s Product 
Carbon Footprint certification. Before 
making the award, we always conduct a 
comprehensive end-to-end assessment 
of the greenhouse gas emissions for 
Huafu's cotton and cotton/modal dyed 
yarns. We have consistently found that 
Huafu's dyed yarns outperform traditional 
dyed yarns in terms of environmental 
benefits. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Environment 

Our goal is to decarbonise 
our business by 2050 

At Intertek, we understand 
our organisation’s impacts 
on the environment and 
continuously look for 
opportunities to mitigate 
them in regard to climate 
change, use of resources, 
ecosystems, and waste 
management. 

We recognise the critical role that the 
private sector plays in tackling the 
climate crisis, providing innovative 
solutions, reducing GHG emissions 
and setting ambitious targets. 
Thereby helping to drive the transition 
to a low-carbon economy. 

Governance 
Intertek’s environmental governance 
flows from the Board to every site. 

CEO, Group CFO, EVP – Sustainability, 
Group Company Secretary, Head of 
Finance Sustainability, and Group Head 
of Risk) works with our countries on our 
detailed climate-related investments 
and action plans, monitors site-level 
activities across a range of metrics 
and tracks progress against the 
GHG emissions reduction targets. 

Our Environmental and Climate Change 
policy (available on our website at 
intertek.com/about/our-responsibility) 
outlines the commitments we adhere 
to. Our operations apply a precautionary 
approach and comply with all applicable 
environmental regulations and permits. 

Environmental management systems 
support our operations to meet 
environmental protection standards, 
comply with legislation and improve 
reporting and transparency. We 
have implemented ISO 14001 and/ 
or ISO 45001 across 98 of our sites. 

To advocate for accelerated climate 
action, our Net Zero Steering Committee 
(whose members include our Group 

More information on climate- 
related Governance can be 
found in Book one, page 60. 

What is our impact? 
Our global reach spans thousands 
of employees, clients, and suppliers. 
This scale represents both commercial 
opportunity as well as a responsibility 
to our people, the communities in which 
we operate and the wider environment. 

As a multinational company, we 
recognise that, although our own 
operations may not be as energy 
intensive or resource depleting as 
other industries, good management 
of the relevant and material topics is 
critical to protect the environment. 

Our activities around the world are 
diversified across both laboratories 
and offices. Carbon emissions are our 
biggest environmental impact, and 
through continual monitoring and 
assessment of our operations, we 
are now able to apply more targeted 
actions on the reduction of our carbon 
footprint, with particular focus on energy 
efficiencies and operational excellence. 

The energy we use in our laboratories 
and offices continues to be the 
largest contributor to our carbon 
footprint, making it a priority in 
our environmental agenda. 

To make real change happen, we 
believe that all our people need 
to have ownership of their carbon 
footprint and be empowered and 
inspired to take ambitious actions to 
reduce it – putting our Sustainability 
Excellence approach into action. 

We continue to advance our 
understanding of climate-related 
risks and opportunities and to 
evolve our transparent reporting, in 
line with internationally accepted 
recommendations of the Financial 
Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate- 
related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') 
as shown in Book one, page 58. 

26

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Our GHG emissions reduction journey 

Key milestones: 

 Achieved 

 On track 

Intertek has a longstanding commitment to 
sustainable growth, continuously demonstrating our 
efforts to limit the effects of climate change as a 
member of the Race to Zero campaign. 

On our journey to net zero emissions by 2050, we 
have established a robust emissions data collection 
process, improved our carbon footprint measurement, 
showcased proficiency in environmental reporting, 
and set ambitious reduction targets. We remain 
committed to identifying and implementing 
decarbonisation initiatives. 

Decarbonisation initiatives 
Our rigorous GHG emissions performance 
management programme empowers our regional 
teams to implement initiatives to deliver against 
their reduction targets. 

Leveraging our monthly environmental dashboards 
at business line, country, and site level, we identify 
those activities under our operational control which 
contribute towards our environmental footprint and 
work with our teams to focus on concrete and 
measurable action plans. 

SBTi validated near-term targets 
In 2023, we had our GHG emissions reduction targets 
approved by the Science Based Target initiative 
('SBTi') which are in line with the ambition to limit 
global temperature increases to 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels. 

Supply chain 
Our commitment to environmental sustainability 
extends beyond our internal operations to encompass 
our supply chain network. 

We are engaging with our suppliers to ensure that 
their environmental priorities are aligned with ours. 

By working together, we can create a more 
sustainable future for generations to come whilst 
simultaneously driving value creation and innovation 
within our business. 

27

9
1
0
2

Baseline for  
GHG emissions  
reduction targets 

SBTi validated  
near-term targets 

3
2
0
2

"Intertek Group plc commits to reduce absolute scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions 50% by 2030 from a 2019 
base year. Intertek Group plc also commits to reduce 
absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel 
and employee commuting 50% within the same 
timeframe. Intertek Group plc further commits that 
70% of its suppliers by spend covering purchased 
goods and services, capital goods and upstream 
transportation and distribution, will have science- 
based targets by 2027." 

0
3
0
2

Target: Reduce absolute 
scope 1, 2 and 3 
(business travel and 
employee commuting) 
emissions 50% vs 2019 
baseline 

  Joined 
1
2
0
2

Business 
Ambition 
for 1.5°C 
campaign 

2
2
0
2

ESG  
element 
included  
in annual 
incentive 
framework 

7
2
0
2

Target: 70% of suppliers 
by spend to set 
science-based targets 

0
5
0
2

Net zero ambition  
and commitment. 
Prioritise direct 
emissions reductions 
and neutralise any 
remaining emissions 

Climate-related focus areas: 

Scope

1 

Scope

2 

Direct emissions from sources which Intertek 
owns or controls: 

Indirect emissions from purchased 
electricity, heat and steam: 

Scope 

3 

Value chain emissions:

•  Switch to lower-carbon vehicle fleet 
•  Identify and implement fleet efficiencies 
•  Optimisation of buildings  

(heating/cooling) 

•  Procurement from renewable sources 
•  Low-carbon energy generation 
•  Energy-efficient buildings 
•  Energy-efficient equipment 

•  Optimise business travel 
•  Employee engagement on efficient 

ways of commuting 

•  Supplier sustainability engagement 

Across all scopes: Awareness and training for employees, customers and suppliers on climate change 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sustainability performance Continued 

Our climate transition plan in action 

Low-carbon fleet: We are moving 
to upgrade our fleet to low-emissions 
vehicles. This year we completed a pilot 
programme in several countries which 
allowed us to better understand our 
operational and business needs, as 
well as the challenges in the existing 
infrastructure. We will continue to 
transition our other eligible fleet. 

Germany 
Netherlands 
UK 
USA 

Low-carbon  
energy generation:  
We are producing and consuming 
our own electricity after investing 
in renewable energy systems in at 
least one site in eight countries. 

Energy purchased from  
renewable sources:  
At least one site in these countries  
is now powered by 100% renewable 
electricity backed by Energy 
Attribute Certificates ('EAC'). 

Employee-efficient  
transportation initiatives:  
We have invested in electric-vehicle 
('EV') chargers in several countries 
with the intention to support 
a low-energy transition. 

Australia 
China 
Germany 
India 
Mexico 
Netherlands 
UK 

Australia 
China 
Germany 
Indonesia 
Netherlands 
Norway 
South Korea 
Singapore 
Spain 
Thailand 
Türkiye 
USA 
Vietnam 

Australia 
Bangladesh 
India 
Mexico 
Poland 
South Korea 
Sweden 
UK 

Energy-efficient buildings 
and equipment: We have replaced 
incandescent lighting with LEDs, 
installed motion sensors, introduced air- 
conditioning policies and replaced old lab 
equipment with more efficient options. 

APAC region 
Bangladesh 
China 
India 
UK 

Intertek in Action 

Generating our own 
clean electricity 
As we take important steps to 
decarbonise our business, our Intertek 
Mexico City laboratory has become 
the latest of our global sites to install 
a solar photovoltaic ('PV') system. 
The impressive system will generate 
over 60% of the site’s electricity 
from renewable energy sources, 
creating an annual emissions saving 
equivalent to the carbon absorbed 
by more than 8,000 trees. 

Mexico becomes the eighth country in 
which we are producing and consuming 
our own electricity, following Australia, 
Bangladesh, India, Poland, South Korea, 
Sweden and the UK, where we also have 
site-specific solar installations. We are 
continually looking to increase this 
number by assessing the potential for  
and impact of installing other solar PV 
systems at various sites around  
the world. 

28
28

Intertek Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023

Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

GHG emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e)¹ 

Emissions by source2 

Scope 1 

Emissions from sources which Intertek  
owns or controls directly 

Scope 2 

Emissions from purchased electricity, heat  
and steam for our use (location-based) 

2023 

2022 

Base year 
2019 

Global 

61,168 

58,821 

64,709 

of which UK 

1,782 

2,302 

Global 

113,270 

113,823 

128,693 

of which UK 

2,295 

2,325 

55.5 

emissions1 in tCO2e per £m  
in revenue2,3 

Operational emission reductions 
2022–2023 

-1 0 .8%

Emissions from purchased electricity, heat  
and steam for our use (market-based) 

Global 

78,228 

102,066 

133,860 

of which UK 

285 

531 

Operational emission reductions 
2019–2023 

Scope 3 

Employee Business Travel 

Global 

18,108 

12,555 

25,849 

Employee Commuting 

Fuel – and Energy-Related Activities  
Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 

of which UK 

1,260 

813 

Global 

of which UK 

Global 

of which UK 

27, 108 

33,590 

67, 101 

1,036 

6,543 

201 

1,351 

7, 0 69 

213 

7, 669 

Absolute tCO2e (market-based) 

Global 

191,155 

214,101 

299,188

1. Refer to  ur Basis of Reporting document for full details of scope. Available on our website at intertek.com/about/our-responsibility.
2. Our annual environmental reporting cycle ran from 1 October 2022 to 30 September 2023. 

-36.7%

Global energy use in megawatt-hours (MWh) 

Energy use by source1

Standard electricity, heat and steam 

Renewable electricity2

Mobile combustion3

Stationary combustion4

Total energy use5

Percentage of total energy use from renewable sources 

2023 

2022 

171,241 

224,347 

88,716 

42,979 

139,715 

131,229 

122,020 

115,037 

521,692 

513,592 

17.0% 

8.4%

1. Energy use disclosures now include all energy sources from mobile and stationary combustion. 2022 data was restated to allow for year-on-year comparison.
2.  Renewable electricity at site level is consumed from green tariffs, Energy Attribute Certificates ('EAC') and solar PV generation.
3. Energy from the fleet.
4. Gas and fuels used for heating and in testing. 
5. UK portion of total energy use was 4% (2022: 5%).

1.  Operational market-based emissions  
as defined in Book one, page 29. 

2.  Revenue for FY 2023 as shown in  

Book one, page 8. 

3.  2022: 64.8 emissions in tCO2e per £m in revenue. 

Environmental 
performance 
At Intertek, we are committed to 
providing accurate and transparent 
environmental data. Intertek’s reporting 
complies with the methodologies 
outlined by the GHG Protocol ‘Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard’, 
ISO 140064-1 and the UK Government’s 
‘Environmental Reporting Guidelines’. 

Our data collection process continues 
to improve, with over 120 users adding 
site-level data every month to our global 
environmental sustainability software.

In 2023, operational market-based 
emissions1 were 184,612 tCO2e (2022: 
207,032 tCO2e), down 10.8%. We 
delivered 36.7% reduction against our 
base year (2019: 291,519 tCO2e). 

We have a rigorous performance 
management programme of climate- 
related action plans which has 
helped us identify the most material 
sources of emissions and implement 
initiatives which result in year- 
on-year emissions reductions. 

We will continue to increase the amount 
of energy consumed from renewable 
sources, and will address our business 
travel practices as we are seeing an 
increase in emissions driven by the 
recovery of the transportation industry 
following the impacts of the pandemic. 

29

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sustainability performance Continued

Independent assurance 
report to Intertek Group 
plc Management 

Scope 
We have been engaged by Intertek Group 
plc (“Intertek”) to perform a ‘limited 
assurance engagement,’ as defined by 
International Standards on Assurance 
Engagements, here after referred to as 
the "engagement”, to report on selected 
greenhouse gas performance data (the 
“Subject Matter”) contained in Intertek’s 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023 as of 
30 September 2023 (the “Report”). 

The Subject Matter comprises 
the following data sets in the 
Report regarding the sustainability 
performance of Intertek Group plc: 

•  Greenhouse gas emissions – scope 1; 
•  Greenhouse gas emissions – scope 

2 – location-based and market-based; 

•  Greenhouse gas emissions – scope 

3 (fuel and energy related activities; 
business travel (air travel only); 
and employee commuting); and 

•  Greenhouse gas emissions 

– intensity ratio. 

Other than as described in the preceding 
paragraph, which sets out the scope of 
our engagement, we did not perform 
assurance procedures on the remaining 
information included in the Report, 
and accordingly, we do not express 
a conclusion on this information. 

30

Criteria applied by Intertek 
In preparing the Subject Matter, Intertek 
applied the methodology as described 
in the document Basis of Reporting – 
GHG Emissions (the “Criteria”), based 
upon the GHG Protocol, and publicly 
available on Intertek’s website. 

Intertek’s responsibilities 
Intertek’s management is responsible for 
selecting the Criteria, and for presenting 
the Subject Matter in accordance with 
that Criteria, in all material respects. This 
responsibility includes establishing and 
maintaining internal controls, maintaining 
adequate records and making estimates 
that are relevant to the preparation 
of the Subject Matter, such that it 
is free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. 

EY’s responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a 
conclusion on the presentation of 
the Subject Matter based on the 
evidence we have obtained. 

We conducted our engagement in 
accordance with the International 
Standard for Assurance Engagements 
Other Than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information ("ISAE 
3000 (Revised)"), and the terms of 
reference for this engagement as agreed 
with Intertek Group plc on 3 October 
2023. This standard requires that we 
plan and perform our engagement to 
express a conclusion on whether we 
are aware of any material modifications 
that need to be made to the Subject 
Matter in order for it to be in accordance 
with the Criteria, and to issue a report. 
The nature, timing, and extent of the 
procedures selected depend on our 
judgement, including an assessment 
of the risk of material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. 

We believe that the evidence obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our limited assurance conclusions. 

Our independence and 
quality management 
We have maintained our independence 
and confirm that we have met the 
requirements of the Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants issued 
by the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants, and have the 
required competencies and experience 
to conduct this assurance engagement. 

EY also applies International Standard 
on Quality Control Management 1, 
Quality Management for Firms that 
Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial 
Statements, or Other Assurance or 
Related Services engagements, which 
requires that we design, implement and 
operate a system of quality management 
including policies or procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements. 

Description of procedures performed 
Procedures performed in a limited 
assurance engagement vary in nature 
and timing from and are less in extent 
than for a reasonable assurance 
engagement. Consequently, the level of 
assurance obtained in a limited assurance 
engagement is substantially lower than 
the assurance that would have been 
obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. Our 
procedures were designed to obtain a 
limited level of assurance on which to 
base our conclusion and do not provide 
all the evidence that would be required to 
provide a reasonable level of assurance. 

Although we considered the 
effectiveness of management’s internal 
controls when determining the nature 
and extent of our procedures, our 
assurance engagement was not designed 
to provide assurance on internal controls. 
Our procedures did not include testing 
controls or performing procedures 
relating to checking aggregation or 
calculation of data within IT systems. 

•  Testing the accuracy of data 

aggregation performed at the Intertek 
global level for reporting purposes - 
including the use of any specific tools, 
systems, or estimation methods. 

•  Examining the Report for the 
appropriate presentation of 
the Subject Matter, including 
limitations and assumptions. 

A limited assurance engagement 
consists of making enquiries, primarily 
of persons responsible for preparing the 
Subject Matter and related information, 
and applying analytical and other 
appropriate procedures. The procedures 
we performed were based on our 
professional judgement and included: 

•  Conducting interviews with 

relevant staff to understand the 
processes for collecting, collating 
and reporting the Subject Matter 
during the reporting period. 
•  Reading key documentation and 

confirming our understanding of the 
key risks to data integrity and the 
controls associated with the collection 
and collation of the GHG data. 
•  Performing analytical review 

procedures to understand the 
appropriateness of the data. 

•  Testing, on a sample basis, against 
underlying source information to 
check the accuracy and completeness 
of the data and the appropriate 
application of the Criteria. 

•  Examined the reasonability of estimates 
and assumptions applied to the data, 
and ensuring they are aligned to 
what is documented in the Criteria. 

We also performed such other 
procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. 

Conclusion 
Based on our procedures and the 
evidence obtained, we are not aware of 
any material modifications that should 
be made to the Subject Matter as at 
30 September 2023, in order for it to 
be in accordance with the Criteria. 

Use of our Assurance Statement 
We disclaim any assumption of 
responsibility for any reliance on this 
assurance report or its conclusions 
to any persons other than Intertek 
Group plc, or for any purpose other 
than that for which it was prepared. 

Accordingly, we accept no liability 
whatsoever, whether in contract, tort 
or otherwise, to any third party for any 
consequences of the use or misuse of 
this assurance report or its conclusions. 

Ernst & Young LLP 
4 March 2024 
London 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Improving water management practices in Bangladesh 

PETman champions recycling  
and charitable giving 

In its continued pursuit of water 
conservation, the Intertek Bangladesh 
team has taken some important 
steps to greatly reduce wastewater. 

An upgraded Effluent Treatment 
Plant ('ETP') has revolutionised water 
management at our Dhaka laboratory 
site, recycling 20,000 litres each 
day. Previously, the ETP only treated 
laboratory water and the wastewater 
was discharged into the drain. 

Following the upgrade, we now recycle 
laboratory wastewater through the ETP, 
storing the treated water and using it for 
gardening and toilet flushing. Our new 
ETP achieves Zero Liquid Discharge – 
meaning that no industrial wastewater 
remains at the end of the treatment cycle 
– a step beyond government regulations. 

of storing up to 1,000 litres of 
rainwater, significantly reducing 
our dependence on groundwater. 
Approximately 9,000 litres of water 
can be used from the WTP during 
the country’s annual rainy season. 

Additionally, we introduced a rainwater 
harvesting system, incorporating a 
Water Treatment Plant ('WTP') atop 
our laboratory building. This system 
features a reservoir tank capable 

20,000 

litres of water reused daily 

Our Netherlands offices have 
welcomed a new team member: 
the PETman. Designed to add a 
bit of fun to the daily routine of 
disposing of empty plastic bottles 
and cans, the PETman is a recycling 
bin in the guise of a giant yellow 
Intertek-branded PET bottle. 

PETman also helps raise money for 
good causes. Each PETman can hold 
around 250 bottles and cans, and 
when full we can expect a return of 
around €40, which Intertek doubles 
and donates to charities chosen 
by our colleagues. We therefore 
encourage employees to bring 
their bottles or cans from home to 
ensure that every PETman reaches 
capacity as often as possible. 

31

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Green initiatives for World Environment Day 

Inspiring families and local communities 

On 5 June each year, World 
Environment Day is a reminder that 
even the smallest steps towards 
sustainability can have a significant 
impact. At Intertek, we see this event 
as another opportunity to reinforce our 
commitment to Build Back Ever Better 
– and our offices around the world 
have different ways of doing this. 

Planting in Bangladesh 
We extended our South Asia planting 
initiative to Dhaka, Bangladesh, 
where our local team devised a clever 
solution for a lack of space. Wanting 
to plant saplings, they asked two 
customers – Plummy Fashions Ltd 
and Crony Apparels Ltd – who readily 
offered land. In a crowded megacity 
like Dhaka, the lack of space can 
make building a green future very 
difficult, but this project demonstrates 
what teamwork can achieve. 

The population density can also be 
an obstacle to introducing greenery 
at home or in the workplace. To 
help our employees overcome 
this, we organised a discussion 
and demonstration called Urban 
Gardening: Bringing Nature Indoors. 

Reusing, repurposing  
and recycling in India 
In the week leading up to World 
Environment Day, we held collection 
drives for old or surplus clothing and 
stationery across some of our Indian 
sites, including Delhi, Gurugram, 
Bengaluru and Tirupur. We did this in 
association with various local non- 
governmental organisations, distributing 
the collected items to be reused or 
repurposed for people in need. 

Tackling plastic pollution in Ghana 
Our teams in Ghana embraced the 
2023 theme of 'Beat Plastic Pollution'. 
Our employees joined forces 
with a local company along with 
Solution Oriented Youth Africa, a 
group pioneering sanitation and 
climate change, and the Students 
Representative Council of the local 
University of Professional Studies 
for a clean-up project at Laboma 
Beach, Accra. In addition to picking up 
plastic waste, the group, numbering 
more than 50, talked to local people, 
explaining the need to keep the beach 
clean and conserve our environment. 

In addition to the physical actions we 
take, our global teams work hard to 
educate their local communities and 
families, especially the next generation, 
on caring for the environment. 
Throughout 2023, they did this 
by hosting engaging initiatives to 
encourage environmentally friendly 
practices around the world. 

Reforestation in Guatemala 
Our Intertek Guatemala team launched 
the Plant A Tree With Us initiative to 
promote reforestation. The initiative 
saw colleagues and their families 
travel to a deforestation recovery area 
outside Guatemala City to plant trees, 
learning the best method and building 
vital knowledge on the importance of 
reforestation. The idea is to motivate 
employees and their families – from 
the youngest to the oldest – to raise 
awareness of the significance and 
urgency of maintaining the global 
forests which provide us with so many 
ecological, economic and social benefits. 

Getting creative in Vietnam 
In August, over 120 children of our 
employees at Intertek Vietnam 
enjoyed our Mission Possible: Earth 
Ranger event, organised as part of our 
broader We Care, Earth Cares initiative 
in the Asia Pacific region. The event 
welcomed families from several of our 
offices, including Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh 
and Can Tho, and a range of activities 
followed, including creative contests, 
art workshops, and making flags and 
lanterns from recycled materials, as 
well as an Intertek laboratory tour. 

Building a knowledge  
network in Hong Kong 
To celebrate Green Day 2023, over 
1,400 employees and their families 
enhanced existing environmental 
measures by sharing green tips 
and promoting environmental 
initiatives and responsibilities. 

1,400+ 

employees and their families 
celebrated Green Day 2023 in 
Hong Kong 

32

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Communities

We want to create positive 
impacts in the communities 
where we operate 

Each of our countries and business 
lines define their own agenda to create 
positive and lasting impact. These are 
tied to the Group’s priorities and aligned 
to the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals and focus on their local operations 
and communities. Our Beyond Net 
Zero Steering Committee oversees 
community investments at a global level. 

In this section we provide a small 
selection of highlights from the many 
community activities that our colleagues 
are taking part in around the world. 

Our global business spans 
more than 100 countries and, 
as such, we understand the 
huge opportunity and 
responsibility we have to 
make a positive and lasting 
impact on our local 
communities where we work. 
Taking active responsibility to support 
the communities where we operate 
is grounded in our Values to create 
sustainable growth. For all.

As a business we contribute to our 
communities in many ways. We provide 
employment opportunities, volunteer, 
fund education programmes and 
support charities to benefit local 
communities and neighbourhoods.

33

   150+

mployees 

Community projects our e
participated in focusing on 
education, giving back to local 
communities and preserving our 
environment 

10 , 415

hours volunteered to supp
community projects 

ort 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
Sustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Supporting community initiatives 
in the Netherlands 

WE CARE: leave no one behind 

At the end of every year, our employees 
at Intertek Polychemlab in Geleen, 
Netherlands, nominate a charity to 
support. For 2023, they chose Flower 
for Charity, which organises various 
activities for those in need at a local 
cabin. Supported by a team of volunteers, 
the activities include children’s birthday 
parties and a warm, friendly café service 
for Ukrainian refugees and others in need. 

In February, the Intertek Polychemlab 
team donated an impressive €6,500 
to the charity. The money was raised 
through collection boxes and employees 
purchasing annual leave hours and days 
for an equivalent value donation. 

In 2023, our WE CARE initiative 
transcended borders, leaving smiles 
and hope in its wake. We brought joy 
and support to more elderly people in 
two countries, Malaysia and Singapore, 
while investing in the future by 
nurturing young minds in Thailand. 

Our reach extends beyond smiles 
and support for the elderly though. 
In Thailand, we donated educational 
toys to a children's home, laying the 
foundations for a brighter future. We 
believe that every individual, regardless 
of age, deserves a chance to thrive. 

Intertek Malaysia started the initiative 
in 2022, committing to clean a care 
home for elderly people each quarter. 
With the initiative continuing to thrive 
in Malaysia, we took it to neighbouring 
Singapore, where colleagues have 
volunteered at a local care home 
to offer manicures and haircuts, as 
well as organising entertainment. 

Our actions in 2023 are a testament 
that WE CARE is more than a slogan. 
It is a commitment – a promise 
to help make the Sustainable 
Development Goals and pledge to 
'leave no one behind' a reality. 

34

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Raising community awareness of recycling 

Solar-powered street lights for rural Gurugram 

During a two-day event on the island of 
Langkawi in August, Intertek Malaysia 
joined the Malaysian Recycling Alliance 
in promoting its Consumer Education 
and Public Awareness programme. The 
aim was to educate the local community 
on the importance of recycling 
and other sustainable practices, 

giving them the knowledge to make 
responsible choices in their daily lives. 

An enthusiastic audience took 
part in various activities, such as 
children’s colouring contests, guessing 
games for the weight of recyclable 
items and competitions based on 

separating different types of waste. 
As well as increasing awareness 
of recycling, the event contributed 
to the future preservation of the 
island’s natural habitat by encouraging 
greener habits generally. 

As part of our Lighting Up Lives 
project in India, carried out with local 
charity Deep Welfare Organisation, we 
installed solar-powered street lights in 
five villages in Gurugram. Although the 
villages have access to electricity, they 
generally do not have street lights, so 
this initiative will improve safety and 
quality of life for local people, as well as 
promoting solar power as a sustainable 
way of reducing light poverty. 

The project was expected to benefit 
over 30,000 people and, in an area 
where livestock accidents after 
dark are common, also contribute 
to animal safety. However, we 
exceeded our projected outreach by 
providing benefits to around 36,000 
people across the five villages. 

35

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIntertek in Action 

Giving back to local communities  
in the US and Canada 

During our Season of Giving, our North American teams 
gave back to their local communities in a variety of ways. 
Their efforts helped to change many lives for the better 
and to strengthen their local communities, all in the spirit 
of Build Back Ever Better. 

36

Sustainability performance Continued

Our offices and labs worked with national 
organisations like Toys for Tots and 
the Red Cross, as well as local charities 
supporting a wide range of causes – such 
as those experiencing homelessness 
and economic hardship, those living 
with mental health conditions, victims 
of domestic violence, foster children, 
the elderly and abandoned pets. 

In Farmers Branch, Texas, our 
Professional Service Industries ('PSI') 
team collected donations for the Humane 
Society of North Texas, providing 
food and supplies for the animals the 
organisation cares for. Our PSI team 
in Orlando, Florida, collected items for 
Second Harvest Food Bank, Toys for 
Tots and the Orlando Women’s Shelter. 

In Lowell, Massachusetts, our Business 
Assurance team supported the local 
Salvation Army’s Annual Holiday Toy 
Drive by donating clothes and gifts for 
children in need. The team also spent 
an afternoon helping to distribute the 
donations to more than 100 families, 
joining the Salvation Army’s mission 
to bring joy back into the season. 

Meanwhile, in Mississauga, Canada, our 
Assuris colleagues hosted a holiday 
get-together and fundraiser in support of 
the Canadian Mental Health Association. 
The team raised $1,000 (CAD) during 
the event and made a total donation 
of $1,600 (CAD) with additional money 
it had raised throughout the year. 

After its recent office move, the Intertek 
Catalyst team in Waterloo, Canada, 
got straight into supporting its new 
community by raising funds for a local 
Turkey Drive. The team’s donation of 
$430 (CAD) was combined with other 
contributions to provide a meal for 
14,500 local people in need. Similarly, 
our Hazloc team in Edmonton, Canada, 
collected money for the Hope Mission, 
which serves up Christmas dinner for 
hundreds of disadvantaged and homeless 
people in Edmonton and Calgary each year. 

Our Transportation Technologies team 
in Kentwood, Michigan, donated gifts to 
two community service organisations: 
Be A Santa for a Senior, supporting 
the elderly, and Mel Trotter Ministries, 
helping the homeless. In Texas, our 
Plano team donated blood through 
Carter Blood Care and our colleagues 
in Westlake joined forces with the 
Houston Police Department to host a 
toy drive, collecting for children in need. 

In Bozeman, Montana, our Wisetail 
team took part in several initiatives, 
including a blood drive for the local Red 
Cross and fundraising for two local 
causes: Big Sky Youth Empowerment, 
which supports vulnerable teenagers, 
and the Compassion Project, which 
works in schools and communities 
to promote lifelong skills for 
relationships and wellbeing. 

In addition to coordinated office 
efforts, employees also took part in 
the Season of Giving challenge by 
personally supporting their favourite 
causes across North America. 

Intertek in Action 

Help for victims  
of the Türkiye-Syria 
earthquake 

Following the devastating 
earthquakes in Türkiye and Syria in 
February, we did all we could to 
support our colleagues and local 
communities in the region, especially 
those directly affected by the 
disaster. 

In the immediate aftermath, we 
coordinated rapid support for 
employees who had been displaced, 
helping them to find alternative 
accommodation and providing any 
basic items they needed. In the wider 
community, we arranged for local 
volunteers to manage donations of 
items in the highest demand, including 
sanitary pads and children’s clothing. 
Our local Health & Safety Supervisor, 
trained in emergency response, 
travelled to the most affected region 
to help maximise the impact of these 
rapid response efforts. 

Our Caleb Brett joint venture in 
Türkiye – ITS Caleb Brett Deniz 
Survey SA – also independently 
arranged for trucks to provide key 
items for those in need, as well as 
turning our laboratory in Iskenderun 
into an aid station. 

In addition to the on-the-ground 
support, Intertek Europe & Central 
Asia set up a fundraising page for the 
Disaster Emergency Committee’s 
Türkiye-Syria Earthquake appeal, 
through which employees around the 
world donated more than £6,500. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Delivering social and economic development 
through India’s textiles industry 

Intertek expanded a skills development 
project aimed at providing training and 
employment opportunities for young 
people in India’s textiles industry with 
the opening of new training centres 
in Gurugram and Bengaluru in 2023. 

This initiative started in 2022, when we 
launched the first Textile Technology 
Training ('T3') Centre in Tirupur, Tamil 
Nadu, the heart of the South India textile 
belt and one of Asia’s biggest knitwear 
export hubs. The T3 Centre provides 
socioeconomically disadvantaged 
young people, mostly women, with 
free access to certified courses for 
future lab technicians, chemists, 
merchandisers and customer executives. 

Working in partnership with Reviving 
Green Revolution Cell, a Tata Trusts 
initiative, we have trained 264 young 
people and placed 177 into employment 
in Tirupur. With the opening of new T3 
Centres in Gurugram, northern India, and 
Bengaluru, south India, we are looking 
to train over 400 more by early 2025. 

India has a growing youth population, and 
unemployment due to a widening skills 
gap in the labour force is an issue faced 
by many. The T3 programme is working to 
change the lives of not only the trainees, 
but also successive generations, helping 
to lift entire communities out of economic 
hardship and creating a virtuous cycle of 
growth, stability and better quality of life. 

Improving access to 
healthcare in rural India 

During a visit to India in October, André 
Lacroix, our CEO, and Tony George, 
our Executive Vice President Human 
Resources, officially opened Arogya, a 
new mobile health unit ('MHU') in Tirupur, 
Tamil Nadu. The unit offers preventive 
and curative healthcare to more than 
35,000 people across 20 villages, 
including remote and inaccessible areas 
where basic healthcare is often limited. 

Arogya MHU has been fully equipped 
with the general outpatient services, 
equipment and medicines needed for 
early diagnosis and effective patient 
management. The unit is designed to 
offer inclusive and affordable healthcare 
in addition to a reliable doctor-patient 
follow-up system, ensuring timely 
treatment for those in need. It will also 
serve to enhance local awareness of best 
practices around health and hygiene, with 
the aim of combating the prevalence of 
diseases and other ailments in the region. 

The unit offers preventive and 
curative healthcare to more than

 35,000 

37

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report  
Sustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

New learning centre 
opened for children  
in Zululand 

In July, lntertek South Africa opened 
a learning centre in the Zululand 
district. The centre serves as a pre- 
primary classroom during the day 
and a study room for high school 
children in the afternoon, with 
learning materials provided for 
English, mathematics and science. 

In the planning for more than two 
years, the learning centre was 
funded by lntertek South Africa and 
lntertek Germany. We partnered with 
a small local business to supply the 
infrastructure and design of the 
classroom with the necessary amenities. 

The initiative was executed through 
lntertek South Africa's longstanding 
beneficiary Bevies Care Centre, which 
we have been proudly associated 
with since the early 2000s. Before 
the learning centre was built, we 
supported Bevies Care Centre with 
upgrades and refurbishments to its own 
premises, as well as hamper donations 
to support underprivileged children. 

Responding to 
emerging needs  
during winter freeze  
in Bangladesh 

At the start of 2023, the northern  
region of Bangladesh experienced an 
incredibly cold winter which was 
affecting day-to-day life for many 
people. In response, a team of 
volunteers from Intertek Bangladesh 
helped to procure 350 blankets for 
donation. The team then travelled 
around 80km from Dhaka to the 
remote Shariatpur district, where 
weather conditions were particularly 
harsh. The blankets were then 
handed out to the beneficiaries of 
five charitable organisations, ranging 
from an orphanage to the National 
Federation of the Visually Impaired. 

38

Climbing mountains  
and crossing countries 

Two of our UK-based teams decided to 
take on big physical challenges to raise 
money for charities of their choice. 

Our Energy & Water team travelled from 
the south of England to northwestern 
Wales to climb Snowdon, which, with an 
elevation of 1,085 metres above sea 
level, is the highest point in the British 
Isles outside the Scottish Highlands. 

On a hot day, the team completed 
the challenge in eight hours and 
raised more than £1,000 for 
WaterAid, an international non- 
governmental organisation focused 
on water, sanitation and hygiene. 

The UK HR team took a different 
approach, challenging its members to 
collectively to cover the distance from 
Land's End at the far end of southwest 
England, to John O’Groats on the 
northernmost coast of Scotland. The 
team successfully covered the 1,743km 
distance in three months, raising £1,000 
for the Alzheimer's Society, a UK charity 
supporting people with dementia and 
funding research into the condition. 

raised for WaterAid in 2023 

£1,000 
£1,000 

raised for the Alzheimer's society 
in 2023 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek in Action 

Long-term education programme benefits 
disadvantaged young people in Shanghai 

For the past 16 years, Intertek China  
has provided funding to support 
the education of young people from 
low-income families in Chongming, 
Shanghai. The student aid programme 
gives those from challenging 
backgrounds the opportunity to 
complete their education, from 
primary school to university. 

In addition to the financial 
contribution, the Intertek China 
team stays in contact with the 
young people through one-on-one 
mentoring and online support groups. 
In the summer of 2023, the team 
also delivered books and stationery 
to Chongming, as well as arranging 
a visit to Shanghai Insect Museum. 

As of the end of 2023, we have 
supported more than 40 students, 
with over 20 of them now graduated 
and working, including students 
who have become teachers and 
those studying for degrees in 
important fields like medicine. 

We recently extended our support 
of the programme for another five 
years, ensuring that our current 
students will continue to benefit 
from access to quality education. 

16 

years funding education 
in Chongming 

39

Collaborating with 
universities for 
education reform 

In 2023, Intertek China took 
another significant step in 
its work with universities to 
promote education reform and 
train future industry talent. 

As part of the school-enterprise 
cooperation with the School of 
Materials and Environmental 
Engineering of Shenzhen 
Polytechnic University, Intertek was 
invited as a testing industry expert 
to participate in a curriculum reform 
teaching seminar. This involved 
designing new practical courses for 
the university to help develop more 
application-oriented talent, as well 
as implementing a way of teaching 
which centres on the cultivation of 
vocational abilities. In addition, an 
Intertek expert delivered lectures 
about the third-party testing 
industry to more than 300 students. 

This important collaboration will 
not only help to improve the quality 
of teaching at the university, 
but also lays a solid foundation 
for the delivery of skilled talent 
into the testing industry. 

Encouraging  
more girls into STEM 

For the fourth year in a row, 
Intertek Sweden invited a group 
of girls to see our Electrical and 
Transportation Technologies 
laboratory in Kista, Stockholm. The 
visit was part of the countrywide 
Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day, 
which aims to encourage more 
young girls and non-binary people 
to consider careers in science, 
technology, engineering and maths 
('STEM').  

The 20 attendees, all with a 
specific interest in engineering, 
were given tours of several of our 
testing laboratories and met some 
of our female engineers to learn 
more about their work and career 
journeys. They also got to see some 
tests in action and ask questions 
about the world of engineering. 
Having hosted the event virtually 
for the last few years, we were 
especially pleased to welcome 
the girls in person once again. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Responsible Business 

We are uncompromising  
on quality and compliance 

To deliver long-term 
sustainable success we strive 
for the highest standards of 
corporate governance, 
conduct and integrity. 
Through our entrepreneurial culture 
and Values, we strive to make the world 
better, safer and more sustainable. 

Our responsible business practices – 
protecting human rights, 'Doing Business 
the Right Way', ensuring data privacy 
and good information governance and 
operating sustainable procurement 
practices – underpin our focus areas 
and the commitments we have made. 

Human rights 
Respecting human rights is core to 
everything we do and is supported 
through our Labour and Human Rights 
policy, Code of Ethics and Sustainable 
Procurement policy. Intertek’s policies 
and codes are based on and fully respect 
the International Bill of Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work and the UNICEF 
Children’s Rights and Business Principles. 

We are committed to ensuring that 
our employees are subject to fair 
working practices and are treated 
with respect. We continually review 
our approach in this area to reflect any 
legal developments, emerging issues 
and changing societal expectations. 

Some of the ways in which we 
work to promote human rights 
within our business include: 

•  Working conditions: We comply with 
all applicable labour and human rights 
laws and industry standards on 
working hours, paid annual vacation, 
rest periods and statutory minimum 
wages. 

•   Indigenous rights: We respect the 

rights of indigenous people. Our goal is 
to support our leaders, our people and 
our communities to develop respectful 
relationships and create meaningful 
opportunities for dialogue with 
indigenous people, where appropriate. 
•   Forced labour: We do not tolerate any 

form of forced labour, child labour, 
slavery, human trafficking, physical 
punishment or other abuse within our 
business or our supply chain. 

•  Our Modern Slavery Act Statement 

outlines the steps we are taking 
internally, in our supply chain and 
through partnerships and advocacy to 
avert modern slavery and human 
trafficking. This is available on our 
website. 

•   Child labour: We do not employ people 
below the age of 15 or below the local 
minimum employment/mandatory 
school age – whichever is higher and 
relevant to the particular country. 
Where we provide apprenticeships for 
young people, we put special 
protections in place and ensure they 
are not exposed to hazardous work. 
•   Collective bargaining: We respect the 
rights of our employees to form and 
join trade unions and take part in 
collective bargaining where this is as 
per local law. We also take care that 
employee representatives do not suffer 
discrimination and that they have open 
access to members in the workplace. 
We strictly adhere to tariff structures 
and arrangements negotiated with 
trade unions, while we also inform and 
consult employees on relevant 
business activities. For example, we 
respect statutory minimum notice 
periods and give reasonable notice of 
any significant operational changes in 
line with local practices and labour 
markets. Our affiliates’ communication 
and consultation processes are tailored 
to local needs. 

40

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

'Doing Business the Right Way' 
We continue to develop a best 
practice compliance programme to 
ensure Intertek operates with the 
highest standards of compliance and 
ethical business practices, including 
through our supply chain partners. 

We are committed to maintaining the 
total confidence of our stakeholders. 
One of the Group’s primary business 
objectives is to help our customers 
meet quality standards for virtually any 
market in the world and protect them 
against risk by ensuring compliance with 
local, national and international laws. 

The accuracy and validity of reports 
and certificates that we provide are, 
therefore, important factors which 
contribute to our success and integral 
to this work is ‘Doing Business the 
Right Way’, our internal risk, control, 
compliance and quality programme. 

Our compliance programme is designed to: 

•  give our people the processes, tools 

and training they need to ensure a safe 
and inclusive environment; 

•  support the delivery of our services and 
the performance of our contracts with 
integrity and in line with our 
commitment to Total Quality; 
•  obtain the commitment of every 

colleague to the highest standards of 
professional conduct; and 
•  deliver sustainable growth by 

managing our risks and doing the right 
thing for the longer term. 

Public policy 
We interact with trade associations and 
governmental authorities to provide input 
into industry and regulatory improvements 
in product safety, quality and risk 
assurance. In our interactions with 
governments, governmental authorities 
and regulators we ensure that we comply 
fully with all laws and regulations. 

Ethics, integrity and  
professional conduct 
Our commitment to the highest 
standards of integrity and professional 
ethics is embedded in the Group’s culture 
through the principles set out in our 
Code of Ethics (‘Code’). The Code sets a 
clear expectation that people working 
for our business must act at all times 
with integrity and in an open, honest, 
ethical and socially responsible manner. 

The Code also covers health and 
safety, anti-bribery, anti-competitive 
practices, labour and human rights. 

The Board, as a whole, oversees the 
implementation of human rights 
commitments and supports human 
rights as defined in the Code. 

We have a culture in which all issues 
relevant to our professional conduct 
and the Code can be raised and 
discussed openly without recrimination. 
We operate a strict zero-tolerance 
policy regarding any breach of our 
Code and any behaviour that fails 
to meet our expected standards. 

To support the implementation of 
our Code in our day-to-day business 
activities, all people working for, or 
on behalf of, Intertek are required to 
sign the Code upon joining the Group 

or before commencing work on our 
behalf. This confirms their acceptance 
of the high standards expected of 
them in all business dealings. 

Intertek employees or people acting 
on Intertek’s behalf are responsible for 
applying the Code in their own job role, 
their part of the business and location. 

Every year, to support the continuing 
understanding in this area, all our 
people are required to complete our 
Code of Ethics training course. This 
training covers the Code and other 
important subjects relating to ‘Doing 
Business the Right Way’, such as data 
security and operational controls. Once 
completed, all employees are required 
to sign a document confirming their 
understanding that any breaches 
of the Code will result in disciplinary 
action that may include summary 
dismissal of the employee concerned. 

Our Code of Ethics training educates 
all employees annually about 
potential integrity issues, including 
human rights, bribery, corruption, 
non-discrimination and employee 
relations. The Code of Ethics contains 
clear guidance on the grievance 
mechanisms and whistleblowing 
procedures that we have in place. 

10 0% 

We aim for 100% completion rates 
for eligible employees for our Code 
of Ethics training on an annual basis. 

Intertek in Action 

Modern slavery training 

In 2023 we used our in-house 
expertise from our Business 
Assurance team to run live training 
across global time zones during 
which we trained over 100 of our 
colleagues in compliance, legal, HR, 
finance operations, and our business 
operations. This training was designed 
to not only cover the issue of modern 
slavery and Intertek’s obligations in 
this area, but also how to spot risk 
indicators for modern slavery, what to 

do to mitigate modern slavery risk and 
who to report concerns to. The training 
is now available to our colleagues 
as an 'on demand' training video. 

Through this training we refreshed 
our commitment on a global scale to 
fighting modern slavery, whenever 
and however we can. We also ensured 
that our people had the knowledge 
and the tools they needed to 
understand how to take action. 

41

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Evaluation of suppliers 
Our corporate procedures govern 
our purchasing and evaluation of 
vendors and sub-contractors supplying 
Intertek with goods and services. 

Approval and evaluation may 
be based on quality, health and 
safety, environmental performance 
and delivery. Performance is also 
measured, recorded and benchmarked 
against established objectives as 
part of our disciplined performance 
management principles, supported by 
our Quality Management System. 

Going forward we will be looking 
at the environmental attributes of 
different procurement categories and 
investigating if we can already take steps 
to choose our suppliers based on their 
environmental and climate performance.

  Visit: intertek.com/about/ 

our-responsibility for our Sustainable  
Procurement policy 

Whistleblowing hotline 
To empower our people and stakeholders 
to voice any concerns about breaches 
of the Code or any of our other policies 
(including our Labour and Human Rights 
policy and Modern Slavery policy), we 
have a well-publicised hotline which can 
be used by all employees, contractors and 
others representing Intertek, or by third 
parties such as our customers or people 
who are affected by our operations. 

This whistleblowing hotline is run by 
an independent, external provider. It 
is multi-language and is accessible by 
phone and by email 24 hours a day. 

Those who are aware of any non- 
compliances with our policies and 
procedures are encouraged to report 
that conduct, non-compliance, or 
integrity or ethical concern using 
the hotline. Information posters 
are present in all of our sites. 

Once a report is made to the hotline, 
it is triaged through the system and 
will be followed up by the relevant 
function, depending upon the nature 
of the allegation of non-compliance 
made. Our Group Compliance function, 
which is independent of our operational 
businesses and reports directly to our 
Group General Counsel, investigates, as 
appropriate, all reports received relating 
to integrity issues and other compliance 
matters. Provided there is no conflict 
of interest, all reports of integrity and 

compliance matters are also notified 
to our Group Risk Ethics & Compliance 
Committees, which consist of our CEO, 
CFO, EVP for HR and Group General 
Counsel. This reporting line promotes 
effective oversight of the resolution 
both of individual issues and of any 
systemic or process improvements 
that can be made to address them. 

During 2023, 106 reports of non- 
compliance with the Code were made 
to our hotline. Of those reports, 
39 were substantiated or partially 
substantiated and required remedial 
action. Of those substantiated claims: 

•  there were no substantiated 

grievances relating to human rights, 
labour practices or societal impact 
breaches; 

•  there were no environmental incidents;

•  there were no anti-trust incidents; 
•  there were no violations of the rights 

of indigenous people; and 

•  there were no cases of discrimination. 

Two confirmed incidents were identified 
through our hotline where employees 
were disciplined or dismissed due to 
non-compliance with our anti-corruption 
policy. 

Sustainable procurement 
We are deeply committed to operating 
with integrity by ‘Doing Business the 
Right Way’ and to pursuing our corporate 
social responsibility activities through 
living our strong Values. Our suppliers 
have an important part to play in 
contributing to our sustainability. 

Our sourcing approach 
We work with thousands of suppliers 
around the world. We expect all suppliers 
to meet the same internationally 
recognised human rights, environmental 
and quality standards that we 
expect of our own businesses. These 
include meeting local legislative 
requirements but also applicable 
international requirements for 
workers’ welfare and conditions of 
employment, such as those set by the 
International Labour Organization (‘ILO’) 
and the Ethical Trading Initiative. 

Large global suppliers offer stability in 
terms of financial resilience, delivery 
capacity and pricing structures, 
potentially coupled with better pricing 
and improved margins. However, 
our supply chain is quite diverse and 
geographically dispersed, and our 
procurement teams need to find regional 
and local suppliers. Through structured 
sourcing processes, we select the 
best option for us while continuing to 
support local suppliers that meet our 
business and sustainability requirements. 
Selecting regional and local suppliers, 
where appropriate, demonstrates 
our commitment to supporting the 
communities in which we operate. 

42

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSustainability performance Continued

Intertek in Action 

Identify 

Protect 

Data 
protection

Our  
risk-based  
security 
framework 

Detect 

Recover 

Respond

Data protection 
We believe that all our people and 
all our customers have the right 
to data privacy, and so we have 
adopted the best practices and 
standards set out in applicable Data 
Protection Regulations across all 
of our markets and operations, and 
in relation to all individuals whose 
personal data we obtain and use 
(not just individuals in the EEA). 
Our Group Data Protection policy is 
aligned with the UK General Data 
Protection Regulation ('GDPR') 
requirements to set out the 
minimum data protection standards 
we apply throughout our operations 
so that we use all personal data 
transparently, fairly and securely. 

Detect 
We define the appropriate activities 
for the timely discovery of the 
occurrence of security events. We 
monitor continuously and verify the 
effectiveness of protective measures. 

Respond 
We ensure response planning 
processes are executed before, 
during and after an incident, so that 
we take appropriate action regarding 
situations and contain their impact. 
We also implement improvements, 
by incorporating lessons learned 
from current and previous 
detection/response activities. 

Recover 
We undertake appropriate activities 
to maintain plans for resilience and 
to restore any capabilities or services 
that were impaired due to an incident. 
Our recovery function ensures timely 
recovery to normal operations to 
reduce the impact from an incident. 

Uncompromising on 
Quality and Compliance 

Intertek Core Mandatory Controls 
('CMCs') are how we define, 
monitor and achieve consistently 
high standards in our control 
environment throughout the whole 
organisation. The CMCs are updated 
annually, reflecting changes in 
Intertek's systemic risks (risks which 
are inherent in our operations). The 
CMCs were updated in December 
2023 and communicated to all 
colleagues via Whatsin, our intranet. 
The CMCs are comprehensive, 
setting out Intertek's control 
framework; there are 295 controls 
organised under nine themes. 

To ensure implementation, and to 
remain uncompromising on Quality 
and Compliance in relation to our 
cyber risk, our IT-related Core 
Mandatory Controls framework 
forms the mechanism to define, 
monitor and achieve consistently 
high standards. Control and 
oversight is provided through our 
CyberSecurity Team, Group Legal & 
Compliance and the Internal Audit 
team. We have mandatory training 
on data security and privacy for 
all employees and global data 
breach response processes. 

i Sustainability 

Disclosure Index 

The 2023 Intertek Sustainability 
Disclosure Index is complementary 
to our published reports and sets 
out how our latest disclosures 
map to our own Total 
Sustainability Assurance 
standards, the Global Reporting 
Initiative (‘GRI’) and applicable 
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (‘SASB’) 
requirements. 

  intertek.com/about/our-responsibility/ 

  More information on how  

sustainability is governed at 
Intertek can be found within our  
Directors’ report on pages 46-47

Enterprise security 
At Intertek we have adopted a risk- 
based CyberSecurity framework, based 
on international best practice, NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework. Our framework 
guides clear policies, guidelines, and 
supporting controls. We continue to 
innovate, enhancing service delivery 
and strengthening internal and external 
customer relationships to protect 
customer, employee and Intertek data. 

There is regular reporting on progress of 
the security programmes to governance 
and oversight committees by our 
dedicated Chief Information Security 
Officer, who leads a global team. 

We use a risk-based security 
framework model: 

Identify 
We develop a clear organisational 
understanding of risks to our 
systems, people and data, enabling 
us to prioritise efforts that are 
consistent with our risk management 
strategy and business needs. 

Protect 
We put in place appropriate 
safeguards to ensure delivery 
of critical services, including 
access control, staff awareness 
and training, and data security. 

These safeguards support our 
ability to limit or contain the 
impact of potential events. 

43

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
Directors' report

Board promise 

1
2

3

We recognise our responsibility to all 
stakeholders and will strive to ask 
the questions that matter and make 
the right decisions. 

We will be forward looking and use our 
diverse perspectives and insights to 
promote Intertek’s Purpose of bringing 
quality, safety and sustainability to life. 

We will inspire our people to take 
client relationships and our 
performance to greater heights and 
to create sustainable growth for all. 

Governance highlights 

Return of capital 
111.7p Ordinary dividend per share for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2023 including interim 
and final dividend. 

Progressed Board succession 
Approved the appointment of a new Non-Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer. 

Appraised strategic delivery 
Launch of the AAA diversified growth strategy. 

Acquisitions 
Focused on investing in growth through 
targeted acquisition activity that will benefit 
customers and shareholders. 

Andrew Martin 
Chair of the Board and 
Nomination Committee 
Chair 

Gill Rider CB 
Non-Executive Director and 
Remuneration Committee 
Chair 

Jean-Michel Valette 
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chair 

Directors' report 

Contents 

44  Governance at a glance 
45   Compliance with the 2018 UK  

Corporate Governance Code (‘Code’) 

46  Governance structure 
48  Chair's introduction 
50  Board of Directors 
53  Group Executive Committee 
54   Board leadership and company purpose 
62   Composition, succession and evaluation 
65  Audit, risk and internal control 
66  Committee reports

66  Nomination Committee report
70  Audit Committee report
78   Remuneration Committee report 

104  Other Statutory Information

44

The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 in Book two and Book three.Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
Governance at a glance

Board composition and diversity as of 31 December 2023 

Board skills and experience 

Consulting 

Risk Management 

Customer Service/Care 

People 

Finance 

International 

Sustainability 

Digital/Technology 

UK Listed Company Director 

Previous/Current CEO 

UK NED Experience 

6

11 

9 

8 

9

11 

11 

4

10 

7 

9 

Board balance by 
gender 

Board balance by 
independence 

1

1

2

2

1. 

Male 

2. 

Female 

58% 

42% 

1. 

Executive Directors 

17% 

2. 

Independent Non-Executive Directors  83% 

Geographical heritage 

Ethnicity 

1

1

4

3

2

Our Non-Executive Directors have a 
diverse skill set and background as shown 
in the table above. This expertise enables 
the Board to constructively challenge 
management and encourages diversity of 
thought in the decision-making process. 
For their full biographies please see our 
website. 

  intertek.com/about/leadership-team/ 

2

1. 

Europe 

2.

North America 

3. 

Australasia 

4. 

South-East Asia 

50% 

17% 

8% 

25% 

45 

1. 

White 

2. 

Asian 

75% 

25% 

Board Tenure 

1

3

2

1. 

0-3 years 

2. 

3-6 years 

3. 

6-9 years 

50% 

25% 

25% 

Compliance with the 2018  
UK Corporate Governance Code (‘Code’) 

This is more than the pension 
contribution of the majority of the UK 
workforce. Regardless of the obligations 
outlined in the CEO’s contract, agreement 
was reached with the CEO to reduce 
his pension from 30% of base salary to 
5% over a period of five years starting 
from 2021, and from 1 June 2024, the 
pension contribution will reduce to 10% 
of base salary. More information on the 
engagement with shareholders on this 
issue is outlined in the letter from the 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
in the 2021 Annual Report & Accounts. 

A more detailed explanation of our 
compliance can also be found on 
our website at intertek.com. The 
information required to be disclosed 
in accordance with DTR 7.2.6 can 
be found in the Other Statutory 
Information section on pages 104–107. 

The Directors' report has been 
prepared to provide stakeholders 
with a comprehensive understanding 
of how the Company has applied 
the principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code during 2023. 

  The Code is available at www.frc.org.uk 

The Board confirms that during 2023, the 
Company has consistently applied the 
principles of good corporate governance 
contained in the Code and has complied 
with the provisions apart from Provision 38. 

Provision 38 stipulates that the pension 
contribution rates for Executive 
Directors should be aligned with 
that of the workforce. The pension 
contribution for all new Executive 
Directors appointed to the Board since 
2018 has been aligned with that of the 
workforce. However, when the current 
CEO joined Intertek in 2015, and prior 
to the introduction of Provision 38 in 
the Code issued in 2018, his contract 
stipulated a pension contribution of 
30% of base salary per annum. 

Book two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIntertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance structure

Our Board of Directors 
See pages 50-52 for their biographies 

Audit Committee 
See page 70 for the Committee Report 

Nomination Committee 
See page 66 for the Committee Report 

Remuneration Committee 
See page 78 for the Committee Report 

The Chief Executive and the Group Executive Committee 
See page 53 for the Group Executive Committee 

Risk Governance 

Sustainability Governance 

Group Risk  
Committee 

Ethics and Compliance  
Committee 

Net Zero Steering 
Committee 

Beyond Net Zero  
Steering Committee 

Regional, divisional and  
functional risk committees 

Disclosure Committee 

Regional management,  
Net Zero Champions and finance 

Regional Sustainability 
Committees and Champions, 
Regional HR and Marketing 

Group Investment 
Committee 

Business Lines 

Governance structure 

The Board delegates specific 
responsibilities, subject to certain financial 
limits governed by the Core Mandatory 
Controls, to management. 

Supporting Committees 
The Group Executive Committee operates 
a number of supporting committees which 
provide oversight on key business 
activities and risks. 

46

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGovernance structure Continued

Our Board of Directors 

Nomination Committee 

The Board has the ultimate and collective responsibility to promote the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company, ensuring that value is created for shareholders and contributes to wider 
society through its effective, entrepreneurial and innovative leadership. They ensure that the 
necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and measure performance 
against them. 

Our Board consistently acts with integrity, leads by example and promotes the culture to ensure its 
dissemination throughout the Company. It sets the strategic aims of the Company, its Purpose, 
customer promise, Vision and Values in alignment with our culture as outlined in Book one, pages 
10-11 and 16-25. 

Matters reserved for the Board and its Committees’ terms of reference can be found on our website 
at intertek.com/about/compliance-governance. 

Ensures the Board and its Committees have the correct balance of skills, experience and knowledge 
and that adequate and orderly succession plans are in place. 

Audit Committee 

Oversees the Group’s financial reporting, ensuring the effectiveness and independence of the 
external and internal audit functions and reviews the Group’s financial internal controls and risk 
management systems. 

Remuneration Committee 

Establishes the Group’s Remuneration Policy and ensures that it supports the strategy promoting 
the long-term sustainable success of the Group and that there is a clear link between performance, 
remuneration and alignment with our Purpose, Values and strategy. 

Chief Executive Officer 

The CEO is responsible for: 
•  Proposing and agreeing the group strategy with the Board. 

Group Executive Committee 

The Group Executive Committee is responsible for: 

•  Leading the day-to-day operations of the Group in line with the agreed strategy and commercial 

objectives. 

•  Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, 

integrity, sustainability and corporate governance. 

•  Supporting the CEO on the delivery of our AAA differentiated growth strategy. 
•  Providing input into strategic and operational decisions aligned to business priorities, and 

supporting on the delivery of actions. 

•  Supporting the CEO in implementing decisions made by the Board. 

Supporting Committees 
The Board Committees are delegated a specific area of focus by the 
Board, while the Group Executive Committee establishes and 
oversees the Committees needed at Group and Business Line level to 
achieve strategic delivery. 

Clarity surrounding the responsibilities of each Committee is ensured 
through approved Terms of Reference. Monitoring of delegated 
matters is governed by our Core Mandatory controls, an annually 
reviewed and refreshed framework that allows the delivery of 
strategic aims and financial performance whilst allowing risk to be 

assessed and managed. On executive matters, the CEO and CFO are 
responsible for providing updates at each Board meeting. 

47

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChair's introduction

Dear shareholder 
As we reflect on another year of progress and 
growth, I am pleased to share with you the highlights 
and achievements of our Company in 2023. 
Despite ongoing global challenges, including 
inflationary pressures and geopolitical uncertainties, 
our strong financial performance and our people’s 
unwavering commitment to our purpose of ‘bringing 
quality, safety and sustainability to life’ have allowed 
us to continue delivering exceptional service to our 
clients, and create value for our shareholders. 

Financial performance 
Our financial performance in 2023 was strong, 
reflecting the resilience and adaptability of our 
business model and the dedication of our talented 
teams. The demand for our ATIC solutions is 
accelerating and we have delivered the best 
like-for-like revenue growth in the last ten years. Our 
efforts to mitigate the impacts of inflation resulted 
in improved margins, showcasing the continued 
strength of our business model. 

Our cash performance was strong and our balance 
sheet robust. We maintained our disciplined approach 
to capital allocation allowing us to invest in 
high-growth, high-margin initiatives and respond to 
evolving client needs while increasing Return on 
Invested Capital to 20.5%. 

We continued to allocate resources towards 
innovation with a focus on sustainability. Building on 
the success of the CarbonClear and CarbonZero 
programmes, we launched Intertek Hydrogen 
Assurance and opened a state-of-the-art Battery 
Centre of Excellence in Italy. I am particularly excited 
by the recently announced partnership with SunSpec 
to verify products that provide CyberSecurity for 
electrical grids. 

Our commitment to supplement growth through 
acquisitions continued in 2023, with the integration 
of PlayerLync, strengthening our People Assurance 
services and Controle Analítico Análises Técnicas 
expanding our Food and Agriculture offering in Brazil. 

In line with our dividend policy, the Board is proposing 
a final dividend of74.0p making 111.7p for the full 
year representing a payout ratio of 50%. 
In recognition of the Group’s highly cash generative 
earnings model, strong financial position, ability to 
fund continued growth investments and the Board’s 
confidence in the attractive long term growth 
prospects, from 2024 we are changing our dividend 
policy to increase the targeted payout ratio to circa 
65% of earnings. 

Strategy and People 
In May 2023, André and the management team 
hosted a successful two-day Capital Markets Event 
in London setting out the Intertek AAA 
differentiated growth strategy to unlock the 
significant ongoing value growth opportunity. This 
event was a pivotal moment for Intertek and ahead 
of the event, the Board had been fully engaged in 
the development of this strategic vision for the 
future and with the plans to capitalise on our 
strengths and address the areas requiring ongoing 
development. Consistent with our commitment to 
transparency, we announced new segmental 
disclosures and revenue growth targets to align with 
our increased focus on key markets and business 
areas. 

Chair's introduction 

On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to recognise the amazing 
work and commitment of our 
entire workforce. 

Andrew Martin 
Chair 

48

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportChair's introduction Continued

Through the remainder of the year, the Board met 
with geographic and business line leaders to discuss 
the implementation and alignment of the Group 
strategy. These meetings have enabled us to see 
how we are driving collaboration across the 
organisation and enhancing our ability to deliver 
best-in-class services to our clients. We also 
completed deep dive reviews of the portfolio and 
visited one of our key markets holding a Board 
meeting in Austin, Texas at the offices of Alchemy. 

All these meetings facilitated engagement with our 
people who remain at the heart of our success. The 
Board fully supports investment in their 
development and wellbeing. We are proud of the 
diverse and inclusive culture that we have fostered, 
which enables us to attract, retain, and develop the 
best talent in the industry and is critical for delivering 
sustainable value to all stakeholders. 

The Board and I would like to express our gratitude 
to our entire workforce for their dedication, passion, 
and hard work. 

Governance and the Board 
Strong corporate governance remains a cornerstone 
of our Company, underpinning the sustainability of 
our business and the delivery of our strategy. The 
Board continues to constructively challenge and 
support executive management as it executes the 
strategy and reacts to change while meeting its core 
responsibility of overseeing our governance 
framework, risk management, financial performance, 
corporate controls and culture. 

Throughout the year, we have maintained an open 
dialogue with our major shareholders and received 
feedback on their views. In addition, I met with 
leading shareholders to hear directly their thoughts 
about our performance, strategy, and governance, 
which has been invaluable in shaping our approach to 
creating long-term value for all stakeholders. 

There have been a number of changes to the Board. 
In March 2023, Colm Deasy was appointed Group 
Chief Financial Officer. Colm has wide knowledge of 
Intertek having previously worked as Group Treasurer, 
Head of Tax and a leader of several of our key 
businesses. We have continued to enhance 
capabilities on the Board, with Apurvi Sheth joining 
the Board on 1 September 2023 as a Non-Executive 
Director bringing with her over three decades of 
experience in consumer brands and ASEAN markets. 

As Chair, I am responsible for ensuring the 
effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and 
individual Directors, that it operates with openness 
and inclusivity and that each Board member 
contributes such that we benefit from the diversity 
of skills and experience that they bring. This year’s 
performance review of the Board was internal. The 
evaluation concluded that the Board and its 
Committees are performing effectively, with clear 
and appropriate terms of reference, policies and 
processes; have the necessary information and 
resources provided and time allocated for discussions 
to function effectively; and have an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience and knowledge to 
encourage challenge and debate. 

Looking forward 
Our global presence, expertise in Total Quality 
Assurance, market leading positions and the 
enthusiasm of our people provide a great strong 
foundation for continued growth of Intertek. We 
remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable 
growth and value for all stakeholders, as we 
capitalise on the significant opportunities within the 
assurance, testing, inspection, and certification 
industry. I would like to thank our shareholders for 
their ongoing support and I look forward to sharing 
further successes with you in the future. 

Despite ongoing global 
challenges, including inflationary 
pressures and geopolitical 
uncertainties, our strong financial 
performance and our people’s 
unwavering commitment to our 
purpose of ‘bringing quality, 
safety and sustainability to life’ 
have allowed us to continue 
delivering exceptional service to 
our clients, and create value for 
our shareholders. 

Andrew Martin 
Chair 

49

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportBoard of Directors

Board of 
Directors 

Andrew Martin 

N 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy 

Graham Allan 

N 

R 

Chair 

Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Financial Officer 

Senior Independent Director 

Appointed: to the Board in May 2015

Appointed: to the Board in March 2023

Appointed: to the Board in October 2017

Tenure: 8.5 years 

Tenure: 0.75 year 

Tenure: 6 years 

Appointed: to the Board in May 2016;  
appointed Chair in January 2021 
Tenure: 7.5 years 

Skills and competencies: 
Andrew is a qualified accountant and an 
Associate of the Chartered Institute of 
Taxation with wide-ranging experience and an 
extensive financial background within large 
international organisations, who provides great 
strength and depth to the Intertek Board. His 
experience as a Chair and as Non-Executive 
Director assists in promoting the long-term 
sustainable success of the Company for 
stakeholders and generating value for 
shareholders. 
From 2012 to 2015, Andrew was Chief 
Operating Officer for Compass Group plc having 
previously been their Group Finance Director 
from 2004 to 2012. Before joining Compass 
Group, he held senior financial positions with 
First Choice Holidays plc, (now TUI Group) Forte 
plc and Granada Group plc (now ITV plc) and 
was a partner at Arthur Andersen. 
Andrew has been a Non-Executive Director of 
easyJet plc and a Non-Executive Director of the 
John Lewis Partnership Board. 

Skills and competencies: 
Colm brings extensive knowledge and 
understanding of the complexities of the 
Intertek Group to his role on the Board. 

He joined Intertek in 2016 as the Group 
Treasurer and later Tax Director. 

In 2019 he moved into the role of Regional 
Managing Director for Asia Pacific before his 
promotion as President Global Transportation 
Technologies, Building & Construction and 
People Assurance. 

Prior to Intertek, Colm worked in banking and 
insurance in EMEA, before coming to the UK to 
take up senior roles in finance and general 
management. 

Skills and competencies: 
André has an excellent track record of 
delivering long-term growth strategies and 
shareholder value globally across diverse 
territories. 

He has consistently succeeded in driving 
growth and performance in his career and has 
the requisite qualities to carry on leading 
Intertek in its continued drive for long-term 
sustainable value creation. 
From 2005 to 2015, André was Group CEO of 
Inchcape plc, during which time he 
strengthened its position in the global 
automotive market with a track record of 
delivering double-digit earnings growth with 
strong cash generation, and created significant 
shareholder value as its market capitalisation 
more than doubled during his tenure as CEO. 
He was previously Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Euro Disney S.C.A., 
President of Burger King International 
operations and the Senior Independent 
Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc from 
October 2008 to December 2018. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Non-Executive Chairman of Hays plc and Chair 
of their Nomination Committee 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
None 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
None 

Skills and competencies: 
Graham brings strong general management 
experience, as well as extensive knowledge of 
Asian and other international markets, in 
consumer and retail businesses. This 
background provides a strong complement to 
the current skills on the Board. He also has vast 
experience of operating at Board level on a 
global scale. Graham was Group Chief 
Executive of Dairy Farm International Holdings 
Limited, an Asian retailer based in Hong Kong, 
from 2012-2017 and President and CEO of 
Yum Restaurants International (a Division of 
Yum Brands) from 2003-2012. In the latter 
role, he led the growth of global brands KFC, 
Pizza Hut and Taco Bell across most 
international markets. He had previously 
worked at Yum Brands and PepsiCo in several 
senior management positions since 1992. Prior 
to joining PepsiCo, he worked as a consultant 
at McKinsey & Co Inc. 
He has also previously served as a Non- 
Executive Director of Yonghui Superstores Co. 
Ltd in China and a Commissioner of Hero Group, 
a leading Indonesian retailer. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of 
InterContinental Hotels Group plc, Non- 
Executive Director of Associated British Foods 
plc, Americana Restaurants International plc 
and a Director of Ikano Retail Pte Ltd (privately 
owned). Chairman of Bata International 
(privately owned) and adviser to Nando's Ltd. 

Committees: 

Audit 

Nomination 

Remuneration 

Committee Chair 

A 

N 

R 

(Tenure is given as at 31 December 2023) 

50

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
Board of Directors Continued

Gurnek Bains 

N  R 

Lynda Clarizio 

A 

Tamara Ingram OBE 

N  R 

Jez Maiden 

A 

Kawal Preet 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Appointed: to the Board in July 2017 

Appointed: to the Board in March 2021

Appointed: to the Board in December 2020

Appointed: to the Board in May 2022

Appointed: to the Board in December 2022

Tenure: 6.5 years 

Tenure: 2.75 years 

Tenure: 3 years 

Tenure: 1.5 years 

Tenure: 1 year 

Skills and competencies: 
Gurnek’s extensive experience, working with 
senior leaders across a wide range of industries 
internationally and his thought leadership on 
culture and leadership development provides 
an important voice in the discussions at Board 
level, particularly with the Group People 
Strategy being of such great importance to the 
long-term sustainable success of the Company. 
Gurnek was the co-founder of YSC Ltd, a 
premier global business psychology 
consultancy. He led the business as CEO and 
Chair for 25 years, to a position of global 
pre-eminence, and a client base comprising 
over 40% of the FTSE 100. Gurnek has worked 
extensively with multinational organisations in 
the areas of culture change, vision and values, 
executive coaching and assessment, Board 
development and strategic talent 
development. 

Gurnek is Chair of Akram Khan Dance Company 
and has a doctorate in psychology from Oxford 
University. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Managing Partner of Global Future Partnership 
LLP and CEO of Nous Think Tank. 

51 

Skills and competencies: 
Lynda has over 20 years’ experience in the 
media industry growing and scaling businesses 
with a focus on data and technology to drive 
transparency, accountability and improve 
business performance. Lynda’s outstanding 
leadership and significant experience in digital 
measurement and broader technology provides 
a strong addition to the skills on the Board. 
Lynda is the Co-Founder and General Partner 
of The 98, an early stage venture fund 
investing in technology businesses led by 
women. Lynda was President of U.S. Media at 
Nielsen Holdings plc, a global measurement and 
data analytics company. She has also held CEO, 
President and other leadership positions at 
AppNexus, Inc., INVISION, Inc., AOL Inc. and 
Advertising.com. 

She was previously a partner at the law firm 
Arnold & Porter, where she practised law until 
1999. 

Skills and competencies: 
Tamara has had an extensive career in 
advertising, marketing and digital 
communication and has a deep understanding 
of consumer brands and digital strategy. She 
brings a strong track record of outstanding 
leadership in global marketing services and her 
experience of branding together with her 
stakeholder management abilities bring 
additional skills and expertise to the Board. 
Tamara held leadership roles within WPP from 
2002, and was the Global Chair of Wunderman 
Thompson (a subsidiary of WPP plc). Her 
executive experience includes senior roles at 
Kantar Group, McCann Erickson and Saatchi & 
Saatchi UK, where she held the roles of CEO 
and Executive Chair. Tamara was previously a 
Non-Executive Director of Sage Group plc and 
Serco Group plc. 
She is Chair of Asthma + Lung UK. 

Skills and competencies: 
Jez is an experienced international public 
company CFO with a strong track record, who 
has worked in a diverse range of industries and 
sectors primarily manufacturing, service and 
finance. In addition Jez has a strong background 
as Non-Executive Director. 
Jez retired as Group Finance Director for Croda 
International Plc, the FTSE100 global speciality 
chemicals company, in March 2023 after being 
in the role since 2015. Before he joined Croda 
International plc, he had been the Group FD at 
National Express Group, Northern Foods Plc 
and Chief Financial Officer at British Vita Plc. 
He was previously the Senior Independent 
Director, Chair of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees at Synthomer plc and Chair of the 
Audit & Risk Committee and a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees at 
PZ Cussons plc. 

Jez is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of CDW Corporation, 
Emerald Holding, Inc and Taboola.com Ltd (US 
listed companies), and Simpli.fi Holdings, Inc.,  
and Cambri Oy (both privately owned). 
Non-Executive Director of Human Rights 
First (a non-profit international human 
rights organisation). 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Non-Executive Director of Marsh & McLennan 
Companies, Inc., Non-Executive Director of 
Marks and Spencer Group plc and Non-Executive 
Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Senior Independent Director of Travis Perkins plc; 
Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc, 
Chair of their Audit Committee and a member 
of their Remuneration Committee; and 
Non-Executive Director of the Centre 
for Process Innovation Ltd. 

Skills and competencies: 
Kawal is an accomplished senior executive with 
extensive experience of cross-functional 
leadership responsibilities in the fast-paced and 
dynamic express transportation and airline 
industry and supply chains. Her experience of 
the Asian, Middle East and African market 
provides a strong addition to the skills on the 
Intertek Board. 
After a career of over 25 years at FedEx 
Express in various roles spanning service 
quality assurance, ground operations, and 
planning and engineering for the air and 
ground network, Kawal is currently President, 
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, a position 
she has held since 2020. In that role, she has 
responsibility for a region encompassing 103 
countries and territories with nearly 35,000 
employees. After working for Tata Motors as a 
Graduate Engineer Trainee in India, Kawal 
joined FedEx Express as an Associate Engineer 
in Singapore. Kawal was previously a 
Non-Executive Director of Asia Airfreight 
Terminal Co. Ltd, from 2016 to 2020. Kawal has 
a degree in Electrical Engineering and an MBA. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
President, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa 
for FedEx and US-ASEAN Business Council and 
Junior Achievement, Asia Pacific. 

Book two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIntertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors Continued

Gill Rider CB 

R  A 

Apurvi Sheth 

Jean-Michel Valette 

A 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Non-Executive Director 

Appointed: to the Board in July 2015

Appointed: to the Board in September 2023

Appointed: to the Board in July 2017

Tenure: 8.5 years 

Tenure: 0.25 years 

Tenure: 6.5 years 

Skills and competencies: 
Gill’s successful career on the people agenda in 
organisations across the world, dealing with a 
diverse range of cultures and nationalities and 
her extensive experience as a Non-Executive 
Director added extensive value to our Board. 
Gill was appointed Chair of Pennon Group Plc in 
July 2020 having previously been their Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair 
of their Sustainability Committee. She also 
chairs their Nomination Committee. 

Gill has held positions as Pro-Chancellor and 
Chair of the University of Southampton, the 
President of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel & Development, Head of the Civil 
Service Capability Group in the Cabinet Office, 
reporting to the Cabinet Secretary, and a 
number of senior positions with Accenture, 
resulting in the post of Chief Leadership Officer 
for the global firm.She was previously a 
Non-Executive Director of De La Rue plc and 
Senior Independent Director of Charles Taylor 
plc, where she also chaired their Remuneration 
Committee. She is currently President of the 
Marine Biology Association. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Chair at Pennon Group plc, where she also 
chairs their Nomination Committee. Chair of 
South West Water (a subsidiary of Pennon 
Group plc). 

52

Skills and competencies: 
Apurvi has extensive executive experience 
spanning over three decades across numerous 
well-known international consumer brands in 
the food and beverage industry. Most recently 
she was the Managing Director, Southeast Asia 
at Diageo plc. Having spent the majority of her 
career in Asia and India, Apurvi brings her deep 
consumer experience across diverse markets 
including China, Japan, Australia, SEA and India 
to the Intertek Board. 
Apurvi has also served as Marketing Director 
South East Asia at PepsiCo International, 
Marketing Director of India at Coca-Cola in India 
and held various roles at Nestle SA in India . She 
also previously served as a Non-Executive 
Director of Heineken Malaysia BHD. 

Skills and competencies: 
Jean-Michel brings strong US and global 
management experience, especially in 
consumer and luxury goods companies, which 
broadens the international and customer 
knowledge on the Board. Jean-Michel’s wealth 
of knowledge of the US markets, especially 
from a customer perspective, is an asset to the 
Board. 
Jean-Michel has more than 30 years’ 
experience in management, US public company 
corporate governance, strategic planning and 
finance. Previously he was Chair of Sleep 
Number Corporation, Chairman of Peet’s Coffee 
and Tea, Inc., a US beverage company which 
was then listed. He was also Managing Director 
at the Robert Mondavi Winery before becoming 
Chair. In his earlier career, Jean-Michel was 
President and CEO of Franciscan Estates, Inc., 
a premium wine company. 

He currently serves as an independent adviser 
in the US to select branded consumer 
companies. 
He has an MBA from Harvard Business School 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Strategic Advisor to various companies in 
Southeast Asia and India, across a wide range 
of sectors including food and beverage, retail 
and technology. Non-Executive Director of 
SSP PLC and a member of their Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. 

Current principal external 
appointments: 
Director and Audit Committee Chair of The 
Boston Beer Company; Chairman of Hunneus 
Vintners and Chairman of DripDrop Hydration 
Inc. (Both private US companies). Director of 
Fine & Rare Wines Limited. 

Division of responsibilities 
Our Directors share collective responsibility for the 
actives of the Board. There is a clear division of 
responsibilities between the Chair and the CEO as 
required under the Code. 

Our Independent Non-Executive directors play a vital 
role in ensuring good governance and accountability. 
The responsibilities of the Chair, CEO, CFO and Senior 
Independent Director and other key roles, along with the 
matters reserved to the Board, are set out on our 
website. 

  intertek.com/investors/corporate-governance/ 

Other Directors on the Board during the year 
Jonathan Timmis ceased to be an Executive Director on 
17 March 2023 having joined the Board in 2021. 

Ida Woodger 

Group Company Secretary 

Ida was appointed as Group Company Secretary on 
31 March 2023, having previously held the position of 
Head of Sustainability. Ida provides advice and support 
to the Board, its Committees and the Chair, and is 
responsible for corporate governance across the Group. 
Ida is an Associate of the Chartered Governance 
Institute UK and Ireland. 

The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a matter for the Board.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
Group Executive Committee

Group Executive 
Committee 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer 

Laura Atherton 
Group General Counsel 
and Head of Risk and 
Compliance 

Alexandra Berger 
Senior Vice President 
Chief Marketing & 
Communications Officer 

Laura Crespi 
Group Financial Controller 

Sandeep Das 
Regional Managing 
Director South Asia and 
President Global 
Softlines and Hardlines 

Ayush Dhital 
Regional Managing 
Director Asia Pacific 

John Fowler 
Senior Vice President 
Minerals and E&P 

Ian Galloway 
Executive Vice 
President, Caleb Brett 

Tony George 
Executive Vice President, 
Human Resources 

Marie Giannini 
Vice President 
Communications and 
Head of Sustainability 

Bertrand Mallet 
Executive Vice President, 
Industry Services 

Key changes to the Group 
Executive Committee were 
announced on 20 March 2023. 
A copy of the announcement is 
available on our website 
intertek.com/investors/ 
results-presentations- 
announcements/ 

53 

Ross McCluskey 
Executive Vice 
President, Europe, 
Middle East and Africa 

John Qin 
CEO Greater China 

Saranpal Rai 
President Electrical, 
Connected World and 
Transportation 
Technologies 

Julia Thomas 
Senior Vice President 
Corporate Development 
Group 

Mark Thomas 
Executive Vice President, 
Global Sustainability, 
Assurance, Agri World 
and Food 

Carlos Velasco 
President Latin America 
and Global Building and 
Construction 

Book two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIntertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Board leadership and company purpose

Board leadership and company purpose 

Effective and 
entrepreneurial board 

Board members and meeting attendance during the year to 31 December 2023 

Board members 

Andrew Martin Chair

André Lacroix Chief Executive Officer

Jonathan Timmis Chief Financial Officer1 

Colm Deasy Chief Financial Officer2

Graham Allan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director

Gurnek Bains Non-Executive Director

Lynda Clarizio Non-Executive Director

Tamara Ingram Non-Executive Director

Jez Maiden Non-Executive Director

Kawal Preet Non-Executive Director

Gill Rider Non-Executive Director

Apurvi Sheth Non-Executive Director3

Jean-Michel Valette Non-Executive Director

1. Ceased to be a Director 17 March 2023 
2. Appointed as a Director 17 March 2023 
3. Appointed as Non-Executive Director 1 September 2023 

Role of the Board 
The governance of Intertek is the responsibility of 
the Board, with the support of the Group Company 
Secretary, and provides the framework of authority 
and accountability that operates throughout the 
Company to ensure the needs of all stakeholders are 
considered and met. Good governance requires the 
Board to lead, guide and support the business in its 
quest to create sustainable long-term value for the 
mutual benefits of our shareholder, customer, 
employees and the communities in which we operate. 
We all have differing skills, a wide range of diverse 
experience and extensive knowledge built up over 
time in our professional careers, which enables the 
Board to fully understand the strategic business 
drivers of Intertek, but also the risks and exposures 
associated with the multiple sectors and regions in 
which the Company operates. 

10 0 % 

Board meeting attendance 

54

Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend 

Meetings 
attended 

5 

5 

1 

4 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

2 

5 

5 

5 

1 

4 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

2 

5 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportBoard leadership and company purpose Continued

There is a clear division of responsibilities between 
the roles of the Chair and the Chief Executive. 
To allow these responsibilities to be discharged 
effectively, the Chair and Chief Executive maintain 
regular dialogue outside the boardroom, to 
ensure an effective flow of information. The 
Non-Executive Directors have formal as well 
as informal contact with senior leadership. 
Contact with the wider business is encouraged 
to develop a deeper understanding of the Group’s 
operations and this engagement is welcomed. 

The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained 
by the Group Company Secretary and the Board 
undertakes an annual review of each Director’s 
interests, if any, including outside the Company. 
Any conflicts of interests are reviewed when 
a new Director is appointed, or if and when a 
new potential conflict arises. A formal process 
is also in place for managing such conflicts to 
ensure no conflicted Director is involved in any 
decision related to their conflict and, during 
the year, this process operated effectively. 

The Board, with the Leadership Team, sets the 
corporate culture that defines our Purpose 
and establishes an environment where values 
are appreciated and respected, encouraging 
all of our people to ‘Do Business the Right 
Way’. Our culture and values have been, and 
remain, the core foundations of Intertek. 

Our 10X culture is one of entrepreneurial spirit 
and high performance, and our people are 
excited about the opportunities ahead. 

The Intertek value proposition and Purpose 
Intertek’s story has always been about innovation. 
In 1885 we began testing and certifying grain 
cargoes before they were put to sea, and in 
1888 we pioneered the idea of independent 
testing laboratories. Then in 1896, the greatest 
inventor of them all became part of our story. 
When Thomas Edison released the wonders of 
electricity and the light bulb he wanted to ensure 
that his products were checked, tested and safe. 
He established the Lamp Testing Bureau, later 
to become the Electrical Testing Laboratories. 

Today, our superior customer service is based 
on our Science-based Customer Excellence 
approach which we have built up over many years. 
This is based on three essential components: 
our science-based technical expertise, our 
continuous improvement and innovation. 

The foundations and aspirations of our business 
remain true to those established by our visionary 
founders, and their innovation and energy 
continue to be our inspiration. Our passion 
and entrepreneurial culture will ensure that 
we deliver for our customers in quality, safety 
and sustainability – today and in the future. 

Board oversight of culture 
Our success is based on a culture of trust amongst 
our colleagues, globally. To support and ensure 
this trust, we continuously monitor and develop 
further insights into the culture operating within the 
business. More detail on our review is on page 58. 

As a Board, we are committed  
to fulfilling our legal obligation to 
act with integrity, to pursue  
the Group's success for the benefit 
of shareholders and to consider 
the interests of our stakeholders.

Andrew Martin 
Chair 

The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed at 
least annually and conducted according to the 
guidance set out in the Code. You can read more 
about this year’s internally facilitated Board 
Effectiveness evaluation on pages 62–63. 

Board meetings 
We held five scheduled Board meetings during 
the year. Following each meeting the Chair also 
held private sessions with the Non-Executive 
Directors and maintained regular contact 
with the Senior Independent Director. 

The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the 
Board, and she attends all meetings and provides 
advice, guidance and support as required. 

Where Directors have concerns about the operation 
of the Board or the management of the Company 
that cannot be resolved, the minutes will reflect 
this. No such concerns were raised during the year. 

Directors’ conflicts of interest 
The Board operates a policy to identify, authorise and 
manage any conflicts of interest to assist Directors in 
complying with their duty to avoid actual or potential 
conflicts. The Directors are advised of the process 
upon appointment and receive an annual refresher. 
Whenever any Director considers that they are, or 
may be, interested in any contract or arrangement 
to which the Company is, or may be, a party, the 
Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles. 

55

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Board leadership and company purpose Continued

Board activity in focus

The following pages give an 
insight into how we, as a Board, 
use our meetings as a mechanism 
for discharging our 
responsibilities, including how the 
consideration of stakeholders is 
embedded into our workings as a 
Board and the range of matters 
we considered and discussed 
throughout the year. 

While the Board engages directly with 
stakeholders on some issues, the size 
and complexity of the Group and our 
stakeholder groups means that 
engagement often happens below Board 
level. However, the Board considers 
information from across the organisation 
to help it understand how our operations 
affect our stakeholders’ interests and 
views. 

Each Board meeting follows a carefully 
structured agenda agreed in advance 
by the Chair, CEO and Group Company 
Secretary; this ensures that proper 
oversight of key areas of responsibility 
are scheduled regularly, and that 
adequate time is available for the 
Board to fully consider strategic 
matters. 

The Board and its Committees 
understand the strategic significance 
of stakeholders in our business. The 
Directors take into account the 
interests of colleagues and the need to 
foster relationships with other key 
stakeholders in making decisions. We 
acknowledge that our decisions might 
not necessarily result in a positive 
outcome for all our stakeholders and 
so the Board has to balance conflicting 
interests in arriving at its decisions. 

Section 172 statement 
In their discussions and decisions during 
the year, the Board of Directors have 
acted in the way that they consider, in 
good faith, would be most likely to 
promote the success of the Group for the 
benefit of its members as a whole (having 
regard to stakeholders and the matters 
set out in sub-sections 172(1) (a)–(f) of 
the 2006 Act). 

Details of how the Board have engaged 
with colleagues during the year, and how 
they have had regard to their interests 
and the need to foster business 
relationships with other stakeholder 
including customers and others, is set out 
on the following pages together with the 
Board’s principal decisions, 

56

Strategy and 
Performance 

People  
and Culture 

Workforce 
engagement 

The Board clearly understand the 
responsibility to deliver long-term 
sustainable success and returns 
for shareholders, underpinned by 
the highest standard of corporate 
governance, conduct and 
integrity. We collectively review, 
discuss and annually agree the 
Group’s strategy. 

Our people are truly amazing. To 
support and ensure our success is 
based on our culture of trust, we 
continuously monitor and develop 
further insights into the culture 
operating within the business. 

Our people are key to Intertek’s 
success and they are always 
considered as part of the 
Board’s discussions and decision 
making. 

  More details on page 57

  More details on page 58

  More details on pages 59 

Sustainability 

Customer 
engagement 

Sustainability is central to 
everything we do at Intertek and 
as a purpose-led Company, it is 
anchored in our Purpose, Vision 
and Values. The Board, as part of 
its overall stewardship of the 
Company, oversees the Group's 
sustainability and corporate 
responsibility. 

The desirability of the Company 
maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct, 
the accuracy and validity of 
reports and certificates that we 
provide, maintaining the trust and 
confidence of our customers, their 
customers and others impacted 
by our work, are important factors 
which contribute to our success. 

Investor and  
shareholder 
engagement 

The Board is committed to 
maintaining an active and open 
dialogue with investors and 
sees this as an important part 
of the governance process. 

  More details on page 60

  More details on page 60

  More details on page 61

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal decisions 
•  The Board endorsed the AAA strategy. 

•  The Board recommended a final dividend of 

74.0p per share making 111.7p for the full year. 

•  The Board approved the acquisitions of 

PlayerLync and Controle Analítico 

®

Board leadership and company purpose Continued

The Board in Action 

Strategy and performance 

We, as a Board, clearly understand our 
responsibility to deliver long-term sustainable 
success and returns for our shareholders, 
underpinned by the highest standard of corporate 
governance, conduct and integrity. We collectively 
review, discuss and annually agree the Group’s 
strategy. 

Strategic planning discussions are supported by 
our Purpose to bring quality, safety and 
sustainability to life, and to make the world a 
better, safer and more sustainable place whilst 
looking at the long-term structural drivers and the 
emerging trends shaping the future of the world, 
to ensure that the business continues to evolve to 
meet the changing needs of all stakeholders. Our 
AAA strategy and goals are outlined in Book one, 
pages 10–11. 

Activities of the Board 
Every December, the Board reviews, discusses and 
agrees the Group’s strategic plan and objectives. 
During the year, the Board then monitors and reviews 
the performance of the business to ensure that the 
strategic objectives are being met. This is an ongoing 
process which is reviewed annually by the Board and 
involves a thorough review of the progress being 
made on the implementation of the strategy and the 
five-year business plan. The strategic review involves 
a 360˚ review of the Intertek value proposition, 
strategy, updates on the competitive environment 
and regulatory changes. 

In addition to regular items, the Board received 
presentations from the Leadership Team and global 
leaders across the business on their areas of 
responsibility and expertise. External speakers also 
present periodically to provide an overview on global 
or regional matters. 

The changes to the economic environment, the 
long-term structural drivers and emerging trends 
shaping the world are discussed, as well as the 
resulting impact on Intertek, together with the 
strategic initiatives for the year. This ensures 
alignment with our Purpose of bringing quality, 
safety and sustainability to life. 

Following the engagement and development of this 
strategic vision for the future, the Intertek Amazing 
ATIC Advantage (‘AAA’) differentiated growth 
strategy was launched at the Capital Markets Event. 
Having made strong progress and demonstrating the 
power of our compelling Total Quality Assurance 
value proposition to give our clients the ATIC 
advantage the AAA strategy continues our 
good-to-great journey to unlock the significant value 
growth opportunities ahead. 

During the year the Board also received and 
discussed the CEO's report at each meeting which 
focused on: 
•  the group’s overall performance and operations 
•  progress against our strategic priorities 
•  the competitive and regulatory environment that 

Intertek operates in 

•  engagement with, and the views of, our stakeholders 

including our investors and our colleagues 

•  key business operations including matters which 

are important to the group’s reputation, as well as 
colleague, customer, supplier and community 
considerations. 

During the year, the Board discussed, reviewed and, 
as appropriate, approved:

•  The financial statements at the full and half year 
including any external guidance. It also discussed 
the feedback from investor meetings, including 
those post publication of each set of financial 
results. At each meeting, the Board reviewed the 
current financial and trading performance for the 
period against budget and consensus, and the full 
year outlook for each division and the group as a 
whole. 

•  the going concern and viability statements 
•  reports, on a monthly basis, outlining share register 
movement, our share price performance relative to 
the market and industry, investor relations 
activities and engagement with shareholders. 

•  any significant litigation, including our response 
and the stakeholder and reputational impact of 
these. 

•  the business, the market, strategic rationale, 

management team, culture and business plan in 
respect of proposed acquisitions. 

57

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Board leadership and company purpose Continued

Our people are truly amazing and our success is based on a culture of trust amongst our colleagues globally. 
To support and ensure this trust, we continuously monitor and develop further insights into the culture 
operating within the business. In doing so, we review the following throughout the year: 

Link to culture 

Town Halls allow the dissemination of information to employees across the Group and enable local leadership to communicate the right behaviours and cultural 
expectations, as well as give peer nominated awards for demonstrating our 10X Energies. Town Halls occur monthly at most Intertek locations globally. The 10X 
growth, coaching, training, people planning and the focus on recognition at all levels ensures that the right values and culture are driven throughout the 
organisation. 

The Board reviews voluntary permanent employee turnover and the Intertek ATIC Engagement Index and as outlined in Book one, page 29, two of our Beyond Net 
Zero targets are a voluntary permanent employee turnover rate < 15% (2023: 12.3%, 2022: 14%) and an Intertek ATIC Engagement Index of 90 (2023: 87, 2022: 
80). During the year, we also launched Champions in collaboration with Gallup. Please read more on page 10. 

We have designed our long-term incentive plans to encourage the right behaviours and values across our global business, in alignment with our Purpose. In 2022, we 
added an ESG component to the annual incentive scheme, based on the feedback from both shareholders and other stakeholders and in accordance with the Group’s 
broader Purpose of making quality, safety and sustainability a reality. The Remuneration Committee report provides more details on this aspect. 

Due to the importance we place on safety within Intertek, we have updates at every Board meeting on Health and Safety statistics across the Group to monitor 
trends year-on-year and to ensure that the right practices are being followed. 

We strive for continued progress in reducing incidents and have set a target for Total Recordable Incidents < 0.5 per 200,000 hours worked (2023: 0.51, 2022: 0.44). 

Our Intertek Global Wellbeing programme, Kindness, was introduced to support the wellbeing of all employees. 

Updates at every Board meeting on all hotline and whistleblowing reports and analysis by issue type. This enables the Board to determine if there are any trends 
which need further analysis or investigation. For more information see pages 41 and 42. 

As a provider of quality, safety and sustainability assurance services, Intertek relies on a skilled workforce. The Board receives an update annually from the EVP HR 
on programmes available to employees. Employees and contractors are also asked to complete annual training on the Intertek Code of Ethics to demonstrate their 
understanding of, and commitment to, the highest standards of business conduct and ensure that we do business the right way. For more information see page 41. 
As outlined in Book one, page 29, one of our Beyond Net Zero targets is having 100% compliance training completion for eligible employees (2023: 97.6%, 2022: 
96.8%). 

Updates at every Board meeting on material legal claims and a review of the significant legal claims by the Audit Committee to monitor the trends and types of 
claims. 

Updates at every Audit Committee meeting on internal audit reports, the areas of non-compliance with the Financial Core Mandatory Controls and actions taken to 
address the non-compliance together with trend analysis to underscore that we are ‘Doing Business the Right Way’. 

When the Board considers acquisitions, one of the factors we take into account is the culture of the business being acquired and how it will fit within the Intertek 
Group. Read more on page 57. 

The Board in Action 

People and Culture 

Area 

View from the top 

Globally aligned reward  
and incentive schemes 

Health, safety and  
wellbeing 

Ethics and compliance  
reports 

Training 

Key claims reports 

Internal audit reports 

Acquisitions 

58

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportBoard leadership and company purpose Continued

The Board in Action 

Workforce engagement 

The world needs Intertek more than ever, with the 
unrivalled expertise of our people, our focus on 
delivering risk-based Total Quality Assurance 
solutions, and our proven track record of innovating 
and anticipating the growing needs of our clients as 
the world around them grows more complex. 

Technology has been used to facilitate the 
attendance of many from overseas without the 
need for travel to the physical Board meeting. The 
Board was particularly interested to engage with 
and hear feedback from our employees across the 
different locations.

The newest members of the Board undertook 
additional visits to our laboratories both in person 
and via video links, engaging with our employees 
across the world. More details on the Non- 
Executive Directors induction can be found on 
page 64. 

26 

countries visited 
by Directors 
during 2023 

During the pandemic, Microsoft Teams was 
instrumental in providing instant communication 
between all business lines and functions, and we 
have continued to utilise technology as we returned 
to in person meetings. This has enabled the Board to 
virtually meet and visit far more employees and sites 
than previously possible. 

Activities of the Board 
During the year the Board received updates on and 
discussed: 

Feedback from town halls conducted across the 
world. Question and answer sessions are held at 
town halls to provide two-way communication and a 
method of further engagement. André Lacroix led 27 
Town Halls across the world during 2023. 

Our colleagues across the world continue to upload 
stories about how they or their team are bringing our 
Purpose to life through their work. These stories are 
shared with the Board as part of Sustainability 
Moments at the start of each Board and Committee 
meeting. 

The Board met with colleagues within the business 
during the year. 22 leaders and subject matter 
experts across the Group presented on their areas of 
expertise at Board meetings. They have also met 
many other colleagues visiting sites during the year 
and on the visit to Austin, USA in October 2023. 

The way in which our people combine passion and 
innovation with customer commitment to create a 
single unbeatable asset sets us apart and is a vital 
element of our entrepreneurial, customer-centric 
culture. The variable remuneration structure and 
policy for the Executive Directors cascades down to 
the wider workforce and is communicated 
throughout the Group, ensuring engagement across 
Intertek to ensure alignment with our Purpose, to 
drive the right behaviours and to deliver our AAA 
strategy. We are focused on ensuring that our 
strategy and culture give our people the right 
platform to not only grow and develop their careers, 
but to support our Purpose in making the world a 
better place by bringing quality, safety and 
sustainability to life for an ever better world. 

After extensive discussions when the Code was 
introduced, we decided not to choose one of the 
methods suggested in Provision 5 of the Code due 
to the global nature and size of the business, 
together with the complexity and diverse make-up 
of the various sectors and regions in which we 
operate. Instead, we utilise a multi-faceted 
approach to workforce engagement to make 
certain that what is in place ensures that we, as a 
Board, receive 360˚ multi-source feedback to 
assist us in evaluating the different views and 
perspectives from our employees across the Group. 
We keep our engagement mechanisms under 
review and continue to believe that this 
methodology remains effective as it enables us, 
the Board, to fully understand the views of the 
workforce when taking such considerations into 
account as part of our decision-making process.  
This is vital as our people are core to our business 
and make it happen 24/7. 

59

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Board leadership and company purpose Continued

The Board in Action 

The Board in Action 

Sustainability 

Sustainability is central to everything we do at 
Intertek and, as a purpose-led Company, it is 
anchored in our Purpose, Vision and Values. The 
Board, as part of its overall stewardship of the 
Company, oversees the Group’s sustainability 
and corporate responsibility, together with any 
material environmental and social issues. The 
Board recognises the importance of 
sustainability to all our stakeholders, together 
with the increasing risks associated with climate 
change and ensures that at every Board and 
Committee meeting, the first item on every 
agenda is a 'Sustainability Moment' to 
demonstrate its importance to the future 
long-term sustainable success of Intertek. While 
the Board as a whole has responsibility for 
overseeing Intertek's approach to sustainability, 

governance and oversight of the impact of 
Intertek’s operations on the community and 
environment is delivered by two workstreams: the 
Net Zero Steering Committee and the Beyond Net 
Zero Steering Committee. Both steering 
committees oversee and monitor our policies, 
practices and progress against our sustainability 
commitments and targets. Further information on 
the composition of these steering committees, 
together with their remit, is outlined in Book one 
on page 60. 

60

Activities of the Board 
During the year the Board received regular reports 
with detailed deep dives on major customers. 

The Board visited customers on the overseas Board 
visit to Austin. 

The Board also reviews and endorses the Group 
Marketing and Group Innovation Strategies. 

Customer engagement 

Customer engagement is important for customer 
growth as it develops and strengthens our 
relationships enabling Intertek to understand the 
services they need and what they expect from us. 
To ensure that we continue to innovate and 
anticipate the growing needs of our customers, 
constantly evolving and improving our customer 
proposition to meet their changing needs and the 
changing world around us. 

Recent examples of innovation by engaging with 
our customers can be found on pages 18-25 and 
in Book one: Strategic Report on pages 23–24. 

We offer our customers the Intertek Science- 
based Total Quality Assurance advantage to 
strengthen their businesses and supporting them 
to thrive in an increasingly complex world. 

Integral to this is ‘Doing Business the Right Way’ 
and our internal risk, control, compliance and 
quality programme. This means living our Values, 
having the highest standards of ethics and 
integrity in how we conduct ourselves every day, 
everywhere and in every situation. 

The programme includes: 

•  processes, tools and training to ensure that our 
people work in a safe and inclusive environment; 

•  the services we provide and the contracts we 

enter into are delivered with integrity and in line 
with our commitment to Total Quality; 
•  a commitment from every colleague to the 

highest standards of professional conduct; and 
•  information about managing our risks and doing 
the right thing for the longer term to deliver our 
sustainable growth. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportBoard leadership and company purpose Continued

The Board in Action 

Investor and shareholder engagement

 Investor relations programme 

 Roadshows 

January 
•  Oddo-BHF Forum 2023, Lyon 

February – March 
•  Full-year results 2022 
•  Annual Results Roadshow 
•  Bank of America Business, Leisure and Transport Conference 2023, 

London 

•  Berenberg UK Corporate Conference 2023 
• 

Jefferies Small-Cap Conference 

May 
•  Capital Market Event, London 
•  Trading Statement 
•  AGM 

The Board is committed to 
maintaining an active and open 
dialogue with investors and sees 
this as an important part of the 
governance process. At each 
meeting, the Board receives a 
report from the investor relations 
department and analysts’ reports 
are circulated to the Directors 
when available. Feedback from 
meetings held between executive 
management, or the investor 
relations department, and 
institutional shareholders, is also 
communicated to the Board. 

June 
•  Zurich Roadshow (Citi) 
•  SG conference, Nice 
•  US Roadshow (Credit Suisse/UBS) 

July – August 
•  Half Year Results 2023 
•  Half-year Results Roadshow 
•  US Roadshow (J.P. Morgan) 

September 
•  BNP Paribas EXANE TIC Conference, 

London 

•  UBS Business, Leisure and Transport 

Conference, London 

•  Citi 2023 Growth Conference, London 
•  Benelux Roadshow (UBS) 

October 
•  APAC Roadshow (J.P. Morgan) 

November 
•  Frankfurt Roadshow (Berenberg) 
•  Trading Statement 

December 
•  Berenberg European Conference, London 
•  Société Générale TIC Conference, virtual 

61

Aimed at helping existing and potential investors 
understand the Group’s business model, strategy, 
financial performance and outlook. The programme is 
wide-ranging and includes events and roadshows 
throughout the year to update investors and 
sell-side analysts on the developments of the Group.

 Board shareholder engagement 

The Chair, following any engagement with 
shareholders, ensures that the Board as a whole has 
a clear understanding of their views. Intertek’s 
largest shareholders, representing more than 55% of 
the share register, are invited annually to meet with 
the Chair to share their views and discuss any 
corporate governance matters. During April and May 
2023, the Chair held nine meetings with 
shareholders. There was an increased focus on the 
opportunities for Intertek ahead of the Capital 
Market Event, some questions relating to corporate 
governance and succession planning. The feedback 
received was positive, and shareholders continue to 
be very supportive of Intertek’s strategy, the 
management and the Board. The feedback was 
presented and discussed with the Board at the May 
Board meeting. 

 Resources 

A wealth of information is available to investors in 
our Annual Report & Accounts, half-year 
announcements and trading updates and Regulatory 
News Service announcements. These materials are 
available on our website and are supplemented by 
videos, webcasts and presentations including 
material from the Capital Markets Event.

 Conferences 

Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team 
attend industry conferences throughout the year, 
providing the opportunity to meet a large number of 
investors. 

Following the full-year and half-year results 
announcements, the Executive Directors and 
Investor Relations team held meetings with the 
principal shareholders. 

 Feedback Forum 

The Executive Directors and Investor Relations 
team receive regular feedback from sell-side 
analysts and investors during the year both 
directly and through the Group’s corporate 
advisers. The Group Company Secretary also 
receives feedback on governance matters 
directly from investors and shareholder bodies.

 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 

The Board welcomes the opportunity to meet 
with both private and institutional investors at 
the AGM. 

The 2024 AGM is currently scheduled to be held 
on Friday, 24 May 2024 at 9.00 a.m. in the 
Marlborough Theatre, No. 11 Cavendish Square, 
London, W1G 0AN. The AGM provides the 
opportunity for all shareholders to ask questions 
of the full Board on the matters put to the 
meeting, including the Annual Report & 
Accounts. 

All Board members attend the AGM and, in 
particular, the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees are available to 
answer questions. The Board welcomes the 
opportunity to meet with both private and 
institutional investors at the AGM. The Company 
proposes a resolution on each separate issue 
and does not combine resolutions 
inappropriately. The Notice of the AGM is sent to 
shareholders by e-communications or by post 
and is also available at intertek.com. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportComposition, succession and evaluation

Composition, succession and evaluation 

The key findings of the 2021 external  
evaluation report were very positive as outlined below 

The externally facilitated Board 
evaluation process, which considered the 
Board composition, diversity and how 
effectively members worked together to 
achieve objectives, entailed: 

•  the review and agreement of a 

questionnaire to be used at meetings 
with each Board member; 

•  one-to-one meetings with each Board 
member and the external evaluator; 
•  preparation of a report by the external 

evaluator; 

•  discussions on the Board evaluation 

outcomes and recommendations with 
the Chair and CEO; 

•  discussion of the results of the 

evaluation with the Board as a whole; 
and 

•  the Board identifying and agreeing 

areas for improvement — the strategy 
and strategic agenda having already 
been agreed at the Board meeting in 
December 2021. 

During recent years, a strong culture of high performance and high integrity with a clear sense of purpose has developed on the 
Board and throughout the Company. Great care has been taken, when adding new Board members, to ensure the right fit, 
culturally, and in terms of beliefs and outlook to build on the existing excellent chemistry and mutual respect on the Board. 
Lynda Clarizio and Tamara Ingram, both of whom were on-boarded during 2021, were very positive about the comprehensive 
induction process, noting the one-to-one meetings held with the CEO, the Board members and the Leadership Team, followed 
by an around the world tour of Intertek which included two-hour presentations from all the main global leaders, virtual site tours 
and questions enabling the new Board members to experience the dynamics of the business. 

The Board is very experienced, and this collective experience was an important factor in ensuring that the Board continued to 
be as effective throughout the pandemic as it had been before. This enabled the Board to continue to effectively discharge all 
of its responsibilities despite only having online meetings between March 2020 and up to December 2021. 

The technology employed to hold online meetings is felt to have worked well and, in particular, the online live tours of overseas 
sites enabled even more sites to be visited than normal. These tours were felt to be so valuable that, although they are not a 
substitute for in-person visits, they will continue to be used more extensively in future, enabling more sites to be visited. 

The mechanics surrounding the Board and Committee meetings works extremely well with well-structured agendas. The clarity 
of the papers presented enables a complex business to be more easily understood and the papers are of a very high and 
professional quality. Due to online meetings taking place during the pandemic, there has been a little more emphasis on 
presentations. As more face to face meetings now take place, there will be a return to a more discursive emphasis. 

The Board recognised the importance of the work to create the Board Promise to embody the role and purpose of all Board 
members in promoting Intertek’s Purpose of bringing quality, safety and sustainability to life and which informs the Board’s 
approach to its duties to all stakeholders. Around the Board table there is great pride in what Intertek does across the world for 
various stakeholders and in the work that our incredible colleagues perform daily to make the world a safer place with precision, 
pace and passion. 

The ‘People Agenda’, including talent development, retention, succession and employee engagement features high on the 
agenda, even more so given the importance of the highly qualified employee base to the ongoing success of Intertek. 
Succession and talent planning is a very thorough and thoughtful process with twice-yearly discussions at the Board. 

André continues to bring a real sense of clarity and alignment to Intertek’s strategy, and during the year the Board’s input and 
involvement is sought on the areas to be incorporated into the annual strategic review, with the most recent detailed discussion 
by the Board held last December. Against the backdrop of extensive opportunity for the industry, the discussions included a 
longer-term horizon, looking forward. 

Sustainability is very clearly part of Intertek’s DNA and the Board has great confidence in the Company’s environmental and 
social credentials with a sustainability moment now part of every meeting agenda. The Board will continue to consider whether 
a Board ESG Committee is required, but at present it is considered that the ESG agenda is so important, that it should be the 
responsibility of all of the Board. Governance overall is seen to be sound. 

There is a real sense of community of purpose on the Board with great support and respect for the work André and the 
management team do in addressing challenges as they arise, most recently with the pandemic, and ensuring that the health and 
safety of our employees are always the number one priority. 

Composition and 
succession 

The Board is committed to ensuring that 
it has the right balance of skills, 
experience, knowledge and diversity, to 
lead Intertek and deliver our AAA 
strategy to make the world a better and 
safer place. More information on the 
appointment process to ensure that we 
have the right individuals who can inspire 
and provide passionate leadership is 
outlined in the Nomination Committee 
report on pages 66–69. 

Board Evaluation 

The effectiveness of the Board, and its 
Committees, is rigorously reviewed 
annually and an independent externally 
facilitated Board review is conducted 
every three years. The internal 
questionnaires are reviewed and updated 
annually to ensure that the right 
questions are asked and take into 
account changes in guidance and 
regulations. 

As planned, and recommended by the 
Code, the 2021 external evaluation 
process was led by the Chair, supported 
by the Group Company Secretary and 
facilitated by an independent third party, 
Equity Culture. Equity Culture has no 
other connection to the Company and 
was appointed after a review of 
independent advisers in the field of 
formal Board evaluations. 

62

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportComposition, succession and evaluation Continued

Chair and Director evaluation 

The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, conducted 
a performance review of Andrew Martin, who 
was the Chair of the Board during 2023. They 
considered his leadership, performance and overall 
contribution to be of a high standard during the year. 

Andrew Martin, the Chair, met with each Director 
to discuss their individual contributions and 
performance, together with any training and 
development needs. Following these reviews, 
the Board remains satisfied that, in line with the 
Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient 
time to the Company to enable them to discharge 
their responsibilities as Directors effectively and 
that any current external appointments do not 
detract from the extent or quality of time which 
any Director is able to devote to the Company. 

The Board recommends that shareholders 
should be supportive of their election or re- 
election to the Board at the 2024 AGM. 

Board, Committee and Directors’ evaluation 

2023 
Internal  
evaluation 

2025
Internal 
evaluation 

2024 
External 
evaluation 

The 2023 Board internal evaluation process was 
led by Andrew Martin, with the support of the Group 
Company Secretary, and entailed: 

•  the completion of detailed questionnaires 

by each Board member; 

•  discussions on the outcomes and 

recommendations with the Chair and each 
Board member; and 

•  following discussion of the results of the 

evaluation the Board as a whole, identifying 
and agreeing areas for improvement. 

For each Committee of the Board a similar process 
was undertaken. The Committee evaluations looked 
at ways in which they could improve their overall 
effectiveness, their performance and areas of 
improvement during the year. 

The internal review of the 2023 Board evaluation 
showed strong scores in all four categories that 
were evaluated. The Board members agreed that the 
Board has the right culture and works well together. 
Emerging trends are a regular topic of board 
discussion, and the Management are good at bringing 
new challenges and opportunities to the table. 

The Board valued the additional sessions with global 
and regional business line leaders. This gave valuable 
and appreciated opportunity to better understand 
the business, the implementation of the new strategy 
and to have a good dialogue with colleagues. 

The Board spends quality time on succession 
planning at Board and Senior Executive levels and 
will continue to do so. 

The outcome from these evaluations confirmed that 
the Board and its Committees were performing well 
and were appropriately constituted. The evaluation 
for 2024 will be externally facilitated. 

63

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportComposition, succession and evaluation Continued

Kawal's induction included the following 
site visits: 
Virtual visits to China, Turkey, UAE, Germany and 
the US. With a physical visit to Milton Keynes in 
the UK. 

Learning and development 

Ongoing and continual development is crucial to our 
Directors remaining highly engaged, effective and 
well informed. All Directors are kept up-to-date with 
information about Intertek’s business and there is an 
ongoing programme of information dissemination 
throughout the year. It is important that the 
Directors have an appreciation of the business, both 
in the UK and overseas. During the year, there were 
presentations from the Group Executive Committee 
to the Board and meetings have been held on 
regional strategy to increase the understanding of 
operations, opportunities and risks. 

The Company also encourages Directors to attend 
briefings and seminars offered by professional and 
commercial bodies in order to keep abreast of current 
legal and regulatory requirements, especially within 
their specialist fields such as audit or remuneration. 

Apurvi's induction has so far included the following site visits: 
Virtual visits to China, Turkey, UAE and Italy. Apurvi will continue her induction during 2024. 

Board induction 

There is a full, formal and extensive induction 
programme which is tailored to ensure that Directors 
joining the Board are provided with the knowledge 
and materials to add value from an early stage. This is 
managed by the Chair and the Group Company 
Secretary. 

During the year Colm Deasy, Kawal Preet and Apurvi 
Sheth received details of Board procedures, Directors' 
responsibilities and various governance-related 
issues and strategic priorities within the Group. 
For the Non-Executive Directors, the induction 
programme also includes a wealth of background 
information on the Company and a series of 
meetings with other members of the Board, senior 
members of management and external advisers. 
Visits to our laboratories and sites are also arranged. 

Following the success of visiting sites virtually over 
the last three years, a comprehensive programme of 
virtual visits to our operations was put in place which 
is balanced with visits in person to laboratories. This 
enables our new Directors to meet senior 
management across the Group and our colleagues 
working in labs. 

The programme aims to provide great insight into the 
business, operations and people. This process will 
continue to be kept under review. 

64

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit, risk and internal control

Audit, risk and internal control 

The risk committees report to our Group Risk 
Committee which in turn provides a report on risk 
and mitigation actions at each meeting of the Board. 

Our integrated approach to  
identifying and mitigating risks 
At Intertek, we view our risk environment as 
consisting of emerging risks (risks that are potential 
or future-looking) and systemic risks (risks which are 
concrete and actually present or inherent in our 
operations). Emerging risks are assessed by 
perceived likelihood and impact and addressed using 
mitigation action plans on a ‘three lines of defence’ 
model. Systemic risks are addressed using our 
internal controls, policies and procedures and also 
uses the three lines of defence model, as appropriate. 

Our risk identification and mitigation approach is 
integrated and dynamic as our risk committees 
continually review their emerging risks and, to the 
extent those risks start to become systemic (or ‘real’ 
rather than ‘potential’ risks), identify new controls, 
policies or procedures so that we can put new 
systemic mitigations in place. 

Our integrated approach to risk assurance 
We have an integrated approach to getting 
assurance that our risks are being appropriately 
and effectively identified and mitigated. We use an 
assurance map, which takes each of our emerging 
and systemic risks and maps an assurance 
framework, using the three lines of defence, onto 
them by identifying the roles or functions which are 
responsible for the management, control and 
oversight of those risks. 

Objective assurance is provided, in the third line, by 
our Internal Audit function (which audits our financial 
controls and risks), by our Compliance function (which 
audits our non-financial, operational controls and 
risks), and by our CyberSecurity team (which audits 
our IT controls and risks). 

Our integrated approach to  
risk governance and oversight 
The Board ultimately reviews the Group’s risks, 
controls and compliance and mitigation actions. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the financial controls. 
If this governance and oversight identifies new risks 
or the need for new controls, policies or procedures, 
those changes are made and fed back to the 
framework of risk committees so that governance 
and oversight results in a dynamic change to our 
risk identification and mitigation action plans. 

At each Board meeting during 2023, the Group 
General Counsel presented an integrated risk, control 
and compliance report including a review of: 

•  the Group’s emerging risks, the status of the 

quarterly emerging risk mitigation action plans and 
the new quarterly emerging risk mitigation plans; 

•  the specific systemic risks including quarterly 

hotline and whistleblowing reports, key claims and 
authorised unlimited liability contracts; and 

•  the Group’s systemic risk environment, the status 
of the quarterly systemic risk mitigation action 
plans and the new quarterly systemic risk 
mitigation plans. 

Audit 
There are formal policies and procedures in place 
designed to ensure the independence and 
effectiveness of the internal and external audit 
functions. Group Internal Audit is a single 
independent internal audit function, reporting to the 
Audit Committee. Further detail can be found in the 
sections headed ‘Internal Audit’ on page 75. 

The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities 
to the Audit Committee, including monitoring and 
reviewing financial reporting, the effectiveness of 
internal controls and the risk management 
framework, whistleblowing, the internal audit 
process and the external auditor’s process. The Audit 
Committee reports to the Board on its activities, and 
its report for 2023, confirming how it has discharged 
its duties, can be found on pages 70–77. 

Internal control and risk management 
Intertek has implemented an end-to-end integrated 
approach to risk, control and compliance which 
embeds risk management throughout our business; 
allows us to dynamically adapt our controls, policies 
and assurance activities as our risk environment 
changes; and creates responsibility and oversight of 
our risk identification and risk mitigation actions to 
ensure they are effective, relevant and robust. 

Our integrated risk management framework 
Risk management is embedded throughout our 
organisation using a framework of divisional, regional 
and functional risk committees. These committees 
meet, at least, quarterly to identify, monitor and 
assess the risks within their area of responsibility 
using tools including risk mitigation action plans. It is 
the responsibility of each committee to assess 
whether its risk environment is changing, whether it 
has the right mitigation action plans and whether 
new or different plans are required in response to 
new or changing risks. 

65

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nomination Committee report

Dear shareholder, 
On behalf of the Nomination Committee 
(‘Committee’), I am pleased, as Chair, to present the 
Committee’s report for the year ended 31 December 
2023 which outlines the work of the Committee 
during the year. 

It is vital that we have the right skills and expertise 
around the Board table to help support the business 
to seize the opportunities in our industry as our 
clients increase their focus on Risk-based Quality 
Assurance to operate with higher standards on 
quality, safety and sustainability in each part of their 
value chain. 

The appointments of Kawal Preet and Apurvi Sheth 
over the last 12 months have been exciting steps in 
the Intertek Board evolution and will ensure that 
Intertek is best placed to take advantage of the 
great opportunities which come with having in place 
a diverse range of individuals with the right skills 
around the Board table representing the diverse 
nature of the Intertek Group itself. 

Our colleagues at Board and management level have 
illustrated the defining characteristics we strive for 
in our Intertek leaders when carrying out succession 
planning, which in turn exemplifies the successful 
mechanics of the Committee. 

During the year, the Committee prioritised Executive 
and Non-Executive Director succession planning. The 
need to keep the Board refreshed but at the same 
time maintain a knowledgeable and experienced 
team of Non-Executive Directors is crucial and forms 
a large part of the Committee’s work. The Committee 
continues to demonstrate its ability to successfully 
identify the key characteristics required on the 
Board. 

Our discussions built on work done in 2022, having 
build up a total skills overview and identified any 
gaps. This has facilitated our discussions on likely 
future needs whilst also taking the outcomes from 
the Board evaluation into account. 

Andrew Martin 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 

Nomination Committee report 

This year we recruited a new 
Non-Executive Director, who was 
carefully selected to complement 
the existing skills on the Board 
which gives us the right diversity 
of viewpoints, skills and 
experience to support 
Intertek’s strategic journey. 

Andrew Martin 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 

66

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGill Rider will retire from her role on the Board at the 
conclusion of the AGM on the 24 May 2024, after 
having served for nearly nine years from the date of 
her appointment. During her time on our Board, Gill 
has been a diligent and valued member of the Board, 
member of the Audit Committee and the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and we thank her for her 
enthusiasm, dedicated service and valuable 
contribution.

Subsequently, with effect from 24 May 2024,  
Graham Allan will take over the role of Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, having been a member 
since 2017. Kawal Preet will be appointed a member 
of the Remuneration Committee and Apurvi Sheth 
will join the Audit Committee with effect from the 
same date. 

Nomination Committee report Continued

Committee activity in focus 
Board and Committee changes 
In 2022, as part of our succession planning, the 
Committee initiated searches for new Non-Executive 
Directors. In addition to the specific skills, knowledge 
and experience deemed necessary, the role 
specification contained criteria such as competency 
and personal qualities that would be required for the 
position. The Committee also paid close attention to 
ensure that the candidates selected exhibited the 
right behaviours to fit the culture, values and ethics 
of the Group and would also be able to allocate 
sufficient time to the Company to discharge their 
responsibilities. 

The Board, upon the recommendation of the 
Committee, approved the internal appointment of 
Colm Deasy as Chief Financial Officer. Colm joined the 
Board as an Executive Director on 17 March 2023. 
Having previously held the role of Group Treasurer, 
Head of Tax, he moved into the role of Regional 
Managing Director in 2019 for Asia Pacific before his 
promotion as President Global Transportation 
Technologies, Building & Construction and People 
Assurance. Colm brings extensive knowledge and 
understanding of the complexities of the Group to 
the role. Prior to joining Intertek in 2016, Colm 
worked in banking and insurance in EMEA and held 
senior roles in finance and general management. 

The Committee engaged Spencer Stuart, an external 
search agency with no other connection to the 
Company or its individual Directors, to assist with the 
selection process. For the searches, an initial list of 
potential candidates was produced and shortlisted. 
The Committee members and the Chair met 
separately with the shortlisted candidates, following 
which they agreed to recommend to the Board the 
appointment of Kawal Preet, as previously reported, 
who was appointed to the Board on 31 December 
2022. She is a highly experienced executive who is 
currently President Asia Pacific, Middle East and 
Africa for FedEx Express and with her extensive 
knowledge of the Asia, Middle East and African 
market provides a strong addition to the current skills 
on the Board. 

In addition, Apurvi Sheth joined the Board as 
Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2023. 
Apurvi has extensive executive experience spanning 
over three decades across numerous well-known 
international consumer brands in the food and 
beverage industry. Having spent the majority of her 
career in Asia and India, Apurvi brings her deep 
consumer experience across diverse markets 
including China, Japan, Australia, SEA and India to the 
Intertek Board. 

Talent mapping and succession planning 
To ensure that the Board comprises a wide range of 
skills, experience and attributes, the Committee 
discusses and reviews extensively the experience, 
skills and behaviours required of future Directors, 
including the qualities of the individual required to 
ensure the right fit with the culture and style of 
Intertek. 

In identifying suitable candidates to recommend for 
appointment to the Board, the Committee considers 
all candidates on merit, against objective criteria, and 
with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the 
Board to achieve the most effective Board possible. 

During the year, we continued to monitor the 
composition of the Board and its principal 
Committees. Our discussions consider different time 
horizons within our succession planning, including 
contingency planning for sudden and unforeseen 
departures, the orderly replacement of current Board 
members and senior management, and a longer-term 
view looking at the relationship between the delivery 
of the Group strategy and objectives and the skills 
needed on the Board now and in the future. 

Membership and meeting attendance 
During the year, we held five formal meetings. 
Attendance of members at formal meetings is shown 
in the table below. The Group Company Secretary 
attends all formal meetings of the Committee and 
the Committee invites the CEO and the EVP, Human 
Resources to attend meetings when the subject 
matter deems their presence appropriate. 

Committee meeting attendance during 
the year to 31 December 2023 

Committee members1

Andrew Martin (Chair)

Graham Allan 

Gurnek Bains 

Tamara Ingram 

Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend 

Meetings 
attended 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

32

1.  Committee meeting attendance during the year to 31 December 2023 
2.  Tamara Ingram gave apologies for one meeting to attend a funeral and 

one meeting due to other business commitments. 

Role and key responsibilities 
•  Review the structure, size and composition of the 

Board and its Committees. 

•  Identify, review and nominate a diverse pipeline of 

candidates to fill Board vacancies1.

•  Evaluate the balance of skills, independence, 

knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board 
and its Committees. 

•  Review the results of the performance evaluation 
process that relates to the composition of the 
Board and its Committees. 

•  Review the time commitment required from 

Non-Executive Directors. 

•  Review succession plans regularly. 

1.  Neither the Chair nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their 

own successor.

  The full Terms of Reference of the Committee,  

which are reviewed annually, can be found on our  
website: intertek.com/about/compliance-governance/ 

67

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
Nomination Committee report Continued

Board effectiveness and training 
The process and findings of the external evaluation 
of the Board and the evaluations of each Committee 
and Director are outlined on pages 62–63. An 
evaluation can determine whether there are any gaps 
in the skills and composition of the Board. Following 
the last evaluation, it was concluded that the Board, 
each Committee and each Director continue to 
perform effectively and contribute to the long-term 
sustainable success of Intertek. The outcomes 
and the actions taken from the evaluations 
undertaken in 2021, when it was last externally 
facilitated, and 2023 are outlined on pages 62-63 
and the feedback from the Board evaluation is 
considered when determining the key skills required 
for new Directors on the Board for the future. 

As part of the annual Board evaluation, the 
Committee’s performance was also evaluated by all 
Committee members and it was shown that the 
Committee continues to be able and effective in 
discharging its duties in accordance with its Terms of 
Reference and the requirements of the Code. 

Independence, time commitments and 
re-appointments 
Based on its assessment for 2023, the Committee is 
satisfied that, throughout the year, all non-executive 
directors remained independent in character and 
judgement in line with Provision 10 of the Code. On 
appointment, the Board assessed and agreed that 
Andrew Martin was independent in accordance with 
the provisions of the Code. 

The Board recognises the importance of all 
Non-Executive Directors having the necessary 
time to commit to the business of Intertek and, 
upon appointment, their letters of appointment 
stipulate the expected time commitment whilst 
acknowledging that this may vary depending upon 
the demands of the business and other events. All 
Directors make themselves freely available as 
required, even at short notice, in order to meet the 
needs of the business. 

Directors seek approval from the Board before 
accepting any additional external appointments. 
When assessing additional directorships, the Board 
considers the number and nature of external 
directorships already held by the individual and the 
expected time commitment for those roles. During 
2023, approval was given to Jez Maiden and Graham 
Allan for new external appointments. Fuller details of 
any conflicts of interest can be found on page 55. 

Chair and Non-Executive Director appointment process 

Skills and composition review 
The Committee reviews the structure and composition of the Board, in turn considering the  
balance of skills, experience, industry and geographic experience and knowledge, diversity, 
independence, and cognitive and personal strengths of the current Board. When considering these  
factors, the Committee is mindful of attributes that will assist in the delivery of the Group strategy. 

Creating the brief 
The Committee, following the skills and composition review, compiles a brief for the role which 
outlines favourable characteristics and attributes that they desire the appointed individual to hold. 
This brief is then shared with the chosen consultant who will utilise the brief to compile a list of 
suitable candidates. 

Longlist and shortlist review 
The appointed consultant presents an initial longlist of candidates. This list is then shortlisted using 
the brief as a guide to determine suitability. 

Due diligence 
Once the candidates are shortlisted, initial interviews are held and the shortlist reduced further.  
The final candidates are invited to separate meetings with the Committee members and the CEO. 

Recommendation 
Once a preferred candidate is chosen, the Committee makes a recommendation to the Board to 
appoint the individual. 

68

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNomination Committee report Continued

Board and Group Executive Committee 

Number of Board 
members 
As at 
31 December  

Percentage of 
the Board 

Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board, CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair 

Number in Group 
Executive 
Committee 
As at 31 October 

Percentage of 
Group Executive 
Committee 

Diversity 

2023  2022  2023  2022  2023  2022  2023  2022  2023  2022 

Male

Female

Ethnicity 

White British or other 
White

Mixed/Multiple Ethnic 
Groups

Asian/Asian British

Black/African/Caribbean/ 
Black British

Other ethnic group, 
including Arab

7

5

9

–

3

–

–

7  58% 

4  42% 

64%

36%

9 

75% 

82%

–

2 

–

–

–

–

25% 

18%

–

–

–

–

4

–

4

–

–

–

–

4 

–

13 

5

19  72% 

90% 

2  28% 

10% 

4 

12 

14  67% 

67% 

–

–

–

–

–

5

–

1

–

– 

– 

6  28% 

29% 

–

– 

– 

1 

5% 

4% 

Our policy on Board gender diversity, which is 
available on our website and applicable to the 
Board and its Committees, strongly supports 
the principle of diversity and continues to 
be mindful of the recommendations of the 
FTSE Women Leaders and Parker Review. 

We are pleased to report that during this financial 
year we made progress against the Listing Rule 
requirements targets for diversity. 42% of our Board 
members are women, and we have three members of 
the Board from an ethnic minority background. The 
Committee is aware that the four senior positions 
of CEO, CFO, SID and Chair are currently held by male 
Directors. As part of the Board succession planning 
over the coming 24 months, we will ensure that there 
is a diverse portfolio of candidates considered. 

The Committee continues to monitor the 
overall inclusion and diversity of Intertek’s 
leadership at Board and senior management 
level, to ensure the broadest range of leaders 
are considered for new appointments. 

Prior to joining the Board, Apurvi Sheth disclosed 
her current commitments and the time commitment 
involved and the Board was satisfied that she could 
provide sufficient time to discharge her duties as a 
Director of Intertek. In addition to schedule Board 
meetings, Kawal Preet and Apurvi Sheth have spent 
additional time during 2023 for their induction into 
the business, details can be found on page 64. 

Apurvi Sheth is standing for initial election by 
shareholders at the AGM, with all other Directors 
standing for re-election at the AGM in May 2024 
with the support of the Board (with the exception 
of Gill Rider who is stepping down from the Board 
at the conclusion of the AGM). In recommending 
directors for election and re-election at the AGM, 
the Committee has reviewed the performance 
of each non-executive director and their ability 
to continue meeting the time commitments 
required, taking into consideration individual 
capabilities, skills and experiences and any potential 
conflicts of interest that have been disclosed.

Biographies for all the Directors are available  
on pages 50–52 

69

Diversity, equity and inclusion 
We believe that diversity at Board level sets the tone 
for diversity throughout the business. We promote 
diversity in the broadest sense, not just gender 
or ethnicity but also culture, skills, background, 
regional and industry experience and other qualities 
to truly reflect the diverse nature of our business. 
The Nomination Committee monitors our talent 
pipeline to ensure we have a diverse pool of talent 
being developed at all levels. Maintaining a diverse 
workforce is as important as diverse recruitment 
and we continue to assess and promote this. 

Intertek's Inclusion & Diversity policy eliminates 
discrimination to ensure that employees are 
treated fairly and feel respected and included 
in the workplace, which is vital as our people 
are core to the delivery of the best service to 
customers and driving the strategy of Intertek.

Read more on pages 14–17 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report

Dear shareholder, 
I am pleased to present this report, which is intended 
to provide shareholders with insights into the work 
we have done as a Committee to provide assurance 
on the integrity of the Annual Report & Accounts for 
the year ended 31 December 2023, together with 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal controls framework in a year of 
continued market volatility. 

The Committee supports the Board by setting, 
reviewing and monitoring Intertek’s policies and 
procedures to ensure the independence and 
effectiveness of the Internal and External Audit 
functions, the integrity of financial and narrative 
reporting, the Company’s internal control framework 
and the adequacy of the processes that enable the 
Board to assess the level of principal risks the 
Company is prepared to take to achieve its long-term 
strategic goals. 

During 2023, the Committee’s primary focus centred 
on the accuracy of the Group’s financial reporting, 
having applied additional focus to assess the risk 
management and the framework of internal financial 
controls, together with the additional work carried 
out to support the long-term viability statement. 

The Committee met four times in 2023. As 
Committee Chair, I meet with the 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) lead audit 
partner, the Group Audit Director and management 
as appropriate ahead of meetings to discuss specific 
items of focus to report to the Committee. After 
each meeting, I also report back to the Board on the 
Committee’s activities, the main issues discussed 
and matters of particular relevance. 

Throughout the year, the Committee also ensured 
that separate meetings with the CFO, Group Audit 
Director and the external auditor took place (the 
latter without management present) in order to 
provide an open forum for issues to be raised, and I 
also held separate meetings, on behalf of the 
Committee, with senior management within Intertek 
and with PwC on a regular basis. 

We advised the Board that we had reviewed the 
process to ensure the 2023 Annual Report & 
Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the necessary information for our 
shareholders and stakeholders to assess the Group’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy. 
The process of review is described in greater detail 
on page 75. The Committee uses its collective 
expertise, with input from the External Auditor, to 
understand, and where appropriate, to challenge to 
the approach and judgments made by management 
in the treatment of financial matters and the 
resulting disclosures within the financial statements. 

The External Auditor performs its statutory audit, by 
auditing the accounting records of the Company 
against agreed accounting practices, relevant laws 
and regulations. PwC’s audit report can be found in 
Book three, pages 57–63. 

On 20 July 2023, I received a letter from the FRC 
following their review of Intertek’s 2022 Annual 
Report & Accounts. The FRC stated that there were 
‘no questions or queries’ in relation to those Annual 
Report & Accounts1. The FRC did highlight certain 
matters which Intertek were invited to consider in 
relation to preparation of the 2023 Annual Report & 
Accounts, and these matters have been dealt with in 
our approach to disclosure this year. 

1. 

In line with FRC requirements, the letter provides no assurance that the 
Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects. The 
FRC’s role is not to verify the information provided but to consider 
compliance with reporting requirements. 

Audit Committee report 

The Committee's primary focus 
centred on the accuracy of the 
Group's financial reporting, 
together with the ongoing 
improvements in internal 
control activities, risk and 
compliance matters. 

Jean-Michel Valette 
Chair of the Audit Committee 

70

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

The Committee has also continued to monitor the 
heightened scrutiny on the external reporting of ESG 
and, more specifically, sustainability and the effects 
of climate change on companies. As part of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
compliance, we have reviewed and approved 
management’s assessment of the physical and 
transitional environmental risks and opportunities to 
the Group. 

The annual Board Effectiveness evaluation, which 
was conducted internally this year, assessed our 
performance as a Committee and I am pleased that it 
concluded that we operate effectively and that the 
Board takes assurance from the quality of our work. 

As Chair of the Committee, I shall make myself 
available to shareholders, especially at the AGM, to 
facilitate the answering of any questions that they 
may have around the scope of the Committee’s 
responsibilities as a whole, the Committee’s activities 
throughout the year, and any other questions that 
may arise from this report.

Membership and attendance 
During 2023, the composition of the Committee met 
the requirements of the Code. The Board is satisfied 
that the Committee members bring a wide range of 
financial experience across various industries and all 
members have competence relevant to the sectors in 
which Intertek operates, with recent and relevant 
financial experience. 

An overview of the background, knowledge and 
experience of the Committee Chair and each of the 
Committee members can be found on pages 50–52 
and in the Notice of the AGM. 

Committee meeting attendance during the 
year to 31 December 2023 

Committee members 

Jean-Michel Valette (Chair) 

Lynda Clarizio 

Jez Maiden 

Gill Rider 

Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend 

Meetings 
attended 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

31

1 

Gill Rider was unable to attend one meeting due to other business 
commitments. 

Jean-Michel Valette 
Chair of the Audit Committee 

Performance evaluation 
The Audit Committee conducted a self-assessment 
of its performance using a comprehensive 
questionnaire that covered various aspects of its role 
and responsibilities. The questionnaire results were 
analysed and discussed by the Committee members, 
reviewing the Committee's functionality, members’ 
individual strengths and identified any additional 
training that may be beneficial. 

The assessment showed that the Committee 
operated effectively. The Committee receives 
high-quality meeting materials and the diverse 
backgrounds and skills among the members, and 
relevant subject matter expertise and business 
acumen enable members to discharge their duties in 
accordance with the Terms of Reference and the 
requirements of the Code. 

Committee responsibilities and how we met 
them in the year 
The Committee has specific responsibilities 
delegated to it by the Board and the full Terms of 
Reference of the Committee can be found at 
intertek.com. The terms of reference are reviewed 
annually. The Group Company Secretary, the audit 
partner and members of his team attended all 
meetings held during the year. At the invitation of 
the Committee, the Chair, CEO, CFO, Group Financial 
Controller and the Group Audit Director attended 
meetings. Other members of senior management 
were invited to attend the meetings as necessary. 

The business of the Committee is linked to the 
Group’s financial calendar of events and the 
timetable for the annual audit. 

Financial reporting 
A principal responsibility of the Committee is to 
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group, having regard to the matters 
communicated to us by the external auditor, and to 
measure the performance of the Group against the 
financial goals of our strategy. This is key for our 
shareholders and other stakeholders in order for 
them to understand the financial strength of the 
business. 

In order to fulfil this responsibility, we reviewed the 
full-year and half-year results, as well as any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance, prior to release, and recommended 
their approval to the Board. 

71

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
February 

May 

July 

December 

Audit Committee report Continued

Committee's activities during 2023 

Focus 

Financial reporting: 

• 

Full-Year and Half-Year Results and accounting judgements 

• 

Annual Report & Accounts 

• 

Going concern assessment 

• 

Viability statement 

Climate Change/TCFD reporting 

Group Risk Process and Viability Statement basis of preparation for YE 31 December 2023 

Internal controls over financial reporting 

Core Mandatory Control and Assurance Map update 

Managed shared audit 

Internal audit: 

• 

Internal audit report 

• 

Internal audit plan for 2024 and Internal Audit Charter 

• 

Internal audits coverage and analysis 

• 

Internal Assessment of Internal Audit effectiveness 

• 

External Assessment of the Internal Audit effectiveness 

External audit: 

• 

PwC report to the Committee 

• 

PwC audit plan and strategy 

• 

PwC interim review findings 

• 

Audit and non-audit fees 

• 

Effectiveness 

• 

Independence and re-appointment 

72

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

2023 Audit plan 
During the year the Committee evaluated PwC’s 
Group audit scope for 2023. The year-end audit plan 
was based on agreed objectives, with the audit 
focused on areas identified as representing 
significant risk and requiring judgement. In order to 
manage costs and ensure that the Group maintains 
audit relationships outside the ‘Big 4’, Mazars 
undertakes some of the Group audit work under the 
direction of PwC. It is principally responsible for the 
statutory audit of certain non-material group 
subsidiaries, but also undertook specific audit 
procedures for certain component entities that were 
within PwC’s Group audit scope for 2023. Mazars 
reported independently to PwC on this work and the 
work was directed, supervised and reviewed by PwC. 

Going concern and viability statement 
We received a detailed report from management with 
the approach taken to the going concern statement 
and viability statement which included the projected 
funding requirements, the facilities available to the 
Group, the sensitivity models used including an 
illustrative severe yet plausible downside scenario of 
a reduction of 30% to the base profit forecasts and 
the corresponding impact to cash flow forecasts in 
both 2024 and 2025, and the review of principal risks 
and uncertainties undertaken. 

The Committee reviewed the paper and challenged 
the assumptions with management and after making 
diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation, based upon current financial projections 
and bank facilities available, that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period. 
This conclusion is based on a review and an 
assessment of the levels of facilities expected to be 
available to the Group, based on levels of cash held, 
Group Treasury funding projections, and the Group’s 
financial projections for a period to 31 December 
2025. 

The undrawn headroom on the Group’s committed 
borrowing facilities at 31 December 2023 was 
£664.3m (2022: £707.3m). The maturity of our 
borrowing facilities is disclosed in note 14 of the 
financial statements in Book three with repayment 
of US$125m of senior notes required by 
31 December 2024. The Group Treasury funding 
projections forecast these to be repaid using existing 
facilities following the issuance of €185m of senior 
notes issued in December 2023. 

Following the recommendation of the Committee, 
the Board continues to consider it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Group’s financial statements (as disclosed in note 1 
of the financial statements in Book three, page 7) 
and has approved the long-term viability statement 
as set out in Book one, pages 52 and 53. 

External audit 
Auditors’ appointment 
The appointment, review and relationship with the 
external audit firm and the annual review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit is a responsibility 
that is delegated to the Committee. 

A transparent and independent audit tender process 
was completed in 2015 and PwC have been the 
Group’s auditors since May 2016. In line with current 
regulation, the Group is required to put its external 
audit process out to tender again in 2025–2026. 
Graham Parsons serves as the PwC audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit, a role he assumed in 
May 2021. 

The Committee monitors and reviews the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. The Committee also considers and makes 
recommendations to the Board, to be put to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation to 
the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
Group’s external auditor. It ensures that at least once 
every ten years the audit services contract is put out 
to tender to enable us to compare the quality and 
effectiveness of the services provided by the 
incumbent auditor with those of other audit firms. 

The independence of the external auditor is critical 
for the integrity of the audit. The Committee sought 
confirmation from the auditor that they are fully 
independent from the Group’s management, are free 
from conflicts of interest and have assessed the 
nature and level of non-audit fees paid to PwC and 
have determined that PwC are fully independent. 

During the year, the Mazars integrated partnership 
(‘Mazars') were appointed to audit approximately 
3.9% of the Group’s in-scope components, measured 
as a proportion of revenue. 

73

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

Following this review, the Committee considered in 
detail the feedback received from a selection of 
Intertek personnel, including Committee members, 
Group functions, regional finance teams and country 
finance managers. The feedback scores from the 
survey demonstrated a decrease in two of the three 
sub-categories compared to the prior year, namely 
fieldwork and reporting, with an increase in the 
planning category. The overall perception of PwC’s 
effectiveness remains positive, with 96% of 
respondents either agreeing or mostly agreeing with 
the statements outlined in the questionnaire, largely 
in line with prior year (2022: 97%). 

Overall, there continues to be a strong collaborative 
approach ensuring year-round communication and 
engagement with opportunity to better integrate IT 
and other workstreams. The audit findings and the 
areas to improve were discussed at the May 2023 
Committee meeting and PwC effectively addressed 
questions and challenges provided by Committee 
members. 

The Committee concluded, at the meeting held in 
May 2023, that PwC remained independent and that, 
overall, PwC had completed a robust and fit-for- 
purpose audit process across the Group with a 
satisfactory level of resources. 

The effectiveness of the 2023 audit of the Group 
will be reviewed by the Committee in May 2024. 

Audit and non-audit fees 
The Terms of Reference of the Committee include 
ensuring the continued independence and objectivity 
of the Group’s external auditors. This is achieved 
through: 

•  the annual approval of the policy for the 

engagement of external auditors for audit and 
non-audit services; 

•  setting limits for non-audit spend for the external 

auditors; 

•   an annual review of the Group Auditor’s 

performance in conducting the external audit 
(presented at the May 2023 Audit Committee 
meeting); 

•   a five-year maximum tenure period for the external 

audit partner; and 

•   where appropriate, audit tendering and rotation. 

The Group has set out a policy on the provision of 
non-audit work by the external auditor consistent 
with the 2019 Ethical Standard issued by the FRC, 
and it is designed to ensure that the provision 
of such services does not create a threat or 
compromise the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity. The policy outlines in detail the 
services that the external auditor cannot provide 
including tax services and services that involve 
playing any part in the management or decision- 
making of the audited entity amongst others. It 
identifies certain types of engagement that the 
external auditor shall, subject to the audit cap, be 
permitted to undertake, including with respect to 
audit-related services such as reporting required 
by law or regulation to be provided by an auditor, 
reviewing interim financial information, reporting 
on regulatory returns, reporting to a regulator on 
client assets and reporting on government grants. 
With respect to non-audit services, the policy 
outlines the services that can be provided by the 
external auditor as required by law or regulation 
and are exempt from the non-audit fee cap. 

External auditor effectiveness and quality 
The Committee conducts an annual review to assess 
the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor and the effectiveness of the audit as part of 
the year-end process. This process is conducted in 
three parts as outlined below: 

1.  PwC presents to the Committee its approach to 
safeguarding and maintaining the quality and 
independence of their audit of the Group and their 
auditors, including addressing any risks they face in 
maintaining audit quality across their network. This 
is an extensive report covering all aspects of the 
audit from the scope of work, reporting the 
outcomes of findings, the key audit matters, fraud 
and investigations, intercompany transactions, 
treasury, key risks, going concern and the IT 
environment. Each aspect is reviewed and debated 
with the auditors. The Committee was satisfied 
that the audit was extensive, sufficiently 
challenging and robust. 

2.  The views of management and the Directors on 

PwC’s service, level of challenge, and application of 
professional judgement are obtained via a 
questionnaire, and subsequent follow up as 
necessary. The feedback is then presented to the 
Committee. 

3. The key findings and recommendations from both 
processes, together with any form of appropriate 
external evaluation such as feedback from 
shareholders and the FRC Audit Quality Inspection 
Report then form the basis of the assessment of 
PwC’s effectiveness, together with the 
Committee’s experience of dealing with PwC 
during the year. 

The responses to the annual appraisal questionnaire 
were collated and incorporated into the planning 
process for the following areas: Planning, Fieldwork 
and Reporting. 

74

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

In the event that an engagement for non-audit 
services arises, the policy is designed to ensure that 
the external auditor is only appointed where it is 
considered to be the most suitable supplier of the 
service and the necessary prior approvals have been 
given in accordance with the policy. 

The Committee annually reviews and re-approves 
the framework of permitted non-audit services as 
set out in the policy, taking into account any changes 
in legislation and best practice. The Committee 
reviewed the policy in 2023 and no major changes 
were made. PwC also provides an update on the 
spend for non-audit services twice a year. For 2023, 
the Committee pre-approved a total non-audit spend 
of £234,000 (2022: £234,000). 

As per the policy, all non-audit services must be 
approved by the CFO, and in the event that the 
pre-approved limit is exceeded, the Committee Chair 
and the CFO have to approve an increase to the 
pre-approved limit. In 2023 this process operated 
effectively. 

A summary of the fees paid for non-audit services is 
set out below. The majority of the non-audit fees 
related to a review by PwC of the Interim Results 
announcement, which is deemed a non-audit service. 
This was considered appropriate as PwC also audit 
the full-year results. 

Further information is contained in note 4 to the 
financial statements in Book three, page 12. 

Statement of compliance with the Competition 
and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) Order 
The Committee considered that the Company has 
complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014 published by the CMA 
on 26 September 2014, including with respect to the 
Audit Committee’s responsibilities for agreeing the 
audit scope and fees and authorising non-audit 
services. 

Internal audit 
The Group has an Internal Audit function, whose 
activities are overseen by the Committee, which 
provides assurance over compliance with the Group’s 
framework of financial Core Mandatory Controls 
('CMCs'). 

The Committee monitors and reviews the 
effectiveness and resources of the Internal Audit 
function. To this end, the Committee approves the 
Internal Audit programme and charter for the year. 
The Committee reviews the internal audit reports 
and monitors management’s responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of the Group Audit 
Director, as well as approving the appointment and 
removal of the Group Audit Director as appropriate. 
When reviewing the summary findings, management 
responses, progress against audit recommended 
improvement plans and average compliance scores, 
the Committee were satisfied that the Internal Audit 
function continued to work effectively and focus its 
activities in the areas with most need. 

Independent review of effectiveness 
An independent review of effectiveness was 
undertaken by Grant Thornton in 2023. Such reviews 
are generally carried out every three years but, given 
dislocations due to Covid-19, the review was 
completed four years after the previous review in 
2019. The annual internal effectiveness review was 
also completed in 2023. 

Grant Thornton’s approach considered four key areas: 
Performance, Planning, People and Positioning. The 
review concluded that the Internal Audit function is 
valued and their role in defining expectations and 
improving compliance with the financial CMCs is 
widely acknowledged. They further concluded that 
the function exhibits good practices, in particular in 
the continuous improvement agenda of the team, as 
well as their innovative processes and reporting. The 
report also highlighted that the remit of the Internal 
Audit role could evolve and expand in the future. 

The Committee satisfied itself that the quality, 
experience and expertise of the function is 
appropriate for the business. 

Fair, balanced and understandable 
In February 2024, the Committee reviewed the 2023 
Annual Report & Accounts and concluded that, taken 
as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable 
and provided the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position, 
performance, business model and strategy, and the 
potential impact on forward-looking assumptions 
supporting going concern and viability assessments. 
In its assessment, it considered that the following 
had been carried out and this formed the basis of its 
recommendation to the Board: 

•   pre-year-end discussions held with the external 
auditor in advance of the year-end reporting 
process; 

•   pre-year-end input provided by the senior 

management team and from corporate functions; 

•   a verification process dealing with the factual 
content of the reports to ensure accuracy and 
consistency; 

•  comprehensive review by the senior management 
team to ensure overall consistency and balance; 
and 

•   review conducted by external advisers and the 
external auditor on best practice regarding the 
content and structure of the Annual Report & 
Accounts. 

Total non-audit fees 
– 
– 
– 

audit-related services 
tax services
other non-audit services

Audit fee 

% of audit fee 

75

2023 
£m 

0.2 
0.2 
– 
– 

5.8 

3% 

2022 
£m 

0.2 
0.2 
– 
– 

5.9 

3% 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

Whistleblowing and fraud 
We reviewed the adequacy and security of the 
Group’s arrangements for its employees and 
contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about 
possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other 
matters ensuring that these arrangements allow 
proportionate and independent investigation of such 
matters and appropriate follow-up action. 

The whistleblowing hotline is well-publicised and can 
be used by all employees, contractors and others 
representing Intertek, or by third parties such as our 
customers or people who are affected by our 
operations. This whistleblowing hotline is run by an 
independent, external provider. It is multi-language 
and is accessible by phone and by email 24 hours a 
day. Further information on the whistleblowing 
hotline can be found on page 42. 

In addition, we review the Group’s systems and 
procedures for detecting fraud and the prevention of 
bribery and receive regular reports on non- 
compliance and keep under review the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group Compliance function. 

Internal control and risk management systems 
The Board ultimately reviews the Group’s risks, 
controls and compliance and mitigation actions. The 
Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy 
and effectiveness of that risk framework. We have an 
integrated approach to getting assurance that our 
risks are being appropriately and effectively 
identified and addressed. Further information on how 
Intertek has implemented an end-to-end integrated 
approach to risk, control and compliance is outlined 
on page 65. 

‘Doing Business the Right Way’ is at the heart of 
what we do and continues to be a key enabler of our 
AAA strategy. The Intertek CMCs are an integral part 
of ‘Doing Business the Right Way’, and provide the 
mechanism by which we define, monitor and achieve 
consistently high standards in our control 
environment throughout the whole organisation. At 
the end of the year, the Committee undertook a 
review of the effectiveness of the CMCs and 
Assurance Map to ensure that they continued to be 
fit for purpose. Where non-compliances with the 
current CMCs were identified in the 2023 internal 
audit review process, remediation plans have been 
put in place. For 2024, the effectiveness of the 
process was reviewed and there were additional 
controls introduced based on risks and issues 
highlighted by the Group’s Internal Audit and 
Compliance assurance programmes and based on 
other risk indicator data and outputs including the 
reporting, review and corrective actions of Hotline 
reports. 

In order to provide assurance that the Intertek 
controls and policy framework is being adhered to, a 
self-assessment exercise is undertaken across the 
Group’s global operations. This exercise is reviewed 
and refreshed each year to align with the updated 
control framework and to support the continued 
development of the Group’s control environment. 

An online questionnaire requesting confirmation of 
adherence to controls: financial, operational, HR and 
IT is sent to all Intertek operations. Where corrective 
actions are needed, the country is required to provide 
an outline and a confirmed timeline. The results are 
used as an input for the Internal Audit and 
Compliance Audit assurance work for 2024. 

Self-assessment responses are consolidated for 
review at a regional level, with further review and 
sign-off of the consolidated self-assessments in the 
regional risk committees, before a final consolidated 
CEO and CFO review. A final summary assessment is 
provided to the Committee. The self-assessment 
exercise has been reviewed during the year to ensure 
global coverage and to reflect Intertek’s operational 
and financial structure, and in order to enhance the 
alignment of the self-assessment to the assurance 
process. 

We annually review and approve the statements to 
be included in the Annual Report & Accounts to 
ensure they remain relevant to the Group's strategy 
and operations as well as complying with any 
regulatory requirements. A detailed verification 
programme also provides assurance to the 
Committee and the Board when checking that all the 
statements made in the Annual Report & Accounts 
are accurate. Intertek’s Manual of Accounting Policies 
and Procedures is issued to all finance staff giving 
instructions and guidance on all aspects of 
accounting and reporting that apply to the Group. 
The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the 
Group’s internal controls and risk management 
systems and concluded that there was an effective 
control environment in place across the Group during 
2023, and up to the date on which these financial 
statements were approved. No significant failings or 
weaknesses were identified. 

76

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAudit Committee report Continued

During the year, the Committee reviewed and 
considered the following estimates and areas of 
judgement to be exercised in the application of 
the accounting policies: 

Claims 
From time to time, the Group is involved in various 
claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary 
course of business. The Committee considered the 
claims provision which reflects the estimates of 
amounts payable in connection with identified 
claims from customers, former employees and 
others. The Committee noted that once claims 
have been notified, the finance teams liaise with 
the business to determine whether a provision is 
required, based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
liabilities and Contingent assets (‘IAS 37’). 

The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on 
a regular basis with the Group General Counsel, 
taking into account the advice of external legal 
counsel. The Committee, following assurance from 
management and review of the position by the 
external auditors, considered and agreed that the 
claims provision, and associated disclosures, were 
appropriate given the size and status of claims 
reported. 

Taxation 
The determination of profits subject to tax 
is calculated according to complex laws and 
regulations, the interpretation and application 
of which can be uncertain. In addition, deferred 
tax assets and liabilities require judgement in 
determining the amounts to be recognised, 
with consideration given to the timing and level 
of future taxable income. The main areas of 
judgement in the Group tax calculation are the 
expected central tax provisions for the full year, 
including provisions related to transfer pricing risk, 
and the recognition of the UK deferred tax asset. 

Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from 
management providing an evaluation of existing 
risks and tax provisions which is reviewed by the 
Committee. The Committee also considered 

reports presented by the external auditors before 
determining that the levels of tax provisioning were 
appropriate. 

the year, and after seeking views from the 
external auditors, agreed the disclosure in note 9 
in Book three, pages 20–22. 

Revenue Recognition 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
requires an entity to recognise revenue in a way that 
shows the transfer of goods/services promised to 
customers is an amount that reflects the expected 
consideration in return for transferring control of 
those goods or services to the customer. 

The Committee reviewed the work completed 
regarding revenue and, taking into account the views 
of the external auditors, agreed that the treatment 
was appropriate. 

Acquisitions and fair value accounting 
The Committee was advised of the approach taken 
to the acquisitions made in 2023 where the related 
fair value was recognised on a provisional basis. Such 
provisional amount is subsequently finalised within 
the 12-month measurement period, as permitted by 
IFRS 3. Details of the acquisitions in 2023 are set out 
in note 10 in Book three, page 23. 

The Committee, following assurance from 
management and review of the position by the 
external auditors, was satisfied that the treatment 
was appropriate. 

Impairment of Goodwill and other acquired 
intangible assets 
The Group is required to make judgements to estimate 
the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired; in 
particular, the amounts attributed to intangible assets 
such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and 
associated customer relationships. These judgements 
impact the amount of goodwill recognised on 
acquisitions. As outlined in note 9 in Book three, the 
Group has £1,385.8m of Goodwill which has arisen on 
acquisitions. An impairment assessment is required at 
least annually in respect of this amount. 

The Committee noted the update as at the year-end 
and, taking into account the acquisitions made during 

Accounts receivable and accrued income 
The Group takes a prudent approach to provisioning 
of accounts receivable and accrued income 
balances in line with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. 

The Committee noted the update as at the 
year-end and, considering the views of the 
external auditors, agreed that the Group’s 
provision was appropriate. 

Consideration of Climate Change 
Mandatory TCFD reporting for premium listed 
entities has driven significant momentum 
regarding climate change related disclosures. 
The Group has set out its consideration 
of climate change in respect of an impact 
on the financial reporting judgements and 
estimates arising from our assessment of 
climate change on the Group as a whole. 

The Committee reviewed the approach taken to 
consider the impact of climate change and the 
disclosures in Book one, pages 58–66 and taking 
into account the feedback from the external 
auditors agreed the approach taken and the 
related disclosures. 

Pensions 
The Group operates a number of post-employment 
plans. In most locations, these are defined 
contribution arrangements. However, there are 
material defined benefit schemes in the United 
Kingdom and Switzerland. 

Having considered advice from external actuaries 
and assumptions used by companies with 
comparator plans, the Committee agreed that the 
assumptions used to calculate the income 
statement and balance sheet assets and liabilities 
for post-employment plans were appropriate 
(see note 16 in Book three, pages 35-38). 

Significant issues considered by the Committee 
In preparation for each year-end, the Committee 
reviews the significant accounting policies, estimates 
and judgements to be applied in the financial 
statements and discusses their application with 
management. The external auditor also considers the 
appropriateness of these assessments as part of the 
external audit. The Committee’s views, comments 
and their insights are used to inform the processes 
and approach taken by management in all areas of 
significant risk, thus facilitating a Group-wide 
consistent and prudent approach. 

In accordance with the Code, the external auditor 
prepares a report for the Committee on both the 
half-year and full-year results, which summarises 
the approach to key risks in the external audit and 
highlights any issues arising out of their work on 
those risks, or any other work undertaken on 
the audit. 

Following reviews and discussions throughout the 
year of all the relevant papers presented and after 
considered discussion with management and the 
external auditors, the Committee had an 
understanding of the business rationale for 
transactions and how they were being recorded and 
disclosed in the financial statements, and therefore 
agreed that the estimates and areas of judgement 
exercised by management were appropriate. 

77

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report

Dear shareholder, 
I am delighted to present our Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2023. 

Business context 
This year the Group has delivered a strong financial 
performance in revenue, margin, EPS, cash and 
ROIC. There has been a higher demand for our ATIC 
solutions, which has enabled us to deliver the highest 
like-for-like revenue growth in the last ten years. 
This year the business has made two successful 
acquisitions in Controle Analítico and PlayerLync. 
The acquisitions we made the previous years with 
SAI, JLA and CEA have been successfully integrated 
into the Group and performed well. We have made 
progress on margin, as we benefitted from our 
pricing and productivity initiatives, and we have 
delivered a robust free cash flow performance. 

Wider workforce 
Across the Group our employees have led by 
example in every operation, showing their passion, 
commitment and innovation. Our people bring 
exceptional technical skills, expertise and energy 
to our business and our focus on their health, 
safety and well-being is critical to our continued 
success. Intertek is compliant with minimum wage 
and mandatory social contributions requirements 
in all jurisdictions where we operate, and, given 
the geographic spread of the Group’s operations, 
employee reward is managed at local level to enable 
local management to deliver the right customer and 
employee experience. This year, we have continued 
to focus on the wellbeing of our employees through 
our Kindness programme, which supports our 
colleagues’ wellbeing and ensures a safe and healthy 
work environment in which they can prosper. 

With regards to salary budgets, we continue to 
be mindful of the challenges our employees are 
facing with the ongoing inflation and cost-of-living 
pressures across the world. In making salary budget 
decisions, the Group balanced the challenges our 
employees are facing with the wider approach to 
cost discipline. Across the UK, the salary increase 
has been agreed at 3.4%, with the UK representing 
circa 5% of Intertek’s employee population.

Earlier this year we launched our exciting Intertek 
AAA differentiated growth strategy which will 
unlock the significant growth opportunities as 
the Total Quality market accelerates. The key 
highlights of our 2023 performance are: 

•  Revenue growth of 7.1% at constant currency 

driven by like-for-like revenue growth of 6.2%. This 
is the highest in the last ten years. 

•  Margin increase of 60bps at constant currency. 
•  Adjusted diluted EPS growth of 11% at constant 

currency. 

•  All time high operating cash generation of £749m. 

•  Strong balance sheet with reduction of net debt by 
£127m giving us the ability to invest in growth. 

Remuneration Committee report 

The Board is confident that 
remuneration at Intertek reflects 
the strong performance of the 
business in 2023. 

Gill Rider 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 

78

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Pay for performance in 2023 
There was no change to our annual incentive 
framework for 2023, which continues to support 
the Group’s strategy for growth and our purpose of 
“Bringing Quality, Safety and Sustainability to life”. 
As such, 70% of the annual incentive was based on 
a matrix of Revenue and Adjusted Operating Profit 
Growth, 15% on ROIC and 15% on Carbon Emissions. 

As set out earlier in the Annual Report & Accounts, 
in 2023, Intertek has delivered strong financial 
performance revenue growth, margin progression, 
EPS, cash and higher ROIC. The Group also exceeded 
the targets set on carbon emissions. Based on the 
performance targets set at the start of the year, 
this would have resulted in a formulaic outcome 
of 76.44% of maximum. Taking into account 
that a proportion of the over-performance on 
the carbon emissions metric was driven through 
accelerated capex investments, the Committee, on 
recommendation from the Management, scored the 
metric at target, which reduced the 2023 bonus 
outcome to 68.94%. The Committee felt that the 
overall out-turn was in keeping with the overall 
performance of the business in the year. 50% of this 
award will be deferred into shares for three-years. 
The majority of employees in the whole Group have 
an annual incentive award that is linked to the same 
metrics that we use throughout the business. 

Our 2021 long-term incentive award was based 
on three equally weighted metrics; Earnings Per 
Share, Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Return on 
Invested Capital, aligned with the Group’s strategy 
for sustainable growth. Over the longer term, 
the three-year performance of the Group has 
delivered EPS CAGR growth of 12.5%, Adjusted 
Free Cash Flow of £1,231m and three year 
average Return on Invested Capital of26.7%. This 
has resulted in a payout under the 2021 long- 
term incentive award of 100% of maximum. 

When determining incentive outcomes the 
Committee exercised independent judgement, 
taking into account a number of internal and 
external considerations to determine whether 
the results felt appropriate, including: 

79

•  The introduction of the Intertek AAA 

differentiated growth strategy and the strategic 
actions taken by the Board to seize the significant 
growth opportunities ahead; 

•  The share price performance in the year and the 

implementation of our progressive dividend policy, 
which rewarded our shareholders with a £120.2m 
payout for the final 2023 dividend; 

•  The successful acquisitions in high growth, high 

margin segments which have been embedded into 
the Group and are performing well; and 

•  The overall stakeholder experience over the year, 
including the experience of our clients, employees 
and communities. 

It was the view of the Committee that the incentive 
outcomes appropriately reflected performance in 
the period and the wider shareholder experience, 
and the Remuneration Policy operated as intended 
and therefore no discretion was applied. 

Board changes 
As previously announced, Jonathan Timmis ceased to 
be a Director on 17 March 2023. His departure terms 
were consistent with our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy. Given the change to the organisational 
structure and his good performance, Jonathan 
was treated as a good leaver for incentive plan 
purposes. Outstanding incentive awards will remain 
subject to performance and will be pro-rated for 
time. Where appropriate, outstanding awards are 
also subject to forfeiture provisions, if Jonathan 
were to take up alternative employment prior 
to the release date of those awards. Jonathan’s 
2023 LTIP award lapsed in full. Full details of 
Jonathan’s remuneration arrangements for his 
departure are set out on pages 100-101. 

end of the year the Committee undertook a further 
review of Colm’s salary arrangements. Reflecting on 
Colm’s strong performance since his appointment 
the  Committee determined that the salary for 
Colm should be increased to £500,000. Whilst the 
Committee believes that this salary level is more 
reflective of Colm’s performance as a strong finance 
leader, the Committee notes that this continues to 
represent a discount to his predecessor and is below 
the median level of our benchmarking comparator 
group. We will continue to review this positioning. 
Colm’s pension arrangements are in line 
with the wider UK workforce and his annual 
incentive and long-term incentive opportunity 
have been set in line with his predecessor. 

As the role was an internal appointment, there was 
no buy-out award to be made on appointment. 

2024 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
In line with the normal three-year cycle, we will 
be submitting a new Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy for shareholder approval at our 2024 
AGM. In anticipation of this, the Remuneration 
Committee undertook a detailed review of 
the current Remuneration Policy during the 
year. Following a comprehensive review, the 
Remuneration Committee concluded that our 
current Remuneration Policy, which is centred 
on rewarding the Executive Directors where 
performance is delivered, remains fit-for-purpose 
and continues to support the execution of the 
Group’s strategy for growth and the generation of 
sustainable returns for our shareholders. As such, 
no material changes are being proposed to the 
structure of the package nor the maximum award 
opportunities. The ongoing Remuneration Policy will 
therefore continue to comprise of the following: 

We were delighted to appoint Colm Deasy as CFO 
with effect from 17 March 2023. On appointment 
his base salary was set at £425,000, representing 
a significant discount to his predecessor. The 
Committee deliberately set Colm’s salary at a prudent 
level as the Committee noted that this was Colm’s 
first appointment as a public company CFO and it was 
the Committee’s intention to keep Colm’s salary level 
under review as he built experience in the role. At the 

•  Fixed remuneration, including base salary, cash in 

lieu of pension and benefits. 

•  An annual bonus, which is based predominantly 
on financial metrics linked to Operating Profit, 
Revenue Growth and Return on Invested Capital. In 
line with changes made for 2022, a proportion of 
the award will be measured against ESG based 
metrics. 50% of the bonus will continue to be 
delivered in shares, with 50% paid in cash. 

•  A traditional long-term incentive plan, under 

which performance is measured over a three-year 
period, with no release of value until year five. 
Performance metrics for the plan remain well 
aligned to our Intertek AAA differentiated growth 
strategy, comprised of Earnings Per Share; Adjusted 
Free Cash Flow; and Return on Invested Capital. 

Our Remuneration Policy can be found on pages 
81-83 of this report. 

The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the 
expectation of some of our shareholders that the 
pension arrangements for the CEO should be aligned 
with the wider UK workforce. As such, as part of 
our previous Remuneration Policy, we agreed with 
the CEO to reduce his pension contribution from 
30% of base salary to 5% of base salary (which is 
the level of the majority of the UK workforce) over 
five years. Taking into account the reductions made 
over the previous three years, the CEO’s pension 
arrangements will be aligned to the wider UK 
workforce rate within this 2024 Remuneration Policy. 

Implementation of our  
Remuneration Policy in 2024 
With regard to salary, the Committee has awarded 
the CEO a 3.0% salary increase, which is below the 
wider UK workforce increase of 3.4%. As noted 
earlier, the CFO salary has been reviewed, taking into 
account his strong performance since appointment. 
His new salary continues to be the median of our 
benchmarking comparator group and will be kept 
under review as he continues to grow in the role. 

The maximum annual incentive opportunity will 
remain at 200% of salary for the CEO and CFO, 
in line with the Remuneration Policy. The annual 
incentive will continue to be based 85% on financial 
metrics and 15% on ESG, with no proposed change 
to the annual incentive measures which the 
Committee believes continue to align with our AAA 
differentiated growth strategy and our purpose of 
“Bringing quality, safety and sustainability to life”. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

The Board is confident that remuneration at Intertek 
continues to be aligned to our shareholder interests 
and carefully designed to support our strategy. I look 
forward to your support at our forthcoming AGM. 

Yours sincerely,

Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
In line with the three year Policy cycle, the 
Remuneration Policy for Executive and Non- 
Executive Directors will be presented to the 
AGM to be held on 24 May 2024. The Policy was 
last approved by shareholders at the AGM on 
26 May 2021. There is no substantial change 
proposed to the Remuneration Policy this year. 
The full Policy is set out on pages 81-83. 

Each year the Committee approves the overall 
reward strategy for the Group and sets the 
individual remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and certain senior management. The 
Committee reviews the balance between base 
salary and performance-related remuneration 
against the key objectives and targets so as to 
ensure performance is appropriately rewarded. 
This also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection 
of the underlying performance of the Group. 

Gill Rider 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 

As a global service business, our success is critically 
dependent on the performance and retention of 
our key people around the world. Employment costs 
represent the major element of Group operating 
costs. As a global Group, our pay arrangements 
take into account both local and international 
markets and we operate a global Remuneration 
Policy framework to achieve our reward strategy. 
Our benchmark peer groups for the majority of 
our employees consist of international industrial 
or business service organisations and similar- 
sized businesses. For our more senior executives 
we base our remuneration comparisons on a 
blend of factors, including sector, job complexity, 
location, responsibilities and performance, whilst 
recognising the Company is listed in the UK. 

We believe that a significant proportion of 
remuneration for senior executives should be related 
to performance, with part of that remuneration 
being deferred in the form of shares and subject to 
continued employment and longer-term performance. 
We also believe that share-based remuneration 
should form a significant element of senior 
executives’ compensation, so that there is a strong 
link to the sustained future success of the Group. 

In determining the Remuneration Policy, which 
was approved in 2021 and will be submitted 
for approval in 2024, the Committee followed 
a robust process which included discussions on 
the content of the Policy at two Remuneration 
Committee meetings. The Committee considered 
input from management. Any conflicts of interest 
were managed with decisions being taken by the 
members of the Remuneration Committee with the 
support from our independent advisers, as well as in 
the context of best practice and guidance from our 
major shareholders and the proxy advisory bodies. 

Policy overview 
We continue to focus on ensuring that our 
Remuneration Policy is appropriate for the nature, 
size and complexity of the Group, encourages our 
employees in the development of their careers, is 
aligned with the Company’s strategy and is in the 
best interests of the Company and its stakeholders. 
It is directed to deliver continued sustainable growth. 

Our remuneration strategy is to 
•  align and recognise the individual’s contribution 

to help us succeed in achieving our AAA 
differentiated strategy for growth; 

•  attract, engage, motivate and retain the best 
available people by positioning total pay and 
benefits to be competitive in the relevant market 
and in line with the ability of the business to pay; 

•  reward people equitably for the size of their 

responsibilities and performance; and 

•  motivate high performers to increase shareholder 

value and share in the Group’s success. 

Long-term incentive awards will be granted to the 
CEO and CFO in 2024, with no changes to the award 
sizes (CEO: 300% of salary; CFO: 200% of salary) or 
performance measures which continue to support 
the Group’s strategy for sustainable growth. Details 
of the underlying targets for the 2024 long-term 
incentive awards are set out on pages 89-90. 

Alignment with strategy and purpose 
Our Core Purpose of “Bringing Quality, Safety and 
Sustainability to life” continues to be central to 
everything we do. Across the organisation our 
people are excited by the opportunity we have 
to deliver our Purpose every day. Our Purpose is 
supported by our Values. We pride ourselves in living 
our Values, with integrity and fairness sitting at 
the heart of all our decisions. We believe that our 
Remuneration Policy and its implementation are 
value-based, and will create sustainable momentum 
for the business, our people, our customers and 
our shareholders in the years to come, whilst also 
supporting the sustainable delivery of Intertek’s 
AAA differentiated growth strategy to unlock the 
significant value growth opportunity ahead. 

Looking forward 
I will be stepping down as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee following the conclusion of the 2024 
AGM, and consequently this will be my final report 
to you before handing over to Graham Allan who has 
been a member of the Remuneration Committee 
since 2017. I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank our shareholders and their representatives 
for the time taken to engage with us during my 
tenure as Chair and for the valuable insight and 
feedback they have provided. I know that Graham 
looks forward to continuing this transparent and 
open dialogue when he formally takes over as Chair. 
Both Graham and I will be attending the AGM. 

80

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Remuneration Committee report Continued

Remuneration Policy for Directors 
The following table sets out the Remuneration Policy for Directors. 

Element of pay 

Purpose and link to strategy 

Operation 

Maximum opportunity 

Performance measures 

Base salary 

To attract and retain high 
performing Executive 
Directors to lead the Group. 

The Committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking 
account of factors including, but not limited to, the scale of 
responsibilities, the individual’s experience and performance. 

There is no prescribed maximum salary or annual 
increase. 

Individual performance is taken into account 
when salary levels are reviewed. 

Benefits 

To provide competitive 
benefits to ensure the 
wellbeing of employees. 

Pension 

To provide competitive 
retirement benefits. 

Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking information into 
account, its decisions are based primarily on the performance 
of the individual concerned against the above factors to 
ensure that there is no unjustified upward ratchet in base 
salary. 

Benefits include, but are not limited to, annual medicals, 
life assurance cover of up to six times base salary, allowances 
in lieu of a company car or other benefits, private medical 
insurance (for the individual and their dependants) and other 
benefits typically provided to senior executives. 

Executive Directors can participate in any all-employee share 
plans operated by the Company on the same basis as all other 
employees. 

Executive Directors can elect to join the Company’s defined 
contribution pension scheme, receive pension contributions 
into their personal pension plan or receive a cash sum in lieu 
of pension contributions. 

In awarding any salary increases, the Committee 
is guided by the general increase for the 
employee population but on occasions may 
need to recognise other factors including, but 
not limited to, development in role, change in 
responsibility and/or variance to market levels 
of remuneration. 

The total value of these benefits (excluding the 
all-employee plans) will not normally exceed 12% 
of salary. 

n/a 

The maximum opportunity under any all- 
employee share plan is in line with all other 
employees and is as determined by the prevailing 
HMRC rules. 

For new Executive Directors pension provisions 
will be in line with those of the wider UK 
workforce (currently 5% of salary). 

n/a 

For the Group CEO the pension is being brought 
in line with the wider UK workforce over the 
next two years to 5% as previously committed.  
It will reduce to 10% from 1 June 2024 and to 5% 
from 1 June 2025. 

81

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Element of pay 

Purpose and link to strategy 

Operation 

Maximum opportunity 

Performance measures 

Annual Incentive 
Plan (‘AIP’) 

To drive the short-term 
strategy and recognise 
annual performance 
against targets which 
are based on business 
objectives. 

Awards are based on Group annual performance targets, with 
performance targets normally set annually by the Board. 

Incentive out-turns are normally assessed by the Committee 
at the year-end, taking into account performance against the 
targets and the underlying performance of the business. 

The maximum opportunity in respect of a 
financial year is 200% of salary for each 
Executive Director. 

The Committee has the ability to adjust incentive payments if 
it believes that out-turns are not appropriate in the context of 
overall performance. 

The payout at below threshold performance is 0% of 
maximum, with 25% of the maximum bonus normally payable 
for threshold performance. Payouts between threshold and 
maximum (100%) are determined on an annual basis. Details of 
the payout schedule will be disclosed in the relevant Directors’ 
Remuneration report. 

Normally, 50% of any incentive is paid in cash and 50% 
deferred into shares which will vest after a period of three 
years subject to continued employment. 

Malus and clawback provisions apply. 

Annual grant of conditional shares which vest after three years, 
subject to Company performance and continued employment. 

Up to 300% of salary in respect of any 
financial year. 

Awards may be made in other forms (e.g. nil-cost options) if 
considered appropriate. 

The shares will also normally be subject to a two-year holding 
period after vesting. 

Performance targets are normally set annually for each 
three-year performance cycle by the Board. 

Vesting is normally assessed by the Committee after the end 
of the performance period, taking into account performance 
against the targets and the underlying performance of the 
business. The Committee has the ability to adjust incentive 
payments if it believes that out-turns are not appropriate in 
the context of overall performance. 

Malus and clawback provisions apply. 

Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’) 

To retain and reward 
Executive Directors for 
the delivery of long-term 
performance. 

To support the continuity 
of the leadership of the 
business. 

To provide long-term 
alignment of executives’ 
interests with shareholders 
by linking rewards 
to Intertek’s performance. 

82

The annual incentive will be measured against 
a range of key Group performance indicators, 
including both financial and non-financial 
measures, with a minimum weighting of 80% 
of financial measures. 

For 2024, the annual incentive will be based 
on a 70% matrix of revenue and adjusted 
operating profit growth, 15% ROIC and 15% 
ESG, based on Carbon Emissions. These 
measures support the Group's strategy for 
growth and our purpose of bringing quality, 
safety and sustainability to life. The stretch 
targets, when met, reward exceptional 
achievement and contribution. There is no 
incentive payout if threshold targets are 
not met. 

LTIP awards are subject to an appropriate 
balance of earnings, cash and capital efficiency 
based performance measures, which align with 
the Group's strategy for sustainable growth. 

The Committee retains the discretion to 
introduce another performance metric, with 
a maximum weighting of up to one-third of 
the incentive. Were the Committee to 
introduce such measures, it would normally 
consult with the Company’s largest 
institutional shareholders. 

For 2024, the LTIP award will be based on 
earnings per share, return on invested capital 
and adjusted free cash flow. Each measure will 
have an equal weighting. 

25% of an award will vest for achieving 
threshold performance, increasing pro rata 
to full vesting for the achievement of stretch 
performance targets. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Element of pay 

Purpose and link to strategy 

Operation 

Maximum opportunity 

Performance measures 

Share ownership 
guidelines 

To increase alignment 
between executives and 
shareholders. 

Executive Directors are expected to retain any vested shares 
(net of tax) under the Group’s share plans until the guideline 
is met. 

500% of salary for the CEO. 

n/a 

300% of salary for the CFO. 

The guideline should normally be met within five years of the 
guideline being set. 

Further details of the share ownership guidelines and the 
post-cessation shareholding guidelines are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report. 

Holding and vesting periods for all share awards will be 
adhered to post-employment. 

Post-cessation of 
employment 
shareholding 

To ensure alignment of 
sustainable performance 
between executives and 
shareholders. 

Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees 

To attract and retain 
high-caliber Non-Executive 
Directors through the 
provision of market- 
competitive fees. 

A proportion of the fees (at least 50%) are paid in 
cash, with the remainder used to purchase shares. 

Fees are primarily determined based on the 
responsibility and time committed to the Group’s 
affairs and appropriate market comparisons. 

n/a 

n/a 

Executive Directors are required to hold 
shares equivalent to the lower of 
(i) their share ownership guidelines; or 
(ii) their actual shareholding, for two years 
post-employment. 

As for the Executive Directors, there is no 
prescribed maximum annual increase. The 
Committee is guided by the general increase 
for the employee population but on occasions 
may need to recognise other factors including, 
but not limited to, change in responsibility and/ 
or variance to market levels of remuneration. 

The Chair receives an all-inclusive fee. Non-Executive 
Directors receive a base fee and further fees for 
additional Board responsibilities. Additional fees may 
be paid in the exceptional event that Non-Executive 
Directors are required to commit substantial additional 
time above that normally expected for the role. 

With the exception of benefits in kind arising 
from the performance of duties (and any tax due 
on those benefits which is reimbursed by the 
Company), no other benefits are provided. 

83

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Selection of performance metrics 
The annual incentive plan is based on performance 
against a mix of financial and non-financial 
measures. The mix of financial measures is aligned 
to the Group’s key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) 
and is reviewed each year by the Remuneration 
Committee to ensure that they remain appropriate 
to reflect the priorities for the business in the 
year ahead. The targets are set for each KPI 
to encourage continuous improvement and 
challenge the delivery of stretch performance. 

The 2024 LTIP award is based on earnings per share 
growth, return on invested capital and adjusted 
free cash flow. The performance metrics align with 
Intertek’s earnings model, which supports delivery 
of the Company’s AAA growth strategy, which 
aims to move the centre of gravity of the Company 
towards high-growth, high-margin areas in our 
industry. Earnings per share ensure that there is a 
clear focus on margin-accretive revenue growth; 
adjusted free cash flow ensures focus on strong 
cash management; and return on invested capital 
ensures a focus on disciplined capital management. 

A sliding scale of challenging performance targets 
is set for each measure. The Committee reviews 
the choice of performance measures and the 
appropriateness of the performance targets prior 
to each LTIP grant. The Committee reserves the 
discretion to set different targets for future awards, 
without consulting with shareholders. When setting 
the targets for the annual incentive and the LTIP, the 
Committee takes into account a range of factors, 
including the business plan, prior-year performance, 
market conditions and consensus forecasts. 

Terms of incentive awards 
Deferred Share awards and LTIP awards may include 
the right to receive (in cash or shares) the value of 
the dividends that would have been paid on the 
shares that vest up to the time of vesting (or for 
LTIP awards, up to the end of the relevant holding 
period). The Committee’s intention is that such 
dividends would normally be settled in shares. 

84

The Committee will operate the annual incentive plan 
and LTIP according to the respective rules of the 
plans. The Committee will retain flexibility in a 
number of areas regarding the operation and 
administration of these plans, including (but not 
limited to) the following: 
•  how to deal with a change of control or 

restructuring of the Group, or a demerger or similar 
event (including how to assess performance 
conditions and whether to time pro-rate awards); 

•  and how and whether any award may be adjusted 
in certain circumstances (including in the event of 
a variation of share capital, demerger, special 
dividend, or similar event). 

The Committee also retains the discretion within the 
Remuneration Policy to adjust targets and/or set 
different measures and weightings if it considers it is 
required so that the targets or conditions achieve 
their original purpose. Revised targets/measures will 
be, in the opinion of the Committee, no less difficult 
to satisfy than the original conditions. The 
Committee may accelerate the vesting and/or the 
release of awards if an Executive Director moves 
jurisdictions following grant and there would be 
greater tax or regulatory burdens on the award in the 
new jurisdiction. 

Remuneration scenarios for 
Executive Directors 
The chart on the next page illustrates how the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration packages vary at 
different levels of performance under the Policy 
which will apply in 2024 for both the Chief Executive 
Officer (‘CEO’) and Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’). 

Approach to recruitment and promotions 
The remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director – base salary, benefits, pension, annual 
incentive and long-term incentive awards – would be 
set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s 
prevailing approved Remuneration Policy at the time 
of appointment. The Committee may set the base 
salary at a value to reflect the calibre, experience 
and earnings potential of a candidate, subject 
to the Committee’s judgement that the level of 
remuneration is in the Company’s best interest. 

The maximum level of variable pay (annual incentive 
and long-term incentive awards, or any combination 
thereof) which may be awarded to a new Executive 
Director at or shortly following recruitment 
shall be limited to 500% of salary. These limits 
exclude buy-out awards and are in line with the 
Remuneration Policy for Directors set out previously. 

The Committee may offer additional cash and/ 
or share-based elements to take account of 
remuneration relinquished when leaving the 
former employer when it considers these 
buy-outs to be in the best interests of the 
Company (and therefore shareholders). 

Any such awards would reflect the nature, time 
horizons and performance requirements attaching 
to the remuneration it is intended to replace. Where 
appropriate, the Committee retains the flexibility to 
utilise Listing Rule 9.4.2 for the purpose of making 
an award to buy-out remuneration relinquished 
when leaving the former employer. For external 
and internal appointments, the Committee 
may agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation expenses and continuing allowances 
as appropriate. Additionally, in the case of any 
Executive Director being recruited from overseas, 
or being recruited by the Company to relocate 
overseas to perform their duties, the Committee 
may offer expatriate benefits on an ongoing basis 
subject to their aggregate value to the individual 
not exceeding 50% of salary per annum. 

For an internal Executive Director appointment, 
any variable pay element awarded in respect of 
the prior role may be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any other 
ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior 
to appointment may continue. If a new Chair or 
Non-Executive Director is appointed, remuneration 
arrangements will be in line with those detailed in 
the Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
set out in the Remuneration Policy for Directors. 

Service contracts for Executive Directors 
The service agreements of the Executive Directors 
are not fixed term and are terminable by either 
the Company or the Director on 12 months’ notice 
and make provision, at the Board’s discretion, for 
early termination by way of payment of salary 
and pension contributions in lieu of 12 months’ 
notice. In calculating the amount payable to 
a Director on termination of employment, the 
Board would take into account the commercial 
interests of the Company and apply usual 
common law and contractual principles. Any 
payments in lieu of notice may be paid in a lump 
sum or may be paid in instalments and reduce if 
the Director finds alternative employment. The 
service contracts are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office. The Committee 
reviews the contractual terms for new Executive 
Directors to ensure these reflect best practice. 

In summary, the contractual provisions are: 

Provision 

Detailed terms 

Notice period  12 months 

Common 
law and 
contractual 
principles 

Remuneration 
entitlements 

Change of 
control 

Common law and contractual 
principles apply 

An incentive may be payable 
(pro rata where relevant) and 
outstanding Share Awards may 
vest (see page 85) 

No Executive Director’s contract 
contains provisions or additional 
payments in respect of change of 
control. The treatment of annual 
incentive awards and outstanding 
Share Awards will be treated in line 
with the relevant plan rules 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

In determining whether an Executive Director should 
be treated as a good leaver or not, the Committee 
will take into account the reasons for their departure. 

The Committee reserves the right to make any 
other payments (including appropriate legal fees) in 
connection with an Executive Director’s cessation 
of office or employment where the payments are 
made in good faith on discharge of an existing 
legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach 
of their obligation) or by way of settlement of any 
claim arising in contravention with the cessation 
of an Executive Director’s office or employment. 

Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance 

£’000 

8,500 
8,000 
7,500 
7,000 
6,500 
6,000 
5,500 
5,000 
4,500 
4,000 
3,500 
3,000 
2,500 
2,000 
1,500 
1,000 
500 
0 

£8,185 

58% 

£6,597 

48% 

32% 

26% 

£3,950 

40% 

27 % 

£1,302 

100% 

33% 

20% 

16% 

LTIP award 
Annual incentive 
Basic salary, benefits and pension 

£2,524 

40% 

40% 

20% 

£3,024 

50% 

33% 

17% 

£1,524 

33% 

33% 

34% 

£524 

100% 

Minimum 

On-target 

Maximum 

Maximum 2 

Minimum 

On-target 

Maximum 

Maximum 2 

A Lacroix, Chief Executive Officer 

C Deasy, Chief Financial Officer 

Points relating to the above table: 
1.  Salary levels are based on those applying on 1 April 2024. 
2.  The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the year ended 31 December 2023. 
3.  The value of pension receivable in 2024 by the CEO is taken to be 15% of salary until 1 June 2024 and 10% thereafter, and for the CFO taken to be 5% of salary. 
4.  The on-target level of annual incentive is taken to be 50% of the maximum opportunity. 
5.  The on-target level of the LTIP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant. 
6.  Share price movement and dividend accrual have not been incorporated into the first three scenarios. Share price growth of 50% has been assumed on the LTIP in the Maximum 2 scenario. 

There is no automatic entitlement to an annual 
incentive award in the year of cessation of 
employment. The Committee may determine 
however, that for certain leavers an annual 
incentive award may be payable with respect 
to the period of the financial year served. 

Any share-based entitlements granted to an 
Executive Director under the Company’s share plans 
will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 

The default treatment under the 2021 LTIP, 
and previously under the 2011 LTIP, is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of 
employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as death, ill-health, injury, 
disability or other circumstances at the discretion of 
the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be applied. 

For good leavers, Deferred Share awards will vest 
in full on the original vesting date (as permitted 
under the plan rules), unless the Remuneration 
Committee determines that awards should vest 
at an earlier date. LTIP awards will normally vest 
on the original vesting date (they will normally, 
where appropriate, be subject to any holding 
period), and subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance conditions at that time and 
reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the 
performance period actually served. However, 
the Committee has discretion to determine that 
awards vest at an earlier date and/or to disapply 
time pro-rating, although it is envisaged that this 
would only be applied in exceptional circumstances 
(for example, death). Any such incidents, where 
discretion is applied by the Committee in relation 
to Executive Directors, will be disclosed in the 
following Annual Report on Remuneration. 

85

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

The remuneration strategy set out at the beginning 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy report 
reflects the strategy in place across the Group 
for all employees. Although this remuneration 
strategy applies across the Group, given the size 
of the Group and the geographical spread of its 
operations, the way in which the Remuneration 
Policy is implemented varies across the Group. 
For example, annual incentive deferral applies 
at the more senior levels within the Group and 
participation in the LTIP is at the Remuneration 
Committee’s discretion and is typically limited to 
senior executives employed within the Group. 

Given the geographical spread of the Group’s 
operations, the Remuneration Committee 
does not consider it appropriate to consult 
employees on the Remuneration Policy 
in operation for Executive Directors. 

Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee values the opportunity to engage in 
meaningful dialogue with its investors. Over the last 
few years the Committee has consulted extensively 
with all major shareholders on points relating to the 
Remuneration Policy. 

Legacy arrangements 
The approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
and that which is to be presented to the 2024 
AGM provide authority to the Company to honour 
any commitments entered into with current 
or former Directors such as the vesting of 
outstanding share awards (including exercising 
any discretions available to it in connection 
with such commitments) that were agreed: 

(i)  before the policy set out above, or any previous 

policy, came into effect; 

(ii)  at a time when a previous policy approved by 
shareholders was in place provided that the 
payment is in line with the terms of that policy; 
and 

(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a 
Director of the Company and the payment was 
not in consideration for the individual becoming a 
Director of the Company. 

Letters of appointment for  
Non-Executive Directors 
The letter of appointment for each Non-Executive 
Director states that they are appointed for an 
initial period of three years and all appointments 
are terminable by one month’s notice on either 
side. At the end of the initial period and after 
rigorous review, the appointment may be renewed 
for a further period, usually three years, if the 
Company and the Director agree and subject to 
annual re-election at the AGM. Each letter of 
appointment states that if the Company were to 
terminate the appointment, the Director would not 
be entitled to any compensation for loss of office. 

The table below sets out the terms for all the 
current Non-Executive Directors of the Board. 

Consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere within the Group 
When setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes 
into account the pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere within the Group. When considering 
the remuneration arrangements for the Executive 
Directors for the year ahead, the Committee is 
informed of salary increases across the wider 
Group. The Committee also approves the overall 
reward strategy in operation across the Group. 

Andrew Martin 

Graham Allan 

Gurnek Bains 

Date of appointment 

26 May 2016 becoming Chair on 1 January 2021 
Reappointed: 26 May 2022 

1 October 2017 
Reappointed: 1 October 2023 

1 July 2017 
Reappointed: 1 July 2023 

Lynda Clarizio 

1 March 2021 

Tamara Ingram 

Jez Maiden 

Kawal Preet 

Gill Rider 

18 December 2020 
Reappointed: 18 December 2023 

26 May 2022 

31 December 2022 

1 July 2015 
Reappointed: 1 July 2021 

Apurvi Sheth 

1 September 2023 

Jean-Michel Valette 

1 July 2017 
Reappointed: 1 July 2023 

Notice period/Unexpired term 
as at 31 December 2023 

One month/17 months 

One month/33 months 

One month/30 months 

One month/2 months 

One month/35 months 

One month/17 months 

One month/24 months 

One month/6 months 

One month/32 months 

One month/30 months 

86

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Annual Report on Remuneration 
Committee membership and meeting 
attendance 

Committee responsibilities and how we met them in the year 
We have specific responsibilities reserved to us by the Board and the full Terms of Reference of the Committee, 
which are reviewed annually, can be found on our website at intertek.com. 

Matters delegated to the Committee 

Meetings 
attended 

Determines the Company’s policy on remuneration for the Executive Directors and 
senior executive management. 

Code provision 

33, 36–40 

Committee members 

Gill Rider (Chair)

Graham Allan

Gurnek Bains

Tamara Ingram 

Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

31

1.  Tamara Ingram gave apologies for one meeting to attend a funeral. 

Throughout 2023 and at all times the composition 
of the Committee was compliant with the Code. All 
members are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Prior to joining Intertek in July 2015, Gill had been 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee at Charles 
Taylor plc. This enabled the Nomination Committee 
to recommend her appointment as Chair of the 
Committee which was then approved by the Board. 

On appointment, new Committee members 
receive an appropriate induction consisting of 
meetings with senior personnel, advisers and 
as appropriate, meetings with shareholders 
and other relevant stakeholders. They also 
review the Terms of Reference, previous 
Committee meeting papers and minutes. 

The Committee invites the Chair, CEO and the EVP, 
Human Resources to attend meetings when it deems 
appropriate, except when their own remuneration 
is discussed. No Director is involved in determining 
his or her own remuneration. None of the 
Committee members has had any personal financial 
interest, except as shareholders, in the decisions 
made by the Committee. The Group Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 

87

Determines the remuneration for the above and the Chair, including any compensation  
on termination of office. 

Reviews the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population and 
considers issues relating to remuneration that may have a significant impact on the 
Group. 

Provides advice to, and consults with, the CEO on major policy issues affecting the 
remuneration of other executives. 

Responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting  
the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee. 

33 

33 

33 

35 

Keeps the Remuneration Policy under review in light of regulatory and best practice 
developments and shareholder expectations and ensures that the Remuneration Policy  
is voted on at least every third year. Due regard is given to the interests of shareholders  
and the requirements of the Listing Rules and associated guidance. 

36–40 

Ensures each year that the Annual Directors' Report on Remuneration is put to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM and includes a description of the work of the 
Committee. 

41 

Executive Director remuneration 
We are responsible for determining the 
Company’s policy on the remuneration of 
the Chair, the Executive Directors and senior 
executive management. We also determine 
their remuneration packages, including any 
compensation on termination of office and 
review to ensure their alignment with our culture 
and with those of the workforce as a whole. 

In the year, we addressed this by reviewing and 
agreeing the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors as well as the Group Executive 
Committee. We received advice from Deloitte 
LLP (‘Deloitte’) to inform our discussions. 

Wider workforce remuneration  
and engagement 
We also review the remuneration and related 
policies of the wider workforce to ensure that 
incentives and rewards align to our Purpose, Values 
and culture. As part of this we receive information 
on salary increases, the design of the bonus and 
targets and on the 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan 
and performance criteria. This is used to inform 
decisions when setting the policy for Executive 
Director remuneration and for when we consult with, 
or provide advice to, the CEO on major policy issues 
affecting the remuneration of other executives. 

The remuneration framework and the incentive 
structure that we have in place cascades right down 
through the wider workforce and ensures alignment 
with executive remuneration and the Intertek AAA 
growth strategy. We also took into account the UK 
wider workforce salary increase when determining 
the 2024 salary increase for the Executive Directors. 

We ensure that we have effective engagement with 
the wider workforce on the Group’s remuneration 
and related policies through various escalation 
processes and communication forums including 
Town Halls, WhatsIn, emails and leadership briefings. 
The regular Town Halls that take place across 
the Group provide an opportunity for our people 
to raise questions on remuneration which are 
addressed at the meetings, with feedback directly 
fed to senior management and then upwards. 

During the year, we reviewed the salary levels for 
senior management and the determination of the 
annual incentive payments and long-term incentive 
outcome for 2023. We considered a report on the 
general market trends that could impact the Group. 
Further information is provided in the letter from 
the Chair of the Committee on pages 78-80. 

Remuneration Policy and report 
It is important that we keep the Remuneration Policy 
under review in light of regulatory and best practice 
developments, Listing Rules and Governance Code 
changes as well as shareholder expectations. 

We annually undertake a review of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report to ensure compliance 
with Remuneration Reporting Regulations. 
We also discussed the 2023 proxy voting 
agencies' reports and their recommendations 
issued prior to the 2023 AGM. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Incentives 
A key task for us each year is to review the outcomes 
for the incentive schemes and agree on payment 
levels taking into account actual performance 
and any extraordinary events which may have 
impacted on performance. We will consider if 
there is a need to apply malus or clawback and, 
should there be, we would agree the quantum. 

We undertook, with external advice, a thorough 
review of the 2023 annual incentive targets, 
performance measures and the EPS, adjusted 
free cash flow and ROIC results to determine 
the percentage of incentive awards that 
would vest in 2023 which was 66.67%. 

We also agreed the performance conditions that 
should apply to the LTIP awards granted in the 
year to vest based on the performance to the end 
of 2026. We reviewed the quantum of awards 
given and were satisfied that they reflected the 
Remuneration Policy and were appropriate. 

Committee review 
We undertake an annual review of how effectively 
we are working as a committee and take steps to 
develop any areas identified for improvement. 

We also reviewed how we work as a committee, 
members’ individual strengths and also any 
additional training that may be beneficial. 
We received updates on market trends in 
remuneration from Deloitte and regular updates 
on corporate governance and policy changes. 

Advisers 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices 
drive and support achievement of strategies and 
are market competitive, the Committee obtains 
advice from various independent sources. 

We review the appointment of the remuneration 
consultant and consider if they remain independent 
and applicable for the needs of the Committee. 
In the event that we decide that they are 
no longer appropriate, we would arrange a 
review and any subsequent appointment. 

In 2023, the Committee received advice from 
Deloitte, who they appointed in 2015 for their 
particular expertise both at a local and global 
level, due to the worldwide operations of the 
Group and, following review, the Committee 
remains satisfied that their advice is objective 
and independent and has sufficient breadth of 
knowledge to support our deliberations across 
the Group as a whole. Deloitte are members of 
the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere 
to the voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. 

The fees paid to Deloitte in the year were 
£74,458 exclusive of VAT. The charges for 
services are calculated on the basis of time 
spent and the seniority of the personnel 
performing the work at their respective rates. 

In addition to the services provided to the 
Committee, Deloitte provided unrelated tax services 
to the Group during the year. Deloitte do not have 
any connection with any Directors of the Company. 

External appointments 
The Company recognises that, during their 
employment with the Company, Executive Directors 
may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors 
of other companies and that such duties can 
broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive 
Directors may, with the written consent of the 
Company, accept such appointments outside 
the Company, and the policy is that any fees 
may be retained by the Director. No Executive 
Director currently has an external appointment. 

Statement of shareholder voting 
At the AGM held on 26 May 2021, a resolution 
was proposed to shareholders to approve the 
Remuneration Policy. This resolution received 
the following votes from shareholders: 

In favour 

Against 

Total 

Withheld 

Votes 

% 

91,627,222 

41,668,760 

133,295,982 

2,431,490 

68.74 

31.26 

82.591 

1.  Percentage of total issued share capital voted. 

At the 2023 AGM, a resolution was proposed 
to shareholders to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2022. This resolution received 
the following votes from shareholders: 

In favour 

Against 

Total 

Withheld 

Votes 

122,439,715 

11,482,090 

% 

91.43 

8.57 

133,921,805 

82.981 

2,065,063 

1.  Percentage of total issued share capital voted. 

88

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Directors’ Remuneration Policy – implementation in 2024 

Elements 

Base salary 

Implementation in 2024 

Base salary for 2024: 
André Lacroix: £1,058,916. 
Colm Deasy: £500,000. 
The Committee has awarded the CEO a 3.0% salary increase, which is below the wider UK workforce yearly increase of 3.4%. Further context on the increase in the CFO's salary are set out in 
the Chair's cover statement. 

Benefits 

Includes, for example, annual medicals, life assurance cover of up to six times base salary, allowances in lieu of a company car or other benefits, private medical insurance and other benefits 
typically provided to senior executives. Executive Directors can participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as all other employees. 

Pension 

From 1 June 2024, 10% reducing by 5% each year until it is in line with the wider UK workforce (currently 5% of salary) for the CEO. 5% of base salary for the CFO. 

Total value of benefits (excluding all-employee plans) will not exceed 12% of salary. 

Annual Incentive Plan (‘AIP’) 

•  Maximum opportunity for the CEO and CFO: 200% of base salary. 
•  50% of any incentive is paid in cash and 50% is deferred into shares vesting after three years. 
•  Malus and clawback provisions apply. 
•  Performance metrics – based on a 70% matrix of revenue and adjusted operating profit growth, 15% ROIC and 15% ESG, based on Carbon Emissions. Targets are not disclosed prospectively 

due to commercial sensitivity, however, detailed disclosure of the performance targets and actual out-turns will be provided in the following year. 

•  Annual incentive will continue to be subject to a quality of earnings review at the end of the year to ensure that payouts are appropriate based on the underlying performance of the Group 

and to ensure that any awards are commensurate with the Group’s culture and Values. 

Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) 

As set out in the table below, the ROIC targets are set taking into account the stretch within the business plan and current ROIC performance. The change in the target range relative to prior 
years reflects the level of invested capital at work within the business, which has increased in recent years through the Group’s strategy of making bolt-on acquisitions which complement 
the Group’s business (including the 2023 acquisition of Controle Analytico and PlayerLync). The Committee believes that the proposed target range for ROIC (and the wider financial metrics 
in the LTIP) are appropriately stretching relative to the business plan and external forecasts of performance. 

•  Maximum opportunity for the CEO and CFO: 300% and 200% of base salary, respectively. 

•  Two-year holding period after vesting. 
•  Malus and clawback provisions apply. 
•  Performance metrics for awards being granted in 2024: 

Measures 

Definition 

Threshold  
(25%) 

Maximum 
(100%) 

Commentary 

Earnings Per 
Share (‘EPS’) 
(1/3) 

Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS growth. 

4.0% p.a. 

10% p.a. 

Compound annual growth rate targets. 

Measured on a constant currency basis. 

Per the definition used for the Group’s KPIs in Book 
one, page 26. 

89

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Elements 

Implementation in 2024 

Measures 

Definition 

Adjusted Free 
Cash Flow (1/3) 

Return on 
Invested Capital 
(‘ROIC’) (1/3) 

Free cash flow generated from operations less net 
capital expenditure, net interest paid and income 
tax paid. Adjusted for separately disclosed items. 
Measured on a constant currency basis. 
Per the definition used in Book one, page 26. 

Adjusted operating profits less adjusted tax divided 
by invested capital (net assets excluding tax 
balances, net financial debt and net pension 
liabilities). 
Measured on a constant currency basis. 
Per the definition used for the Group’s KPIs in 
Book one, page 26. 

Threshold 
(25%) 

Maximum 
(100%) 

Commentary 

£1,210m 

£1,290m 

Cumulative targets measured over three years. 
Targets set taking into account stretch within business plan and expected capital 
expenditure over the coming three years. 

18.6% 

22.6% 

Cumulative adjusted operating profits divided by cumulative invested capital in each of 
the three performance years. 
Target set taking into account stretch within business plan, current ROIC performance, 
and reflective of the Group’s strategy of making small bolt-on acquisitions which 
complement the Group’s business. 
The treatment of significant acquisitions would be determined at the time of the 
transaction. 

Share ownership guidelines 

Shareholding guidelines are 500% of salary for the CEO and 300% of salary for the CFO. A post-cessation holding equivalent to the lower of the guideline target or the number of shares 
held at the date of departure will be required to be held for a period of two years from the Executive's departure date. 

Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board, based on the responsibility and time committed to the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual Non-Executive Directors do not take part 
in discussions regarding their own fees. 

Board membership 

Chair 

Non-Executive Director 

Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 

Committee membership 

Chair Audit Committee 

Chair Remuneration Committee 

Chair Nomination Committee

Member Audit Committee 

Member Remuneration Committee 

Member Nomination Committee

From 
1 January 
2024  
£’000 

From 
1 January 
2023 
£’000 

350 

62 

12 

20 

15 

– 

10 

10 

5 

350 

62 

12 

20 

15 

– 

10 

10 

5 

Included in the fees shown in the table above, and pursuant to the policy of aligning Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, £10,000 of the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and £35,000 of the fees paid to the 
Chair are used each year to purchase shares in the Company. 

90

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Remuneration in context 
The following section sets out how the Remuneration Committee has addressed the factors in Provision 40, when determining Executive remuneration as set out in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. 

Code requirement 

Intertek approach 

Clarity 
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent 
and promote effective engagement with 
shareholders and the workforce 

Simplicity 
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy to 
understand 

Risk 
Remuneration structures should ensure 
reputational and other risks from excessive 
rewards, and behavioural risks that can arise from 
target-based incentive plans, are identified and 
mitigated 

Predictability 
The range of possible values of rewards to 
individual Directors and any other limits or 
discretions should be identified and explained 
at the time of approving the Policy 

Proportionality 
The link between individual awards, the delivery 
of strategy and the long-term performance of the 
Company should be clear and outcomes should not 
reward poor performance 

Alignment with culture 
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours 
consistent with the Company’s Purpose, Values 
and strategy 

91

Variable remuneration arrangements, which are cascaded throughout the workforce, are based on clearly defined performance metrics which are aligned with the 
Group’s AAA differentiated growth strategy for sustainable long-term growth. 

Remuneration arrangements are simple, comprising the following key elements, which are consistent from Executive Directors to front line workforce where 
appropriate: 

•  Fixed element: comprises base salary, benefits and pension, which are aligned to that offered to the majority of the workforce. 
•  Short-term incentive: annual bonus which incentivises the delivery of financial and non-financial performance metrics linked to ESG. Half of the bonus is paid in cash 

with the balance deferred into shares vesting after a period of three years. 

•  Long-term incentive: LTIP which incentivises financial performance over a three-year period, promoting long-term sustainable value creation for shareholders. Awards 

are subject to a two-year holding period post-vesting. 

Performance targets are calibrated to be aligned with the Group’s business plan which is set in line with the Group’s risk framework. 

The Remuneration Committee retains the flexibility to review formulaic outcomes to ensure that they are appropriate in the context of overall performance of the 
Group, including risk. 

The remuneration scenario charts, set out on page 85, provide estimates on the potential future reward opportunity in a range of scenarios, including below 
threshold, target and maximum performance (including share price appreciation). 

Variable remuneration is directly aligned to the Group’s strategic priorities (through the selection of key financial performance metrics), with payments calibrated to 
ensure that payments are only made where strong performance is delivered. 

As noted above, the Remuneration Committee retains the flexibility to review formulaic outcomes to ensure that they are appropriate in the context of the overall 
performance of the Group. 

As set out on page 80, the Remuneration Policy at Intertek has been set to be appropriate for the nature, size and complexity of the Group, encourages our employees 
in the development of their careers, is aligned with the Company’s strategy and is in the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders. 

It is directed to deliver continued sustainable profitable growth. 

Our remuneration strategy is to: align and recognise the individual’s contribution to help us succeed in achieving our AAA differentiated growth strategy; attract, 
engage, motivate and retain the best available people by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive in the relevant market and in line with the ability of the 
business to pay; reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities and performance; and motivate high performers to increase shareholder value and share 
in the Group’s success through well designed and appropriately calibrated incentive schemes. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

The sections that have been audited are indicated as such on pages 92-101. The independent auditors’ report can be found in Book three, pages 57-63. 

Directors’ remuneration earned in 2023 (audited) 
The table below and on the following page summarise Directors’ remuneration received for 2023 and the prior year for comparison. Taken in the context of internal and external comparators, the Committee considered the 
Executive Directors' remuneration to be appropriate. 

Executive Directors 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy 

Jonathan Timmis 

Base salary or fees 
£’000 

Benefits1
£’000 

Annual incentive2
£’000 

1,023

1,003 

338 

110 

533 

 120 

121 

16 

10 

32 

1,417 

415 

466

154 

220 

Long–term 
incentives 
£’000 

2,353³ 

1,3204

– 

513³

n/a4

Pension5
£’000 

175 

221 

15 

6 

27 

Total  
£’000 

5,088 

3,080 

835 

793 

812 

Total fixed  
£’000 

Total variable  
£’000 

1,318 

1,345 

369 

126 

592 

3,770 

1,735 

466 

667 

220 

2023 

2022 

20236

20237,8

2022 

1.  Benefits include allowances in lieu of company car, annual medicals, life assurance, private medical insurance, BIK arising from the performance of duties, and the use of a car and driver for the CEO (gross £27,892, net £15,341). 
2.  This relates to the payment of the annual incentive and Deferred Share Award for the financial year-end. Further details of this payment are set out on the following pages. 
3.  This relates to the 2021 LTIP award due to vest in March 2024. The value shown is based on the share price of £40.11 which was the average mid-market share price in the fourth quarter of 2023. Further details on performance are set out on page 95. There was no discretion exercised in respect of the awards. 
4.  This relates to the 2020 LTIP award which vested in March 2023 where the performance outcome gave rise to 66.67% vesting. This figure has been updated to show the actual value of the vested LTIP award based on the share price of £41.95, whilst the 2022 Annual Report included figures based on the share price for 

the final quarter of 2022 (£38.94). There was no discretion exercised in respect of the awards. 

5.  None of the Executive Directors had a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension. 
6.  This relates to the period from 17 March 2023 when Colm Deasy was appointed as a director. 
7.  This relates to the period to 17 March 2023 when Jonathan Timmis ceased to be a director. 
Information in respect of Jonathan Timmis' Buyout Awards can be found on page 99. 
8. 

92

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Non-Executive Directors 

Andrew Martin 

Graham Allan 

Gurnek Bains 

Lynda Clarizio 

Tamara Ingram 

Jez Maiden 

Kawal Preet 

Gill Rider 

Apurvi Sheth 

Jean-Michel Valette 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

2023 

20223

2023 

20224

2023 

2022 

20235

2023 

2022 

Base salary or fees1
£’000 

Benefits2
£’000 

350

350 

89

89

77

77

72

72

77

75

72

37

62

–

87

87

17

82

82

9 

10 

– 

– 

– 

– 

5 

5 

– 

– 

2 

3 

5 

– 

1 

1 

1 

4 

4 

Total 
£’000 

359 

360 

89 

89 

77 

77 

77 

77 

77 

75 

74 

40 

67 

– 

88 

88 

18 

86 

86 

1.  Pursuant to the policy of aligning Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, the fees shown as being paid to the Non-Executive Directors include £10,000 used to purchase shares and the fee paid to the Chair includes £35,000 used to purchase shares. 
2.  Certain expenses relating to ensuring that the Directors were in a position to undertake the performance of their duties such as travel to and from Company meetings, related accommodation and completion of UK tax returns for overseas Directors have been classified as taxable. In such cases, the Company will ensure 
that the Director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via the PSA. In line with current regulations, these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the Benefits column and the figures shown are the cost of the taxable benefit. With respect to the Non-Executive Directors no other benefits are 
provided. 

3.  The fees shown for Jez Maiden relate to the period from 26 May 2022, the date he was appointed to the Board. 
4.  The fees shown for Kawal Preet relate to the period from 31 December 2022, the date she was appointed to the Board. 
5.  The fees shown for Apurvi Sheth relate to the period from 01 September 2023, the date she was appointed to the Board. 

93

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Annual incentive (audited) 
The annual incentive for 2023 was: 

•  70% based on a matrix of revenue and adjusted operating profit growth; 

•  15% based on return on invested capital (‘ROIC’); and 
•  15% based on a Carbon Emissions target. 

Overview of the matrix (70% of the award) 

Revenue performance (£m) 

Maximum 

Target 

Threshold 

Below threshold 

Adjusted operating profit performance (£m) 

Below threshold 

Threshold 

Target 

Maximum 

0% 

0% 

0% 

0% 

40% 

30% 

25% 

0% 

65% 

50% 

35% 

0% 

100% 

75% 

60% 

0% 

Straight-line payouts occur between each of the points above threshold noted above. 

The Company’s performance resulted in a Group annual incentive payout of 68.94% of maximum opportunity. Performance of individual components is shown below. 

2023 Company performance against annual incentive targets (at 2022 constant currency) 

Financial measures 

Total external revenue1

Adjusted operating profit1

Revenue/profit matrix 

Return on Invested Capital4,6

Carbon Emissions5,6,7

Total 

% 
Weighting 

2023 
Threshold 

2023 
Target2

2023 
Maximum 

2023 
Actual 

Achieved3

Weighted 
achievement 

£3,245.6m 

£3,352.5m 

£3,459.4m 

£3,434.8m 

£533.2m 

£559.9m 

£586.6m 

£563.7m 

18.0% 

18.2% 

18.4% 

20.6% 

100.00% 

202,743 

198,768 

194,792 

184,612 

50.00%8 

66.34% 

70.0% 

15.0% 

15.0% 

100.0% 

46.44% 

15.00% 

7.50% 

68.94% 

1.  Calculated on constant 2022 exchange rates and Adjusted operating profit excludes certain non-budgeted non-recurring items and Separately Disclosed Items. 
2.  Target is equivalent to 50% payout. 
3.  Percentage achieved against maximum targets. 
4.  Return on Invested Capital as per definition used for the Group's KPIs in Book one, page 26. 
5.  Operational market-based emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) as defined in Book one, page 29. 
6.  Performance at threshold levels generates 25% outcome for both ROIC and Carbon Emissions. 
7. 
8.  As set out in the cover statement from the Committee Chair, the Group exceeded the targets set on carbon emissions. Taking into account that a proportion of over-performance on carbon emissions metric was driven through accelerated capex investments, the Committee, on recommendation from the Management, 

EY have issued an assurance statement in respect of Carbon Emissions disclosure that can be found on page 30. 

scored the metric at target. 

94

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

For 2023, the annual incentive outturn in cash and shares is as follows: 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy 

Jonathan Timmis 

1.  These awards vest three years after the date of grant, subject to continued employment or good leaver status. The deferred award is based on 50% of the annual incentive outturn. 

Vesting of LTIP Share Awards (audited) 
The LTIP Share Awards granted in 2021 are subject to performance for the three-year period ended 31 December 2023. 

The performance conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these conditions are as follows: 

Payable in 
cash 
£’000 

Deferred 
Share Award1
£’000 

Percentage 
of maximum 
%

708.5 

233.0 

77.0 

708.5 

233.0 

77.0 

68.9 

68.9 

68.9 

Metric 

Earnings Per Share (1/3) 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow (1/3) 

Return on Invested Capital (1/3) 

Total vesting 

1.  25% of the LTIP share awards will vest at the threshold target and 100% will pay out at the stretch target. 

Performance condition 

Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS growth. Measured on a constant currency 
basis. 

Free cash flow generated from operations less net capital expenditure, net interest 
paid and income tax paid. Adjusted for separately disclosed items. Measured on a 
constant currency basis. 

Adjusted operating profits less adjusted tax, divided by invested capital (net assets 
excluding tax balances, net financial debt and net pension liabilities). Measured on a 
constant currency basis. 

Threshold 
target1

Stretch 
target1

Actual 
performance 

Vesting level 

4.0% 

10.0% 

12.5% 

100% 

£977m 

£1,057m 

£1,231m 

100% 

20.0% 

24.0% 

26.7% 

100% 

100% 

95

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

The LTIP Share Awards granted in 2021 to the Executive Directors were as follows: 

Executive Director 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy2 

Jonathan Timmis3

Total 

1.  The value of shares vested is calculated using the average mid-market share price in the fourth quarter of 2023 which was £40.11. 
2.  Appointed as a Director on 17 March 2023. 
3.  Appointed as a Director on 1 April 2021, ceased to be a Director on 17 March 2023. 
4.  Vesting number reduced by 7,066 shares which lapsed under pro-ration rules on leaving. 

Number of shares 
at grant 

Number of shares 
based on accrued 
dividends 

Total number of 
shares 

Number of shares 
to lapse 

Number of shares 
to vest 

54,767 

3,886 

58,653

–

18,713 

73,480 

–

1,155 

5,041 

–

12,8024

71,455 

– 

–

– 

– 

58,653 

– 

12,802 

71,455 

Value of vested 
shares 
£’0001

2,353 

– 

513 

2,866 

The Committee considered the LTIP out-turns in the context of the underlying financial performance of the Group and determined it was appropriate not to exercise its discretion. There was no share appreciation on the shares 
which vested below their award price. 

LTIP Share Awards granted during the year (audited) 
The following LTIP Share Awards were granted to the Executive Directors during 2023: 

Executive Director 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy1 

Jonathan Timmis2 

1.  Appointed as a Director on 17 March 2023. 
2 

Jonathan Timmis was granted a LTIP Share Award on 13 March 2023. This award lapsed in full. 

Type of award 

Date of award 

Basis of award 
granted 

Award price 
£

Number of shares 
over which award 
was granted 

Face value 
of award  
£’000 

% of face value 
that would vest at 
threshold 
performance 

Vesting 
determined by 
performance over 

LTIP Share Award  13 March 2023  300% of salary 

LTIP Share Award  13 March 2023  200% of salary 
6 June 2023  200% of salary 
LTIP Share Award 

LTIP Share Award  13 March 2023  200% of salary 

41.922 

41.922 
42.234 

41.922 

72,127 

4,651 
15,508 

25,547 

3,024 

195 
655 

1,071 

25% 

25% 
25% 

25% 

Three years to 
31 December 
2025 

The LTIP Share Awards granted in 2023 are conditional share awards subject to performance for the three-year period ending 31 December 2025. Shares are granted at the average of the mid-market quotation price for the 
five days up to and including the day immediately before grant.

96

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Remuneration Committee report Continued

The performance conditions attached to this award and the targets are as follows: 

Metric 

Earnings Per Share (1/3) 

Return on Invested Capital (1/3) 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow (1/3) 

Performance condition 

Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS growth over a three year performance period, calculated on a constant currency basis 
and per the EPS definition used for the Group’s KPIs in the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts. 

Adjusted operating profits less adjusted tax over the three-year period. Invested capital will be the total of the year end 
invested capital base in each of the three years of the LTIP calculation period (2023 to 2026). 

Free cash flow is the cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure, net interest paid and income tax paid. 
Adjusted free cash flow adds back the cash outflow associated with SDI’s. This approach is consistent with the definition in 
the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts. 

Threshold target 

Maximum target 

4% 

10% 

15.3% 

19.3% 

£1,109m 

£1,189m 

Deferred Share Awards granted during the year (audited) 

Executive Director 

André Lacroix 

Colm Deasy 

Jonathan Timmis 

1.  Vesting date subject to continued employment or good leaver status. 

Type of award 

Date of award 

Deferred Share 

Award  13 March 2023 

Deferred Share 

Award  13 March 2023 

Deferred Share 

Award  13 March 2023 

Basis of award 
granted 

Deferral of 
2022 bonus 

Deferral of 
2022 bonus 

Deferral of 
2022 bonus 

Award price 
£

Number of shares 
over which award 
was granted 

Face value 
of award  
£’000 

Vesting date1

41.922 

4,947 

207  13 March 2026 

41.922 

1,581 

66  13 March 2026 

41.922 

2,628 

110  13 March 2026 

97

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Share Plan Awards (audited) 
The table below shows the Directors’ interests in the Intertek Share Plans, all of which are restricted stock units (‘RSUs’): 

Type of Award 

31 December 2022 
Number of shares 

Granted in 2023 
Number of shares 

Award price1
£

Dividend accrued 
in 2023 

Vested in 2023 
Number of shares 

Lapsed in 2023 
Number of shares 

31 December 2023 
Number of shares 

Date of vesting 

LTIP Share3,4
Dividend 
Deferred Share5
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,7
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,8
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,9
Dividend 
Deferred Share9
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,10
Dividend

Deferred Share10

Dividend

44,900
2,301 
10,532
679
46,296
2,113
8,471
386
60,794
1,567
17, 225
443
– 
–
– 
–
195,707 

– 
–
– 
–
– 
 –
– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
72,127 
–
4,947 
–
77,074 

53.94
–
48.126
–
53.36
– 
58.324
– 
48.762
– 
48.762
– 
41.922
– 
41.922
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
–
1,173
–
214
–
1,540
–
435
–
1,827
–
124
5,313 

(29,934) 
(1,534) 
(10,532)
(679)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

(42,679) 

(14,966)
(767) 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(15,733) 

– 
– 
– 
– 
46,296 
3,286 
8,471 
600 
60,794 
3,107 
17, 225 
878 
72,127
1,827 
4,947
124 
219,682 

May 2023 

Mar 2023 

Mar 2024 

May 2024 

Mar 2025 

Mar 2025 

 Mar 2026 

 Mar 2026 

Type of Award 

31 December 2022 
Number of shares 

Granted in 2023 
Number of shares 

Award price1
£

Dividend accrued 
in 2023 

Vested in 2023 
Number of shares 

Lapsed in 2023 
Number of shares 

31 December 2023 
Number of shares 

Date of vesting 

LTIP Share6,10
Dividend

Deferred Share10
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,11
Dividend

– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
– 

4,651 
–
1,581 
–
15,508 
–
21,740 

41.922
– 
41.922
– 
42.234
– 

–
117

39

392
548

–
–
–
–
–
–
–

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

4,651 
117 
1,581 
39 
15,508
392 
22,288 

Mar 2026 

Mar 2026 

 Jun 2026 

André Lacroix 
2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

Total 

Colm Deasy16 
2023 

Total

98

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Jonathan Timmis17 
2021 

2022 

2023 

Total 

Type of Award 

31 December 2022 
Number of shares 

Granted in 2023 
Number of shares 

Award price1
£

Dividend accrued 
in 2023 

Vested in 2023 
Number of shares 

Lapsed in 2023 
Number of shares 

31 December 2023 
Number of shares 

Date of vesting 

Buyout award12
Dividend 
Buyout award13
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,14
Dividend 
LTIP Share6,15
Dividend 
Deferred Share9
Dividend 
Deferred Share10
Dividend 
LTIP Share6

13,000
593
13,000
593
18,713
853
21,533
555
6,930
178
– 
–
– 
75,948 

– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
– 
–
2,628 
–
25,547 
28,175 

56.108
–
56.108
– 
56.108
– 
48.762
– 
48.762
– 
41.922
– 
41.922

– 
– 
–
210
–
302
–
180
–
174
–
65
–
931 

(12,458) 
(568) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–
–
–
–
– 
(13,026) 

(542)
(25) 
(4,694) 
(215) 
(6,757) 
(309) 
(14,355) 
(371) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(25,547)
(52,815) 

– 
– 
8,306 
588 
11,956 
846 
7, 178 
364 
6,930 
352 
2,628 
65 
– 
39,213 

Apr 2023 

Apr 2024 

Apr 2024 

Mar 2025 

Mar 2025 

Mar 2026 

Mar 2026 

1.  Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. 
2.  The dividend shares are accrued on the date the dividend is paid and determined using the closing market price of the shares on that date. The dividend 

accruals relate to Share Awards made in lieu of not receiving cash dividends during the vesting period. 

3.  Awards vested on 30 May 2023, on which date the closing market price of shares was £41.95 having been granted on 29 May 2020, on which date the 

closing market price was £55.06. Awards were made at a share price of £53.94 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the 
five dealing days before the date of grant. 

10.   Awards will vest on 13 March 2026, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, having been granted on 13 March 2023 on which date the 
closing market price was £40.26. Awards were made at a share price of £41.922 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for 
the five dealing days before the date of grant. 

11.   Awards will vest on 6 June 2026, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, having been granted on 6 June 2023 on which date the closing 
market price was £43.69. Awards were made at a share price of £42.234 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five 
dealing days before the date of grant. 

4.  One-third of the LTIP Share Awards are subject to EPS, one-third on Return on Invested Capital and one-third on Adjusted Free Cash Flow. In 2023, 66.67% 

12.  Awards vested on 3 April 2023 on which date the closing market price of shares was £40.35 having been granted on 1 April 2021 on which date the 

LTIP shares vested. 

5.  Awards vested on 13 March 2023, on which date the closing market price of shares was £40.26 having been granted 13 March 2020, on which date the 
closing market price was £45.36. Awards were made on a share price of £48.126 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for 
the five dealing days before the date of grant. 

6.   One-third of the LTIP Share Awards are subject to EPS, one-third on Return on Invested Capital and one-third on Adjusted Free Cash Flow. The LTIP shares 

will be subject to an additional two-year holding period post-vesting. 

7.   Awards will vest on 12 March 2024, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, having been granted on 12 March 2021, on which date the 

closing market price was £53.06. Awards were made at a share price of £53.36 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the 
five dealing days before the date of grant. 

8.   Awards will vest on 27 May 2024, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, having been granted on 27 May 2021 on which date the closing 
market price was £54.82. Awards were made at a share price of £58.324 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five 
dealing days before the date of grant. 

9.   Awards will vest on 11 March 2025, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, having been granted on 11 March 2022 on which date the 
closing market price was £48.56. Awards were made at a share price of £48.762 being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for 
the five dealing days before the date of grant. 

closing market price was £57.20. Awards were made at a share price of £56.108, being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for 
the five dealing days before the date of grant. 

13.   Pro-rated awards in line with the Group’s good leaver policy will vest on 1 April 2024, having been granted on 1 April 2021 on which date the closing market 

price was £57.20. Awards were made at a share price of £56.108, being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing 
days before the date of grant. 

14.  Pro-rated awards in line with the Group’s good leaver policy will vest on 1 April 2024, having been granted on 1 April 2021 on which date the closing market 

price was £57.20. Awards were made at a share price of £56.108, being the share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing 
days before the date of grant. 

15.   Pro-rated awards in line with the Group’s good leaver policy Awards will vest on 11 March 2025, subject to continued employment or good leaver status, 

having been granted on 11 March 2022 on which date the closing market price was £48.56. Awards were made at a share price of £48.762 being the share 
price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. 

16.  Appointed as Director on 17 March 2023. 
17.  Appointed as a Director on 1 April 2021 – ceased to be a Director on 17 March 2023. 

Malus and clawback (audited) 
Malus and clawback will operate, in respect of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and the 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan, in various circumstances including where there is reasonable evidence of misbehaviour or material error, 
conduct considered gross misconduct, breach of any restrictive covenants by participants, conduct which resulted in (a) significant loss(es) to the Company, failure to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety, a 
material failure of management in the Company, a discovery of a material misstatement in the audited consolidated accounts or the behaviour of a Director has a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of the Group. 
Clawback can be applied at any time during the clawback period, which is six years from the date of the award unless extended by the Remuneration Committee prior to the expiry of the initial clawback period. 

The Committee has the discretion to reduce annual incentive payments if it believes that short-term performance has been achieved at the expense of the Group’s long-term future or vice versa. The Committee also retains the 
discretion to reduce or reclaim payments if the performance achievements are subsequently found to have been significantly misstated. 

99

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

Directors’ interests in ordinary shares (audited) 
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year-end, or date of ceasing to be a Director, are set out below. Save as stated in this report, during the course of the year, no Director or any member of his or 
her immediate family have any other interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. None of the Non-Executive Directors have share options or share awards. 

André Lacroix5

Colm Deasy6

Jonathan Timmis7

Andrew Martin 

Graham Allan 

Gurnek Bains 

Lynda Clarizio 

Tamara Ingram 

Jez Maiden 

Kawal Preet

Gill Rider 

Apurvi Sheth8

Jean-Michel Valette 

Beneficially owned at 
31 December 2022 

Beneficially owned at 
31 December 2023 or 
on ceasing to be a 
Director1

472,425 

495,044 

n/a 

7,574 

8,165 

2,574 

572 

221 

215 

250 

– 

977 

–

10,589 

6,182 

7,574 

8,615

2,719

712

364

355

390

140

1,122

–

10,730

Outstanding  
LTIP Share 
Awards2

196,508 

20,668 

20,344 

Outstanding  
Deferred 
Shares3

23,174 

1,620 

18,869 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Shareholding as 
a % of salary4

Shareholding  
Guideline met 

2,045 

62 

60 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

Yes 

No 

No 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

1.  No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place between 31 December 2023 and 29 February 2024. 
2.  Subject to performance conditions. 
3.  Subject to continued employment or good leaver status. 
4.  Calculated as the number of shares beneficially owned at 31 December 2023 based on a share price of £42.46 as at 29 December 2023, being the last trading day, and applied to the annual salary for 2023. 
5.  Appointed 16 May 2015 with the guideline to hold 200% of base salary in shares by 16 May 2020. With effect from the AGM held on 26 May 2021, this was increased to 500% of base salary, which has been exceeded. 
6.  Appointed 17 March 2023 with a guideline to hold 300% of base salary. 
7.  As at 17 March 2023, the date he ceased to be a director of the Company. As a former Executive Director a holding of at least the percentage held at the point of leaving must be maintained. 
8.  Appointed 01 September 2023. 

Post-employment share ownership requirements 
In line with best practice on the post-cessation of employment shareholding guidelines, Executive Directors 
are required to retain shares equivalent to the lower of their actual shareholding and in-employment 
shareholding requirement for two years after ceasing employment with Intertek. These will be held in the 
Company Nominee account with the date that the holding restriction falls away annotated on the account. 

Payments to past Directors (audited) 
Ross McCluskey continues to be employed by the Group, as Executive Vice President Europe, Middle East and 
Africa, and therefore was not treated as a leaver for the purpose of outstanding incentive awards on ceasing to 
be a Director. 

Leaving arrangements for Jonathan Timmis (audited) 
Jonathan Timmis was entitled to receive salary and other benefits in respect of the period to the termination 
date. Entitlement to receive salary and other benefits ends on the termination date. Jonathan was granted 
good leaver status in relation to his Deferred and LTIP awards which will be pro-rated and vest in line with the 
rules of the share plan. On termination the rights to his buy-out awards lapsed but the Company agreed to a 
pro-ration of awards in line with the rules applicable to the Long-Term Incentive plan. Thus 13,026 shares 
vested on 1 April 2023, representing the second tranche with a further 8,894 shares representing the final 
tranche to vest on 1 April 2024. These additional shares will only vest if he is not employed by or engaged in 
any business or organisation (whether as a partner, director, employee secondee, consultant, agent or 
otherwise but excluding one non-executive appointment) on the date on which such shares are due to vest. 

Jonathan is entitled to a payment of £573,088 as payment in lieu of notice which is being paid in the amounts 
and at the times it would have been paid had he continued to work throughout the notice period, only for 
periods that he receives no remuneration from any business in, of, or to which he is a partner, director, 

100

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

employee, secondee, consultant or agent. In the event that he does receive such income the amount so 
received will be deducted from the monthly salary and pension contributions payable in lieu. 

shares are held in the company nominee, and are clearly identified with the date that the two year holding 
period expires. 

Jonathan was paid his 2022 bonus and he is eligible for a pro-rata annual bonus for the part of 2023 that he 
was in the employment of the Group. Any 2023 bonus will be determined by the Remuneration Committee and 
will be paid at the time all such bonuses are paid by the employer and Jonathan will be treated consistently with 
the other executives. This award will be subject to malus and clawback provisions. 

The Company made a payment in respect of the Jonathan Timmis’ legal advisers of £4,000 plus VAT. 

Full details of the vesting of Share awards and vestings are included in the share tables earlier in this report as 
Jonathan was a director for part of the year. Jonathan is required to continue to hold shares equivalent to his 
shareholding at the date of leaving for a further two years. As at the date of leaving he had a holding of 7,574 
shares. In addition, he is required to hold any LTIP shares that vest for a further two years post vesting. These 

Payments for loss of office (audited) 
There were no payments for loss of office other than the payments described above. 

Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the average movement in salary and annual incentive for UK employees between the 
2019/20, the 2020/2021, the 2021/2022 and the 2022/2023 financial year-ends. The UK total employee 
population has been chosen as a comparator, as the parent company (Intertek Group plc) does not have any 
employees apart from the Directors. 

Salary % 

Annual Incentive % 

Benefits% 

2019/2020 

2020/2021 

2021/2022 

2022/2023 

2019/2020 

2020/2021 

2021/2022 

2022/2023 

2019/2020 

2020/2021 

2021/2022 

2022/2023 

CEO (André Lacroix1) 

CFO (from 17 March 2023) (Colm Deasy2) 

Average based on Intertek’s UK employees3

Chair of the Board (from 1 Jan 2021) (Andrew Martin)

Graham Allan

Gurnek Bains

Lynda Clarizio (from 1 March 2021) 

Tamara Ingram (from 18 Dec 2020) 

Jez Maiden (from 26 May 2022) 

Kawal Preet (from 31 December 2022) 

Gill Rider

Apurvi Sheth (from 1 September 2023) 

Jean-Michel Valette

1.0 

n/a 

3.2 

– 

–

–

n/a

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

– 

n/a 

– 

1.4 

n/a 

280.4

–

–

– 

32.5 

n/a 

n/a 

11.7 

n/a 

13.9

1.5 

n/a 

4.1 

–

–

–

23.1

11.8 

n/a 

n/a 

1.2

n/a 

–

2.0 

n/a 

3.4 

– 

– 

– 

– 

2.8 

n/a 

n/a 

– 

n/a 

– 

(24.2) 

n/a 

(9.9) 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a3

(75.3) 

241.4 

(12.4) 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

15.8 

n/a 

n/a

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a

–

(100.0)

n/a

n/a

n/a 

n/a 

(63.5) 

n/a 

(2.3) 

n/a 

n/a 

– 

–

–

– 

– 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

8.2 

n/a 

n/a 

n/a 

– 

– 

350.0 

– 

n/a 

n/a 

(100.0) 

n/a 

(0.8) 

n/a 

n/a 

(10.0) 

– 

– 

– 

– 

n/a 

n/a 

– 

n/a 

– 

(48.9) 

(25.0) 

180.0 

1.  The percentage change for incentive and benefits for André Lacroix are based on actual amounts earned from 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. The overnight increase in April 2023 was 2.0%. 
2.  Colm Deasy was appointed on 17 March 2023 as a director. 
3.  The Intertek UK employee group has been selected as the most appropriate comparator group, due to the diverse nature of the Group’s global employee population. 

Non-Executive Director fees are set in advance for all Non-Executive Directors and any changes in salary percentages reflect that one comparator year was not a full year, or the Non-Executive Director changed Committee roles and there was an adjustment to their fees to reflect this, or a general 
increase in fees which would be reflected in the table on page 93. Any changes in the Benefits % column would reflect the benefits in kind occurred in the performance of their duties (e.g. expenses for accommodation, travel or meals) – whether there is a claim depends on where the meetings are 
held in relation to where the Director's place of work is considered to be or where n/a is shown this indicates that the director was not in role for the full period and the preceding period. 

101

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

CEO pay ratio 
The following table sets out the CEO’s pay ratio, 
comparing the CEO’s total remuneration against that 
of UK employees. The table below shows the 
required information from 2019 through to 2023. 

25th 
percentile 
pay ratio 

Median 
pay ratio 

75th 
percentile 
pay ratio 

Method 

2023 
CEO 

2022 
CEO1

2021 
CEO 

2020 
CEO 

2019 
CEO 

Option B 

175:1 

124:1 

87:1 

Option B 

112:1 

89:1 

57:1 

Option B 

117:1 

90:1 

56:1 

Option B 

94:1 

72:1 

50:1 

Option B 

205:1 

152:1 

107:1 

1.  These ratios have been updated to reflect actual LTI vesting value in 

the single pay figure. 

The regulations also require the total pay and 
benefits and the salary component of total pay to be 
set out as follows: 

Base  
salary 
£

Total pay and 
benefits 
£

CEO remuneration 

1,023,034  5, 0 87,9 82 

UK employee 25th 
percentile 

26,225 

29,107 

UK employee median 

36,208 

40,879 

UK employee 75th 
percentile 

49,626 

58,162 

102

In terms of reporting options, the Company chose 
option B, using the most recent gender pay gap 
information to determine the relevant employees at 
the 25th, 50th and 75th percentile to compare to 
CEO pay, as that data was already available and is 
used for other reporting purposes. It refers to gender 
pay data as of 1 April 2023 and uses the single total 
figure methodology for the identified individuals. The 
pay and benefits for the employees at the quartiles 
are their total actual annual pay and benefits as of 
31 December 2023. 

With regards to representativeness of the ratios, 
Intertek is a very diverse employer and has 
employees in many UK locations. Our employees 
have many different qualifications and are working 
in and serving almost all major industries. As a 
consequence, it is unlikely that there is any one 
single individual whose pay and benefits are 
representative of Intertek UK as a whole. Intertek 
has therefore also looked at the total pay of the 
individuals immediately above and below the 25th, 
50th and 75th percentile. Looking at the spread of 
resulting ratios, it was decided that the ‘best 
equivalent’ would be the arithmetic mean of the total 
pay of three individuals around each reporting point: 

•  For the three employees around the 25th 

percentile: Ratios ranged from 169:1 to 178:1, with 
an arithmetic mean of 175:1. 

•  For the three employees around the 50th 

percentile: Ratios ranged from 107:1 to 131:1, with 
an arithmetic mean of 124:1. 

•  For the three employees around the 75th 

percentile: Ratios ranged from 77:1 to 94:1, with 
an arithmetic mean of 87:1. 

When calculating total pay and rewards, no pay 
components were omitted. The Company used the 
calculation methodology as set out in the relevant 
regulations (The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018). For part-time employees, their 
relevant pay and benefit components have been 
adjusted to the equivalent full-time figure for the 
relevant business. Full-time equivalent hours can vary 
across locations and legal entities. 

The pay ratio reflects how remuneration arrangements differ as responsibility increases for more senior roles 
in the organisation, including reflecting that an increased proportion is based on performance-related variable 
pay and short-term based incentives for more senior executives. The Committee is therefore comfortable that 
the pay ratio reflects the pay and progression policies at Intertek. 

Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs between the 2022 and 2023 financial years, 
compared to dividends. 

Staff costs1

Dividends

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

1,450.2 

1,394.7 

 176.3 

170.6 

% 
change 

4.0% 

3.3% 

1.  Staff costs are shown at actual rates. At constant currency, staff costs increased by 6.5%, reflecting a 2.5% foreign exchange impact. 

Performance graph 
Consistent with prior years, the graph alongside shows the TSR in respect of the Company over the last ten 
financial years, compared with the TSR for the full FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE 100 is selected as the 
comparator group as it is a good representation of peer group companies and Intertek is a constituent of the 
FTSE 100. TSR, reflecting the change in the value of a share and dividends paid, can be represented by the 
value of a notional £100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period. 

£

250 

200 

150 

100 

50 

0
2013 

Intertek Group 
FTSE 100 

2014 

2015 

2016 

2017 

2018 

2019 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportRemuneration Committee report Continued

CEO total remuneration 
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during each of the past ten financial years are shown in the table below. Consistent with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total 
remuneration figure includes the total annual incentive and Deferred Share Award based on that year’s performance and LTIP share awards based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual 
incentive payout and LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years. 

Total remuneration £’000 

Annual incentive (%) 

LTIP award vesting (%) 

2014 

2,011 

38.4 

25.2

W Hauser  
2015 

A Lacroix  
2015 

876 

90.6 

–

1,824 

96.6 

–

2016 

2017 

5,4521 

11,4171 

70.2 

– 

100.0 

90.9 

2018 

6,223 

75.5 

98.3 

2019 

4,986 

52.3 

89.4 

2020 

2,470 

0.0 

41.5 

2021 

2022 

2023 

3,048 

3,080 

5,088 

85.0 

0.0 

20.6 

66.7 

68.9 

100.0 

1.   As reported in previous years, at the time of joining, the Company had bought out André’s existing share awards with his previous employer in two tranches of 91,575 and 91,574 shares vesting in 2016 and 2017, each at an award price of £28. The tranche that vested in 2017 vested at a share price of £42.95, which 

represents an increase in our Company share price over the two years of over 53%. These awards were one-off awards and not part of his ongoing remuneration. 

The graph below shows the total remuneration of the Intertek CEO over the ten-year period from 2014 to 2023. 

£’000 

12,000 

10,000 

8,000 

6,000 

4,000 

2,000 

0

Mirror awards 
LTIP (share price increase)4
LTIP (award share price)3

Annual incentive 
Pension  
Benefits 
Salary 

2014 

2015 (WH)1

2015 (AL)2

2016 

2017 

2018 

2019 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

1.  Shows W Hauser remuneration based on period to 15 May 15 
2.  Shows A Lacroix remuneration for the period from appointment as CEO on 6 May 15 
3. 
4. 

LTIP (award share price) shows the proportion of the LTIP value received which resulted from the share price on award date 
LTIP (share price increase) shows the proportion of the LTIP value received which resulted from increase in the share price over the vesting period 

Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration report 
The Directors’ Remuneration report, including both the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual report on remuneration, was approved by the Board on 4 March 2024. 

Gill Rider 
Chair of the  
Remuneration Committee 

103

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOther Statutory Information

Other Statutory Information 

For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R can be found in the table below. 

Topic 

Location and page 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

Amount of interest capitalised 

Any information required by LR 9.2.18 R (Publication of  
unaudited financial information) 

Details of long-term incentive schemes 

Waiver of emoluments by a Director 

Waiver of future emoluments by a Director 

Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 

Information required by (6) above for any unlisted major 
 subsidiary undertaking of the Company 

Company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary 

Any contracts of significance 

Any contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder 

Shareholder waivers of dividends 

12. 

Shareholder waivers of future dividends 

13. 

Agreements with controlling shareholders 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Directors’ Remuneration Committee 
report (pages 78-103) 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Other statutory information 
(page 106) 

Not applicable 

Other statutory information 
(page 105) 

Other statutory information 
(page 105) 

Not applicable 

In accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 (‘Act’) and the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules (‘DTR’) of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’), the 
following section describes the matters that 
are required for inclusion in the Directors’ 
Report and were approved by the Board. Further 
details of matters required to be included in 
the Directors’ Report that are incorporated by 
reference into this report are set out below. 

Annual Report & Accounts and compliance 
with Listing Rule (‘LR’) 9.8.4 R 
The Annual Report & Accounts is in a three book 
format: Book one – Strategic report; Book two – 
Sustainability report/Directors' report; and Book 
three – Financial report. The Board has prepared 
a Strategic report in Book one which provides an 
overview of the development and performance 
of the Company’s business together with any 
research and development activities during the 
year ended 31 December 2023 and its position 
at the end of that year. The Strategic report also 
outlines any important events since the end of the 
financial year and also likely future developments 
in the business of the Company and Group. 

For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.5 
R (2) and DTR 4.1.8 R, the required content 
of the management report can be found in 
the Strategic report and this Directors’ report 
in Book two, including the sections of the 
Annual Report & Accounts, being Books one, 
two and three, incorporated by reference. 

104

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOther Statutory Information Continued

Directors 
The names of the members of the Board, as at 
the date of this report, and their biographical 
details are set out on pages 50-52. During the 
year, Colm Deasy was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer and Apurvi Sheth was appointed as Non- 
Executive Director of the Board on 17 March 
2023 and 1 September 2023, respectively. 

These provisions, which are deemed to be qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions (as defined by 
section 234 of the Act), were in force during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2023, for the 
benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this 
report, remain in force in relation to certain losses 
and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) 
in connection with their duties, powers or office. 

Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain 
provisions relating to the retirement, election and 
re-election of Directors but, in accordance with best 
practice, all Directors who wish to continue to serve 
will stand for election and re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’). 

The Articles of Association set out the internal 
regulation of the Company and cover such matters 
as the rights of shareholders, the appointment 
or removal of Directors and the conduct of 
the Board and general meetings. Copies are 
available upon request from the Group Company 
Secretary and are available at the Company’s 
AGM. Further powers are granted by members 
in general meetings and those currently in 
place are set out in detail on the next page. 

Directors’ indemnities 
The Board believes that it is in the best interests 
of the Group to attract and retain the services 
of the most able and experienced Directors by 
offering competitive terms of engagement, 
including the granting of indemnities on terms 
consistent with the applicable statutory provisions. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the 
Company has executed deed polls of indemnity 
for the benefit of the Directors of the Company. 

Directors’ interests 
Other than the Directors’ service agreements 
or letters of appointment, none of the Directors 
of the Company had a personal interest in any 
business transactions of the Company or its 
subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ service 
agreements or letters of appointment and the 
Directors’ interests in shares and share awards 
of the Company, in respect of which transactions 
are notifiable to the Company and the FCA under 
Article 19 of the UK Market Abuse Regulation, are 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration report. 

Directors’ powers 
The Directors are responsible for the strategic 
management of the Company and their powers 
to do so are determined by the provisions of the 
Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. 

Dividend 
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
74.0p per ordinary share (2022: 71.6p) making a 
full-year dividend of 111.7p per ordinary share (2022: 
105.8p) which will, if approved at the AGM, be paid on 
21 June 2024 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 31 May 2024. 

Share capital 
The issued share capital of the Company 
and the details of the movements in the 
Company’s share capital during the year 
are shown in note 15 in Book three. 

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
dividends when declared, receive the Company’s 
Annual Report & Accounts, attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company, appoint proxies 
and exercise voting rights. A waiver of dividend 
exists in respect of the 149,779 shares held by 
the Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership 
Trust (‘Trust’) as of 31 December 2023 and with 
respect to future dividends. Details of the shares 
purchased by the Trust during the year are outlined 
in note 15 in Book three. There are no restrictions 
on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company. 

The rights attached to shares in the Company are 
provided by the Articles of Association, which may be 
amended or replaced by means of a special resolution 
of the Company in a general meeting. The Directors’ 
powers are conferred on them by UK legislation 
and by the Company’s Articles of Association. 

No ordinary shares carry any special rights with 
regard to the control of the Company and there 
are no restrictions on voting rights except that 
a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of 
a share unless all sums due in respect of that 
share are fully paid. There are no arrangements 
known to the Company by which financial rights 
carried by any shares in the Company are held by 
a person other than the holder of the shares, nor 
are there any arrangements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights known 
to the Company. All issued shares are fully paid. 

Shares are admitted to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange and may be 
traded through the CREST system. 

105

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOther Statutory Information Continued

Allotment of shares 
At the AGM held in 2023, the shareholders generally 
and unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot 
relevant securities up to approximately two-thirds 
of the nominal amount of issued share capital. 

It is the Directors’ intention to seek renewal 
of this authority in line with guidance issued 
by the Investment Association. The resolution 
will be set out in the Notice of AGM. 

At the AGM held in 2023, the Directors were 
also empowered by the shareholders to allot 
equity securities, up to 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, for cash under section 570 
of the Act. It is intended that this authority 
be renewed at the forthcoming AGM. 

It is the Board’s intention to also propose the 
renewal of the additional special resolution to 
allow the Company to allot equity securities 
up to a further 5% of the Company’s issued 
share capital. This is applicable when the Board 
determines a transaction to be an acquisition 
or other capital investment and is announced 
contemporaneously with the allotment or has 
taken place in the preceding six-month period and 
is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment. 

Purchase of own shares 
Shareholders also approved the authority for the 
Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary 
shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the 
AGM to be held this year. The Directors will seek to 
renew this authority for up to 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM. This 
power will only be exercised if the Directors are 
satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings 
per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after 
the purchase, and accordingly, that the purchase is 
in the interests of shareholders. The Directors will 
also give careful consideration to gearing levels 
of the Company and its general financial position. 
Any shares purchased in this way may be held in 
treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide 
the Company with flexibility in the management of 
its share capital. Where treasury shares are used 
to satisfy Share Awards, they will be classed as 
new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% limit 
on the number of shares that may be issued over a 
ten-year period under the relevant share plan rules. 
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury. 

Significant agreements 
The Company is not a party to significant 
agreements which take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control following a takeover 
bid apart from a number of credit facilities with 
banks together with certain senior notes issued 
by the Company. The total amount owing under 

such credit facilities and senior note agreements 
as of 31 December 2023 is shown in note 14 
to the financial statements. These agreements 
contain clauses such that, in the event of a 
change of control, the Company can offer to or 
must repay all such borrowings together with 
accrued interest, fees and other sums owing 
as required by the individual agreements. 

The rules of the Company’s incentive plans contain 
clauses relating to a change of control resulting 
from a takeover and, in such an event, awards would 
vest subject to the satisfaction of any associated 
performance criteria. The Company is not aware 
of any other agreements with change of control 
provisions that are considered to be significant in 
terms of their potential impact to the business. 

There are no significant agreements or contracts 
in place with any Group Company and a Director 
of the Company or a major shareholder. 

Material interests in shares 
Up to 4 March 2024, being the latest practicable 
date before the publication of this report, the 
following disclosures of major holdings of voting 
rights have been made (and have not been amended 
or withdrawn) to the Company pursuant to the 
requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA (‘DTR 5’). 
The Company is not aware of any changes in the 
interests disclosed under DTR 5 since the year-end. 

At date of notification 

Shareholder 

BlackRock Inc.

Fiera Capital Corporation

Massachusetts Financial Services Company

Direct voting 
rights 

Indirect voting 
rights 

Percentage of 
voting rights 
attached to 
shares 

Voting rights 
through financial 
instruments 

Percentage of 
voting rights 
through financial 
instruments 

Total voting 
rights 

Percentage of 
total voting 
rights 

– 

– 

– 

10,473,019 

6.49% 

1,392,394 

0.85% 

11,865,413 

8,010,553 

8,004,731 

4.96%

4.96%

–

–

– 

– 

8,010,553 

8,004,731 

7.34% 

4.96% 

4.96% 

These holdings are published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website. 

106

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOther Statutory Information Continued

Our people 
Information about the Group’s employees, 
employment of disabled persons policies and 
employment practices is contained within this 
report on pages 10-17. Information on the employee 
share schemes is in the Directors’ Remuneration 
report and in Book three, pages 38-39. The steps 
by the Company taken to inform, engage and 
consult with employees is outlined in page 59 
and in the Section 172 statement on page 56. 

Stakeholders 
Information on the steps by the Company taken to 
inform, engage and consult with our stakeholders is 
outlined in pages 56-61 and in the Section 172 
statement on page 56. 

Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas emissions 
(‘GHG’) 
Information about the Group’s energy use, GHGs and 
methodologies used for the calculations are given in 
this report on pages 26-30. 

Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures ('TCFD') 
The climate-related financial disclosures consistent 
with TCFD recommendations are in Book one. 

Political donations 
At the AGM in 2023, shareholders passed an 
ordinary resolution, on a precautionary basis, 
to authorise the Company to make donations 
to EU political organisations and to incur 
EU political expenditure (as such items are 
defined in the Act) not exceeding £90,000. 

During the year the Group did not make any 
such political donations (2022: £nil). It is the 
Company’s policy not, directly or through 
any subsidiary, to make what are commonly 
regarded as donations to any political party. 

At the forthcoming AGM of the Company, 
shareholders’ approval will again be sought to 
authorise the Group to make political donations 
and/or incur political expenditure (as such terms are 
defined in section 362 to 379 of the Act). Further 
information is contained in the Notice of AGM. 

Branches 
The Company, through various subsidiaries, 
has established branches in a number of 
different countries in which the business 
operates. The list of related undertakings 
is available in note 23 in Book three. 

Independent auditors 
The auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office. Upon the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, a resolution to reappoint them as 
auditors and to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 

Financial instruments 
Details about the Group’s use of financial 
instruments are outlined in note 14 in Book three. 

Annual General Meeting 
The Notice of AGM, which is to be held on 
24 May 2024, is available for download from the 
Company’s website at intertek.com/investors. 
The Notice details the business to be conducted 
at the meeting and includes information 
concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy 
forms and in relation to voting rights. 

Statement of disclosure of 
information to auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval 
of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they 
are aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each 
Director has taken all reasonable steps that he or she 
ought to have taken as a Director of the Company 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish and ensure that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 

107

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportStatement of Directors Responsibilities

Statement of Directors Responsibilities 

in respect of the financial statements 

The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report & Accounts and the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulation. 

The Directors are responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Group and Company and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 

Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance 
with UK-adopted international accounting 
standards and the Company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 'Reduced 
Disclosure Framework', and applicable law). 

Under company law, Directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the 
financial statements, the Directors are required to: 

•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply 

them consistently; 

•  state whether applicable UK-adopted international 
accounting standards have been followed for the 
Group financial statements and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have 
been followed for the Company financial 
statements, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; 

•  make judgements and accounting estimates that 

are reasonable and prudent; and 

•  prepare the financial statements on the going 

concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Group and Company will continue in 
business. 

108

The Directors are also responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Group’s and Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Group and Company and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. 

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 

Directors’ confirmations 
The Directors consider that the Annual 
Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s and Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. 

Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the Directors’ Report, 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 

•  the Group financial statements, which have been 

prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group; 

•  the Company financial statements, which have 

been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and 
financial position of the Company; and 

•  the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the 

development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group and Company, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces. 

In the case of each Director in office at the date the 
Directors’ Report is approved: 

•  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant 

audit information of which the Group’s and 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and 

•  they have taken all the steps that they ought to 

have taken as a Director in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s and 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 
4 March 2024 
Registered Office: 
33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PS 

Registered Number: 04267576 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportCBP00019082504183028

Printed by a CarbonNeutral® Company certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system. 

Printed on material from well-managed, FSC® 
certified forests and other controlled sources. 

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and, on average 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled and the remaining 
1% used to generate energy. 

The paper is Carbon Balanced with World Land 
Trust, an international conservation charity, who 
offset carbon emissions through the purchase and 
preservation of high conservation value land. 
Through protecting standing forests, under 
threat of clearance, carbon is locked-in, that 
would otherwise be released. 

Intertek Group plc 
33 Cavendish Square, 
London, W1G 0PS 
United Kingdom 

Tel +44 20 7396 3400 
info@intertek.com 
intertek.com

Page Heading continued 

We are pleased to share our 
Annual Report & Accounts  
in a unique, three-book format: 

  Book one: Strategic Report 

Book three: Financial Report 

Where we discuss our growth 
opportunities and strategic performance.

Contents 

  Book two: Sustainability Report 

Where we discuss our environmental, 
social and governance progress. 

  Book three: Financial Report 

Where we record our financial activities, 
performance and position. 

These separate, but connected books, 
with their interconnected themes and 
narratives, allow us to present what 
we achieved in 2023 in a systemic, 
end-to-end framework. They have 
been designed to make it easier for our 
stakeholders to fully understand our 
business, how we bring quality, safety 
and sustainability to life, what we 
offer our clients and society, and the 
opportunities ahead of us.

01   Consolidated income statement 
02   Consolidated statement 

of comprehensive income 

03   Consolidated statement 
of financial position 
04   Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity 
06   Consolidated statement 

of cash flows 

07   Notes to the financial statements 
51   Intertek Group plc –  

Company balance sheet 
52   Intertek Group plc – Company 

statement of changes in equity 

53   Notes to the Company 

financial statements 

57   Independent Auditors’ Report 
64   Glossary – Alternative  
performance measures 
67   Shareholders and corporate 

information 

Let's make the world 
amazing together 
and deliver sustainable growth  
and value for all 

  Visit: intertek.com/investors

Intertek Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023 

Book one: Strategic Report 

Book two: Sustainability Report 

Book three: Financial Report 

 
For the year ended 31 December 

Revenue
Operating costs

Group operating profit/(loss)

Finance income 
Finance expense 

Net financing costs 

Profit/(loss) before income tax 

Income tax (expense)/credit

Profit/(loss) for the year

Attributable to: 

Equity holders of the Company 
Non-controlling interest 

Profit/(loss) for the year 

Earnings per share** 

Basic

Diluted

See note 3. 

* 
**  Earnings per share on the adjusted results is disclosed in note 7.

Consolidated income statement 

Notes 

2 
4 

2 

14 
14 

6 

2 

20 

7 

7 

Separately 
Disclosed 
Items* 
£m 

Total  
2023  
£m 

Adjusted 
results* 
£m 

Separately 
Disclosed 
Items* 
£m 

Adjusted 
results* 
£m 

3,328.7
(2,777.6) 

551.1 

3.8
(47.7) 

(43.9) 

507.2 

– 
(64.9) 

(64.9) 

– 
(20.0) 

(20.0) 

(84.9) 

3,328.7 
(2,842.5) 

3,192.9
(2,672.8) 

486.2 

520.1 

3.8 
(67.7) 

(63.9) 

2.2
(34.1) 

(31.9) 

422.3 

488.2 

(124.8) 

20.6 

(104.2) 

(128.4) 

382.4 

(64.3) 

318.1 

359.8 

361.7 
20.7

382.4 

(64.3) 
– 

(64.3) 

297.4 
20.7 

318.1 

341.8 
18.0

359.8 

184.4p 

183.4p 

– 
(67.7) 

(67.7) 

– 
(0.7) 

(0.7) 

(68.4) 

15.4 

(53.0) 

(53.0) 
– 

(53.0) 

Total  
2022  
£m 

3,192.9 
(2,740.5) 

452.4 

2.2 
(34.8) 

(32.6) 

419.8 

(113.0) 

306.8 

288.8 
18.0 

306.8 

179.2p 

178.4p 

01

Intertek Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2023

Book one: Strategic Report 

Book two: Sustainability Report 

Book three: Financial Report 

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 

Notes 

2023  
£m 

2022  
£m 

2 

318.1 

306.8 

16 
6 

(2.6) 
3.0 

0.4 
(147.1) 
58.8 
(0.1) 

(88.4) 

(88.0) 

17.4 
(4.3) 

13.1 
181.5 
(120.0) 
– 

61.5 

74.6 

230.1 

381.4 

20 

211.6 
18.5 

230.1 

363.1 
18.3 

381.4

For the year ended 31 December 

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive (expense)/income 
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes 
Tax on comprehensive income items

Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss 
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
Loss on fair value of cash flow hedges 

Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 

Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 

Total comprehensive income for the year 

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: 

Equity holders of the Company 
Non-controlling interest 

Total comprehensive income for the year 

02

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportConsolidated statement of financial position 

As at 31 December 

Equity 
Share capital 
Share premium 
Other reserves 
Retained earnings 

Notes 

15 

Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 
Non-controlling interest 

20 

Total equity 

2023  
£m 

2022  
£m 

1.6 
257.8 
(127.5) 
1,191.5 

1,323.4 
36.7 

1.6 
257.8 
(41.3) 
1,065.9 

1,284.0 
34.0 

1,360.1 

1,318.0 

*  Working capital of negative £78.8m (2022: negative £47.8m) comprises the asterisked items in the above statement of financial position 

less the IFRS 16 lease receivable of £1.6m (2022: £2.9m). 

The financial statements on pages 1 to 50 were approved by the Board on 4 March 2024 and were signed on 
its behalf by: 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer

As at 31 December 

Assets 
Property, plant and equipment
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Trade and other receivables 
Defined benefit pension asset 
Deferred tax assets

Total non-current assets 

Inventories* 
Trade and other receivables* 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Current tax receivable 

Total current assets 

Total assets 

Liabilities 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Current taxes payable 
Lease liabilities 
Trade and other payables* 
Provisions* 

Total current liabilities 

Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Lease liabilities 
Deferred tax liabilities
Defined benefit pension liabilities 
Trade and other payables* 
Provisions* 

Total non-current liabilities 

Total liabilities 

Net assets 

03

Notes 

2023  
£m 

2022  
£m 

8 
9 
9 
11 
16 
6 

11 
14 

14 

14 
12 
13 

14 
14 
6 
16 
12 
13 

669.6 
1,385.8 
330.9 
21.8 
21.8 
36.4 

694.4 
1,418.4 
362.9 
21.5 
21.3 
45.0 

2,466.3 

2,563.5 

17.2 
725.1 
299.3 
30.0 

16.9 
726.4 
321.6 
31.9 

1,071.6 

1,096.8 

3,537.9 

3,660.3 

(97.5) 
(60.5) 
(69.9) 
(735.6) 
(18.0) 

(262.4) 
(71.0) 
(70.6) 
(723.2) 
(15.8) 

(981.5) 

(1,143.0) 

(812.4) 
(237.9) 
(75.3) 
(4.8) 
(30.1) 
(35.8) 

( 797.1) 
(251.6) 
(99.2) 
(2.2) 
(34.6) 
(14.6) 

(1,196.3) 

(1,199.3) 

(2,177.8) 

(2,342.3) 

1,360.1 

1,318.0 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportConsolidated statement of changes in equity 

For the year ended 31 December 

At 1 January 2022 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
Profit
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity 
Contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company 
Dividends paid 
Changes in non-controlling interest 
Purchase of own shares 
Tax paid on Share Awards vested* 
Equity-settled transactions 
Income tax on equity-settled transactions

Total contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company

Attributable to equity holders of the Company 

Other reserves 

Notes 

Share capital 
£m 

Share 
premium  
£m 

Translation 
reserve  
£m 

1.6 

257.8 

(108.9) 

Total before 
non- 
controlling 
interest  
£m 

Non- 
controlling 
interest  
£m 

Retained 
earnings  
£m 

Total  
equity  
£m 

925.1 

1,082.0 

32.3 

1,114.3 

Other  
£m 

6.4 

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
– 

– 

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
61.2

61.2

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

– 
– 

– 

– 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

288.8 
13.1 

301.9 

288.8 
74.3 

363.1 

(170.6) 
–
(2.3) 
(4.4) 
17.5 
(1.3) 

(161.1) 

(170.6) 
–
(2.3)
(4.4)
17.5
(1.3)

(161.1) 

18.0 
0.3 

18.3 

(16.6) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(16.6) 

306.8 
74.6 

381.4 

( 187.2) 
– 
(2.3) 
(4.4) 
17.5 
(1.3) 

( 177.7 ) 

15
20
15
17
17
6

At 31 December 2022 

1.6 

257.8 

(47.7) 

6.4 

1,065.9 

1,284.0 

34.0 

1,318.0 

* 

The tax paid on Share Awards vested is related to settlement of the tax obligation on behalf of employees by the Group via the sale of a portion of the equity-settled shares.

04

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportConsolidated statement of changes in equity Continued 

For the year ended 31 December 

At 1 January 2023 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
Profit
Other comprehensive (expense)/income

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity 
Contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company 
Dividends paid 
Changes in non-controlling interest 
Purchase of own shares 
Tax paid on Share Awards vested* 
Equity-settled transactions 
Income tax on equity-settled transactions

Total contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company

Attributable to equity holders of the Company 

Other reserves 

Notes 

Share capital 
£m 

Share 
premium  
£m 

Translation 
reserve  
£m 

Other  
£m 

Retained 
earnings  
£m 

Total before 
non- 
controlling 
interest  
£m 

Non- 
controlling 
interest  
£m 

Total  
equity  
£m 

1.6 

257.8 

(47.7) 

6.4 

1,065.9 

1,284.0 

34.0 

1,318.0 

–
–

–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

–
– 

– 

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

15
20
15
17
17
6

–

(86.1) 

(86.1) 

– 
(0.1) 

(0.1) 

297.4 
0.4 

297.8 

297.4 
(85.8) 

211.6 

20.7 
(2.2) 

18.5 

318.1 
(88.0) 

230.1 

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

– 
–
– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

(176.3) 

–

(11.6) 
(5.6) 
21.2 
0.1 

(176.3) 
– 
(11.6)
(5.6)
21.2
0.1

(15.1) 
(0.7) 
– 
– 
– 
– 

(191.4) 
(0.7) 
(11.6) 
(5.6) 
21.2 
0.1 

(172.2) 

(172.2) 

(15.8) 

(188.0) 

At 31 December 2023 

1.6 

257.8 

(133.8) 

6.3 

1,191.5 

1,323.4 

36.7 

1,360.1 

* 

The tax paid on Share Awards vested is related to settlement of the tax obligation on behalf of employees by the Group via the sale of a portion of the equity-settled shares.

05

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportConsolidated statement of cash flows 

Notes 

2023  
£m 

2022  
£m 

For the year ended 31 December 

Cash flows from financing activities 
Purchase of own shares 
Tax paid on share awards vested 
Drawdown of borrowings 
Repayment of borrowings 
Repayment of lease liabilities* 
Purchase of non-controlling interest 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 
Equity dividends paid 

Net cash flow generated from/(used in) financing activities 

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 
Exchange adjustments 

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 

Notes 

15 

20 

14 
14 
14 

14 

2023  
£m 

2022  
£m 

(11.6) 
(5.6) 
160.5 
(249.6) 
(77.8) 
(0.7) 
(15.1) 
(176.3) 

(2.3) 
(4.4) 
477.2 
(536.8) 
(81.4) 
– 
(16.6) 
(170.6) 

(376.2) 

(334.9) 

13.7 
320.7 
(35.8) 

298.6 

51.7 
264.0 
5.0 

320.7 

The notes on pages 7 to 50 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

Cash outflow relating to Separately Disclosed Items was £23.1m for year ended 31 December 2023  
(2022: £17.9m). 

* 

Free cash flow of £355.3m (2022: £368.4m) comprises the asterisked items in the above consolidated statement of cash flows.

For the year ended 31 December 

Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit for the year
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation charge
Amortisation of software
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
Impairment of goodwill and other assets 
Equity-settled transactions 
Net financing costs 
Income tax expense
Profit on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 

Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 

and operating provisions 

Change in inventories 
Change in trade and other receivables 
Change in trade and other payables 
Change in provisions 
Special contributions into pension schemes 

Cash generated from operations 
Interest and other finance expense paid 
Income taxes paid 

Net cash flows generated from operating activities* 

Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and software* 
Interest received* 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 
Acquisition of property, plant, equipment and software* 

2 

318.1 

306.8 

8 
9 
9 
8,9 
17 
14 
6 

16

10 

156.0 
19.3 
34.2 
2.6 
21.2 
63.9 
104.2 
(3.2) 

716.3 
(1.2) 
(41.2) 
47.7 
4.3 
– 

725.9 
(71.9) 
(119.0) 

535.0 

11.5 
3.5 
(40.5) 
(2.7) 
(116.9) 

160.2 
20.3 
34.8 
15.3 
17.5 
32.6 
113.0 
(0.4) 

700.1 
(0.8) 
(54.3) 
61.1 
– 
(2.0) 

704.1 
( 37.5 ) 
(106.7) 

559.9 

4.2 
2.2 
(63.2) 
– 
(116.5) 

Net cash flows used in investing activities 

(145.1) 

(173.3) 

06

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements 

1 Material accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
Accounting policies applicable to more than one section of the financial statements are shown below. Where 
accounting policies relate to a specific note in the financial statements, they are set out within that note, to 
provide readers of the financial statements with a more useful layout to the financial information presented. 

Statement of compliance 
Intertek Group plc is a public company incorporated in England & Wales and domiciled in the UK, limited 
by shares. 

In addition, the Group’s financial forecasts for 2024 and 2025, and the related liquidity position and forecast 
compliance with debt covenants, have been sensitised for a severe yet plausible decline in economic conditions 
(including an illustrative sensitivity scenario of a reduction of 30% to the base profit forecasts and the 
corresponding impact to cash flow forecasts in each of these years). In addition, reverse stress testing has 
also been applied to the model which represents a significant decline in cash flows compared with the 30% 
downside sensitivity. Such a scenario is considered to be remote. The Board remains satisfied with the Group’s 
funding and liquidity position, with the Group forecast to remain within its committed facilities and compliant 
with debt covenants even following the 30% downside sensitivity. The sensitivity modelling excludes 
additional mitigating actions (e.g. dividend cash payments, non-essential overheads and non-committed 
capital expenditure) that are within management control and could be initiated if deemed required. 

The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2023 consolidate those of 
the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and include the Group’s interests 
in associates. Intertek Group plc transitioned to UK-adopted international accounting standards in its 
consolidated financial statements on 1 January 2021. There was no impact or changes in accounting policies 
from the transition. The Group financial statements have been prepared by the Directors in accordance with 
these accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The Company 
financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group. 
The Company has elected to prepare its Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, 
comprising FRS 101 and applicable law; these are presented on pages 51 to 56. 

Significant new accounting policies and standards 
There are no significant new accounting standards or amendments to accounting standards that are effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 that have a material effect on the results of the Group. 

Changes in accounting policies 
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied consistently to all years 
presented, apart from those disclosed below. There are no new accounting standards that are effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 that have a material effect on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. There are no accounting standards that are issued but not yet effective that are 
expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 

Measurement convention 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as discussed in the relevant 
accounting policies. 

Functional and presentation currency 
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. 
All information presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m. 

Going concern 
The Group has a broad customer base across its multiple business lines and in its different geographic regions 
and is supported by a robust balance sheet and strong operational cash flows. 

The Board has reviewed the Group’s financial forecasts up to 31 December 2025 to assess both liquidity 
requirements and debt covenants. 

07

The undrawn headroom on the Group’s committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2023 was £664.3m 
(2022: £707.3m). The maturity of our borrowing facilities is disclosed in note 14 of the financial statements, 
with repayment of two senior notes totalling US$125m required by 31 December 2024. Our models forecast 
these to be repaid using existing facilities. Full details of the Group’s borrowing facilities and maturity profile 
are outlined in note 14. 

On the basis of its forecasts to 31 December 2025, both base case and the severe but plausible downside, 
and available facilities, the Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties over going concern, 
including no anticipated breach of covenants, and therefore the going concern basis of preparation continues 
to be appropriate. 

Consideration of climate change 
In preparing the financial statements, we have considered the impact of climate change (refer to Book one, 
page 58 for further information). There is no material impact on the financial reporting judgements and 
estimates arising from our considerations, which is consistent with the assertion that risks associated with 
climate change are not expected to have a material impact on the viability of the Group in the short, medium 
and long term. Specifically we note the following: 
•  The Group continues to invest in on-site renewable energy generation at our locations. 
•  We have specifically considered the impact of climate change on the carrying value of fixed assets 

(see note 8). 

•  The Group has not bought carbon credits in 2023 (2022: £nil) to offset our measured scope 1, 2 and 3 

GHG emissions. 

Government grants 
Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the related expenses 
that they are intended to compensate. Where grants are received in advance of the related expenses, they are 
initially recognised in the balance sheet and released to match the related expenditure. Non-monetary grants 
are recognised at fair value. The related cash flow is classified in accordance with the nature of the activity.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report1 Material accounting policies Continued 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has power to direct the 
relevant activities, exposure to variable returns from the investee and the ability to use its power over the 
investee to affect the amount of investor returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. 

For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the difference between the cost of the additional 
interest in the subsidiary and the non-controlling interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the 
consolidated statement of financial position at the date of acquisition is reflected directly in shareholders’ equity. 

Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from 
intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are 
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 

Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at 
the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (for example, 
cash, trade receivables, trade payables) denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are 
generally recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms 
of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
For the policy on hedging of foreign currency transactions see note 14. 

Foreign operations 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
acquisition, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. 

The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates 
of exchange during the year. Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are 
taken directly to equity in the translation reserve. They are released to the income statement upon disposal. 
For the policy on net investment hedging see note 14. 

The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: 

Value of £1 

US dollar 
Euro 
Chinese renminbi 
Hong Kong dollar 
Australian dollar 

08

Assets and liabilities 
Actual rates 

Income and expenses 
Cumulative average rates 

31 December 
2023 

31 December  
2022 

1.28 
1.15 
9.14 
10.00 
1.87 

1.20 
1.13 
8.45 
9.37 
1.78 

2023 

1.24 
1.15 
8.81 
9.71 
1.87 

2022 

1.24 
1.17 
8.31 
9.68 
1.78 

Key estimations and uncertainties 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs (‘International Financial Reporting Standards’) 
requires management to make judgements and estimates that affect the application of accounting policies 
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected. 

Discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation at the 
reporting date, that could have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. 

Impairment of goodwill 
Following recognition of goodwill as a result of acquisitions, the Group determines, as a minimum on an annual 
basis and including current year acquisitions, whether goodwill is impaired, which requires an estimation of the 
future cash flows of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated, as well as assumptions on 
growth rates and discount rates – see note 9. There is no significant risk of material impairment within the 
next financial year. 

Employee post-retirement benefit obligations 
For material defined benefit plans, the actuarial valuation includes assumptions such as discount rates, 
return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. Further details and sensitivity analysis are included 
in note 16. 

There are no critical accounting judgements. 

Other accounting policies 
Accounting policies relating to a specific note in the financial statements are set out within that note 
as follows: 

Revenue 
Separately Disclosed Items 
Taxation 
Property, plant and equipment 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other payables 
Provisions 
Borrowings and financial instruments 
Capital and reserves 
Employee benefits 
Share schemes 
Non-controlling interest 

Note 

2 
3 
6 
8 
9 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
20

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued2 Operating segments and presentation of results 
Accounting policy 
Revenue 
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered when there is transfer of control to 
the customer, excluding sales-related taxes and intra-group transactions. 

Since we unveiled our AAA differentiated growth strategy to capitalise on the best in class operating platform 
we have built and target the areas where we have opportunities to get better, the reporting and performance 
management used by the CEO to make operating decisions has changed from the previous three segments to 
the Group’s new five reportable segments set out below. The segment information for earlier periods has been 
re-presented to conform to these changes. The business lines within the new segments demonstrate similar 
mid- to long-term structural growth drivers. 

Revenue from services rendered on short-term projects is generally recognised in the income statement when 
the relevant service is completed, usually when the report of findings or test/inspection certificate is issued. 
Short-term projects are considered to be those of less than two months’ duration. 

In line with IFRS 15, rebates and customer discounts are considered to be variable consideration and have 
been deducted from recognised revenue. 

Revenue is recognised using the five steps for revenue recognition. The majority of contracts are for 
less than one year. The Group records transactions as revenue on the basis of value of work done, with the 
corresponding amount being included in trade receivables if the customer has been invoiced, or in contract 
assets, if billing has yet to be completed. Performance obligations vary across business lines and regions, and 
on a contract-by-contract basis. There may be more than one performance obligation per contract, for example 
Alchemy Training Solutions contracts have multiple elements which are split between recognising revenue at 
a point in time for services such as right-of-use software licences, and over time for other services delivered 
under the same contract. 

When aggregating operating segments into the five reportable segments we have applied judgement over the 
similarities of the services provided, the wider economic impacts of the markets served within the segments, 
the customer base and the mid- to long-term structural growth drivers. Certain business lines within those 
former segments have also been reallocated to better align with the structural growth drivers of each segment. 

The costs of the corporate head office and other costs which are not controlled by the five segments are 
allocated appropriately. 

Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no significant seasonality in the Group’s 
operations. Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis. 

The performance of the segments is assessed based on adjusted operating profit which is stated before 
Separately Disclosed Items. The operating segment revenue disclosures provided under IFRS 8 are consistent 
with the disaggregated revenue disclosure and recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS 15. 

Long-term projects consist of two main types: 
•  time incurred, which is billed at agreed rates on a periodic basis, such as monthly; or 
•  staged payment invoicing, requiring an assessment of percentage of completion, based on services provided 

and revenue accrued accordingly. 

A reconciliation to operating profit by segment and Group profit for the year is included overleaf. 

The principal activities of the reportable segments, and the customers they serve, are as follows: 

Expenses are recharged to clients where permitted by the contract. Payments received in advance from customers 
are recognised in contract liabilities to the extent that performance obligations have not been satisfied. 

Consumer products – Our Consumer Products segment focuses on the ATIC solutions we offer to our clients 
to develop and sell better, safer, and more sustainable products to their own clients. This segment includes the 
following business lines: Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical/Connected World and Government and Trade Services. 

The Group does not expect to have any material contracts where the period between the transfer of promised 
goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the 
Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money. 

The Group has applied practical expedients in: i) recognising assets from the costs incurred to obtain or fulfil 
a contract; and ii) disclosing unsatisfied performance obligations in contracts as contracts have an expected 
duration of less than a year. The economic factors affecting revenue for both short- and long-term contracts 
are consistent within each. 

Operating segments 
The Group is organised into business lines, which are the Group’s operating segments and are reported to the 
CEO, the chief operating decision maker. 

As a trusted partner to the world’s leading retailers, manufacturers and distributors, the segment supports a 
wide range of industries including textiles, footwear, toys, hardlines, home appliances, consumer electronics, 
information and communication technology, automotive, aerospace, lighting, building products, industrial and 
renewable energy products, and healthcare. 

Across these industries we provide a wide range of Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification (‘ATIC’) 
services including laboratory safety, quality and performance testing, and third-party certification. Our 
Government and Trade Services business provides inspection services to governments and regulatory bodies 
to support trade activities that help the flow of consumer products across borders, predominantly in the Middle 
East, Africa and South America.

09

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued2 Operating segments and presentation of results Continued 
Corporate Assurance – Our Corporate Assurance segment focuses on the industry-agnostic assurance 
solutions we offer to our clients to make their value chains more sustainable and more resilient end-to-end. 
This segment includes Business Assurance and Assuris. 

Intertek Business Assurance provides a full range of business process audit and support services, including 
accredited third-party management systems auditing and certification, second-party supplier auditing and 
supply chain solutions, sustainability data verification, process performance analysis and training. Assuris’ global 
network of scientists, engineers and regulatory specialists provide clients with support to navigate complex 
scientific, regulatory, environmental, health, safety and quality challenges throughout their value chain. 

World of Energy – Our World of Energy segment focuses on the ATIC solutions we offer to our clients to 
develop better and greener fuels as well as renewables. This segment includes Caleb Brett, Transportation 
Technologies (‘TT’) and Clean Energy Associates (‘CEA’). 

This segment consists of three global business lines with similar global growth drivers which are intrinsically 
linked to the wider economic factors, regulation over traditional hydrocarbons and sustainability of energy supply 
which impact the energy market. These business lines provide specialist cargo inspection, analytical assessment, 
calibration and related research and technical services to the world’s petroleum and biofuels industries. 

Our Caleb Brett business provides cargo and inventory inspection, analytical assessment, calibration and 
related research and technical services to the world’s petroleum and biofuels industries. 

Health and Safety – Our Health and Safety segment focuses on the ATIC solutions we offer to our clients to 
make sure we all enjoy a healthier and safer life. This segment includes AgriWorld, Food and Chemical & Pharma 
business lines. The division provides differing services which reflect the breadth of our ATIC offering, but the 
services provided are similar in nature and include analytical assessment, inspection and technical services that 
are delivered to the customers through issuing certificates or reports. 

TTs global network of laboratories provides diverse, rapid testing and validation services to the transportation 
market, evaluating to industry standards and international regulations, and delivers testing for new and 
emerging markets such as autonomous and connected vehicles, electric/hybrid vehicles, charging components, 
automotive telematics and aftermarket components. 

Our AgriWorld business provides assurance, testing, inspection and certification services across the entire 
agricultural supply chain. 

CEA is a provider of quality assurance, supply-chain traceability and technical services to the solar energy, 
energy storage and green hydrogen sectors. 

Our Food business provides food safety testing, hygiene and safety audits, inspection, certification and 
advisory services to food companies. 

Our Chemicals & Pharma business enables clients to mitigate risks associated with product quality and safety 
and processes, supporting them with their product development, regulatory authorisation, chemical testing 
and production. 

Industry and Infrastructure – Our Industry and Infrastructure segment focuses on the ATIC solutions our 
clients need to develop and build better, safer and greener infrastructure. This segment includes Industry 
Services, Minerals and Building & Construction. The nature of the products and services offered across the 
segment are similar with services including technical inspections, asset integrity management and sample 
testing. These service lines interact through the customer type they service – ATIC services to Industry or 
Infrastructure-related products and the inputs into these industries. 

Our Industry Services business line uses its in-depth knowledge of industries such as renewable energy, oil 
and gas, and petrochemicals to provide customers with a diverse range of Total Quality Assurance solutions. 
The services we offer include technical inspection, non-destructive and materials testing and asset 
performance management. 

Our Minerals business offers expert inspection, analytical testing and advisory services to the minerals, 
exploration, ore and mining industries. We cover each step of the supply chain from exploration, production, 
sampling and inspection, to commercial trade settlement analysis. 

Our Building & Construction business provides testing, inspection, certification and engineering services 
to the building and construction industries, offering product-related testing and certification capabilities, 
project-related assurance, testing, inspection and consulting services. 

10

The results of these segments for the year ended 31 December are shown below: 

Year ended 31 December 2023 

Consumer Products 
Corporate Assurance 
Health and Safety 
Industry and Infrastructure 
World of Energy 

Revenue 
from 
contracts 
with 
customers 
£m 

935.8 
477.5 
326.3 
860.5 
728.6 

(55.4) 
(14.0) 
(21.7) 
(32.3) 
(51.9) 

Total 

3,328.7 

(175.3) 

Group operating profit 
Net financing costs 

Profit before income tax 
Income tax (expense)/credit 

Profit for the year 

Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation 
£m 

Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
£m 

Separately 
Disclosed 
Items 
£m 

Operating 
profit 
£m 

246.8 
109.4 
43.2 
86.1 
65.6 

551.1 

551.1 
(43.9) 

507.2 
(124.8) 

382.4 

(15.1) 
(26.2) 
(4.9) 
(9.5) 
(9.2) 

(64.9) 

(64.9) 
(20.0) 

(84.9) 
20.6 

(64.3) 

231.7 
83.2 
38.3 
76.6 
56.4 

486.2 

486.2 
(63.9) 

422.3 
(104.2) 

318.1 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued2 Operating segments and presentation of results Continued 

Year ended 31 December 2022 – (Represented) 

Consumer Products 
Corporate Assurance 
Health and Safety 
Industry and Infrastructure 
World of Energy 

Revenue 
from 
contracts 
with 
customers 
£m 

964.2 
450.0 
302.3 
814.4 
662.0 

(58.0) 
(12.1) 
(22.2) 
(33.6) 
(54.6) 

Total 

3,192.9 

(180.5) 

Group operating profit 
Net financing costs 

Profit before income tax 
Income tax (expense)/credit 

Profit for the year 

Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation 
£m 

Adjusted 
operating 
profit 
£m 

Separately 
Disclosed 
Items 
£m 

Operating 
profit 
£m 

268.5 
95.5 
40.7 
71.9 
43.5 

520.1 

520.1 
(31.9) 

488.2 
(128.4) 

359.8 

(11.0) 
(26.4) 
(6.2) 
(11.9) 
(12.2) 

(67.7) 

(67.7) 
(0.7) 

(68.4) 
15.4 

(53.0) 

257.5 
69.1 
34.5 
60.0 
31.3 

452.4 

452.4 
(32.6) 

419.8 
(113.0) 

306.8 

Geographic segments 
Although the Group is managed through a divisional structure, which operates on a global basis, under the 
requirements of IFRS 8 the Group must disclose any specific countries that are important to the Group’s 
performance. The Group considers the following to be the material countries in which it operates: the United 
States, China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and Australia. 

In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of 
the entity recognising that revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets. 

3 Separately Disclosed Items 
Accounting policy 
Adjusted results 
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items 
are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement. Separately Disclosed Items (‘SDI’) are items 
which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from the adjusted results to 
provide readers with a clear and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its operating 
segments on a year-on-year basis. A full glossary and definitions of adjusted performance metrics used by the 
Group is included on page 64. 

When applicable, these items include amortisation of acquisition intangibles; impairment of goodwill and 
other assets; the profit or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant non-current assets; the 
costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions; the cost of any fundamental restructuring; the costs of 
any significant strategic projects; material claims and settlements; and unrealised market or fair value gains 
or losses on financial assets or liabilities, including contingent consideration. 

Adjusted operating profit, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, primarily customer relationships, as we do not believe that the amortisation charge in the income 
statement provides useful information about the cash costs of running our business as these assets will be 
supported and maintained by ongoing marketing and promotional expenditure, which is already reflected 
in operating costs. Amortisation of software, however, is included in adjusted operating profit as it is similar 
in nature to other capital expenditure. 

The costs associated with our cost reduction programme are excluded from adjusted operating profit where 
they represent changes associated with operational streamlining and technology upgrades and are costs 
that are not expected to reoccur. The restructuring programme, which began in 2022, is expected to last 
up to five years. 

The treatment as SDI is consistent with the disclosure of costs for similar restructuring and strategic 
programmes previously undertaken. 

United States 
China (including Hong Kong) 
United Kingdom 
Australia 
Other countries and unallocated 

Total 

Revenue from external 
customers 

Non-current assets 

2023 
£m 

1,022.5 
592.1 
217.0 
176.1 
1,321.0 

2022 
£m 

958.3 
591.3 
203.5 
174.9 
1,264.9 

2023 
£m 

1,083.3 
83.9 
247.4 
528.9 
442.8 

2022 
£m 

1,139.4 
97.3 
264.2 
555.9 
418.9 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

2,386.3 

2,475.7 

The impairment of goodwill and other assets that by their nature or size are not expected to recur; the profit 
and loss on disposals of businesses or other significant assets; and the costs associated with successful, 
active or aborted acquisitions are excluded from adjusted operating profit to provide useful information 
regarding the year-on-year performance of the Group’s operations. 

As adjusted results include the benefits of the items detailed above, but exclude significant costs related to 
those items, they should not be regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial performance, which is 
presented on the face of the income statement under total results. The exclusion of these items may result 
in adjusted operating profit being materially higher or lower than total operating profit. In particular, where 
significant impairments, restructuring charges and legal costs are excluded in any year, adjusted operating 
profit will be higher than total operating profit. 

Major customers 
No revenue from any individual customer exceeded 10% of total Group revenue in 2023 or 2022.

11

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued3 Separately Disclosed Items Continued 
Separately Disclosed Items 
The Separately Disclosed Items are described in the table below: 

Operating costs: 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
Acquisition and integration costs 
Restructuring costs 

Total operating costs 
Net financing costs 

Total before income tax 
Income tax credit on Separately Disclosed Items 

Total 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(34.2) 
(8.3) 
(22.4) 

(64.9) 
(20.0) 

(84.9) 
20.6 

(64.3) 

(34.8) 
(5.5) 
( 27.4) 

(67.7 ) 
(0.7) 

(68.4) 
15.4 

(53.0) 

(a)  Of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles in the current period, £0.4m relates to the customer relationships acquired with the purchase 

of Controle Analítico Análises Técnicas Ltda (‘Controle Analítico’) and £0.3m relates to the customer relationships, trade names and 
technology acquired with the purchase of PlayerLync Holdings, Inc. (‘PlayerLync’) in 2023. 

(b)  Acquisition and integration costs comprise £4.7m (2022: £1.8m) for transaction and integration costs in respect of successful, active and 

aborted acquisitions in the current year, and £3.6m in respect of prior years’ acquisitions (2022: £3.7m). 

(c)  During 2022, the Group initiated the first year of a cost reduction programme. In 2023, costs of £22.4m (2022: £27.4m) included 

consolidating sites and offices, streamlining headcount and related asset write-offs. 

(d)  Net financing costs of £20.0m (2022: £0.7m) relate to the unwinding of discount and changes in fair value of contingent consideration 

related to acquisitions. The increase in fair value of contingent consideration predominantly relates to the CEA acquisition made in 2022, 
with strong EBITDA performance during the year driving an increase in the expected amount payable in 2024. 
Income tax credit on SDIs totalled £20.6m (2022: £15.4m) mainly relating to deferred tax impact of the movement in amortisation 
of intangibles. 

(e) 

4 Expenses and auditors’ remuneration 
An analysis of operating costs by nature is outlined below: 

Employee costs 
Depreciation and software amortisation (notes 8 and 9) 
Other expenses 

Total 

2023 
£m 

1,450.2 
175.3 
1,217.0 

2022 
£m 

1,394.7 
180.5 
1,165.3 

2,842.5 

2,740.5 

Certain expenses / (gains) are outlined in the table below, including fees paid to the auditors of the Group. 

Mazars acts as external auditors of certain material and non-material entities within the Group. The total 
remuneration for the audit of these entities, included in the table below, was £0.6m (2022: nil). 

Included in profit for the year are the following expenses / (gains): 
Property rentals 
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment 
Government grants related to employee costs 
Profit on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 

Auditors’ remuneration: 
Audit of these financial statements 
Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: 
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 

Total audit fees payable pursuant to legislation 
Audit-related services 

Total 

5 Employees 
Total employee costs are shown below: 

Employee costs 

Wages and salaries 
Equity-settled transactions 
Social security costs 
Pension costs (note 16) 

Total employee costs 

2023 
£m 

6.8 
14.5 
(3.6) 
(3.2) 

1.6 

4.2 

5.8 
0.2 

6.0 

2022 
£m 

7.3 
12.4 
(9.7) 
(0.4) 

1.2 

4.7 

5.9 
0.2 

6.1 

2023 
£m 

1,228.5 
21.2 
139.5 
61.0 

2022 
£m 

1,182.8 
17.5 
132.9 
61.5 

1,450.2 

1,394.7 

Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled transactions are set out in notes 16 and 17 respectively. 

Average number of employees by division 

Consumer Products 
Corporate Assurance 
Health and Safety 
Industry and Infrastructure 
World of Energy 
Central 

Total average number for the year ended 31 December 

Total actual number at 31 December 

Represented 
2022 

2023 

13,936 
3,946 
5,227 
9,966 
8,530 
2,033 

43,638 

43,908 

14,391 
3,797 
5,205 
9,999 
8,373 
2,020 

43,785 

43,597 

12

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements ContinuedDeferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that there are taxable temporary differences relating to 
the same taxation authority, the same taxable company or different taxable companies part of the same 
tax group, which are expected to reverse in the same period, or to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. The carrying amount 
of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be 
utilised. In calculating future taxable profits, the future forecasts considered were consistent with those 
used for the purposes of the Group’s going concern and viability assessments. 

The Group does not currently expect the climate-related risks discussed in Book one, pages 58 to 66 to 
have an impact on the availability to recover the deferred tax assets identified below. Any additional income 
taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend. 

Tax expense 
The Group operates across many different tax jurisdictions. Income and profits are earned and taxed in the 
individual countries in which they occur. 

The statutory tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of £104.2m (2022: £113.0m), equates to an effective 
rate of 24.7% (2022: 26.9%) and the cash tax on adjusted results is 23.5% (2022: 21.9%). The income tax 
expense for the adjusted profit before tax for the 12 months ended 31 December 2023 is £124.8m (2022: 
£128.4m). The Group’s adjusted effective tax rate for the 12 months ended 31 December 2023 is 24.6% 
(2022: 26.3%). 

Differences between the consolidated effective tax rate of 24.7% and the weighted average notional 
statutory UK rate of 23.5% include but are not limited to: the mix of profits; the effect of tax rates in 
foreign jurisdictions; non-deductible expenses; the effect of movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets; 
movements in the provision for uncertain tax positions; withholding tax on intra-group dividends; tax-exempt 
income; and under/over provisions in previous periods. 

The Group receives tax incentives in certain jurisdictions, resulting in a lower tax charge to the income 
statement. These tax incentives mainly relate to China’s High and New Technology Enterprise and Technology 
Advanced Service Enterprise incentives. Without these incentives the adjusted effective tax rate would be 
26.9% (2022: 28.3%). The tax on SDIs primarily relates to intangibles, impairment of fixed assets, restructuring, 
integration and contingent consideration. 

5 Employees Continued 
The total remuneration of the Directors is shown below: 

Directors’ emoluments 

Directors’ remuneration 
Amounts charged under the long-term incentive scheme 

Total Directors’ emoluments 

2023 
£m 

4.9 
2.9 

7.8 

2022 
£m 

3.5 
1.2 

4.7 

6 Taxation 
Accounting policy 
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the same primary 
statement as the accounting transaction to which it relates. 

Current tax 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 

Tax provisions are recognised for uncertain tax positions where a risk of an additional tax liability has 
been identified and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that tax liability. Measurement is 
dependent on management’s expectation of the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in the various tax 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates. This is assessed on a case-by-case basis using in-house tax experts, 
professional firms and previous experience. Where the outcome of discussions with tax authorities is different 
from the amount initially recorded, this difference will impact the tax expense in the period in which the 
determination is made. 

Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes, except for: 
•  recognition of consolidated goodwill; 
•  the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and 

that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit; and 

•  differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint ventures, 
the reversal of which is under the control of the Group and where it is probable that the difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. 

The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the 
carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date, for the periods when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets and they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable 
entities which intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities 
will be realised simultaneously.

13

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued6 Taxation Continued 
Tax charge 
The total income tax charge, comprising the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax, recognised 
in the income statement is analysed as follows: 

The main rate of UK corporation tax from 1 April 2023 is 25.0%. As the rate of UK corporation tax until 
31 March 2023 was 19.0%, the weighted average UK corporation tax rate applicable for the year ended 
31 December 2023 is 23.5%. Deferred tax on UK temporary differences at 31 December 2023 has been 
provided at 25%. 

Current tax charge for the period 
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities 

Current tax 
Deferred tax movement related to current year 
Deferred tax movement related to prior year 

Deferred tax movement 

Total tax in income statement 

Tax on adjusted result 
Tax on Separately Disclosed Items 

Total tax in income statement 

2023 
£m 

116.7 
(0.7) 

116.0 
(11.6) 
(0.2) 

(11.8) 

104.2 

124.8 
(20.6) 

104.2 

2022 
£m 

114.4 
(3.7) 

110.7 
0.8 
1.5 

2.3 

113.0 

128.4 
(15.4) 

113.0 

Reconciliation of effective tax rate 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation tax rate to the effective tax rate 
of the Group on profit before taxation. 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

Foreign exchange 

translation differences 
of foreign operations 

Net exchange gain/(loss) on 
hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations 
(Loss)/Gain on fair value of 

Profit before taxation 

422.3 

419.8 

cash flow hedges 

Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 23.5% (2022: 19.0%) 
Differences in overseas tax rates 
Withholding tax on intercompany dividends 
Non-deductible expenses 
Tax exempt income 
Change in tax rate impact 
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax 
Adjustments in respect of prior years1
Other2

99.3 
(1.0) 
6.9 
13.4 
(7.4) 
(0.9) 
(0.4) 
(0.9) 
(4.8) 

79.8 
7.6 
8.5 
20.7 
(5.1) 
(1.6) 
3.0 
(2.2) 
2.3 

Remeasurements on defined 
benefit pension schemes 
Tax on other items that will 
never be reclassified to 
profit or loss

Total other 

comprehensive 
(expense)/income 
for the year 

Total tax in income statement 

104.2 

113.0 

1.  Adjustments in respect of prior years mainly relate to current and deferred tax adjustments for the UK, the US, Australia and China. 
2.  The Other category contains R&D tax incentives and super deductions of £4.0m (2022: £2.6m), a net £3.3m credit on provisions 

(2022: £2.7m charge) following a review of uncertain tax positions across multiple territories, and other local taxes. 

14

On 20 June 2023, Finance (No.2) Act 2023 was substantively enacted in the UK, introducing a global minimum 
effective tax rate of 15%. The legislation implements a domestic top-up tax and a multinational top-up tax and 
will apply to Intertek from the financial year ending 31 December 2024 onwards. Based on initial analysis using 
prior year financial data, most territories in which the Group operates are expected to qualify for one of the 
safe harbour exemptions and where this is not the case, the incremental tax arising under Pillar Two is not 
expected to be material. The Group is monitoring the status of implementation of the OECD Pillar Two Model 
Rules outside of the UK. Intertek has applied the exception under IAS 12 to recognising and disclosing 
information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to top-up income taxes. 

Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) 
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. 
The income tax recognised on items recorded in other comprehensive income is shown below: 

Before tax 
2023 
£m 

Tax charge 
2023 
£m 

Net of tax 
2023 
£m 

Before tax 
2022 
£m 

Tax charge 
2022 
£m 

Net of tax 
2022 
£m 

(147.1) 

4.9 

(142.2) 

181.5 

(4.9) 

176.6 

58.8 

(2.0) 

56.8 

(120.0)

– 

(120.0) 

(0.1)

(2.6) 

– 

0.1 

(0.1)

– 

4.1 

4.1 

(2.5) 

17.4 

(3.5) 

13.9 

–

–

–

–

– 

– 

(91.0) 

3.0 

(88.0) 

78.9 

(4.3) 

74.6 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements ContinuedMovements in deferred tax temporary differences during the year 
The movement in the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below: 

1 January 
2023 
£m 

Exchange 
adjustments  
£m 

Acquisitions 
£m 

Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m 

Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI 
£m 

31 December 
2023 
£m 

Intangible assets 
Property, fixtures, fittings 

and equipment 

Pensions 
Equity-settled transactions 
Provisions and other 

temporary differences 

Tax value of losses 

Total 

(93.8) 

(13.1) 
(4.1)
5.3

37.8 
13.7 

(54.2) 

3.8 

0.8 
–
–

(1.7) 
(0.7)

2.2 

(4.9) 

11.7 

(0.5) 
– 
– 

(0.4) 
– 

(5.8) 

(1.0) 
(0.1) 
0.4 

4.5 
(3.7) 

11.8 

3.0 

0.3 
0.1 
0.1 

2.6 
1.0 

7.1 

(80.2) 

(13.5) 
(4.1) 
5.8 

42.8 
10.3 

(38.9) 

Intangible assets 
Property, fixtures, fittings 

and equipment 

Pensions 
Equity-settled transactions 
Provisions and other 

temporary differences 

Tax value of losses 

1 January 
2022 
£m 

Exchange 
adjustments  
£m 

Acquisitions 
£m 

Recognised 
in income 
statement 
£m 

Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI 
£m 

31 December 
2022 
£m 

(90.6) 

(12.2) 

(8.0) 

17.0

– 

(93.8) 

3.2 
(0.2)
7.7

40.9 
10.9 

0.1
–
–

0.8 
0.6 

– 
– 
– 

(3.1) 
2.8 

(8.3) 

(16.4)
(0.4) 
(1.1) 

(0.8)
(0.6)

(2.3) 

– 
(3.5) 
(1.3) 

– 
– 

(13.1) 
(4.1) 
5.3 

37.8 
13.7 

(4.8) 

(54.2) 

Total 

(28.1) 

(10.7) 

6 Taxation Continued 
Income tax recognised directly in equity 
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. 
The income tax on items recognised in equity is shown below: 

Before tax 
2023 
£m 

Tax charge 
2023 
£m 

Net of tax 
2023 
£m 

Before tax 
2022 
£m 

Tax charge 
2022 
£m 

Net of tax 
2022 
£m 

Equity-settled 
transactions 

21.2 

0.1 

21.3 

17.5 

(1.3) 

16.2 

Deferred tax 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 

Intangible assets 
Property, plant 

and equipment 

Pensions 
Equity-settled transactions 
Provisions and other 

temporary differences 

Tax value of losses 

Total 

As shown on balance sheet: 
Deferred tax assets* 
Deferred tax liabilities* 

Total 

Assets 
2023 
£m 

1.0 

71.5 
1.0 
5.8 

56.5 
10.3 

146.1 

Assets 
2022 
£m 

Liabilities 
2023 
£m 

Liabilities 
2022 
£m 

Net 
2023 
£m 

Net 
2022 
£m 

0.2 

4.2 
0.7 
5.3

60.7 
13.7

84.8 

(81.2) 

(94.0) 

(80.2) 

(93.8) 

(85.0) 
(5.1) 
–

(13.7) 

–

( 17.3) 
(4.8) 
– 

(22.9) 
– 

(13.5) 
(4.1) 
5.8 

42.8 
10.3 

(13.1) 
(4.1) 
5.3 

37.8 
13.7 

(185.0) 

(139.0) 

(38.9) 

(54.2) 

36.4 
(75.3) 

(38.9) 

45.0 
(99.2) 

(54.2) 

* 

The deferred tax by category shown above is not netted off within companies or jurisdictions. The balance sheet shows the net position 
within companies or jurisdictions. The difference between the two asset and liability totals is £109.7m, but the net liability of £38.9m is the 
same in both cases. Included within Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment is a deferred tax asset of £68.6m and a deferred tax liability 
of £63.6m in respect of leasing transactions. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are shown separately following the adoption 
of Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments to IAS 12). The equivalent split of the net 
deferred asset of £5.3m as at 31 December 2022 is a deferred tax asset of £70.8m in respect of lease liabilities and a deferred tax liability 
of £65.5m in respect of right-of-use assets. Deferred tax assets totalling £9.3m have been recognised primarily in respect of Brazil and 
Canada that have taxable losses either in the current or prior period. In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in 
future accounting periods, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets and forecasts. Following this evaluation, it is 
considered more likely than not that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to realise these deferred tax assets, the majority of which 
can be carried forward indefinitely excluding £0.9m losses which are due to expire within five years and £0.5m losses which are due to expire 
after five years. Of the £146.1m of deferred tax assets displayed above, £14.6m are expected to be recovered within 12 months of the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts.

15

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued6 Taxation Continued 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items shown below. The numbers shown are 
the gross temporary differences, and to calculate the potential deferred tax asset it is necessary to multiply 
these by the tax rates in each case: 

Intangibles 
Pensions 
Provisions and other temporary differences 
Tax losses 
Foreign tax credits1
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 

Total 

Expiry of unrecognised deferred tax assets – tax losses and tax credits 

Tax losses expiring: 
Within 10 years 
More than 10 years 
Available indefinitely 

Total 

Tax credits expiring: 
Within 10 years 
More than 10 years
Available indefinitely

2023 
£m 

33.9 
1.5 
3.6 
165.4 
9.9 
(0.1) 

2022 
£m 

32.3 
1.5 
1.0 
176.0 
13.5 
– 

214.2 

224.3 

Total 

2023 
£m 

37.6 
76.5 
51.3 

2022 
£m 

51.2 
73.0 
51.8 

165.4 

176.0 

9.9 
– 
– 

9.9 

13.5 
– 
– 

13.5

In addition to the above, no specified time expiry is anticipated in respect of the other unrecognised deferred 
tax assets. 

1.  The total unrecognised foreign tax credits is £2.7m, the grossed-up equivalent amount of which is £9.9m as stated above. 

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that 
future taxable profits will be available in certain jurisdictions against which the Group can utilise the 
benefits from them. 

Of the unrecognised tax losses above, £103.9m (2022: £110.8m) of these relate to US state tax losses 
due to insufficient taxable profits expected in the relevant states. In addition, £9.2m (2022: £8.2m) of these 
unrecognised losses relate to a dormant company resident in Hong Kong with no probable future profits. 
A further £13.8m (2022: £14.8m) of these unrecognised losses relate to entities based in the UK, however 
these mainly relate to (i) non-trade deficits in entities where there is no probable prospect of future non-trade 
profits and (ii) capital losses where there is uncertainty on their utilisation in future periods. 

There is a temporary difference of £332.5m (2022: £285.1m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition 
overseas earnings. No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings 
is under the control of the Group and there is no intention to either repatriate from, or sell, the associated 
subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.

16

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements Continued 
 
7 Earnings per ordinary share 
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per 
share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of 
conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, 
and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share or increase loss per 
share from continuing operations. 

In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33 Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has 
also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
goodwill impairment and other Separately Disclosed Items. It has been calculated to allow shareholders a 
better understanding of the trading performance of the Group. Details of the adjusted earnings per share 
are set out below: 

2023 
£m 

297.4
64.3

361.7

161.3
0.9

162.2

184.4p
(1.0)p

2022 
£m 

 288.8 
 53.0 

 341.8 

 161.2 
 0.7 

 161.9 

 179.2p 
 (0.8)p 

183.4p

 178.4p 

224.2p
(1.2)p

 212.0p 
 (0.9)p 

223.0p

 211.1p

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 
Separately Disclosed Items after tax (note 3) 

Adjusted earnings 

Number of shares (millions) 

Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 
Potentially dilutive share awards 

Diluted weighted average number of shares 

Basic earnings per share 
Impact of potentially dilutive share awards 

Diluted earnings per share 

Adjusted basic earnings per share 
Impact of potentially dilutive share awards 

Adjusted diluted earnings per share 

17

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the financial statements ContinuedProperty, plant and equipment 
The property, plant and equipment employed by the business is analysed below: 

Cost 
At 1 January 2022 
Exchange adjustments 
Additions 
Disposals 
Businesses acquired (note 10)

At 31 December 2022 

Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2022 
Exchange adjustments 
Charge for the year 
Impairments
Disposals 

At 31 December 2022 

Net book value at 31 December 2022 

Fixtures, 
fittings, 
plant and 
equipment 
£m 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

577.2 
38.0 
87.5 
(57.4) 
– 

1,175.0 
67.9 
110.4 
(54.2) 
0.1 

Total 
£m 

1,752.2 
105.9 
197.9 
(111.6) 
0.1 

645.3 

1,299.2 

1,944.5 

276.9 
20.2 
66.4 
– 
(47.7) 

315.8 

329.5 

833.5 
56.7 
93.8 
2.4 
(52.1) 

934.3 

364.9 

1,110.4 
76.9 
160.2 
2.4 
(99.8) 

1,250.1 

694.4

8 Property, plant and equipment 
Accounting policy 
Property, plant and equipment 
Owned assets 
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. 

Leased assets 
All leases where the Group is the lessee (with the exception of short-term and low-value leases) are recognised 
in the statement of financial position. A lease liability is recognised based on the present value of the future 
lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset is recognised. The right-of-use asset is depreciated 
over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. Lease payments are apportioned between 
finance charges and a reduction of the lease liability. 

Low-value items, usually below £4,000, and short-term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not 
required to be recognised on the balance sheet and payments made in relation to these leases are recognised 
on a straight-line basis in the income statement. The Group leases various properties, principally offices and 
testing laboratories, which have varying terms and renewal rights that are typical to the territory in which they 
are located. Non-property includes all other leases, such as cars and printers. Normally the lease term is the 
contractual start to end date, except when a break or extension option is reasonably certain to be taken, which 
is considered on a lease-by-lease basis. 

Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 
items of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the expected lease 
term and their useful lives. Freehold land is not depreciated. 

The estimated useful lives are as follows: 

Freehold buildings 
Leasehold buildings 
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment 

50 years 
Term of lease 
3 to 10 years 

Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of assets are reassessed at each reporting date. 

Impairment 
Non-financial assets 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, 
are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated to determine the level of any impairment. 

18 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAs a result of the Group’s cost reduction programme initiated in 2022, there were individual fixtures, fittings, 
plant and equipment assets no longer in use which resulted in an impairment of £2.6m (2022: £2.4m), with the 
cost recognised in SDI as a restructuring cost (see note 3). 

The net book value of the right-of-use asset for leases comprised: 

At 1 January 2022 
Cost movement in year 
Depreciation movement in year 

Net book value at 31 December 2022 

At 1 January 2023 
Cost movement in year 
Depreciation movement in year 

Net book value at 31 December 2023 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

240.3 
63.1 
(33.9) 

269.5 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

269.5 
(0.1) 
(18.1) 

251.3 

Other 
£m 

26.5 
4.9 
(3.3) 

28.1 

Other 
£m 

28.1 
4.7 
2.5 

35.3 

Total 
£m 

266.8 
68.0 
( 37.2) 

297.6 

Total 
£m 

297.6 
4.6 
(15.6) 

286.6 

For lease liabilities, interest expenses on lease liabilities and cash outflows for leases, refer to note 14; 
for expense relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets, refer to note 4. 

Other leases include motor vehicles, office equipment and fixtures and fittings. 

8 Property, plant and equipment Continued 

Cost 
At 1 January 2023 
Exchange adjustments 
Additions 
Disposals 
Businesses acquired (note 10) 

At 31 December 2023 

Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2023 
Exchange adjustments 
Charge for the year 
Impairments
Disposals 

At 31 December 2023 

Net book value at 31 December 2023 

Fixtures, 
fittings, 
plant and 
equipment 
£m 

Land and 
buildings 
£m 

Total 
£m 

645.3 
(29.0) 
65.4 
(48.1) 
0.8 

1,299.2 
(78.3) 
116.1 
(64.1) 
1.4 

1,944.5 
(107.3) 
181.5 
(112.2) 
2.2 

634.4 

1,274.3 

1,908.7 

315.8 
(15.0) 
65.6 
– 
(34.6) 

331.8 

302.6 

934.3 
(59.5) 
90.4 
2.6 
(60.5) 

1,250.1 
(74.5) 
156.0 
2.6 
(95.1) 

907.3 

1,239.1 

367.0 

669.6 

Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment include assets in the course of construction of £41.7m at 31 December 
2023 (2022: £33.6m), mainly comprising laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated 
until they are available for use. 

The net book value of land and buildings comprised: 

Freehold 
Leasehold 

Total 

2023 
£m 

47.7 
254.9 

302.6 

2022 
£m 

56.6 
272.9 

329.5 

Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the financial statements amounted to £7.2m 
( 2022: £7.4 m). 

We have specifically reviewed our portfolio of freehold properties (total 2023 net book value of £47.7m 
(2022: £56.6m)) to consider whether there are indications of material impairment arising from the potential 
physical risks arising from climate change. We have not impaired any assets this year as a result of this exercise.

19 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportImpairment 
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment and when circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill is also tested for impairment in the year of any acquisition. 

Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the amount carried in the statement of financial position may be less 
than its recoverable amount. 

Any impairment is recognised in the income statement within operating costs. Impairment is determined 
for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each asset or group of assets, i.e. CGU, to which the 
goodwill relates. A CGU represents an asset grouping at the lowest level for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows. 

The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. The estimation process is complex due to the inherent risks and uncertainties and if different estimates 
were used this could materially change the projected value of the cash flows. An impairment loss in respect of 
goodwill is not reversed. 

9 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Accounting policy 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost 
of acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. 

Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating 
units (‘CGUs’) and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. 

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the 
date on which control is obtained. 

The Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred less the net recognised 
amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of 
the acquisition date. 

Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, 
are expensed as incurred. Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in note 3. 

Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent 
changes recognised in profit or loss. 

If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
can only be established provisionally, then these values are used. Adjustments to the fair values can be made 
within 12 months of the acquisition date and are taken as adjustments to goodwill. 

Other intangible assets 
When the Group makes an acquisition, management reviews the business and assets acquired to determine 
whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately from goodwill. If, based on management’s 
judgement, such an asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected 
to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. Where there is uncertainty over the amount 
of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation. 

Intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold 
separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable, and which 
have finite useful lives. 

Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 

Computer software 
Customer relationships 
Technology and know-how 
Trade names 
Licences
Covenants not to compete 

Up to 7 years 
Up to 20 years 
Up to 15 years 
Up to 18 years 
Contractual life 
Contractual life

20 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Continued 
Intangibles 
The intangibles employed by the business are analysed below: 

Other intangible assets 

Goodwill 
£m 

Customer 
relationships 
£m 

Technology/ 
Know-how 
and trade 
names 
£m 

Other 
acquisition 
intangibles 
£m 

Computer 
software 
£m 

Total other 
intangible 
assets 
£m 

Cost 
At 1 January 2022 
Exchange adjustments 
Additions
Transfers 
Disposal
Businesses acquired (note 10) 

At 31 December 2022 

Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2022 
Exchange adjustments 
Charge for the year
Disposal
Impairment
At 31 December 2022 

Net book value at 

1,763.9 
139.2 
–
5.8
–
66.6 

1,975.5 

522.5 
34.6 
– 
–
–
557.1 

496.3 
38.8 
–
– 
–
12.1 

5 47.2 

327.7 
23.0 
22.2 
–
–
372.9 

97.4 
8.7 
–
2.9
–
3.2

112.2 

25.9 
2.7 
11.3 
–
–
39.9 

29.2 
2.0 
– 
–
– 
–

31.2 

25.9 
1.7 
1.3 
– 
– 
28.9 

245.7 
21.7 
20.4 
– 
(5.3) 
– 

282.5 

130.6 
10.0 
20.3 
(5.3) 
12.9 
168.5 

868.6 
71.2 
20.4 
2.9 
(5.3) 
15.3 

973.1 

510.1 
37.4 
55.1 
(5.3) 
12.9 
610.2 

31 December 2022 

1,418.4 

174.3 

72.3 

2.3 

114.0 

362.9

Other intangible assets 

Goodwill 
£m 

Customer 
relationships 
£m 

Technology/ 
Know-how 
and trade 
names 
£m 

Other 
acquisition 
intangibles 
£m 

Computer 
software 
£m 

Total other 
intangible 
assets 
£m 

Cost 
At 1 January 2023 
Exchange adjustments 
Additions
Transfers 
Disposal
Businesses acquired (note 10) 

1,975.5 
(83.1) 

–
0.3
–
30.2 

At 31 December 2023 

1,922.9 

Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2023 
Exchange adjustments 
Charge for the year
Disposal
Impairment
At 31 December 2023 

Net book value at 

557.1 
(20.0) 
– 
–
–
537.1 

5 47.2 
(21.8) 
–
–
–
8.0 

533.4 

372.9 
(13.5) 
21.9 
–
–
381.3 

112.2 
(5.5) 
–
–
–
8.6

115.3 

39.9 
(2.2) 
11.5 
–
–
49.2 

31.2 
(1.0) 
– 
–
– 
–

30.2 

28.9 
(0.9) 
0.8 
– 
–
28.8 

282.5 
(15.2) 
23.9 
– 
(6.5) 
– 

284.7 

168.5 
(8.1) 
19.3 
(6.3) 
– 
173.4 

973.1 
(43.5) 
23.9 
– 
(6.5) 
16.6 

963.6 

610.2 
(24.7) 
53.5 
(6.3) 
– 
632.7 

31 December 2023 

1,385.8 

152.1 

66.1 

1.4 

111.3 

330.9 

Other intangible assets 
Computer software additions of £23.9m (2022: £20.4m) relates to separately acquired computer software 
of £9.9m (2022: £6.9m) and internally developed intangible assets of £14.0m (2022: £13.5m). 

The other acquisition intangibles net book value of £1.4m (2022: £2.3m) consists of guaranteed income, 
order backlog, licences and non-compete covenants. 

The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is seven years (2022: seven years). 

As a result of the Group’s cost reduction programme initiated in 2022, there were two individual technology 
assets no longer in use which resulted in an impairment of £12.9m in 2022, with the cost recognised in SDI 
as a restructuring cost (see note 3). No impairment related to IT assets was incurred in 2023. 

Computer software net book value of £111.3m (2022: £114.0m) includes software in construction of 
£41.5m (2022: £42.8m). Research and development expenditure of £38.7m (2022: £37.6m) was recognised 
as an expense in the year. 

21 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportImpairment review 
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
each CGU. The calculation is based on projecting future cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal 
value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. The long-term growth rate is used in the perpetuity 
calculations. A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount. Goodwill 
arising in year from acquisitions is assessed for impairment separately from the above CGUs and on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis. There was no impairment of goodwill for Controle Analítico or PlayerLync, 
from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2023. There would be no impact on the impairment review 
through the inclusion of Controle Analítico and PlayerLync within the CGU review. No impairments were 
required on goodwill arising in 2023 (2022: no impairments). 

The calculation of the value in use includes assessment of long-term growth rates and discount rates. 
Long-term growth rates predict growth beyond the Group’s planning cycle, and range from 2.3% to 3.0% 
(2022: 1.7% to 2.6%). The discount rate for each CGU is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of 
capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU. Pre-tax discount rates ranged from 11.4% to 13.4% 
(2022: 9.0% to 10.2%). The underlying cash flows include consideration of the potential impact of inflation. 

Key assumptions 
The key assumptions include the rate of revenue and profit growth within each of the territories and business 
lines in which the Group operates. These are based on the Group’s approved budget and five-year strategic 
plan. Finally, the discount rate used to bring the cash flow back to a present value varies depending on the 
location of the operation and the nature of the operations. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to 
their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset. 

Sensitivity analysis 
None of the reasonable downside sensitivity scenarios on key assumptions would cause the carrying amount 
of each CGU to exceed its recoverable amount. The sensitivities modelled by management include: 

(i)  Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2024 to 2028 from the 2024 budgeted revenues, with 

margins increasing with base assumptions. 

(ii)  Assuming zero growth in operating profit margins in 2024 to 2028 with revenues increasing per base 

assumptions. 

(iii) Assuming an increase in the discount rates used by 1%. 

1,385.8 

1,418.4 

Management considers that the likelihood of any or all of the above scenarios occurring is low. 

9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Continued 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to reportable segments 
as follows: 

Consumer Products
Corporate Assurance 
Health and Safety 
Industry and Infrastructure
World of Energy

At 31 December 

2023 
£m 

– 
17.0 
13.2 
– 
– 

30.2 

Represented 
2022 
£m 

– 
– 
– 
– 
66.6 

66.6 

In performing our annual impairment testing, the recoverable amount of each CGU has been calculated based 
on its value in use, estimated as the present value of projected future cash flows. In order to reflect the 
changes to the Group’s strategy described in note 2, and consequential changes to the monitoring of goodwill 
by management, the number of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated has increased from 13 to 17. This change 
had no impact on the carrying value of goodwill. 

The goodwill held in the CGUs and aggregated groups of CGUs shown below is considered significant within the 
total carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2023:

Consumer Products1
Corporate Assurance2
Health and Safety3
Industry and Infrastructure4 
World of Energy5 

At 31 December6

2023 pre-tax 
discount rate 

11.9–12.1% 
12.0–12.2% 
12.1–13.4% 
11.4–13.3% 
12.0–13.0% 

Represented 
2022 
£m 

2023 
£m 

104.0 
705.1 
150.2 
271.5 
155.0 

104.9 
725.5 
137.5 
288.4 
162.1 

1  Within Consumer Products, goodwill allocated to the Electrical and Connected World CGU was £88.5m (2022: £93.4m) and the pre-tax 

discount rate was 12.1%. 

2  Within Corporate Assurance, goodwill allocated to the Business Assurance CGU was £699.7m (2022: £720.0m), and the pre-tax discount 

rate was 12.0%. 

3  Within Health and Safety, goodwill allocated to the Food CGU is £40.8m (2022: £40.4m), and goodwill allocated to the Chemical & Pharma 

CGU is £76.6m (2022: £78.7m). Pre-tax discount rates were 12.1% and 13.4% respectively. 

4  Within Industry and Infrastructure, goodwill allocated to the Minerals CGU is £36.9m (2022: £38.8m) and goodwill allocated to the Building 

& Construction CGU is £223.7m (2022: £238.2m). Pre-tax discount rates were 13.3% and 12.1% respectively. 

5  Within World of Energy, goodwill allocated to the Caleb Brett CGU is £42.5m (2022: £43.3m), goodwill allocated to the Transportation 

Technologies CGU is £44.5m (2022: £46.9m) and goodwill allocated to the CEA CGU is £63.6m (2022: £66.6m), as discussed in note 10. 
Pre-tax discount rates were 13.0%, 12.0% and 12.0% respectively. 

6  All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and 

the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates. 

22 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
10 Acquisitions 
Acquisitions in 2023 
On 31 March 2023, the Group acquired Controle Analítico Análises Técnicas Ltda (‘Controle Analítico’), a 
leading provider of environmental analysis, with a focus on water testing, based in Brazil, for a purchase 
price of £18.8m. Purchase consideration net of cash acquired was £18.3m. The purchase price includes cash 
consideration of £15.1m and a further contingent consideration payable of £3.7m. The net cash outflow in 
the period associated with this acquisition was £14.6m. 

The acquisition of Controle Analítico represents an attractive and complementary opportunity for the Group 
to expand its leading Food and Agri Total Quality Assurance solutions in Brazil by expanding our presence and 
service offering in the environmental testing market. 

On 9 August 2023, the Group acquired PlayerLync Holdings, Inc. (‘PlayerLync’), a leading SaaS-based platform 
which combines mobile learning, operational support and compliance, content management and people 
engagement in a single application, based in the USA, for a purchase price of £28.5m. Purchase consideration 
net of cash acquired was £25.9m. The net cash outflow in the period associated with this acquisition was 
£25.9m. 

The acquisition creates compelling additional growth opportunities for Intertek to strengthen its existing 
People Assurance service offering, further enhancing the Group’s differentiated Total Quality Assurance 
proposition and Science-based Customer Excellence advantage. 

Provisional details of the net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out in the following tables. 
These analyses are provisional and amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months following 
the date of acquisition. 

2023 

Provisional 
fair value to 
Group on 
acquisition 
£m 

2.2 
13.2 
5.4 
0.6 
(0.8) 
(2.3) 

18.3

Controle Analítico Análises Técnicas Ltda 
Total 

Property, plant and equipment 
Goodwill 
Other intangible assets 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other payables 
Deferred tax liabilities 

Net assets acquired (net of cash acquired) 

23 

PlayerLync Holdings, Inc 
Total 

Goodwill 
Other intangible assets 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other payables 
Deferred tax liabilities 

Net assets acquired (net of cash acquired) 

2023 

Provisional 
fair value to 
Group on 
acquisition 
£m 

17.0 
11.2 
3.0 
(1.9) 
(3.4) 

25.9 

Goodwill and intangible assets 
The total goodwill arising on acquisitions made during 2023 was £30.2m, of which £nil is expected to be 
deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill arising represents the value of the assembled workforce and the 
benefits the Group expects to gain from increasing its presence in the relevant sectors in which the acquired 
businesses operate. The intangible assets of £16.6m primarily represent the value of customer relationships, 
trade names and technology. The final values will be calculated within 12 months following the date of 
acquisition. The deferred tax thereon was £5.7m. 

Consideration paid 
The total cash consideration for the acquisitions in the year was £43.6m (2022: £79.3m), with further 
contingent consideration payable of £5.5m (2022: £12.9m) that comprises £3.7m purchase consideration and 
£1.8m revaluation of contingent consideration recognised during the year, which is disclosed in note 13. Cash 
consideration includes cash acquired of £3.1m (2022: £13.4m). The estimated purchase price net of cash was 
£40.5m (2022: £65.9m). 

Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits 
In total, acquisitions made during 2023 contributed revenues of £9.1m (2022: £11.9m) and a statutory net 
profit after tax of £1.4m (2022: £2.1m) from the date of acquisition to year-end. The Group revenue and 
statutory profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2023 would have been £3,334.5m and £318.6m 
respectively if the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2023. 

Acquisition-related costs 
Acquisition-related costs of £1.3m related to current year acquisitions are included in operating costs in 
the consolidated income statement as an SDI (see note 3) and in operating cash flows in the consolidated 
statement of cash flows. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report10 Acquisitions Continued 
Acquisitions in 2022 
On 1 August 2022 the Group acquired Clean Energy Associates, LLC (‘CEA’) a market-leading independent 
provider of Total Quality Assurance, supply chain traceability and technical services to the fast-growing solar 
energy and energy storage sectors with a headquarters in the USA and an operation based in China, for a 
purchase price of US$112.4m (£92.2m). Purchase consideration net of cash acquired was US$96.1m (£78.8m). 
The purchase price includes cash consideration of £79.3m and a further contingent consideration payable of 
£12.9m. Goodwill of £66.6m was generated in this purchase. 

The net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out in the following table. 

Clean Energy Associates LLC 
Total 

Property, plant and equipment 
Goodwill 
Other intangible assets 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other payables 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 
Deferred tax liabilities 

Net assets acquired (net of cash acquired) 

2022 

Fair value to 
Group on 
acquisition 
£m 

0.1 
66.6 
15.3 
5.9 
(5.5) 
– 
(3.6) 

78.8 

11 Trade and other receivables 
Accounting policy 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently 
at the amounts considered recoverable (amortised cost). Estimates are used in determining the level of 
receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. The Group applies the simplified approach 
permitted by IFRS 9, which requires the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all receivables, including 
contract assets. The provision calculations are based on historical credit losses and forward-looking data, 
namely specific country risk classifications with higher default rates applied to older balances. This approach 
is followed for all receivables unless there are specific circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a customer 
or emerging market risks, which would render the receivable irrecoverable and therefore require a specific 
provision. A provision is made against trade receivables and contract assets until such time as the Group 
believes the amount to be irrecoverable, after which the trade receivable or contract assets balance is 
written off. 

Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are analysed below: 

Trade receivables 
Contract assets 
Other receivables 
Prepayments 

Total trade and other receivables 

Current 
2023 
£m 

512.7 
107.2 
52.0 
53.2 

725.1 

Current 
2022 
£m 

Non-current 
2023 
£m 

Non-current 
2022 
£m 

519.2 
100.4
59.4 
47.4

726.4 

13.9 
– 
7.9 
– 

21.8 

13.1 
– 
8.4 
– 

21.5 

The provisional fair values disclosed in 2022 have been updated for CEA, resulting in an increase in goodwill 
of £0.3m and movements in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables. These fair value 
adjustments were made in the 12 months following the acquisition and are now final. 

Trade receivables and contract assets are shown net of allowance for impairment losses of £11.2m (2022: 
£13.9m) and £1.6m (2022: £1.7m) respectively. Net impairment on trade receivables and contract assets 
charged as part of operating costs was £2.3m (2022: £9.4m credit) and £nil (2022: £0.1m) respectively. 

Key assumptions 
The key assumptions in deriving the contingent consideration to be recognised include the weighted 
probability of making a payout and the discount rate used to bring the cash flow back to present values. 
The discount rates used for the calculation are aligned with the discount rates used for impairment purposes 
as set out in note 9. 

There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, 
due to their short-term duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as 
the Group has a large number of customers who are internationally dispersed. Non-current receivables are 
discounted to the present value using an appropriate discount rate. 

Sensitivity analysis 
It is estimated that an increase of 1% in the discount rate used to calculate the contingent consideration would 
have decreased the financial liability by £0.3m, and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would have increased 
the financial liability by £0.3m. It has also been estimated that an increase of 10% in the probability used to 
calculate the contingent consideration would have increased the financial liability by £3.6m, whilst a decrease 
of 10% in the probability used would have decreased the financial liability by £3.6m.

24 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report11 Trade and other receivables Continued 
The ageing of trade receivables and contract assets at the reporting date was as follows: 

Under 3 months 
Between 3 and 6 months 
Between 6 and 12 months 
Over 12 months 

Gross trade receivables and contract assets 
Allowance for impairment 

Trade receivables and contract assets, net of allowance 

2023 
£m 

528.1 
57.3 
25.7 
35.5 

646.6 
(12.8) 

633.8 

2022 
£m 

514.9 
85.4 
27.9 
20.1 

648.3 
(15.6) 

632.7 

Included in trade receivables under three months of £424.8m (2022: £418.4m) are trade receivables of 
£374.4m (2022: £365.2m) that are not yet due for payment. 

The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables and contract assets during the 
year was as follows: 

Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables and contract assets 

At 1 January 
Exchange differences 
Acquisitions 
Net impairment loss recognised 
Receivables written off 

At 31 December 

2023 
£m 

15.6 
(2.3) 
0.1 
2.3 
(2.9) 

12.8 

2022 
£m 

15.4 
1.9 
0.2 
9.5 
(11.4) 

15.6 

Sensitivity analysis 
Trade receivables and contract assets are assessed for impairment using a calculated credit loss assumption. 
A 0.25% variance in the assumed credit risk factor would impact impairment by £2.2m. There were no material 
individual impairments of trade receivables or contract assets. 

12 Trade and other payables 
Accounting policy 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier. The carrying value of trade 
payables is considered approximate to fair value. 

Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are analysed below: 

Trade payables 
Other payables 
Accruals 
Contract liabilities 

Total trade and other payables 

Current 
2023 
£m 

204.8 
76.8 
305.5 
148.5 

735.6 

Current 
2022 
£m 

Non-current 
2023 
£m 

Non-current 
2022 
£m 

172.1 
85.9 
308.4 
156.8 

723.2 

0.5 
19.5 
3.7 
6.4 

30.1 

0.7 
19.5 
7.8 
6.6 

34.6 

The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 14. £133.3m of contract 
liabilities at the end of 2022 was recognised in revenue in 2023 (2022: £113.3m). 

Other payables include revenue taxes, interest payable and retirement liabilities. 

Contract liabilities consist of consideration received in advance of the Group transferring the related good 
or service to the client. 

In one part of the Group an arrangement is available that allows payment terms to suppliers to be extended 
by up to 60 days. At 31 December 2023, this arrangement was applicable to trade payables totalling £2.3m 
(2022: £1.6m).

25 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
13 Provisions 
Accounting policy 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
that can be estimated reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 

Provisions 

At 1 January 2023 
Exchange adjustments 
Provided in the year:

in respect of current year acquisitions 
in respect of prior year acquisitions 

Released during the year 
Utilised during the year 

At 31 December 2023 

Included in: 
Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities 

At 31 December 2023 

Contingent 
consideration 
£m 

Claims 
£m 

17.2 
(1.5) 
– 
5.5
17.9
(0.8) 
(2.7) 

35.6 

– 
35.6

35.6 

5.0 
(0.2) 
5.4 
–
–
(0.1) 
(4.7) 

5.4 

5.4 
– 

5.4 

Other 
£m 

8.2 
(0.2) 
23.3 
– 
– 
(1.1) 
(17.4) 

12.8 

12.6 
0.2 

12.8 

Total 
£m 

30.4 
(1.9) 
28.7 
5.5 
17.9 
(2.0) 
(24.8) 

53.8 

18.0 
35.8 

53.8 

The maximum contingent consideration, on a discounted basis, that could be paid in relation to acquisitions is 
£176.2m. Further detail on the timing of the cash flow can be found in note 14. The contingent consideration 
is a financial liability discounted to the present value of the redemption amount held at fair value through profit 
and loss with the measurement basis disclosed in note 14. 

The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The 
outcome of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often 
subject to legal proceedings. Based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost 
to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse 
effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future. 

The provision for claims of £5.4m (2022: £5.0m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection 
with identified claims from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The 
timing of the cash outflow relating to the provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of 
contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 22. 

The other provision of £12.8m (2022: £8.2m) includes restructuring provisions. The timing of the cash outflow 
is uncertain, but is likely to be within one year.

26 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments 
Accounting policy 
Net financing costs 
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings; interest expense on tax balances; facility 
fees; interest receivable on funds invested; interest income and expense relating to pension assets and 
liabilities and lease interest expense under IFRS 16; net foreign exchange gains or losses on financial assets 
or liabilities; unrealised market or fair value gains or losses on financial assets or liabilities, including contingent 
consideration; and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they accrue using the effective interest rate method. 
As permitted by IAS 7, interest paid is classified within operating cash flows and interest received is classified 
within investing cash flows. 

The fair value of cross currency interest rate swaps is estimated using the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows based on observable yield curves. 

The fair value of foreign currency forwards is estimated using present value of future cash flows based on 
the foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date. 

Hedging 
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities 
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure 
of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement in the same caption as the foreign exchange 
on the related item. 

Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less 
impairment losses (including bad debt provision). 

Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 
Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 
with original maturities of less than 90 days which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Non-current assets include deposits with maturities exceeding 90 days. In the consolidated statement of 
cash flows, net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, net of bank 
overdrafts. Net financial debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents and total net debt is net 
financial debt plus the IFRS 16 lease liability. 

Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their amortised cost. 

Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and 
redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective 
interest basis. 

Put options held by non-controlling interests that arise on acquisition are recognised initially at the present 
value of the redemption amount. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. The discount is unwound through SDIs as a finance charge. 

Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign 
currency forwards, to hedge economically its exposure to foreign exchange risks. In accordance with its 
treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 

Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value; attributable 
transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. The gain or loss on remeasurement to 
fair value at each period end is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives 
qualify for hedge accounting. 

27 

Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk exposure arising from its net investment in foreign currency 
operations and net assets. To the extent that the Group has debt, it is held in currencies that hedge the foreign 
exchange risks from the Group’s net investments, or cross currency interest rate swaps are used to achieve the 
same objective. 

The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign 
operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. 
The value in relation to the hedge instrument that is held within the cumulative foreign currency translation 
reserve is recycled through the income statement when the hedged subsidiary is disposed of. If the instrument 
is no longer deemed effective, then future movements in fair value are posted to the income statement. 

Cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to 
manage interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to which the cash flows of certain assets and liabilities 
are exposed. The Group is exposed to the variability in cash flows arising from the foreign exchange risk 
exposures. In accordance with the Group’s hedging strategy, the Group has cross currency interest rate 
swaps designated as cash flow hedges. 

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge 
accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income. The value in relation to the hedge instrument that 
is held within the cumulative cash flow hedge reserve (disclosed within other reserves) is recycled through 
the income statement when the hedged item impacts the income statement. If the instrument is no longer 
deemed effective, then future movements in fair value are posted to the income statement. 

Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 
LIBOR was discontinued as a published benchmark rate for some currencies as of 1 January 2022. The Group 
has reviewed and renegotiated significant borrowing and commercial contracts to replace LIBOR references 
with alternative benchmark rates, as needed. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
Impairment 
A financial asset is assessed for impairment at each reporting date by application of an expected loss model 
in line with IFRS 9 requirements. 

Analysis of net debt 

Net financing costs 
Net financing costs are shown below: 

Recognised in income statement 

Finance income 
Interest on bank balances 

Total finance income 

Finance expense 
Interest on borrowings 
Net pension interest income/(cost) (note 16) 
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities 
Leases – IFRS 16 
Facility fees and other* 

Total finance expense* 

Net financing costs* 

* 

Includes £20.0m cost (2022: £0.7m cost) relating to SDIs.

2023 
£m 

3.8 

3.8 

(33.6) 
1.0 
(2.5) 
(10.8) 
(21.8) 

(67.7) 

(63.9) 

2022 
£m 

2.2 

2.2 

(29.6) 
0.1 
8.6 
(10.2) 
(3.7) 

(34.8) 

(32.6) 

28 

Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of financial position 
Overdrafts 

Cash per the statement of cash flows 

The components of net debt are outlined below: 

2023 
£m 

299.3 
(0.7) 

298.6 

2022 
£m 

321.6 
(0.9) 

320.7 

Cash 

320.7 

13.7

– 

(35.8) 

298.6 

1 January 
2023 
£m 

Cash flow 
£m 

Non-cash 
movements 
£m 

Exchange 
adjustments 
£m 

31 December 
2023 
£m 

Borrowings: 
Revolving credit facility US$850m 2027
Senior notes US$160m 2023 
Acquisition facility ‘A’ AU$88.0m 2023 
Acquisition facility ‘A’ US$96.9m 2023 
Senior notes US$125m 2024 
Senior notes US$120m 2025 
Senior notes US$75m 2026 
Senior notes US$150m 2027 
Senior notes US$165m 2028 
Senior notes US$165m 2029 
Senior notes US$160m 2030 
Senior notes EUR€120m 2026
Senior notes EUR€25m 2027
Senior notes EUR€40m 2028
Other* 

Total borrowings 

Total net financial debt 

Lease liabilities 

Total net debt 

– 
(133.1) 
(49.4) 
(80.6) 
(104.0)
(99.8) 
(62.4)
(124.8)
( 137.3)
( 137.3)
(133.1)
– 
– 
– 
3.2

2.2
125.2
44.9
75.1
–
2.2
–
–
–
–
–
(104.1)
(21.7)
(34.7)
– 

(1,058.6) 

89.1 

( 737.9) 

102.8 

(322.2) 

77.8 

(1,060.1) 

180.6 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–
–
–
(1.6)

(1.6) 

(1.6) 

(78.3) 

(79.9) 

(2.2) 
8.0 
4.5 
5.5 
6.3 
3.8 
3.8 
7.6 
8.2 
8.3 
8.1 
– 
– 
– 
– 

61.9 

26.1 

14.9 

41.0 

– 
– 
– 
– 
(97.7) 
(93.8) 
(58.6) 
(117.2) 
(129.1) 
(129.0) 
(125.0) 
(104.1) 
(21.7) 
(34.7) 
1.6 

(909.2) 

(610.6) 

(307.8) 

(918.4) 

* 

Includes other uncommitted borrowings of £0.8m (2022: £0.8m) and facility fees of £2.4m (2022: £4.0m). 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 

Borrowings 
Borrowings are split into current and non-current as outlined below: 

Cash 

264.0 

51.7

– 

5.0 

320.7 

1 January 
2022 
£m 

Cash flow 
£m 

Non-cash 
movements 
£m 

Exchange 
adjustments 
£m 

31 December 
2022 
£m 

– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(1.5)

(6.0) 
0.8 
(1.8) 
(2.7) 
(14.4) 
(2.1) 
(8.8) 
(11.3) 
(10.8) 
(6.8) 
(15.4) 
(13.5) 
(13.5) 
(13.1) 
– 

– 
– 
– 
– 
(133.1) 
(49.4) 
(80.6) 
(104.0) 
(99.8) 
(62.4) 
(124.8) 
( 137.3) 
( 137.3) 
(133.1) 
3.2 

Senior term loans and notes 
Other borrowings 

Total borrowings 

Analysis of debt 

Debt falling due: 
In one year or less 
Between one and two years 
Between two and five years 
Over five years 

Total borrowings 

Current 
2023 
£m 

97.8 
(1.0) 

96.8 

Current 
2022 
£m 

Non-current 
2023 
£m 

Non-current 
2022 
£m 

263.1 
(1.6) 

261.5 

813.0 
(0.6) 

812.4 

798.7 
(1.6) 

797.1 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

96.8 
93.2 
464.6 
254.6 

261.5 
103.0 
286.0 
408.1 

909.2 

1,058.6 

Description of borrowings 
Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2023 were £664.3m (2022: £707.3m). 

(1.5) 

(1.5) 

(92.4) 

(93.9) 

(119.4) 

(1,058.6) 

(114.4) 

( 737.9) 

(18.9) 

(322.2) 

(133.3) 

(1,060.1)

US$850m revolving credit facility 
The Group has a US$850m multi-currency revolving credit facility, which is the Group’s principal facility and in 
December 2021 was extended from 2026-2027. Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to 
a risk-free rate, or their local currency equivalent, plus a margin, depending on the Group’s financial leverage. 
Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2023 were £nil (2022: £nil). 

US$692m acquisition facility 
In May 2021 the Group agreed a US$692m multi-currency acquisition facility to finance the acquisition of 
SAI Global with £357.4m repaid in March 2022 and the balance of £130.0m repaid in September 2023. 
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to USD LIBOR or AUD BBSW, plus a margin. Drawings 
under this facility at 31 December 2023 were £nil (2022: £130.0m). 

Borrowings: 
Revolving credit facility US$850m 2027 
Senior notes US$140m 2022 
Acquisition facility ‘B’ AU$264.1m 2022 
Acquisition facility ‘B’ US$290.7m 2022 
Senior notes US$160m 2023 
Acquisition facility ‘A’ AU$88.0m 2023 
Acquisition facility ‘A’ US$96.9m 2023 
Senior notes US$125m 2024 
Senior notes US$120m 2025 
Senior notes US$75m 2026 
Senior notes US$150m 2027
Senior notes US$165m 2028
Senior notes US$165m 2029
Senior notes US$160m 2030
Other* 

Total borrowings 

Total net financial debt 

Lease liabilities 

Total net debt 

(65.9) 
(103.8) 
(141.9) 
(215.5) 
(118.6) 
(47.3)
(72.0) 
(92.7)
(88.8) 
(55.5) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
4.7

(997.3) 

(733.3) 

(292.3) 

(1,025.6) 

71.9
103.0
143.7
218.2
(0.1)
–
0.2
–
(0.2)
(0.1)
(109.4)
(123.8)
(123.8)
(120.0)
– 

59.6 

111.3 

81.4 

192.7 

29 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
Private placement bonds 
In October 2011 the Group issued US$140m of senior notes repaid on 18 January 2022 at a fixed annual 
interest rate of 3.75% and US$105m repaid on 18 January 2024 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.85%, 
funded from the existing revolving credit facility. 

Credit risk 
Exposure to credit risk 
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as 
agreed. The Group monitors the creditworthiness of customers on an ongoing basis. The Group’s credit risk is 
diversified due to the large number of entities, industries and regions that make up the Group’s customer base. 

In February 2013 the Group issued US$80m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches, with 
US$40m repaid on 14 February 2023 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.10% and US$40m repayable on 
14 February 2025 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.25%. 

In July 2014 the Group issued US$110m of senior notes. These notes were issued in four tranches with 
US$15m repaid on 31 July 2021 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.37%, US$20m repayable on 31 July 2024 
at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.86%, US$60m repayable on 31 October 2026 at a fixed annual interest 
rate of 4.05% and US$15m repayable on 31 December 2026 at a fixed annual interest rate of 4.10%. 

In December 2020 the Group issued US$200m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches 
with US$120m repaid on 2 December 2023 at a fixed annual interest rate of 1.97% and US$80m repayable 
on 2 December 2025 at a fixed annual interest rate of 2.08%. 

In December 2021 the Group issued US$640m of senior notes. These notes were issued in four tranches 
with US$150m repayable on 13 January 2027 at a fixed annual interest rate of 2.24%, US$165m repayable 
on 15 March 2028 at a fixed annual interest rate of 2.33%, US$165m repayable on 15 March 2029 at a 
fixed annual interest rate of 2.47% and US$160m repayable on 15 March 2030 at a fixed annual interest 
rate of 2.54%. 

In December 2023 the Group issued EUR€185m of senior notes that was drawn. These notes were issued in 
three tranches with EUR€120m repayable on 21 December 2026 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.94%, 
EUR€25m repayable on 21 December 2027 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.89% and EUR€40m repayable 
on 21 December 2028 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.88%. 

Lease liabilities 
Undiscounted lease liabilities are split into current and non-current as outlined below: 

Analysis of lease liabilities falling due: 
Current: 
Repayable in less than 1 year 
Non-current: 
Repayable in 1–2 years 
Repayable in 2–5 years 
Repayable in more than 5 years 

Total lease liabilities 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

79.9 

80.5 

62.2 
104.4 
145.6 

392.1 

61.2 
106.5 
161.0 

409.2 

Financial risks 
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital 
and credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risk are set out below and in the Financial review in Book one, 
pages 30 to 35.

30 

The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. At the reporting date this 
was as follows: 

Trade receivables, net of allowance (note 11) 
Cash and cash equivalents 

Total 

2023 
£m 

526.6 
298.6 

825.2 

2022 
£m 

532.3 
320.7 

853.0 

The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was 
as follows: 

Asia Pacific 
Americas 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 

Total 

2023 
£m 

135.2 
208.2 
183.2 

526.6 

2022 
£m 

141.4 
205.9 
185.0 

532.3 

Counterparty risk 
Cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing facilities are at risk in the event that the counterparty is not 
able to meet its obligations in regard to the cash held or facilities available to the Group. The Group also enters 
into transactions with counterparties in relation to derivative financial instruments. If the counterparty was 
not able to meet its obligations, the Group may be exposed to additional foreign currency or interest rate risk. 
Counterparty credit risk inherent in all hedge relationships is monitored throughout the period of the hedge 
but this risk is not expected to be significant. 

The Group, wherever possible, enters into arrangements with counterparties who have a robust credit 
standing, which the Group defines as a financial institution with a credit rating of at least investment grade. 
The Group has existing relationships with a number of banks that meet this criterion, and seeks to use their 
services wherever possible while avoiding excessive concentration of credit risk. Given the diverse geographic 
nature of the Group’s activities, it is not always possible to use a relationship bank. Therefore the Group has set 
limits on the level of deposits to be held at non-relationship banks to minimise the risk to the Group. It is also 
Group policy to remit any excess funds from local entities back to Intertek Group Treasury in the UK. Given 
the controls in place and based on a current assessment of our banking relationships, management does not 
expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as and when they fall due. 
The Group’s policy is to: 
•  ensure sufficient liquidity is available to Group companies in the amounts, currencies and locations required 

to support the Group’s operations; and 

•  ensure the Group has adequate available sources of funding to protect against unforeseen internal and 

external events. 

To ensure this policy is met, the Group monitors cash balances daily, projects cash requirements on a rolling 
basis and funds itself using debt instruments with a range of maturities. 

The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities/(assets) including interest 
(for floating rate instruments, interest payments are based on the interest rate at 31 December): 

2022 

Non-derivative financial 

liabilities/(assets) 

Senior term loans and notes 
Other loans 
Trade payables (note 12) 
Lease liabilities 
Contingent consideration 

Carrying 
amount 
£m 

Contractual 
cash flows 
£m 

6 months 
or less 
£m 

6–12 
months 
£m 

1–2 years 
£m 

2–5 years 
£m 

More than 
5 years 
£m 

1,061.8 
(3.2) 
172.8 
322.2 

1,170.4 
0.8
172.8 
409.2 

47.4 
–
164.2 
41.4 

244.1 
–
7.9 
39.1 

123.4 
– 
0.7
61.2 

337.1 
0.2 
– 
106.5 

418.4 
0.6 
– 
161.0 

(note 13) 

17.2 

17.2 

2.8

– 

0.8 

13.6 

– 

1,570.8 

1,770.4 

255.8 

291.1 

186.1 

457.4 

580.0 

Carrying 
amount 
£m 

Contractual 
cash flows 
£m 

6 months 
or less 
£m 

6–12 
months 
£m 

1–2 years 
£m 

2–5 years 
£m 

More than 
5 years 
£m 

Derivative financial 
liabilities/(assets) 

Foreign currency forwards 

Outflow 
Inflow 

910.8 
(1.6) 
205.3 
307.8 

1,000.7 
0.8
205.3 
392.1 

94.8 
–
199.3 
41.6 

28.4 
–
5.5 
38.3 

113.2 
– 
0.5
62.2 

505.8 
0.1 
– 
104.4 

258.5 
0.7 
– 
145.6 

Cross currency interest 

rate swaps 
Outflow
Inflow

2023 

Non-derivative financial 

liabilities/(assets) 

Senior term loans and notes 
Other loans 
Trade payables (note 12) 
Lease liabilities 
Contingent consideration 

2.8 
(1.1) 

1,069.7 
(1,068.0) 

1,069.7
(1,068.0)

1.7 

1.7 

1.7

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

Total 

1,572.5 

1,772.1 

257.5 

291.1 

186.1 

457.4 

580.0 

Interest rate risk 
The Group’s objective is to manage the risk to the business from movements in interest rates, and to provide 
stability and predictability of the near-term (12-month horizon) interest expense. To achieve this, the Group 
uses floating rate bank debt facilities, fixed US private placements and cross currency interest rate swaps. 

Sensitivity 
At 31 December 2023, it is estimated that the impact on variable rate net debt of a general increase of 3% in 
interest rates would be a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax of approximately £8.9m (2022: £11.6m). 
This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. 

(note 13) 

35.6 

35.6

–

– 

35.6

– 

– 

1,457.9  1,634.5 

335.7 

72.2 

211.5 

610.3 

404.8 

Derivative financial 
liabilities/(assets) 

Foreign currency forwards 

Outflow 
Inflow 

Cross currency interest 

rate swaps 
Outflow 
Inflow

0.7 
(0.3) 

0.4 

776.7 
(776.3) 

776.7
(776.3)

0.4 

0.4

–
–

–

–
–

–

1.7 
– 

1.7 

96.4 
(97.8) 

(1.4) 

0.2 
(1.0) 

(0.8) 

0.2 
(1.2) 

(1.0) 

96.0
(95.6)

0.4

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

– 
– 

– 

Total 

1460.0  1633.5 

335.3 

71.2 

211.9 

610.3 

404.8

31 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group’s objective in managing foreign currency risk is to safeguard the Group’s financial assets from 
economic loss due to fluctuations in foreign currencies, and to protect margins on cross currency contracts and 
operations. To achieve this, the Group’s policy is to hedge its foreign currency exposures where appropriate. 

The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds, and 
a substantial percentage of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than 
sterling. Due to the high proportion of international activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate 
fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency 
fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling; 
and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of 
the Group’s commercial cash flows in various currencies. 

The foreign currency profiles of cash, trade receivables and payables subject to translation risk and transaction 
risk, at the reporting date, were as follows: 

2023 

Cash 
Trade receivables (note 11) 
Trade payables (note 12) 

2022 

Cash 
Trade receivables (note 11) 
Trade payables (note 12) 

Carrying 
amount 
£m 

298.6 
526.6 
205.3 

Carrying 
amount 
£m 

320.7 
532.3 
172.8 

Sterling 
£m 

US dollar 
£m 

24.6 
41.4 
22.3 

97.1 
258.9 
75.5 

Chinese 
renminbi 
£m 

Hong Kong 
dollar 
£m 

Other 
currencies 
£m 

46.7 
36.1 
22.4 

2.4 
6.1 
2.4 

127.8 
184.1 
82.7 

Sterling 
£m 

US dollar 
£m 

72.9 
37.7 
25.6 

85.5 
216.5 
55.7 

Chinese 
renminbi 
£m 

Hong Kong 
dollar 
£m 

Other 
currencies 
£m 

42.3 
39.5 
20.1 

0.7 
6.5 
2.7 

119.3 
232.1 
68.7

Recognised assets and liabilities 
Changes in the fair value of foreign currency forwards that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities 
in foreign currencies, and for which no hedge accounting is applied, are recognised in the income statement. 

Cash flow hedge 
The Group holds a US$40m fixed interest rate USD private placement bond maturing in February 2025 and a 
US$80m fixed interest rate USD private placement bond maturing in December 2025. The nominal amount of 
these loans as at 31 December 2023 was £93.8m (2022: £nil). 

The bonds are hedged using US$40m USD/CNH fixed-to-fixed cross currency swaps maturing in February 
2025 and a US$80m USD/CNH fixed-to-fixed cross currency swaps maturing in December 2025. 

The cross currency interest rate swaps were bifurcated into two relationships: 1) A cash flow hedge of foreign 
currency risk on US$120m borrowings; and 2) A net investment hedge of CNH 876m net assets of the Group. 
The weighted average exchange rates for the cross currency interest rates swaps were GBP/USD 1.2300 and 
GBP/CNH 8.9790. 

The timings of the cash flows on both the hedging instrument and the borrowings re expected to match since 
the maturity profile and coupon profile for bond and hedge matches. In 2023, £3.3m of the cash flow hedge 
reserve was recycled through to the income statement to offset the impact of the hedged US$40m and 
US$80m bond. The remaining balance of the cash flow hedge reserve is expected to be recycled through 
to the income statement up to the expiry of the bonds in February 2025 and December 2025 respectively. 

Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge to protect the same amount 
of net investment in the Group’s foreign currency operations and net assets, against adverse changes in 
exchange rates. 

The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk exposure arising from its net investment in foreign currency 
operations and net assets. The Group uses a combination of debt and cross currency interest rate swaps to 
hedge foreign exchange risks. The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge to 
protect the same amount of net investment in the Group’s foreign currency operations and net assets, against 
adverse changes in exchange rates. The nominal amount of these loans as at 31 December 2023 was £817.0m 
(2022: £1,061.8m). 

The Group’s cross currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedge to protect the same amount of net 
investment in the Group’s CNY net assets, against adverse changes in exchange rates. The nominal amount 
of these cross currency interest rates as at 31 December 2023 was £93.8m (2022: nil). 

189.6m USD/GBP foreign currency forwards were designated as a hedge to protect the same amount of net 
investment in the Group’s USD operations and net assets, against adverse changes in exchange rates. The 
hedges remained outstanding as at 31 December 2021 and were settled during March 2022. 

32 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
A foreign exchange loss of £58.8m (2022: £120.0m foreign exchange gain) was recognised in the translation 
reserve in equity, reflecting the translation of the Group’s foreign currency denominated loans to sterling 
and the impact of changes in fair value of the foreign currency forwards. The weighted average exchange 
rates of the borrowings designated as net investment hedge was GBP/USD 1.3906 and GBP/EUR 1.1525. 
The Group has the following hedging instruments: 

Other comprehensive income 

Nominal 
amounts in 
local currency 

Carrying 
value 
£m 

1 January 
2023 
£m 

FX (gain)/ 
loss 
recycled 
to the 
income 
statement 
£m 

Fair value 
gain/(loss) 
deferred 
to OCI 
£m 

Hedges 
closed in 
year 
£m 

31  
December 
2023 
£m 

2023 

Cash flow hedges – 

foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk 

Cross currency interest rate 

swaps- continuing

Hedges of net investment 
in a foreign operation – 
foreign exchange risk 
Forward currency forward 

– discontinued

Cross currency interest rate 

swaps – continuing

Cross currency interest rate 

swaps – discontinued

Foreign currency borrowings 

– 

(3.4) 

3.3

– 

(0.1) 

–

–

–

–

–

– 

–

– 

1.2

–

– 

1.7

(19.0)

–

–

–

–

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

1.2 

1.7 

(19.0) 

(3.7) 

(92.1) 

3.7 

(191.6) 

– continuing 

£910.8m 

910.8 

(145.5) 

57.1

Foreign currency borrowings 

– discontinued

–

– 

(195.3)

–

910.8 

(358.6) 

55.4 

3.3

– 

(299.9) 

The Group entered into AU$264m of foreign currency forwards which paid USD and received AUD, which 
matured in March 2022. The foreign currency forwards were bifurcated into two relationships: 1) a cash flow 
hedge of AU$264m versus GBP foreign currency risk in AUD denominated borrowings; and 2) a net investment 
hedge of USD versus GBP foreign currency risk in USD denominated net assets of the Group. 

The weighted average exchange rates of the forwards were GBP/USD 1.3209 and GBP/AUD 1.8388.

33 

Other comprehensive income 

Nominal 
amounts in 
local currency 

Carrying 
value 
£m 

1 January 
2022 
£m 

FX (gain)/ 
loss 
recycled 
to the 
income 
statement 
£m 

Fair value 
gain/(loss) 
deferred 
to OCI 
£m 

Hedges 
closed in 
year 
£m 

31  
December 
2022 
£m 

2022 

Cash flow hedges – 

foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk 

Foreign currency forward 

– continuing

Hedges of net investment  
in a foreign operation – 
foreign exchange risk 
Foreign currency forward 

– continuing

Forward currency forward 

– discontinued

Cross currency interest rate 

swaps – discontinued

Foreign currency borrowings 

– 

1.9 

(1.9)

– 

–

–

–

–

–

– 

–

– 

3.0 

(1.8)

–

(19.0)

–

–

– 

– 

– 

– 

–

– 

– 

(1.2) 

1.2 

1.2 

– 

(19.0) 

19.2 

(145.5) 

(19.2) 

(195.3) 

– continuing 

£1,061.8m  1,061.8 

(46.5) 

(118.2)

Foreign currency borrowings 

– discontinued

–

– 

(176.1)

–

1,061.8 

(238.6) 

(118.1) 

(1.9)

– 

(358.6) 

The foreign currency forwards previously designated in discontinued hedge relationships were disclosed 
within other receivables in the statement of financial position. The cross currency interest rate swaps 
designated in hedge relationships are disclosed within other payables in the statement of financial position. 

Foreign currency denominated loans and their corresponding hedged items are matched and the Group 
expects highly effective hedging relationships. The change in value of the hedged item is used as the basis 
for recognising hedge ineffectiveness for the period. Net ineffectiveness on the net investment hedges 
recognised in the income statement was £nil. 

Hedge ineffectiveness may occur if there are insufficient net assets in foreign currency to match hedging 
instruments in the relevant currency. 

The hedge ratio for each designation will be established by comparing the quantity of the hedging instrument 
and the quantity of the hedged item to determine their relative weighting; for all of the Group’s existing hedge 
relationships the hedge ratio has been determined as 1:1. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report14 Borrowings and financial instruments Continued 
The carrying values of the hedging instruments; US$840.0m senior notes and EUR€185.0m senior notes are 
included within borrowings within the statement of financial position. 

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). 

Fair value gains and losses on the hedging instruments designated in the cash flow and net investment hedges 
have been presented as ‘fair value on cash flow hedges’ and ‘net exchange on hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations’ respectively within the statement of other comprehensive income. 

Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, 
unobservable inputs). 

Foreign exchange losses of £3.3m recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve are presented in interest on 
borrowings within finance expenses in the income statement. 

Sensitivity 
It is estimated that an increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar and Chinese renminbi 
(the main currencies impacting the Group) would have increased the Group’s profit before tax for 2023 
by approximately £22.6m (2022: £20.4m decrease). This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. 

It is estimated that an increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the currencies of the hedging 
instruments would have increased OCI by approximately £83.0m (2022: £96.5m) which would be offset 
by the retranslation of the Group’s investment in foreign operations in the same currencies. This analysis 
assumes all other variables remain constant. 

Fair values 
The table below provides a comparison of book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial 
instruments by class. 

Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Trade receivables (note 11) 
Foreign currency forwards* 

Total financial assets 

Financial liabilities 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Trade payables (note 12) 
Foreign currency forwards* 
Cross currency interest rate swaps* 
Contingent consideration** 

Book value  
2023 
£m 

Fair value 
2023 
£m 

Book value  
2022 
£m 

Fair value 
2022 
£m 

298.6 
526.6 
0.3 

825.5 

909.2 
205.3 
0.7 
1.7 
35.6 

298.6 
526.6 
0.3 

825.5 

817.3 
205.3 
0.7 
1.7
35.6 

320.7 
532.3 
1.1 

854.1 

1,058.6 
172.8 
2.8 
– 
17.2 

320.7 
532.3 
1.1 

854.1 

936.8 
172.8 
2.8 
– 
17.2 

Total financial liabilities 

1152.5 

1060.6 

1,251.4 

1,129.6 

* 

Cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign currency forwards are categorised as Level 2, under which the fair value is measured using 
inputs other than quoted prices observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. 

**  Contingent consideration is categorised as Level 3 under which the fair value is measured using unobservable inputs – being the EBITDA 

performance of the acquired companies.

34 

15 Capital and reserves 
Accounting policy 
Dividends 
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported 
as a movement in equity in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders. 

Own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’) 
Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOT are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, 
the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings. 

Share capital 

Group and Company 

Allotted, called up and fully paid: 
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 
Share awards

Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 

Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 

2023 
number 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

161,393,127 
–

161,393,127 

1.6 
- 

1.6 

1.6 

1.6 
– 

1.6 

1.6 

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings 
of the Company. 

During the year, the Company issued nil (2022: nil) ordinary shares in respect of all share plans. 

Purchase of own shares for trust 
During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Company financed the purchase of 278,751 (2022: 45,000) of 
its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £2,788 (2022: £450) for £11.6m (2022: £2.3m) which was 
charged to retained earnings in equity and was held by the ESOT. This trust is managed by an independent 
offshore trustee. During the year, 261,359 shares were utilised to satisfy the vesting of share awards (note 
17). At 31 December 2023, the ESOT held 149,799 shares (2022: 132,407 shares) with an aggregate nominal 
value of £1,498 (2022: £1,324). The associated cash outflow of £11.6m (2022: £2.3m) has been presented as 
a financing cash flow. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report15 Capital and reserves Continued 

Dividends 

Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2021
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2022
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2022 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 

Dividends paid 

2023 
£m 

2023 
Pence per 
share 

–
–
115.5 
60.8 

176.3 

– 
– 
71.6
37.7

109.3 

2022 
£m 

115.5 
55.1 
– 
– 

170.6 

2022 
Pence per 
share 

71.6 
34.2 
– 
– 

105.8 

After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 74.0p per share in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2023, which is expected to amount to £120.2m. This dividend is subject to approval 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the 
Reporting Date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved, the final 
dividend will be paid to shareholders on 21 June 2024. 

Reserves 
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment 
in foreign operations. 

Other 
This reserve includes a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share 
capital, as well as the cash flow hedge reserve. 

16 Employee benefits 
Accounting policy 
Pension schemes 
Defined contribution plans 
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions 
into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations 
for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the 
income statement as incurred. 

Defined benefit plans 
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. 

The Group’s net obligation in respect of material defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each 
plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the 
current and prior years; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. The fair value of any plan 
assets is deducted. 

35 

In calculating the defined benefit surplus or deficit, the discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA 
credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are 
denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed 
annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 

The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the 
accounting period is charged to the operating profit in the income statement. The expected return on the 
schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, 
are shown as finance income and finance expense, respectively. 

The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined 
contribution arrangements. However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom 
and Switzerland. The United Kingdom Scheme is funded, with assets held in separate trustee-administered 
funds and the Switzerland Scheme is an insured scheme. The scheme in the United Kingdom was closed to new 
entrants in 2002. Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore 
accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes. 

In line with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14, if a scheme has a surplus this is recognised on the statement of financial 
position if the economic benefit is available to the Group as a result of the surplus. Economic benefit is defined 
as when an entity has an unconditional right to a refund from the scheme whilst the scheme is ongoing; or 
assuming the gradual settlement of the scheme liabilities over time until all members have left the scheme/ 
died; or assuming the full settlement of the scheme’s liabilities in a single event. In the event of a surplus, 
the relevant scheme rules will be reviewed in line with IFRIC 14 and a legal opinion obtained to identify if the 
surplus can be recognised by the Group. 

The Group recognises all actuarial remeasurements in each year in equity through the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income. 

Total pension cost 
The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was: 

Defined contribution schemes 
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost and administration expenses 

Pension cost included in operating profit (note 5) 

2023 
£m 

(59.8) 
(1.2) 

(61.0) 

2022 
£m 

(59.6) 
(1.9) 

(61.5) 

The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified 
actuaries. The last full triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom 
(‘United Kingdom Scheme’) was carried out as at 31 March 2022, and for IAS 19 accounting purposes has 
been updated to 31 December 2023. The Switzerland Scheme was valued for IAS 19 purposes as at 
31 December 2023. The average duration of the schemes’ liabilities is 13 years for the United 
Kingdom Scheme and 16 years for the Switzerland Scheme.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report16 Employee benefits Continued 
Defined benefit schemes 
The cost of defined benefit schemes 
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 

Current service cost 
Scheme administration expenses 
Net pension interest income (note 14) 

Total charge 

2023 
£m 

(0.8) 
(0.4) 
1.0 

(0.2) 

2022 
£m 

(1.5) 
(0.4) 
0.1 

(1.8) 

The current service cost and scheme administration expenses are included in operating costs in the income 
statement and pension interest cost and interest income are included in net financing costs. 

Included in other comprehensive income: 

Remeasurements arising from: 
Demographic assumptions 
Financial assumptions 
Experience adjustment 
Asset valuation 

Other 

Total 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

0.2 
(5.4) 
(0.5) 
2.5 
0.6 

(2.6) 

(0.6) 
52.3 
(5.3) 
(29.8) 
0.8 

17.4 

Company contributions 
In 2022 the Company assessed the triennial actuarial valuation for the United Kingdom Scheme and its impact 
on the scheme funding plan in 2022 and future years. In 2024 the Group expects to make normal contributions 
of £0.6m (2023: £0.6m) and a special contribution of £nil (2023: £nil). The next triennial valuation is due to 
take place as at 31 March 2025 and will include a review of the Company’s future contribution requirements. 

Pension asset/liability for defined benefit schemes 
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for defined benefit schemes were as follows: 

31 December 2023 

Fair value of scheme assets 
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 

Surplus/(deficit) in schemes 

36 

United 
Kingdom 
Scheme 
£m 

111.8 
(90.0) 

21.8 

Switzerland 
Scheme 
£m 

14.4 
(19.2) 

(4.8) 

Total 
£m 

126.2 
(109.2) 

17.0

The fair value changes in the scheme assets are shown below: 

Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 
Interest income 
Normal contributions by the employer 
Special contributions by the employer
Contributions by scheme participants 
Benefits paid 
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes 
Remeasurements 
Scheme administration expenses 
Settlements*

2023 
£m 

121.1 
5.5 
1.4 
– 
0.6 
(4.9) 
0.4 
2.5 
(0.4) 
– 

2022 
£m 

155.4 
2.7 
1.3 
2.0 
0.6 
(4.2) 
1.5 
(29.8) 
(0.4) 
(8.0) 

Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 

126.2 

121.1 

* 

Settlements represent transfer to the reinsurer of assets and legal obligations related to the benefits provided to inactive members of part 
of the Switzerland Scheme. 

Asset allocation 
Investment statements were provided by the investment managers which showed that, as at 31 December 
2023, the invested assets of the United Kingdom Scheme totalled £111.8m (2022: £108.2m), broken down 
as follows: 

Asset class 

Equities 
Property 
Liability-Driven Investment (‘LDI’)* 
Corporate debt instruments 
Cash 

Total 

United Kingdom Scheme 

2023 
£m 

44.5 
3.1 
12.2 
46.6 
5.4 

2022 
£m 

44.2 
4.5 
11.8 
37.9 
9.8 

111.8 

108.2 

* 

Investments are included at fair value. The pooled investment vehicles are held under a managed fund policy in the name of the Scheme. 
Pooled investment vehicles (including the LDI Fund) which are not traded on active markets, but where the investment manager has provided 
a monthly trading price, are valued using the last single price, provided by the investment manager at or before the year-end. The LDI Fund 
provides the hedge against adverse movements in inflation and interest rates. It seeks to match the sensitivity of the Scheme’s liability cash 
flow to changes in interest rates and inflation; it is invested in gilts, swaps, futures, repo contracts and money market instruments. 

During February 2024, following a review of the Scheme’s investment strategy and funding level, the Trustee 
agreed to changes to the Scheme’s asset allocation by class. These changes, which will be completed by June 
2024, will reduce future funding level volatility and de-risk the Scheme’s strategy by investing in assets that 
in aggregate will broadly match movements in liabilities. The change to asset classes does not incur material 
costs to the Scheme. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report16 Employee benefits Continued 
The United Kingdom Scheme had bank account assets of £2.4m as at 31 December 2023 (2022: £9.6m). 

Life expectancy assumptions at year-end for: 

The United Kingdom Scheme invested assets comprising both quoted and unquoted assets. The value of 
quoted assets in 2023 was £11.4m (2022: £11.7m), included within equities in the above table, with the 
remaining assets being unquoted. The invested assets of the Switzerland Scheme comprise cash in savings 
and contribution accounts. The Switzerland Scheme is fully insured. 

Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 

Male aged 40 
Male aged 65 
Female aged 40 
Female aged 65 

United Kingdom Scheme 

Switzerland Scheme 

2023 

48.3 
21.6 
50.4 
23.7 

2022 

48.4 
21.7 
50.6 
23.8 

2023 

49.5 
22.0 
51.1 
23.8 

2022 

49.4 
22.0 
51.0 
23.7 

2023 
£m 

102.0 
0.8 
4.4 
0.7 
(4.9) 
0.5 
5.7 
– 

109.2 

2022 
£m 

154.0 
1.5 
2.6 
0.7 
(4.2) 
1.8 
(46.4) 
(8.0) 

102.0 

The table above shows, for the United Kingdom Scheme, the number of years a male or female is expected 
to live, assuming they were aged either 40 (and lives to 65) or 65 at 31 December. The mortality tables 
adopted in 2023 for the United Kingdom Scheme are S3PA tables, based on the CMI 2022 mortality projection 
model with a 1.25% long-term annual rate for future improvements. In 2022 the S3PA tables were used, based 
on the CMI 2021 mortality projection model with a 1.25% long-term annual rate for future improvement. For 
the Switzerland Scheme, the mortality table adopted in 2023 and 2022 is the BVG 2020, an industry standard 
in Switzerland which is based on statistical evidence of major Switzerland pension funds. 

Sensitivity analysis 
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the United Kingdom pension assets and liabilities as at 
31 December 2023 of the two main assumptions: 

United Kingdom Scheme 

Switzerland Scheme 

Change in assumptions 

2023 
%

4.6 
2.05 
–

2.1 
1.7 

2022 
%

4.85 
2.1 
– 

2.15 
1.7 

2023 
%

1.4 
n/a 
1.75 

n/a 
n/a 

2022 
%

2.3 
n/a 
1.75 

n/a 
n/a 

No change 
0.25% rise in discount rate 
0.25% fall in discount rate 
0.25% rise in inflation 
0.25% fall in inflation 

The United Kingdom Scheme is also subject to the mortality assumption. If the mortality tables used are rated 
up/down one year, the value placed on the liabilities increases by £3.4m and decreases by £3.4m, respectively. 

Funding arrangements 
United Kingdom Scheme 
The Trustees use the projected unit credit method with a three-year control period. Currently the scheme 
members pay contributions at the rate of 8.5% of salary. The employer pays contributions of 18.5% of salary, 
plus £0.2m per year to fund scheme expenses. The employer has not made any additional contributions in 
2023 as a result of the surplus disclosed by the 2022 valuation. 

United Kingdom Scheme 

Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
surplus/ 
deficit 
£m 

– 
(2.8) 
3.0 
1.4 
(1.5) 

Liabilities 
£m 

90.0 
87.2 
93.0 
91.4 
88.5 

Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 
Current service cost 
Interest cost 
Contributions by scheme participants 
Benefits paid 
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes 
Remeasurements 
Settlements

Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 

Principal actuarial assumptions: 

Discount rate 
Inflation rate (based on CPI) 
Rate of salary increases
Rate of pension increases: 
CPI subject to a maximum of 5% p.a. 
Increases subject to a maximum of 2.5% p.a. 

The Switzerland Scheme is an insured plan.

37 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report16 Employee benefits Continued 
Funding risks 
The main risks for the schemes are: 

Investment return risk: 

Investment matching risk: 

If the assets underperform the returns assumed in setting the funding 
targets then additional contributions may be required at subsequent 
valuations. 

The schemes invest significantly in equities, whereas the funding targets are 
closely related to the returns on bonds. If equities fall in value relative to the 
matching asset of bonds, additional contributions may be required. 

Longevity risk: 

If future improvements in longevity exceed the assumptions made for 
scheme funding then additional contributions may be required. 

Role of third parties 
The United Kingdom Scheme is managed by Trustees on behalf of its members. The Trustees take advice 
from appropriate third parties including investment advisers, actuaries and lawyers as necessary. 

17 Share schemes 
Accounting policy 
Share-based payment transactions 
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the 
Company. The fair value of the employee services, received in exchange for the grant of shares, is measured 
at the grant date and is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is 
calculated using the Black-Scholes method and expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of 
the relevant award. The charge for the Deferred Share Awards is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels 
of vesting for service conditions. The expense of the LTIP Share Awards is calculated using the Monte Carlo 
method and the fair value adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved. 

Share plans 
2011 Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 was replaced in 2011 with the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’). 
Deferred Share Awards (previously Share Awards) and LTIP Share Awards (previously Performance Awards) 
have been granted under this plan. The first awards were granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under these 
plans vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions. The last awards 
under the 2011 Plan vested in 2023. 

2021 Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Intertek 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2021 Plan’) was approved at the 2020 Annual General Meeting 
as the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan was approaching the end of its ten-year life cycle. The 2021 
Plan is broadly similar to the previous Long Term Incentive Plan, but with amendments to take account of 
developments in market practice. The awards made in 2023 were made under the 2021 Plan on 13 March 
2023 and 6 June 2023. The awards under these plans vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment 
of the non-market based performance conditions.

2023 

2022 

Outstanding awards 

At beginning of year 
Granted* 
Vested** 
Forfeited 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

LTIP Share 
Awards 

Total awards 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

LTIP Share 
Awards 

674,193 
307,630 
(229,836) 
(60,473) 

810,416  1,484,609
746,612
438,982 
(381,853)
(152,017) 
(223,278)
(162,805) 

 662,706 
 323,181 
 (251,311)
 (60,383)

 791,842 
 359,589 
 – 
 (341,015)

Total awards 

 1,454,548 
 682,770 
 (251,311) 
 (401,398) 

At end of year 

691,514 

934,576  1,626,090

 674,193 

 810,416 

 1,484,609 

* 

Includes 15,317 Deferred Share Awards (2022: 15,388) and 22,907 LTIP Share Awards (2022: 21,150 ) granted in respect of dividend 
accruals. 

**  Of the 381,853 awards vested in 2023, nil were satisfied by the issue of shares and 252,075 by the transfer of shares from the ESOT (see 

note 15). The balance of 129,778 awards represented a tax liability of £5.4m (2022: £4.1m) which was settled in cash on behalf of 
employees by the Group, of which £4.7m was settled by the Company. 

Buyout Awards 
On 1 April 2021, Jonathan Timmis was granted conditional rights to acquire 39,000 shares under a one-off 
arrangement as a condition of his recruitment as CFO of the Company, granted under the Long Term Incentive 
Plan 2021. The award comprised three parts of 13,000 shares, vesting on 1 April 2022, 1 April 2023 and 
1 April 2024. Further details are shown in the Remuneration report in Book two, pages 78 to 103.. 

Deferred Share Plan 
Awards may be granted under the Deferred Share Plan (‘DSP’) to employees of the Group (other than the 
Executive Directors of the Company) selected by the Remuneration Committee over existing, issued ordinary 
shares of the Company only. The DSP was adopted primarily to allow for the deferral of a proportion of 
selected employees’ annual bonus into shares in the Company but may also be used for the grant of other 
awards (such as incentive awards and buyout awards for key employees) in circumstances that the 
Remuneration Committee deems appropriate. Awards will normally have a three-year vesting period. 
Awards may be made subject to performance conditions and are subject to normal good and bad leaver 
provisions and malus and clawback. 

Outstanding awards 

At beginning of year 
Granted* 
Vested** 
Forfeited 

At end of year 

2023 

2022 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

Total  
awards 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

Total  
awards 

37,804 
14,315 
(14,827) 
(6,409) 

37,804
14,315
(14,827)
(6,409)

 37,368 
 22,420 
 (21,984)
 – 

 37,368 
 22,420 
 (21,984) 
 – 

30,883 

30,883

 37, 8 0 4 

 37, 8 0 4 

Includes 815 Deferred Share Awards (2022: 1,119) granted in respect of dividend accruals. 

* 
**  Of the 14,827 awards vested in 2023, 9,284 were satisfied by the transfer of shares from the ESOT (see note 15). The balance of 5,543 

awards represented a tax liability of £0.2m which was settled in cash on behalf of employees by the Group, of which £0.2m was settled by 
the Company. 

38 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report17 Share schemes Continued 
Equity-settled transactions 
During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Group recognised an expense of £21.2m (2022: £17.5m). The 
weighted average fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below: 

18 Subsequent events 
On 18 January 2024, funded from the existing revolving facility, a US$105m senior note at a fixed annual 
interest rate of 3.85% was repaid. 

Fair value at measurement date (pence) 
Share price (pence) 

Share price volatility

Risk free rate

Time to maturity (years) 

Fair value at measurement date (pence)
Share price (pence)

Share price volatility

Risk-free rate

Time to maturity (years)

2023 Awards 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

Share  
Awards 

LTIP Share 
Awards 

4,384 
4,384 

4,057 
4,057 

–

–

1–3

– 

– 

3 

3,487 
4,050 

27.6% 

3.3% 

3 

2022 Awards 

Deferred 
Share Awards 

Share  
Awards 

LTIP Share 
Awards 

 4,636 
 4,636 

 4,845
 4,845 

–

–

 1–3 

– 

– 

 3 

 4,180 
 4,180 

26.6% 

1.3% 

 3 

The weighted average exercise prices of all share awards in the year are £nil (2022: £nil). 

All Share Awards are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into account in the fair 
value measurement at grant date. From 2020 the LTIP Share Awards were granted under performance-related 
non-market conditions only.

During February 2024, following a review of the United Kingdom pension Scheme’s investment strategy and 
funding level, the Trustee approved changes to the Scheme’s asset allocation by class, as described in note 16. 

19 Capital management 
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of Intertek; specifically how much capital is raised 
from shareholders (equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the 
Group’s activities. These activities include ongoing operations as well as acquisitions as described in note 10. 

The Group’s policy is to maintain a robust capital base (including cash and debt) to ensure the market and key 
stakeholders retain confidence in the capital profile. Debt capital is monitored by Group Treasury assessing the 
liquidity buffer on a short- and longer-term basis as discussed in note 14. Financial net debt has decreased from 
£737.9m at 31 December 2022 to £610.6m at 31 December 2023. The Group has a strong balance sheet with 
financial net debt to EBITDA of 0.8x (2022: 1.1x). 

During 2023, the Group has continued the working capital focus, and through disciplined performance 
management, working capital has reduced by £31.0m to negative £78.8m. Working capital is defined on page 3. 

The Group uses key performance indicators, including return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) and adjusted diluted 
earnings per share to monitor the capital position of the Group to ensure it is being utilised effectively. The rate 
of ROIC, defined as adjusted operating profit less adjusted taxes divided by invested capital, measures how 
effectively the Group generates profit from its invested capital. This is a key measure to assess the efficiency 
of investment decisions and is also an important criterion in the decision-making process. ROIC in 2023 was 
20.5% (2022: 18.0%). Adjusted diluted earnings per share is a key measure of value creation for the Board and 
for shareholders and in 2023 was 223.0p (2022: 211.1p). 

The dividend policy also forms part of the Board’s capital management policy, and the Board ensures there is 
appropriate earnings cover for the dividend proposed at both the interim and year-end. Our current dividend 
policy aims to deliver sustainable dividend growth over time, based on a target dividend payout ratio of c.50%. 
Reflecting the Group’s strong cash generation in 2023, the recommended final dividend is 74.0p bringing the full 
year dividend to 111.7p, which is a year-on-year increase of 5.6%, and reflects a dividend payout ratio of 50%. 

39 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report22 Contingent liabilities 

Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 

2023 
£m 

41.1 

2022 
£m 

40.0 

Litigation 
The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including 
claims for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing, and disputes with 
employees and former employees. The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than 
ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business. These claims are not currently expected to result in 
meaningful costs and liabilities to the Group. The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover to provide 
protection from the small number of significant claims it is subject to from time to time. 

Tax 
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and with complex tax laws and regulations. At any point in 
time it is normal for there to be a number of open years which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities. 
In some jurisdictions the Group receives tax incentives (see note 6) which are subject to renewal and review 
and reduce the amount of tax payable. Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are 
used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and 
judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.

20 Non-controlling interest 
Accounting policy 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity 
as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. 

Non-controlling interest 
An analysis of the movement in non-controlling interest is shown below: 

At 1 January 
Exchange adjustments 
Share of profit for the year 
Adjustment arising from changes in non-controlling interest 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 

At 31 December 

2023 
£m 

34.0 
(2.2) 
20.7 
(0.7) 
(15.1) 

36.7 

2022 
£m 

32.3 
0.3 
18.0 
– 
(16.6) 

34.0 

21 Related parties 
Identity of related parties 
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management. Balances and transactions between the 
Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
discussed in this note. 

Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below: 

Short-term benefits 
Post-employment benefits 
Equity-settled transactions 

Total 

2023 
£m 

12.5 
0.6 
10.8 

23.9 

2022 
£m 

9.8 
0.7 
3.6 

14.1 

More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements and 
other long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited parts of the Remuneration report in Book two, 
pages 92 to 103. Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any 
business transactions of the Group. 

40 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies 
The principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect 
the figures of the Group have been shown below. All the subsidiaries shown were consolidated with Intertek 
Group plc as at 31 December 2023. Unless otherwise stated, these entities are wholly owned indirect 
subsidiaries and the address of the registered office is Academy Place, 1–9 Brook Street, Brentwood, Essex, 
CM14 5NQ, United Kingdom. 

Company name 

Intertek Australia Holdings Pty Limited (i)
Intertek Finance plc 
Intertek Holdings Limited (ii)
Intertek Technical Services, Inc. (iii)
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited (ii)
Intertek Testing Services Hong Kong Limited (iv)
Intertek Testing Services Limited Shanghai (v)
Intertek Testing Services NA, Inc. (vi)
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited (vii)
Intertek USA, Inc. (viii)
Intertek USD Finance Limited 
Labtest Hong Kong Limited (ix)
RCG-Moody International Limited 
Testing Holdings USA, Inc. (vi)

Country of Incorporation and principal place of 
operation 

Australia 
England 
England 
USA 
England 
Hong Kong 
China 
USA 
China 
USA 
England 
Hong Kong 
England 
USA 

Activity 

Holding 
Finance 
Holding 
Trading 
Holding 
Trading 
Trading 
Trading 
Trading 
Trading 
Finance 
Trading 
Holding 
Holding 

(i)  Registered office address: 544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia. 
(ii)  Directly owned by Intertek Group plc. 
(iii)  Registered office address is: 25025 I-45, Suite 300, Spring, TX 77380, United States. 
(iv)  Registered office address is: 2/F Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 
(v)  Equity shareholding 85%, company controlled by the Group based on management’s assessment; Registered office address is: 2nd Floor, 

West District, Free Trade Test Zone, Zhangyang Road, Shanghai, China. 

(vi)  Registered office address is: 3933 US Route 11, Cortland, NY 13045, United States. 
(vii)  Registered office address is: 3-5/F of Bldg. 1, 1-5/F of Bldg. 3, No. 4012, Wuhe Ave. North, Bantian Street, Yuanzheng Science and Technology 

Industrial Park, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. 

(viii) Registered office address is: 545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois 60005, United States. 
(ix)  Registered office address is: 2/F, Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 

Group companies 
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, all related undertakings are set out in the 
following list. Related undertakings comprise subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, joint ventures and joint 
arrangements. The principal subsidiaries listed above have not been duplicated in the following list. 

Where no address is listed, the address of the registered office is Academy Place, 1–9 Brook Street, Brentwood, 
Essex, CM14 5NQ, United Kingdom. Unless otherwise stated, the share capital for all related undertakings 
included in this note comprises ordinary or common stock shares which are indirectly held by Intertek Group plc 
as at 31 December 2023. The percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. No 
subsidiary undertakings have been excluded from the consolidation. 

Fully owned subsidiaries 
0949491 B.C. Limited 
1200-925 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6C 3L2, Canada 

4th Strand, LLC (i) (xv) 
1950 Evergreen Boulevard, Suite 100, Duluth, GA 30096, United States 
Acucert Labs, LLP (xv) 
82/2, Shreyas, 25th Road, Sion West, Mumbai, 400022, India 
Acumen Security, LLC 
2400 Research Blvd, Suite 395, Rockville, MD 20850, United States 
Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Admon Labs Servicios Corporativos y Administrativos, S.A. de C.V. 
Boulevard Adolfo Lopez Mateos #2259, Atlamaya, Alvaro Obregon, Ciudad de Mexico, C.P. 01760, Mexico 
Advancing Food Safety Pty Limited. (i) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Ageus Solutions Inc. 
255 Michael Cowpland Dr., Suite 200, Ottawa, Ontario, K2M 0M5, Canada 

Alchemy Investment Holdings, Inc. 
5300 Riata Park Court, Austin, TX 78727, United States 
Alchemy Systems, L.P. (xv) 
5301 Riata Park Court, Austin, TX 78727, United States 
Alchemy Systems Training, Inc. 
5300 Riata Park Court, Austin, TX 78727, United States 
Alchemy Systems Training Limited 
Alchemy Training Technologies, Inc. 
1 Germain Street, Suite 1500, Saint John, NB E2L 4V1, Canada 
Alta Analytical Laboratory, Inc. (i) 
200 Westlake Park Blvd., Westlake Building 4, Suite 400, Houston, TX 77079, United States 
Anstat Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Architectural Testing, Inc. 
130, Derry Court, York, PA 17406, United States 
Architectural Testing Holdings, Inc. 
130 Derry Court, York, PA 17406, United States 
Bellini & Sandrini Holding LTDA 
Rua Carlos Tosin, 860, sala 1, Distrito Industrial, Distrito Industrial, Estado de São Paulo, Brazil 
Bigart Ecosystems, LLC (xv) 
212 S. Wallace Avenue Bozeman, MT 59715, United States

41 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Caleb Brett Ecuador S.A. 
Centro Commercial Mall del Sol, Av. Joaquín Orrantia González y Juan Tanca Marengo, Torre B, Piso 5, 
Oficina 505, Guayaquil, Ecuador 
Catalyst Awareness, Inc.  
43 Carolinian Lane, Cambridge, ON N1S 5B5, Canada 
Center for the Evaluation of Clean Energy Technology, Inc. 
3933 US Route 11, Cortland, NY 13045, United States 
Check Safety First Limited 
Checkpoint Solutions Ltd 
Cristal Middle East SAE 
22 El-Imam Ali, Almazah, Heliopolis, Cairo Governorate, Egypt 
Cristal North Africa CNA 
Immeuble, SOGIT Faisant angle de la rue, lac victoria, et rue du des lacs de mazurie, les berges du lac, 
1053 Tunis Le bureau, B5 situé, au 2ème étage, Tunis, Tunisia 
Electronic Warfare Associates-Canada, Ltd 
1223 Michael Street North, Suite 200, Ottawa, ON K1J 7T2, Canada 
Enertech Australia Pty. Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Entela-Taiwan, Inc 
4700 Broadmoor Avenue SE, Suite 200, Kentwood, MI 49512, United States 
Esperanza Guernsey Holdings Limited 
PO Box 472, St Julian’s Court, St Julian’s Avenue, St Peter Port, GY1 6AX, Guernsey 
Esperanza International Services (Southern Africa) (Pty.) Limited 
Charter House, 13 Brand Road, Glenwood, Durban, South Africa 
Excel Partnership, Inc. 
250 S. Wacker Drive, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606, United States 
Fivetix Professional Services Private Limited 
F-Wing, I Floor, Tex Centre, 26-A Chandiwali Farm Road, Andheri (East) Mumbai Mumbai City MH 400072, India 
Four Front Research (India) Pvt Limited (ii) 
Plot# 847, 5th Floor, Near Electricity Substation, Ayyappa Society Road, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Telangana, 
500081, India 
Frameworks Inc. 
1595 Sixteenth Avenue, Suite 301, Richmond Hill, ON L4B 3N9, Canada 
Gamatek, S.A. de C.V. 
Alanis Valdez #2308, Industrial, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico 
GCA Calidad y Analisis de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
Jacarandas #19, San Clemente, Alvaro Obregon, Ciudad de Mexico, C.P. 01740, Mexico 
Gellatly Hankey Marine Services (M) Sdn. Bhd. 
Unit 30-01 Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Limited (vi) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Geotechnical Services Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Global Trust Certification (UK) Limited (ii) 

Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation 
112 East Service Road, Morgan City, LA 70380, United States 
Global X-Ray Holdings, Inc.  
112 East Service Road, Morgan City, LA 70380, United States 
Guangzhou Intertek Quality Testing Technology Co., Ltd.  
Room 301, No.8 Baoying East Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China 

H.P. White Laboratory Inc. 
3114 Scarboro Road, Street, MD 21154, United States 
Hawks Acquisition Holding, Inc. 
545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois 60005, United States 
Hi-Tech Holdings, Inc. (i) 
CT Corporation System, 1200 S.Pine Island Road, Plantation, FL 33324, United States 
Hi-Tech Testing Service, Inc. 
CT Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201, United States 
ILI Infodisk, Incorporated. 
205 W. Wacker Dr, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606, United States 
ILI Limited 
Inspection Services (US), LLC (xv) 
237 Stuart Road, Amelia, LA 70340, United States 
International Cargo Services, Inc. (i) 
c/o CT Corp, 8550 United Plaza Blvd, Baton Rouge, LA 70809, United States 
International Inspection Services Limited 
33/37 Athol Street, Douglas, IM1 1LB, Isle of Man 
Intertek (Mauritius) Limited 
2 Palmerston Road, Phoenix, Mauritius 
Intertek (Schweiz) AG 
TechCenter, Kaegenstrasse 18, 4153 Reinach, Switzerland 
Intertek Algeria Ltd EURL 
Zone urbaine Garidi 1, N°C7/C8, Bâtiment F1, 1er étage Local N°1, 16051, Kouba, Wilaya d’Alger, Algeria 
Intertek Arabia A.C. 
Office no. 213, Olaya Business Center, Al-Khobar, 31952, Saudi Arabia 

Intertek Argentina Certificaciones S.A. (iii) 
Cerrito 1136 3rd floor CF, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, C1010AAX, Argentina 
Intertek Aruba N.V. 
Lago Heights Straat 28A, San Nicolas, Aruba 

42 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
IIntertek Asset Integrity Management, Inc. 
25025 I-45, Suite 300, Spring, TX 77380, United States 
Intertek ATI SRL 
266-268 Calea Rahovei Street, Building 61, 1st Floor, Sector 5, Bucharest, Romania 
Intertek Azeri Limited 
2236 Mirza Davud Str., Xatai District, Baku, AZ 1026, Azerbaijan 
Intertek BA EOOD 
24A Akad. Metodi Popov Str., Floor 5, Sofia, 1113, Bulgaria 
Intertek Bangladesh Limited 
Phoenix Tower, Plot–407 (3rd Floor), Tejgaon I/A, Dhaka, Bangladesh 
Intertek Belgium NV 
Kruisschansweg 11, 2040 Antwerp, Belgium 
Intertek Burkina Faso Ltd Sarl 
Lot 113, Parcelle no. PE 1/2, Secteur no.11. Ouagadougou, 02 BP 5984, Burkina Faso 
Intertek C&T Australia Holdings PTY Ltd (i) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington, WA 6109, Australia 
Intertek C&T Australia Pty Ltd  
Level 3, 235 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 
Intertek Caleb Brett (Uruguay) S.A. (xiv) 
Cerrito 507, 4th Floor, Of. 46 and 47, Montevideo, 11000, Uruguay 
Intertek Caleb Brett Chile S.A. 
Avenida Las Condes N° 11287 Torre A, oficina 301 A Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 
Intertek Caleb Brett El Salvador S.A. de C.V. 
Recinto Industrial de RASA zona industrial de Acajutla, Sonsonate, El Salvador 
Intertek Caleb Brett Germany GmbH 
Georgswerder Bogen 3, D-21109 Hamburg, Germany 
Intertek Caleb Brett Panama, Inc. 
Zona Procesadora para la Exportacion de Albrook, Building 6, Ancon Panama, Panama 
Intertek Caleb Brett Venezuela C.A. 
Av. Mohedano, Centro Gerencial Mohedano, piso 4, oficina 4-C, La Castellana, Municipio Chacao, Venezuela 
Intertek Canada Newco Limited 
1829-32nd Avenue, Lachine, QC H8T 3J1, Canada 
Intertek Capacitacion Chile Spa 
Avenida Las Condes N° 11287 Torre A, oficina 301 A Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 
Intertek Capital Resources Limited 
Intertek Certification AB 
Torshamnsgatan 43, Box 1103, Kista, S-164 22, Sweden

Intertek Certification AS 
Leif Weldings vei 8, 3208 Sandefjord, Norway 
Intertek Certification GmbH 
Marie-Bernays-Ring 19a, 41199 Monchengladbach, Germany 
Intertek Certification Japan Limited 
Nihonbashi North Square, 1-4-2, Nihonbashi – Horidomecho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 103-0012, Japan 
Intertek Certification Limited 
Intertek Colombia S.A. 
Calle 127A No. 53A-45, Oficina 1103, Bogotá, Colombia 
Intertek Commodities Mozambique Lda (xvi) 
Rua 1233, NR 72 R/C, Distrito Urbano 1, Maputo, Mozambique 
Intertek Consulting & Training (UK) Limited (ii) 
Northpoint Aberdeen Science & Energy Park, Exploration Drive, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, AB23 8HZ, 
United Kingdom 
Intertek Consulting & Training (USA), Inc. (i) 
25025 I-45, Suite 300, Spring, TX 77380, United States 
Intertek Consulting & Training Egypt (ii) 
46 B Street #7, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt 
Intertek Consumer Goods GmbH 
Würzburger Strasse 152, 90766 Fürth, Germany 
Intertek Curacao N.V. 
Barendslaan #3, Rio Canario Willemstad, Curacao, Netherlands Antilles 
Intertek de Guatemala SA 
46 Calle 21-53 Zona 12, Expobodega 46, Edificio 10, Guatemala Ciudad, Guatemala 
Intertek de Nicaragua S.A. 
Zona Franca Astro KM 47, Carretera Tipitapa Masaya, Nave 20, Managua, Nicaragua 
Intertek Denmark A/S 
Dokhavnsvej 3, 4400 Kalundborg, Denmark 
Intertek Deutschland GmbH 
Stangenstrasse 1, 70771 Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Germany 
Intertek DIC A/S 
Buen 12, 2, 6000 Kolding, Denmark 
Intertek do Brasil Inspecoes Ltda 
Av Eng. Augusto Barata s/n, Alamoa, Santos, SP, CEP11095-650, Brazil 
Intertek Egypt for Testing Services 
2nd Floor, Block 13001, Piece 15, Street 13, First Industrial Zone, (Beside Abou Ghali Motors), Elobour City, 
Cairo, Egypt 
Intertek Engineering Service Shanghai Limited 
Room 301-6, No.14, Lane 1401, Jiangchang Road, Jing ’an District, Shanghai, China 
Intertek Evaluate AB 
Torshamnsgatan 43, Box 1103, Kista, S-164 22, Sweden 

43 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Intertek Finance No. 2 Ltd (x) 

Intertek Finland OY 
Teknoublevardi 3-5, FI-01530 Vantaa, Finland 
Intertek Food Services GmbH 
Olof-Palme-Strasse 8, 28719 Bremen, Germany 
Intertek France SAS 
ZAC Ecopark 2, 27400, Heudebouville, France 
Intertek Fujairah FZC 
P.O. Box 1307, Fujairah, United Arab Emirates 
Intertek Genalysis (Zambia) Limited 
Plot No 25/26 Nkwazi House, Nkwazi and Cha Cha Cha Roads, PO Box 31014, Lusaka, Zambia 
Intertek Genalysis Madagascar SA 
Saint Denis Terrain II, Parcel 2 Ambatofotsy, Ampandrianomby, Madagascar 
Intertek Genalysis South Africa Pty Ltd 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 

Intertek Ghana Limited 
1st Floor Gian, Towers Office, Number 2 Community, Gian Towers Tema, Accra, Accra Metropolitan,  
P.O. BOX GP 199, Ghana 
Intertek Global (Iraq) Limited 
Intertek Global Limited 
26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Jersey 
Intertek Health Sciences Inc. (v) 
2233 Argentia Road, Suite # 201, Mississauga, ON L5N 2X7, Canada 
Intertek Holding Deutschland GmbH 
Stangenstrasse 1, 70771 Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Germany 
Intertek Holdings France SAS 
ZAC Ecopark 2, 27400 Heudebouville, France 
Intertek Holdings Italia SRL (xvi) 
Via Guido Miglioli 2/A, Cernusco sul Naviglio, 20063, Milano, Italy 
Intertek Holdings Nederland B.V. 
Leerlooierstraat 135, 3194AB Hoogvliet, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 
Intertek Holdings Norge AS 
Oljevegen 2, Tananger, 4056, Norway 
Intertek Ibérica Spain, S.L. 
Alameda Recalde, 27-5, 48009, Bilbao, Vizcaya, Spain 
Intertek India Private Limited 
E-20, Block B1, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Area, Mathura Road, New Delhi, 110044, India 
Intertek Industrial Services GmbH 
Marie-Bernays-Ring 19a, 41199 Monchengladbach, Germany

44 

Intertek Industry and Certification Services (Thailand) Limited 
539/2 Gypsum Metropolitan Tower, 11C Fl., Sri-Ayudhaya Road, Tanon – Phayathai Subdistrict, Khet 
Ratchathewi, Bangkok, 10400, Thailand 
Intertek Industry Ghana Ltd 
House Number 1, North Industrial Area, Klan, Anoma Ntuu Link, Accra, PO BOX 533, Ghana 
Intertek Industry Holdings (Pty) Ltd 
53 Phillip Engelbrecht Drive, Woodhill Office Park Building 2, 1st Floor Unit 8B Meyersdal, Gauteng, 1448, 
South Africa 
Intertek Industry Holdings Mozambique Limitada 
Cidade de Maputo, Distrito Kampfumo, Baiiro Sommerchield, Avenida 1301 n˚97, Mozambique 
Intertek Industry Services (S) Pte Ltd 
2 International Business Park, #10-09/10, The Strategy, 609930, Singapore 
Intertek Industry Services Brasil Ltda 
Alameda Rio Negro, 161, room 702 – 7th floor, Alphaville, Barueri-SP, 06454-000-SP, Brazil 
Intertek Industry Services de Argentina S.A. 
Cerrito 1136, 2nd floor CF, Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, C1010AAX, Argentina 
Intertek Industry Services Japan Limited 
Nihonbashi North Square, 1-4-2, Nihonbashi – Horidomecho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 103-0012, Japan 
Intertek Industry Services Romania Srl 
266-268 Calea Rahovei Street, Building 61, 1st Floor, Sector 5, Bucharest, Romania 
Intertek Industry WLL 
Office # 24, Building 400, Road 3207, Mahooz, Block 332, Manama, Bahrain 
Intertek Inspection Services Ltd 
2561 Avenue Georges V, Montreal-Est, QC H1L 6S4, Canada 
Intertek Inspection Services Scandinavia AS 
Leif Weldings vei 8, 3208 Sandefjord, Norway 
Intertek Inspection Services UK Limited 
Intertek International Gabon SARL 
Quartier Montagne Sainte – Immeuble Dumez, 2éme étage, Libreville, B.P: 13312, Gabon 
Intertek International Guinee S.A.R.L. (i) 
Conakry Republique de Guinee, Compte Bancaire: 52481.369.10 0 (SGBG), Conakry Guinea 
Intertek International Inc. 
8600 NW 17th Street, Suite 100, Miami, FL 33126, United States 
Intertek International Kazakhstan, LLC 
Building 2A, Abay street, Atyrau City, 060002, Kazakhstan 
Intertek International Limited 
Intertek International Ltd Egypt 
69, Road 161, Intersection with Road 104, Ground Floor, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt 
Intertek International Nederland BV 
Leerlooierstraat 135, 3194AB Hoogvliet, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Intertek International Niger SARL 
BP 2769, 2nd Floor Lot 792 Block Q, Independance Boulevard, Rue GM-20, Niger 
Intertek International Suriname N.V. 
Prins Hendrikstraat 49, Paramaribo, Suriname 
Intertek International Tanzania Limited 
Minazini Street, Kilwa Road 5, Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania 
Intertek Italia SpA 
Via Guido Miglioli 2/A, Cernusco sul Naviglio, 20063, Milano, Italy 
Intertek Japan K.K. 
Pier City Shibaura Building, 4F, 3-18-1, Kaigan, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 108-0022, Japan 
Intertek Kalite Servisleri Limited Sirketi 
Cevizli Mah. Tansel Cad. No: 12-18, Maltepe, Istanbul, Turkey 
Intertek Korea Industry Service Ltd 
Yeouido Dept Bldg #916, 36-2, Yeouido-Dong, Youngdeungpo-Gu, Seoul, 150-749, South Korea 
Intertek Labtest S.A.R.L 
7 Boulevard La Resistance IMM La Comanav Etage 7, Casablanca, 20300, Morocco 
Intertek Malta Limited 
24A Level 2, Flagstone Wharf, Marsa MRS 1932, Malta 
Intertek Management Services (Australia) Pty Ltd 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
Intertek Med SARL AU 
Zone Franche Logistique Tanger Med, Plateau Bureaux 4, Lot 130, Tanger, Morocco 
Intertek Medical Notified Body AB 
Torshamnsgatan 43, Box 1103, Kista, S-164 22, Sweden 
Intertek Medical Notified Body UK Ltd 
Intertek Minerals Limited 
Osu Badu Street, Airport Residential Area, Accra, Greater Accra, CP8196, Ghana 
Intertek Myanmar Limited 
Classic Strand Cono, No.693/701, Room (4-A), (4th Floor), Merchant Road, Pabedan Township, Yangon, Myanmar 
Intertek Nederland B.V. 
Leerlooierstraat 135, 3194 AB Hoogvliet, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 
Intertek Nominees Limited 
Intertek OCA France SARL 
Route Industrielle – Centre Routier, 76600, Gonfreville L’Orcher, France 
Intertek Overseas Holdings Limited 
Intertek Overseas Holdings, Eritrea Limited (i) 
3rd Floor, Warsay Avenue, P.O. Box 4588, Asmara, Eritrea

Intertek Pakistan (Private) Limited 
Intertek House, Plot No.1-5/11-A, Sector-5, Korangi Industrial Area, Karachi, Pakistan 
Intertek Poland sp.z.o.o. 
Cyprysowa 23 B, 02-265, Warsaw, Poland 
Intertek Polychemlab B.V. 
Koolwaterstofstraat 1, 6161 RA, Geleen, The Netherlands 
Intertek Portugal, Unipessoal Lda (xvi) 
Rua Antero de Quental, 221-Sala 102, 4455-586, Perafita-Matosinhos, Portugal 
Intertek Quality Services Ltd (i) 

Intertek Resource Solutions (Trinidad) Limited  
#91-92 Union Road, Marabella, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago 
Intertek Resource Solutions, Inc. 
25025 I-45, Suite 300, Spring, TX 77380, United States 
Intertek Rus JSC 
Proektiruemyi 4062-I, 6-25- Pomeshch, 115432, Moscow, Russian Federation 
Intertek S.R.O 
Sokolovská 131/86, Karlín, Praha 8, 186 00, Czech Republic 
Intertek Saudi Arabia Limited 
Southern Olaya Center, Office No. 213, Makkah Al-Mukaramah Street, P.O. Box 2526, Al-Khobar, 31952, 
Saudi Arabia 
Intertek ScanBi Diagnostics AB 
Box 166, Alnarp, SE-230 53, Sweden 
Intertek Secretaries Limited (i) 

Intertek Semko AB 
Torshamnsgatan 43, Box 1103, Kista, S-164 22, Sweden 
Intertek Services (Pty) Ltd 
1st Floor, Building D, Stoneridge Office Park, 8 Greenstone Place, Greenstone, Gauteng, Johannesburg, 1609, 
South Africa 

Intertek Servicios C.A. (i) 
Res. San Ignacio, Calle San Ignacio de Loyola con Avenue Francisco de Miranda, Local 3, Chacao, Caracas, 
Venezuela 
Intertek Statius N.V. 
Man ‘O’ War #B3, Oranjestad, St. Eustatius, Netherlands Antilles 
Intertek Surveying Services (USA), LLC (xv) 
16441 Space Center Boulevard, Suite D-100, Houston, TX 77058, United States 
Intertek Surveying Services UK Limited 
Averon House 3 Dail Nan Rocas, Teaninich Industrial Estate, Alness, IV17 0PH, United Kingdom 
Intertek Technical Inspections Canada Inc. (iv) 
1829-32nd Avenue, Lachine, Quebec, H8T 3J1, Canada 
Intertek Technical Services PTY Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 

45 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Intertek Technical Testing and Analysis Private Limited Company  
Bole Sub City Woreda 04, House Number 064/A/, Abune Yosef, Addis Ababa, 4260, Ethiopia 
Intertek Testing & Certification Limited 
Intertek Testing and Inspection Services UK Limited 
Intertek Testing Management Ltd 
Intertek Testing Services (Australia) Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 

Intertek Testing Services (Cambodia) Company Limited 
13AC, Street 337, Sangkat Boeung Kak I, Khan Tuol Kork, Phnom Penh, Cambodia 
Intertek Testing Services (East Africa) (Pty) Limited 
5th Floor Charter House, 13 Brand Road Glenwood, Kwa-Zulu Natal, 4001, South Africa 
Intertek Testing Services (Fiji) Pte Limited 
c/o BDO, Level 10, FNPF Place, 343 Victoria Parade, Suva, Fiji 
Intertek Testing Services (Guangzhou) Ltd 
No.3-1, Road 1, Xinhaixin Street, Huangge, Nansha District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China 

Intertek Testing Services (ITS) Canada Ltd 
105-9000 Bill Fox Way, Burnaby BC V5J 5J3, Canada 
Intertek Testing Services (Japan) K. K. 
Nihonbashi North Square, 1-4-2, Nihonbashi – Horidomecho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 103-0012, Japan 
Intertek Testing Services (NZ) Limited 
3 Kepa Road, Ruakaka, Northland, 0171, New Zealand 
Intertek Testing Services (Shanghai FTZ) Co., Ltd 
7th Floor, Building No. 51, 1089 North Qinzhou Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China 

Intertek Testing Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd. 
3 Irving Road #05-01 to 05, Tai Seng Centre, 369522, Singapore 
Intertek Testing Services (Thailand) Limited 
1285/5 Prachachuen Road, Wong-Sawang Sub-District, Bangsue District, Bangkok, 10800, Thailand 
Intertek Testing Services Argentina S.A. 
Cerrito 1136, piso 3ro, Frente. Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, (C1010AAX), Argentina 
Intertek Testing Services Bolivia S.A. 
Calle Chichapi # 2125, Santa Cruz, de la Sierra, Bolivia 
Intertek Testing Services Caleb Brett Egypt Limited 
Intertek Testing Services Chongqing Co., Limited 
1F/6F Building 3 No.5, East Gangcheng Loop Road, Chongqing China 

Intertek Testing Services de Honduras, S.A. 
Edificio la Pradera, locales 5 y 6. 1-2 Ave, 1 calle, Puerto Cortes, Barrio el Centro, Honduras 
Intertek Testing Services De Mexico, S.A. De C.V. (iii) 
Poniente 134, No 660 Industrial Vallejo, Mexico DF CP, 02300, Mexico

46 

Intertek Testing Services Environmental Laboratories Inc. (i) 
Lexis Document Services, 15 East North Street, Dover, DE 19901, United States 
Intertek Testing Services NA Limited 
1829-32nd Avenue, Lachine QC H8T 3J1, Canada 
Intertek Testing Services NA Sweden AB (i) 
c/o Intertek Semko AB, Box 1103, Kista, 16422, Sweden 
Intertek Testing Services Namibia (Proprietary) Limited 
15th Floor, Frans Indongo Gardens, Dr Frans Indongo Street, Windhoek, Namibia 
Intertek Testing Services Pacific Limited 
2/F, Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Intertek Testing Services Peru S.A. 
Jr. Mariscal Jose de la Mar No. 200 Urb., Res. El Pino, San Luis, Lima, Peru 
Intertek Testing Services Philippines, Inc. 
Intertek Building, 2307 Chino Roces Avenue Extension, Metro Manila, Makati City, 1231, Philippines 
Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited 
8F No. 423 Ruiguang Rd, Neihu District, Taipei, 11492, Taiwan 
Intertek Testing Services Tianjin Limited 
1-6/F, Block B, No. 7 Guiyuan Road, Hi-Tech Pack, Tianjin, China 
Intertek Testing Services Zhejiang Ltd 
Building No.2, Juanhu Science and Technology Innovation Park, No. 500 East Shuiyueting Road, Haining City, 
Zhejiang Province, China 
Intertek Timor, S.A. (i) 
Hotel Timor, Colmera, Vera Cruz, Dili, Timor-Leste 
Intertek Training Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 
6-L12-01, Level 12, Tower 2, Menara PGRM, No. 6 & 8 Jalan Pudu Ulu, Cheras, 56100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Intertek Trinidad Limited 
#91-92 Union Road, Marabella, Trinidad and Tobago 
Intertek UK Holdings Limited 
Intertek USA Finance LLC 
c/o CSC Services of Nevada, Inc., 2215-B Renaissance Dr, Las Vegas NV 89919, United States 
Intertek Vietnam Limited 
3rd & 4th floor, Au Viet Building, No. 01 Le Duc Tho Str., Mai Dich Ward, Cau Giay District, Hanoi City, Vietnam 
Intertek West Africa SARL 
Immeuble Centre Pavillon, 4eme étage, Rue Paul Langevin, Marcory, Zone 4, Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire 

Intertek West Lab AS 
Oljevegen 2, 4056 Tananger, Norway 
Intertek Genalysis SI Limited (i) 
c/o Baoro & Associates, Top Floor, Y. Sato Building, Point Cruz, Honiara, Solomon Islands 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
ITS (PNG) Limited 
Section 27 Allotment 27, Voco Point, Lae, Morobe Province, Papua New Guinea 
ITS (Subic Bay), Inc. 
Area 8 – 10, Lots 11/12 Boton Wharf, Argonaut Highway, Subic Bay, Freeport Zone, Olongapo City, Philippines 
ITS Guinea SARLU 
Resident Almamya 103 Community De Kaloum, Conakry, Guinea 
ITS Hong Kong NA, Limited (i) 
2/F Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
ITS Labtest Bangladesh Limited 
Phoenix Tower, Plot – 407 (3rd Floor), Tejgaon I/A, Dhaka, Bangladesh 
ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited 
9000 Bill Fox Way, Suite 105, Burnaby, British Columbia, V5J 5J3, Canada 
ITS Testing Services (UK) Limited 
ITS Testing Services Co. LLC 
Ras Tanura KSA, PO Box 216, 31941, Saudi Arabia 
JLA Brasil Laboratório de Análises de Alimentos S.A. 
Rua Carlos Tosin, 860, sala 1, Distrito Industrial, Distrito Industrial, Estado de São Paulo, Brazil 
KJ Tech Services GmbH (xii) 
Pallaswiesenstraße 168, 64293, Darmstadt, Germany 
Laboratorio Fermi S.A. de C.V. 
Jacarandes #15, San Clemente, Alvaro Obregon, Ciudad de Mexico, C.P. 01740, Mexico 
Laboratorios ABC Química, Investigación y Análisis, S.A. de C.V. (xiii) 
Jacarandas #19, San Clemente, Alvaro Obregón, Ciudad de Mexico, C.P. 01740, Mexico 
Laboratory Services International Rotterdam B.V. 
Pittsburghstraat 9, 3047 BL, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 
Labtest International Inc. 
545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, IL 60005, United States 
Lintec Testing Services Limited 
Louisiana Grain Services, Inc. (i) 
c/o CT Corp, 8550 United Plaza Blvd, Baton Rouge LA 70809, United States 
Mace Land Company, Inc. 
3114 Scarboro Road, Street, MD 21154, United States 
Management Systems International Limited (i) 

Materials Testing Lab, Inc. 
145 Sherwood Avenue, Farmingdale NY 11735, United States 
McPhar Geoservices (Philippines) Inc.  
Building 7 & 8 Philcrest 1 Compound, Km23 West Service Road, Bo. Cupang, Muntinlupa City, Philippines 
Melbourn Scientific Limited 
Melbourn Scientific, Saxon Way, Melbourn, Hertfordshire, Royston, SG8 6DN, United Kingdom

Metoc Limited (iii) 

Midwest Engineering Services, Inc. (i) 
CT Corporation System, 8020 Excelsior Dr., Suite 200, Madison WI 53717, United States 
Moody (Shanghai) Consulting Co., Ltd 
Room 403, No.5-6, Lane 1218, Wanrong Road, Jing ‘an District, Shanghai, China 
Moody International (Holdings) Limited (viii) 

Moody International (India) Private Limited 
E-20, Block B1, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Area, Mathura Road, New Delhi, 110044, India 
Moody International (Russia) Limited (ii) 

Moody International Certification India Limited 
E-20, Block B1, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Area, Mathura Road, New Delhi, 110044, India 
Moody International Holdings LLC (xv) 
237 Stuart Road, Amelia, LA 70340, United States 
MT Group LLC 
145 Sherwood Avenue, Farmingdale NY 11735, United States 
MT Operating of New Jersey, LLC (xv) 
145 Sherwood Avenue, Farmingdale NY 11735, United States 
MT Operating of New York, LLC (xv) 
145 Sherwood Avenue, Farmingdale NY 11735, United States 
N T A Monitor Limited 
NDT Services Limited 
Northern Territory Environmental Laboratories Pty Ltd (i) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 

NTA Monitor (M) Sdn Bhd 
No. 18-B, Jalan Kancil off Jalan Pudu, 55100 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia 
Paulsen & Bayes-Davy Ltd 
2/F, Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Petroleum Services of Union Lab Sdn. Bhd. 
Suite C-7-10 (B), Level 9, Block C, UE3 Corporate Offices, Menara Uncang Emas, No 85 Jalan Loke Yew, 
Taman Miharja, 55200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory Inc. (i) 
PSI, 850 Poplar Street, Pittsburgh PA 15220, United States 
PlayerLync Holdings, Inc. 
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle DE 19801, United States 
PlayerLync LLC 
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle DE 19801, United States 
Profesionales Contables en Asesoría Empresarial y de Ingenieria S.A.S. 
Calle 120, No. 45A – 32, Bogota, Colombia 
Professional Service Industries (Canada) Inc. (i) 
200 Bay Street, Suite 3800, Royal Bank Plaza, South Tower, Toronto ON M5J 2J7, Canada 

47 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Professional Service Industries, Inc. 
545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, IL 60005, United States 
Professional Service Industries Holdings, Inc. 
545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, IL 60005, United States 
PSI Acquisitions, Inc. 
545 E. Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, IL 60005, United States 
PT. Moody Technical Services 
Graha STR 3rd floor, Suite#302, Jl. Ampera Raya No. 11, Jakarta, 12550, Indonesia 
PT. RCG Moody  
Graha STR 3rd floor, Suite#302, Jl. Ampera Raya No. 11, Jakarta, 12550, Indonesia 
PT. SAI Global Indonesia 
Graha Iskandarsyah Lantai 4, Jalan Iskandarsyah Raya Nomor 66-C, Kebayoran Baru, Jakarta, 12160, Indonesia 
QMI-SAI Canada Limited 
20 Carlson Court, Suite 200, Toronto ON M9W 7K6, Canada 
RCG Moody International Uruguay S.A. 
Cerrito 507, 4th Floor, Off. 46, 47, Montevideo 11000, Uruguay 
SAI Global Assurance Learning Limited (ii)

SAI Global Assurance Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
SAI Global Assurance Services Limited 
SAI Global Assurance Services sp. z o.o.  
Oszczepników 4, 02-633 Warszawa, Poland 
SAI Global Australia (China) Pty Limited (i) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
SAI Global Australia Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
SAI Global Certification Services Pty Limited (i) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
SAI Global CIS UK Limited 
SAI Global GmbH (ii) 
Friedrich-Ebert-Anlage 36, 60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 
SAI Global GP (xv) 
205 W. Wacker Dr, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606, United States 
SAI Global, Inc. 
615 South DuPont Highway, Dover, DE 19901, United States 
SAI Global Italia S.R.L. 
Corso Tazzoli 235/3, CAP 10137, Turin, Italy

48 

SAI Global Japan Co. Ltd.  
MK Bldg. 8F, 2-28-22 Shiba, Minato-ku Tokyo, Japan 
SAI Global Korea Co., Ltd 
(Dangjeong-dong, Intertek Building) 3, Gongdan-ro 160beon-gil, Gunpo-si, Gyeonggi-do, Seoul, South Korea 
SAI Global Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V (xvi) 
Poniente 134, No 660 Industrial Vallejo, Mexico DF CP, 02300, Mexico 
SAI Global Pty Limited 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 
SAI Global SARL 
29 Rue du Pont, 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France 
SAI Global UK Holdings Limited 
SAI Global US Holdings, Inc. 
205 W. Wacker Dr, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606, United States 
Schindler & Associates (L.C.) (i) (xv) 
24900 Pitkin Road, Suite 200, The Woodlands TX 77386, United States 
Shanghai Orient Intertek Testing Services Company Limited 
Room 304\401,No 1\4\5, Lane 2028, Changzhong Road, Jing’an District, Shanghai, China 
Shanghai Tianxiao Investment Consultancy Company Limited 
Room 502, No.5-6, 1218 WanRong Road, Shanghai 200070, China 
Technical Company for Testing and Conformity Services & Systems LLC 
Gates No. 1/2/6, Building 73/ Area 903, Karadah, Al Rusafa, Baghdad, Iraq 
Testing Holdings Sweden AB 
Torshamnsgatan 43, Box 1103, Kista, S-164 22, Sweden 
Tradegood.com International Limited  
2/F, Garment Centre, 576 Castle Peak Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Van Sluys & Bayet NV 
Kruisschansweg 11, 2040 Antwerp, Belgium 
White Land Company, Inc. 
3114 Scarboro Road, Street, MD 21154, United States 
Wilson Inspection X-Ray Services, Inc. (i) 
Michael E Wilson, 6010 Edgewater Dr., Corpus Christi TX 78412, United States 
Wisco SE Asia PTE Limited (i) 
3 Irving Road #05-01 to 05, Tai Seng Centre, 369522, Singapore 
Youngever Holdings Ltd 
Luna Tower, Waterfront Drive, Road Town, Tortola, VG 1110, British Virgin Islands 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report23 Principal Group companies Continued 
Related undertakings where the effective interest is less than 100% 
Caleb Brett Abu Dhabi LLC (xviii) (xix) (49.0%)  
CB UAE (Private) Ltd, c/o Al Nahiya Group, PO Box 3728, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
Clean Energy Associates, LLC (xv) (85.0%) 
16192 Coastal Highway, Lewes, DE, 19958, United States 

Clean Energy Associates Limited (85.0%) 
302-308 Hennessy Road, Room 2003, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Clean Energy Associates (China) Limited (85.0%) 
Room 159, Building 4th, No. 2118 Guanghua Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China 
Controle Analítico Análises Técnicas Ltda. (80.0%) 
281 Rua Leão XIII, Vila dos Remédios, Osasco, São Paulo, 06298-180, Brazil 

CQC-SAI Management Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd (70%) 
Level 21, Suite 2101-2103A, Beijing AVIC Building, No 10B, East 3rd Ring Road, Chaoyang District, 
Beijing 100022, China 
Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC (xix) (49.0%)  
PO Box 46153, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
International Inspection Services LLC (xviii) (70.0%)  
PO Box 193, Al Hamriyah, Muscat, PC 131, Oman 
Intertek (Qeshm Island) Limited (51.0%) 
Unit 107, Goldis Building, Valiasr Boulevard, Qeshm Island, Islamic Republic of Iran 
Intertek Angola LDA (99.0%) 
282 Rua Amilcar Cabral no.147 2nd floor, Apartment Z, Luanda, Angola 
Intertek Burkina Faso SAS (xix) (49%) 
Lot 113, Parcelle no. PE 1/2, Secteur no.11. Ouagagougou, 02 BP 5984, Burkina Faso 
Intertek Caleb Brett Tzn Limited (75%) 
Plot number 5, Minizani str.-Opposite Roman Catholic Church, Kilwa Road, Kurasini Temeke, Dar Es Salaam, 
15109, United Republic of Tanzania 
Intertek Certification International Sdn. Bhd. (xix) (40%)  
6-L12-01, Level 12, Tower 2, Menara PGRM, No. 6 & 8 Jalan Pudu Ulu, Cheras, 56100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Intertek ETL SEMKO KOREA Limited (90.0%) 
5F, Intertek building, Gongdan-ro, 160beon-gil 3, Gunpo-si, Gyeonggi-do, 15845, South Korea 
Intertek Geronimo JV Limited (70.0%) 
1, North Industrial Area, Klan Street, Accra, Ghana 
Intertek Global International LLC (xv) (xix) (49%)  
Building 242, Office No.3, C-Ring Road, Doha, PO Box 47146, Qatar 
Intertek GM Testing Service Zhuhai Co., Ltd (70.0%) 
6F of Research and Development Building, Guangdong-Macau TCM Park Commercial Service Center, 2682 Huan 
Dao Bei Road, Hengqin New Area, Zhuhai, Guangdong China

Intertek Industry Services (PTY) LTD (69.9%) 
Woodhill Office Park Building 2, First Floor Unit 8b, 53 Phillip Engelbrecht Drive, Meyersdal Gauteng, 1448, 
South Africa 
Intertek Industry Services Colombia Limited (99.0%) 
Calle 127A No. 53A-45, Oficina 1103, Bogotá, Colombia 
Intertek Inspection (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (xi) (xix) (40%)  
D-28-3, Level 28, Menara Suezcap 1, No. 2 Jalan Kerinchi, Gerbang Kerinchi Lestari, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
Intertek Kimsco Co., Ltd (50.0%) 
9F, Hansan Building, 115, Seosomun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, 04515, South Korea 
Intertek Lanka (Private) Limited (70.0%) 
Intertek House, No: 282, Kaduwela Road, Battaramulla, Sri Lanka 
Intertek Libya Technical Services and Consultations Company Spa (65.0%) 
P.O Box 3788, Hay Alandalus, Gargaresh, Tripoli, Libya 
Intertek Life Bridge (Shanghai) Testing Services Co., Ltd (80.0%) 
4F, No.6 BLD, Lane 1218, Wanrong Road, Shanghai 200070, China 

Intertek Ltd (99.9%) 
Borco Administration Bldg, West Sunrise Highway, Freeport, Grand Bahama, The Bahamas 
Intertek – QNP LLP (xvii) (51.0%) 
Building 2A, Abay street, Atyrau City, 060002, Kazakhstan 
Intertek Robotic Laboratories Pty Limited (50.0%) 
544 Bickley Road, Maddington WA 6109, Australia 

Intertek South Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd (75.0%) 
5th Floor, Charter House, 13 Brand Road, Glenwood, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa 
Intertek Test Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi (85.0%) 
Merkez Mahallesi, Sanayi Cad. No.23, Altindag Plaza, Yenibosna-34197, Istanbul, Turkey 
Intertek Testing Services (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd (xi) (xix) (49.5%)  
5th Floor, Charter House, 13 Brand Road, Glenwood, Durban, South Africa 
Intertek Testing Services Changzhou Ltd (85.0%) 
Room 201, No 4 Floor, Changzhou Testing Industrial Park, Tanning District, Changzhou, China 
Intertek Testing Services Korea Limited (50.0%) 
1st Fl., Aju Digital Tower, 284-56, Seongsu-dong 2-ga, Seongdong-gu, Seoul 133-120, South Korea 
Intertek Testing Services Nigeria Limited (65.9%) 
73B Marine Road, Apapa GRA, Apapa, Lagos, 102272, Nigeria 
Intertek Testing Services Sichuan Co., Ltd (90.0%) 
No 1, Jiuxiang Blvd, Pharmacy Industry Park, Luzhou National High Technology District, Sichuan, China 
Intertek Testing Services Wuxi Ltd (70.0%) 
1/F, No.8 Fubei Road, Xishan Economic Development Zone, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214101, China 
ITS Caleb Brett Deniz Survey A S (50.0%) 
Ulus Mah. Oz Topuz cad. no.32, Besiktas, Istanbul, 34340, Turkey 

49 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportAssociates 
Moody International Certification Ltd (40.0%) 
53, Nautic, Triq l-Ortolan, San Gwann, SGN 1943, Malta 
Moody Certification Maroc SARL(30.0%) 
28, Rue de Provins, 2 eme etage, Casablanca, Morocco 
Moody International SA (35.0%) 
4 Rue Des Brasseurs, Zone 3 Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire 

  Dormant. 

In Liquidation/Strike off requested. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)    Ownership held in class A and B shares 
(iv)    Ownership held in class A and E shares. 
(v) 
  Ownership held in class A, B, C, D and E shares. 
(vi)    Ownership held in class A, B, C, D, E and F shares. 
(vii)    Ownership held in ordinary and ordinary-A shares. 
(viii)   Ownership held in ordinary, ordinary-A, ordinary-B and deferred shares. 
(ix)    Ownership held in ordinary and preference shares. 
(x) 
  Ownership held in ordinary and redeemable shares. 
(xi)    Ownership held in ordinary and redeemable preference shares. 
(xii)    Ownership held in No.1, No.2.1 and No.2.2 shares. 
(xiii)   Ownership held in class I Series B shares and class II Series B shares 
(xiv)   Ownership held in ordinary bearer shares. 
(xv)    Ownership held in membership units. 
(xvi)   Ownership held in quota capital shares. 
(xvii)  Ownership held in charter fund capital. 
(xviii)  The Group obtains 99% of the economic benefit of the company. 
(xix)  

Intertek has de facto control of the company. 

23 Principal Group companies Continued 
ITS Testing Services (M) Sdn Bhd (74.0%) 
Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No.8, Jalan Kerinchi, 
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
ITS Testing Services Holdings (M) Sdn Bhd (xix) (49.0%)  
Unit 30-01 Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Moody International Angola Ltda (i) (xvi) (78.6%) 
Rua de Macau, Edifico ex Edil Apto 1, Res de Chao Esq. C.P 215, Cabinda, Angola 
Moody International Bangladesh Limited (99.9%) 
House 6, Road 17/A, Block E, Ground Floor, Banani, Dhaka, 1213, Bangladesh 
Moody International Holdings Chile Ltda (99.0%) 
Avenida Las Condes N° 11287 Torre A, oficina 301 A Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 
Moody International Lanka (Private) Ltd (i) (99.9%) 
No.5, St Albans Place, Colombo-4, Sri Lanka 
Moody International Philippines, Inc. (i) (92.5%) 
Intertek Building, 2310 Chino Roces Avenue Extension, Metro Manila, Makati City, 1231, Philippines 
PT Citrabuana Indoloka (50.0%)  
Jl. Raya Bogor KM 28, RT/RW. 04/07, Kel. Pekayon, Kec. Pasar Rebo, Jakarta Timur, 13710, Indonesia 
PT. Global Assurance Services (ii) (99.8%) 
Graha Iskandarsyah Raya No.66-C, Jakarta, 12160, Indonesia 
PT. Intertek Utama Services (xix) (49.0%)  
Jl. Raya Bogor KM. 28, RT/RW. 04/07, Kel. Pekayon, Kec. Pasar Rebo, Jakarta Timur, 13710, Indonesia 
Qatar Calibration Services LLC (xix) (49.0%)  
Petrotec, PO Box 16069, 8th Floor, Toyota Tower, Doha, Qatar 
RCG Moody International de Venezuela S.A. (i) (99.0%) 
Res Morgana, p_4, #04, Av.Andres Bello, Fco de Miranda, Los Polos Grandes, Caracas, Venezuela 
SAI Global (Cyprus) Holdings Limited (60.0%) 
1 Lampousas Street, 1095 Nicosia, Cyprus 
SAI Global Eurasia LLC (60.0%) 
59 pomeshch. 17-n kom., litera a, 7, nab. Reki Volkovki, 192102, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation 
Shanghai Moody Management & Technical Services Co. Ltd (i) (90.0%) 
Room 225, No. 14 at Lane No. 1700 Luo Shan Road, Shanghai, China 
Société SAI Global Tunisia SARL (75.0%) 
67, Avenue Alain Savary, Cite les Jardins 2 Bloc A, Tunis, Tunisia 
Société Tunisienne Intertek Caleb Brett SARL (51.0%) 
67 rue Ech-Chem, Tunis, 1002, Tunisia 
The Wine Warehouse (Chepstow) Management Company Limited (75%)

50 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
Intertek Group plc – Company balance sheet 

As at 31 December 

Fixed assets 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings

Current assets 
Debtors due within one year 

Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors due within one year 
Overdrafts and loans 
Other creditors 

Net current assets 

Total assets less current liabilities 

Net assets 

Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital 
Share premium 
Profit and loss reserves 

Total shareholders’ funds 

The profit for the financial year was £193.9m (2022: £142.9m). 

The financial statements on pages 51 to 56 were approved by the Board on 4 March 2024 and were signed on its behalf by: 

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

Company number: 04267576

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer 

51

Notes 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

(E) 

360.2 

354.3 

(F) 

(G) 

439.2 

439.2 
– 

439.2 

(2.4) 
(40.3) 

(42.7) 

396.5 

756.7 

387.4 

387.4 
0.2 

387.6 

– 
( 7.4) 

( 7.4) 

380.2 

734.5 

756.7 

734.5 

(H) 
(H) 
(H) 

1.6 
257.8 
497.3 

756.7 

1.6 
257.8 
475.1 

734.5 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIntertek Group plc – Company statement of changes in equity 

At 1 January 2022 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
Profit 

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity 
Contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company 
Dividends paid 
Purchase of own shares
Tax paid on Share Awards vested
Equity-settled transactions 

Total contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company

At 31 December 2022 

At 1 January 2023 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
Profit 

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity 
Contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company 
Dividends paid 
Purchase of own shares
Tax paid on Share Awards vested
Equity-settled transactions 

Total contributions by and distributions to the owners of the Company

At 31 December 2023 

52

Notes 

Share capital 
£m 

Share 
premium 
£m 

Profit and 
loss reserves 
£m 

Total 
equity 
£m 

1.6 

257.8 

491.6 

751.0 

(B)

(D)

(E)

(B)

(D)

(E)

–

–

–
–
–
–

–

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

1.6 

257.8 

142.9 

142.9 

142.9 

142.9 

(170.6) 
(2.3) 
(4.0) 
17.5 

(159.4) 

475.1 

(170.6) 
(2.3) 
(4.0) 
17.5 

(159.4) 

734.5 

1.6 

257.8 

475.1 

734.5 

–

–

–
–
–
–

–

– 

– 

– 
– 
– 
– 

– 

193.9 

193.9 

193.9 

193.9 

(176.3) 
(11.6) 
(5.0) 
21.2 

(176.3) 
(11.6) 
(5.0) 
21.2 

(171.7) 

(171.7) 

1.6 

257.8 

497.3 

756.7

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes to the Company financial statements 

(A) Accounting policies – Company 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered 
material in relation to the Company’s financial statements. 

Basis of preparation 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework (‘FRS 101’) in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 

These financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. The Company continues to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements. Further detail on going concern 
can be found in note 1 to the Group financial statements. 

In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure 
requirements of UK-adopted International Accounting Standards (‘Adopted IFRSs’), but makes amendments 
where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of 
the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken. 

These financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company. 
All information presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m. 

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect 
of the following disclosures: 
•  a cash flow statement and related notes; 
•  comparative period reconciliations for share capital; 
•  disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; 
•  disclosures in respect of capital management; 
•  the effects of new, but not yet effective, IFRSs; 
•  an additional balance sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective 

change in accounting policy; 

•  disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel; and 
•  certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 
Financial Instrument Disclosures on the basis that the consolidated financial statements include the 
equivalent disclosures. 

As the consolidated financial statements include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the 
exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment in respect of Group-settled 
share-based payments. 

The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next 
financial statements. 

Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its 
own profit and loss account. 

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods 
presented in these financial statements. 

Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded to the Company’s functional currency, sterling, using the rate 
of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign exchange 
differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 

Taxation 
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit and 
loss account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive 
income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income. 

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of 
previous years. 

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences 
are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect 
neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination; and differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The 
amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. 

Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is 
established. Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to 
the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. 
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. 

Investments in subsidiaries 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment. 

Intercompany financial guarantees 
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other 
companies in the Group, upon the adoption of IFRS17 effective from 1 January 2023, the Company has elected 
to recognise these under IFRS9. On this basis, the Company recognises these guarantees at fair value upon 
recognition, on a contract by contract basis. Subsequent remeasurement is performed at each reporting period 
and recorded at he higher of the loss allowance under expected credit loss and the initial fair value less any 
income recognised. 

Share-based payments 
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the 
Company. Details of the share schemes are given in note 17 of the Group financial statements.

53

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report(A) Accounting policies – Company Continued 
Investments impairment review 
Interests in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities are initially measured at cost and 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Estimates are used in determining 
the level of investment that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be recoverable. 

Recoverability of receivables 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are recognised initially at the value of the invoice or loan raised and 
subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable (amortised cost). Estimates are used in determining 
the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. The Company applies the 
simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for 
all receivables. The provision calculations are based on a review of all receivables to see if there are specific 
circumstances which would render the receivable irrecoverable and therefore require a specific provision. 

Significant new accounting policies and standards 
No significant new accounting policies or standards were adopted in the year ending 2023. 

(D) Dividends 
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 

Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability  

in that year 

Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 

Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

115.5 
60.8 

176.3 

115.5 
55.1 

170.6 

The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2023 is £nil 
(2022: £nil). The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 
2023 is £120.2m (2022: £115.5m). 

(E) Investment in subsidiary undertakings 

(B) Profit and loss account 
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditors and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than 
the audit of the Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead 
to be disclosed on a consolidated basis. The Company does not have any employees (2022: nil). 

Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration report in Book two, pages 78 
to 103. 

Cost and net book value 
At 1 January 
Additions due to share-based payments 
Recharges of share-based payments to subsidiaries 

At 31 December 

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

354.3 
21.2 
(15.3) 

360.2 

347.3 
17.5 
(10.5) 

354.3 

(C) Use of judgements and estimates 
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. 

The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are 
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, 
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 

The assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities are outlined below. There are no critical estimates which have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. 

Key estimations and uncertainties 
There are no critical accounting judgements or estimates. 

54 

The Company has made Share Awards to the employees of its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries, and as 
such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £21.2m (2022: £17.5m). 
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements. 

The Company had two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2023: Intertek Testing Services 
Holdings Limited and Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the 
United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are 
wholly owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not 
less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet. 

There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments (2022: £nil). 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the Company financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report(F) Debtors due within one year 

Amounts owed by Group undertakings – due within one year 

Total debtors 

2023 
£m 

439.2 

439.2 

2022 
£m 

387.4 

387.4 

(I) Related party transactions 
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements. 

Listed below are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by the Group, where the Directors have taken the 
exemption from having an audit of its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023. This 
exemption is taken in accordance with Section 479A of the Companies Act. 

The amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable 
on demand. A mixture of the amounts due are interest bearing and interest free. 

(G) Creditors due within one year 

Trade and other creditors 

Income tax payable 

Amounts owed to Group undertakings 

Total creditors 

2023 
£m 

3.1 

3.1 

34.1 

40.3 

2022 
£m 

3.7 

3.5 

0.2 

7.4 

The amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable 
on demand. A mixture of the amounts due are interest bearing and interest free. 

(H) Statement of changes in equity 
Details of share capital are set out in note 15 and details of share-based payments are set out in note 17 to 
the Group financial statements. 

A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006. The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £176.3m 
(2022: £170.6m), was £193.9m (2022: £142.9m) which was mainly in respect of dividend income in relation 
to 2023. 

The Company has sufficient distributable reserves to pay the 2023 final dividend and the anticipated 2024 
interim dividend. When required, the Company can receive additional dividends from its subsidiaries to further 
increase distributable reserves. 

The Group settled in cash the tax element of the Share Awards vested in 2023 amounting to £5.6m 
(2022: £4.4m) of which the Company settled £5.0m (2022: £4.0m). 

During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Company purchased, through its Employee Benefit Trust, 
278,500 (2022: 45,000) of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £2,785 (2022: £450) for 
£11.6m (2022: £2.3m) which was charged to profit and loss reserves.

Company Name 

Company registration 

Intertek Nominees Limited 

Moody International (Holdings) Limited 

Intertek UK Holdings Limited 

Intertek Holdings Limited 

Intertek USD Finance Ltd 

Intertek Finance No. 2 Ltd 

Intertek Capital Resources Limited 

Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited 

RCG-Moody International Limited 

Intertek Overseas Holdings Limited 

Intertek Testing Management Ltd 

Lintec Testing Services Limited 

Intertek Testing & Certification Limited 

Metoc Limited 

NDT Services Limited 

Melbourn Scientific Limited 

04958152 

04843153 

00373440 

04604778 

07598700 

08072121 

03888392 

03227453 

00312030 

00506349 

00948153 

03339548 

03272281 

01489779 

01997290 

02358299 

Intertek Testing and Inspection Services UK Limited 

08351820 

Intertek Certification Limited 

Alchemy Systems Training Limited 

Check Safety First Limited 

Checkpoint Solutions Ltd 

SAI Global Assurance Services Ltd 

SAI Global CIS UK Limited 

ILI Limited 

02075885 

07448398 

04748066 

09844787 

03690660 

07428352 

05605930 

55 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the Company financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic Report(I) Related party transactions continued

Company Name 

Company registration 

The Wine Warehouse (Chepstow) Management 

Company Limited 

05747149 

Intertek Testing Services Caleb Brett Egypt Limited 

00542087 

Intertek Global (Iraq) Limited 

Intertek Medical Notified Body UK Limited 

09358012 

13964915 

(J) Contingent liabilities 
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross-guarantee 
arrangement. This is a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, 
guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which was £10.8m at 31 December 2023 
(2022: £0.8m). 

From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain 
liabilities of subsidiary undertakings. As at the 31 December 2023 the value of these guarantees is £nil. 

(K) Subsequent events 
Details of post-balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 18 of the Group 
financial statements. 

56 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Notes to the Company financial statements ContinuedBook two: Sustainability ReportBook three: Financial ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report to the members of Intertek Group plc 

Report on the audit of the financial statements 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
•  Intertek Group plc’s group financial statements and company financial statements (the “financial statements”) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and 
of the group’s and company’s profit and the group’s cash flows for the year then ended; 

•  the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international 

Our audit approach 
Overview 
Audit scope 
•  We performed full scope audit procedures over 54 legal entities and specific audit procedures on a further 

two entities, covering 23 territories in total. 

•  Taken together, the entities over which audit work was performed accounted for 73% of the group’s revenue 

and 74% of the group’s statutory profit before tax. 

accounting standards; 

•  the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 

Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced 
Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and 

•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 

Key audit matters 
•  Impairment of goodwill (group) 
•  Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities (group) 
•  Impairment of investments in subsidiary undertakings (parent) 

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts (the “Annual Report”), 
which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position and company balance sheet as at 
31 December 2023; the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
consolidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity and company statement 
of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, comprising material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory information. 

Materiality 
•  Overall group materiality: £20,800,000 (2022: £20,800,000) based  

on approximately 5% of profit before tax. 

•  Overall company materiality: £6,357,000 (2022: £7,400,000) based  

on approximately 1% of total assets. 

•  Performance materiality: £15,000,000 (2022: £15,000,000) (group)  

and £4,700,000 (2022: £5,500,000) (company). 

Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee. 

Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and 
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities 
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.. 

Independence 
We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our 
audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed 
public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements. 

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard were not provided. 

Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee report within the Directors’ report, we have provided 
no non-audit services to the company or its controlled undertakings in the period under audit.

The scope of our audit 
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in 
the financial statements. 

Key audit matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in 
the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of 
material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by the auditors, including those which had the 
greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 

This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 

The key audit matters below are consistent with last year. 

57

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

Key audit matter 

How our audit addressed the key audit matter 

Key audit matter 

How our audit addressed the key audit matter 

Impairment of goodwill (group) 
Refer to the Audit Committee report in Book two, 
page 77 and to note 9 in the financial statements. 

The group had £1,385.8 million of goodwill 
recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 
2023. The potential impairment of goodwill is 
dependent on future cash flows of the underlying 
Cash Generating Units (“CGUs”) and there is a 
risk that, if these cash flows are not sufficient 
to support the carrying value, the assets may 
be impaired. Having considered the industry 
environments and business performance, we 
consider that the CGUs for Business Assurance, 
Caleb Brett, Building & Construction and 
Chemicals & Pharma represent an elevated risk 
of impairment, requiring greater audit effort. 

Accounting standards require management 
to perform an annual assessment of 
the carrying value of goodwill. 

As this assessment is based on the future value 
in use, and a significant amount of value is 
based on the value to perpetuity of the CGUs, 
future cash flows must be estimated, which can 
be highly judgemental and could significantly 
impact the carrying value of the assets. 

58

We evaluated management’s cash flow 
forecasts and understood the process by which 
they were determined and approved. This 
included confirming that the forecasts were 
consistent with the latest Board approved 
budgets and checking the methodology and 
mathematical accuracy of the underlying 
calculations, with no exceptions identified. 

We evaluated the inputs included in the value 
in use calculations and challenged the key 
assumptions for the higher risk CGUs – Business 
Assurance, Caleb Brett, Building & Construction 
and Chemicals & Pharma, by obtaining evidence 
including in respect of the following: 

•  the growth rates used in the cash flow forecasts 

by comparing them with historical results, external 
forecasts and our understanding of the business; 

•  using our internal valuation experts to evaluate 

the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital 
for the group with comparable organisations; and 

•  the long-term growth rates by comparing these 
with publicly available market data on projected 
growth rates in key territories such as China, 
the United States and the United Kingdom. 

We performed sensitivity analyses around these 
assumptions. We also challenged the extent to 
which climate change considerations had been 
reflected, as appropriate, in management’s 
impairment assessment process. 

Having ascertained the extent of change in 
those assumptions that either individually or 
collectively would be required for an impairment 
to arise, we considered the likelihood of such 
a movement occurring to be unlikely. 

Our testing did not identify any impairment and 
confirmed that it would require significant downside 
changes before any impairment would be triggered. 

In addition, we assessed the appropriateness 
of the CGUs used in the impairment 
assessment and the related disclosures and 
concluded that these were appropriate.

Valuation of defined benefit pension 
scheme liabilities (group) 
Refer to the Audit Committee report in Book two, 
page 77 and to note 16 in the financial statements. 

   We utilised our internal actuarial experts to evaluate 
whether the assumptions and methodology used in 
calculating the pension liabilities were reasonable, by: 

The group had two major pension schemes in 
the United Kingdom and Switzerland. The United 
Kingdom scheme has a net surplus of £21.8 
million and the Switzerland scheme has a net 
deficit of £4.8 million. They were recognised 
on the balance sheet at 31 December 2023. 

The present value of funded defined benefit 
obligations for the United Kingdom scheme 
is £90 million and £19.2 million for the 
Switzerland Scheme at 31 December 2023. 

•  Assessing whether salary increases and 

mortality rate assumptions were reasonable 
based on the consideration of the specifics 
of each plan, pension plans of similar maturity 
to the group’s and industry benchmarks; 

•  Evaluating the consistency of the discount and 
inflation rate assumptions with our internally 
developed benchmarks based on national data; and 

•  Reviewing the methodology and 

calculations prepared by external actuaries 
to assess their appropriateness and the 
consistency of the assumptions used. 

The valuation of pension liabilities involves the 
exercise of judgement and technical expertise in 
choosing appropriate actuarial assumptions such 
as the discount rate, inflation level, mortality rates 
and salary increases. Based on these considerations, 
we assessed this to be an elevated audit risk. 

Based on our procedures, we concluded 
that the key assumptions utilised lay within 
acceptable ranges and that the methodology was 
appropriate. We assessed the related disclosures 
included in the group financial statements and 
concluded that these were appropriate. 

Management engaged external actuarial 
experts to assist them in selecting appropriate 
assumptions and to calculate the liabilities. 
The methodologies and assumptions utilised 
are judgemental and could significantly impact 
the magnitude of the liabilities recognised. 

Impairment of investments in 
subsidiary undertakings (parent) 
Refer to note E in the Company financial statements. 

The parent company had £360.2 million of 
investments in subsidiary undertakings. There 
is a risk that the performance of the subsidiary 
undertakings is not sufficient to support the 
carrying value and the assets may be impaired. 
Management has performed an assessment of 
impairment indicators with none being identified. 
Although this was not an area of heightened risk 
in respect of the Company financial statements, 
it utilised more senior audit team time and hence 
has been included as a Key Audit Matter. 

We evaluated management’s assessment 
of impairment indicators and considered the 
consistency with other audit procedures performed. 
We concluded management’s view that no 
impairment indicators exist was reasonable. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the 
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate. 

The impact of climate risk on our audit 
As part of our audit we have made enquiries of management to understand the process they adopted to 
assess the extent of the potential impact of climate risk on the financial statements and support the 
disclosures made in relation to climate risk within the Strategic Report and Sustainability Report. 

In addition to enquiries with management, we also read the Carbon Disclosure Project public submission made 
by the group. 

We assessed the completeness of management’s climate risk assessment by: reading external reporting made 
by management including the Carbon Disclosure Project submissions and making management aware of any 
internal inconsistencies in their climate reporting; and challenging the consistency of management’s climate 
impact assessment with internal board minutes, including whether the time horizons management have used 
take account of the relevant aspects of climate change such as transition risks. 

The Board has made commitments to get to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. 

Management has assessed that there is no material impact on the financial reporting judgement and estimates 
arising from their considerations, consistent with their assessment of no material impact of climate-related 
policies directly on the business. 

Using our knowledge of the business, we evaluated management’s risk assessment, its estimates as set out in 
note 1 of the financial statements and resulting disclosures where significant. In particular we have considered 
how climate risk would impact the assumptions made in the forecasts prepared by management used in their 
impairment analyses, as referenced in the key audit matter in relation to the impairment of goodwill above. 

We also considered the consistency of the disclosures in relation to climate change within the Strategic Report 
and the Sustainability Report with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained from the audit. 

Our procedures did not identify any material impact in the context of our audit of the financial statements as 
a whole, or our key audit matters, for the year ended 31 December 2023. 

The group is now split into five reporting segments: Consumer Products, Corporate Assurance, Health and 
Safety, Industry and Infrastructure and World of Energy, which changed from the previous three reporting 
segments during the year. The group’s operations are spread across over 100 territories and approximately 
600 legal entities. The results are not consolidated at a territory or regional level, so we determined that the 
most appropriate level at which to scope our audit was the legal entity level. 

When determining our scope, the key financial measure used was profit before tax. Due to the disaggregation 
of the group’s results across the various entities, we identified two individually financially significant legal 
entities, one within China and one within the United States. As a result, we instructed our component teams 
to perform audits of the complete financial information of these entities. 

We considered the territories in which PwC is appointed statutory auditor. Of these, 16 territories (including 
China) accounted for a substantial proportion of external profit, and we therefore focused our considerations 
on these territories. Within these territories, we then excluded any legal entities with no external balances, 
such as intermediate holding companies, and those entities with highly immaterial revenue. This left 39 legal 
entities (including the one financially significant legal entity in China) for which we instructed our local teams 
to perform audits of the complete financial information for the purpose of the group audit. In addition, we 
performed full scope audit procedures over two head office legal entities. 

In certain territories, notably the United States and Canada, there is no statutory audit requirement and so we 
considered whether procedures needed to be performed to supplement our coverage. We selected seven of 
the largest entities in the United States and Canada for full scope audits (including the one financially 
significant legal entity in the United States), representing those with the largest contribution to group profit. 

We identified a further two legal entities in Brazil and Saudi Arabia over which we instructed specific audit 
procedures to be performed over revenue and receivables to supplement coverage over these key financial 
statement line items. 

In addition, there were six legal entities in three territories where a non-PwC network audit firm is the 
appointed statutory auditor. We instructed them to perform audits of the complete financial information 
for the purpose of the group audit. 

In total we performed procedures relating to 56 legal entities in 23 territories, which together accounted 
for 73% of the group’s revenue and 74% of the group’s profit before tax. 

This, together with additional procedures performed at the group level (including audit procedures over 
business acquisitions, impairment assessments, defined benefit pension schemes, tax and consolidation 
adjustments), gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.

59

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds 
for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit 
and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and 
disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial 
statements as a whole. 

Conclusions relating to going concern 
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group’s and the company’s ability to continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting included: 

•  An assessment of management’s base case and severe but plausible scenarios, challenging the 

key assumptions; 

•  Considering the group’s available financing, including related covenants, and maturity profile to assess 

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole 
as follows: 

liquidity through the assessment period; 

•  Testing the mathematical integrity of the forecasts and the models and reconciled these to Board 

approved budgets; and 

•  Performing our own independent sensitivity analysis to assess appropriate downside scenarios. 

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or 
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group’s and the company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue. 

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. 

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as 
to the group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 

In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements 
about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting. 

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in 
the relevant sections of this report. 

Financial statements – group 

Financial statements – company 

Overall materiality 

£20,800,000 (2022: £20,800,000). 

£6,357,000 (2022: £7,400,000). 

How we determined it 

approximately 5% of profit before tax 

approximately 1% of total assets 

Rationale for benchmark 
applied 

We believe that profit before tax is the 
primary measure used by the 
shareholders and users of the financial 
statements in assessing the 
performance of the Group. This is a 
generally accepted benchmark. 

These are a single set of company 
accounts for an entity which has no 
external revenue and takes advantage 
of the exemption offered under S408 
of Companies Act 2006 not to present 
its income statement in its financial 
statements, which are presented 
alongside the group financial 
statements within the Annual Report. 
As a result, the determination of 
materiality was based on the total 
assets of this non-trading holding 
company within the group. 

For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall 
group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was £1.3 million and £8.2 million. 
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall 
group materiality. 

We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of 
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance 
materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature and extent of our testing of account balances, 
classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. Our performance materiality 
was 75% (2022: 75%) of overall materiality, amounting to £15,000,000 (2022: £15,000,000) for the group 
financial statements and £4,700,000 (2022: £5,500,000) for the company financial statements. 

In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history of misstatements, 
risk assessment and aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – and concluded that an amount in the 
middle of our normal range was appropriate. 

We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit 
above £1,000,000 (group audit) (2022: £1,000,000) and £317,800 (company audit) (2022: £1,000,000) as 
well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

60

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

Reporting on other information 
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial 
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not 
express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of 
assurance thereon. 

Corporate governance statement 
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term 
viability and that part of the corporate governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with 
respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are described in the Reporting on other 
information section of this report. 

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, 
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an 
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude 
whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other 
information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of 
this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these 
responsibilities. 

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ report, we also considered whether the disclosures required 
by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included. 

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report 
certain opinions and matters as described below. 

Strategic report and Directors’ report 
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic 
report and Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with the financial statements 
and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. 

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained 
in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and 
Directors’ report. 

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of 
the corporate governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge 
obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 

•  The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks; 
•  The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to 

identify emerging risks and an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated; 

•  The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt 

the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material 
uncertainties to the group’s and company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; 

•  The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group’s and company’s prospects, the period this 

assessment covers and why the period is appropriate; and 

•  The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 

Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group and company was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ 
process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is in alignment with the relevant provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained 
in the course of the audit. 

Directors’ Remuneration 
In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following 
elements of the corporate governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and 
our knowledge obtained during the audit: 

•  The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and 
company’s position, performance, business model and strategy; 

•  The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and 

internal control systems; and 

•  The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee. 

We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to 
the company’s compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of 
the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by the auditors. 

61

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the 
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or 
the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 

•  Enquiring of the group’s staff in tax and compliance functions to identify any instances of non-compliance 

with laws and regulations; 

•  Obtaining and understanding the results of whistleblowing procedures; 
•  Enquiring of the group’s Head of Internal Audit and reviewing internal audit reports; and 
•  Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance 

with applicable laws and regulations. 

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of 
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions 
reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is 
higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, 
for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. 

Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly 
using data auditing techniques. However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, 
rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to target particular items for testing based on 
their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a conclusion 
about the population from which the sample is selected. 

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s 
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report. 

Use of this report 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. 

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design 
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of 
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, 
including fraud, is detailed below. 

Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance 
with laws and regulations related to fraud, anti-bribery and corruption laws, and we considered the extent to 
which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws 
and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and 
relevant tax legislation. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation 
of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls), and determined that the principal risks 
were related to fraudulent journal entries to manipulate the financial performance and management bias in 
significant accounting estimates in order to achieve management incentive scheme targets. The group 
engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include 
appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the 
group engagement team and/or component auditors included: 

•  Enquiring of management, those charged with governance and the group’s legal counsel around actual and 

potential fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations; 

•  Auditing the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, including 
through testing journal entries and other adjustments for appropriateness, testing accounting estimates, 
testing accrued income and evaluating the business rationale of significant transactions outside the normal 
course of business;

62

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportIndependent Auditors’ Report Continued 

Other required reporting 
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•  we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have 

not been received from branches not visited by us; or 

•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
•  the company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be audited are 

not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 

Appointment 
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 May 2016 
to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods. 
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is eight years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 
31 December 2023. 

Other matter 
In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 
4.1.14R, these financial statements will form part of the ESEF-prepared annual financial report filed on the 
National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct Authority in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory 
Technical Standard (‘ESEF RTS’). This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether the annual financial 
report has been prepared using the single electronic format specified in the ESEF RTS. 

Graham Parsons 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 March 2024

63

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGlossary – Alternative performance measures 

Introduction 
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various Alternative Performance Measures 
(‘APMs’). These measures are not defined by UK-adopted international accounting standards. As adjusted 
results and measures include the benefits of certain Separately Disclosed Items (‘SDIs’) (as detailed in note 3), 
but exclude significant costs related to those items, they should not be regarded as a complete picture of the 
Group’s financial performance, which is presented on the face of the income statement under total results. 
The exclusion of these items may result in adjusted operating profit being materially higher or lower than 
total operating profit. In particular, where significant impairments, restructuring charges and legal costs are 
excluded in any year, adjusted operating profit will be higher than total operating profit. 

Purpose 
The Directors believe that APMs assist the user of the Annual Report & Accounts in providing useful 
information around trends, performance and the position of the Group between reporting periods and across 
operating divisions by adjusting for non-recurring factors assessing the total results of the Group, as well 
as aiding users in understanding the Group’s performance. APMs are commonly used by management for 
performance review, budget setting and forecasting across the Group. 

Some of the metrics shown for the Group are translated at constant exchange rates. Constant rates compares 
both 2023 and 2022 figures at the average and year-end exchange rates for 2023, in order to remove the 
impact of currency translation from the Group’s growth figures. 

Changes to APMs 
There have been no significant changes to the definitions of existing APMs or the APMs used by the Group in 
the year. 

Reconciliations 
Reconciliations between statutory and adjusted measures can be found in the Financial review in Book one, 
page 30.

APM 

Closest equivalent statutory measure 

Adjustments to reconcile adjusted to statutory 

Definition and purpose 

Like-for-like revenue (‘LFL’) 

No direct equivalent 

Acquisitions and business disposals 

Adjusted free cash flow 

Net cash flows from operating 
activities 

Includes cash flows from acquisition and sale of PPE, repayment of lease 
liabilities and interest received. 

Excludes the impact of cash flow SDIs. 

Including acquisitions following their 12-month anniversary of ownership 
and removing the historical contribution of any business disposals/closures. 

Excluding acquisitions and disposals demonstrates the Group’s 
performance for comparable operations year-on-year by removing any 
inflation of revenue in the current year or prior year contributed from new 
acquisitions or disposals. 

Free cash flow includes net cash flows from operating activities and certain 
cash flows from investing activities and the repayment of lease liabilities. 
The following items are excluded: all other cash flows from financing 
activities. This measure reflects the cash available to shareholders. This 
is a key performance metric for the incentive scheme. 

64

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGlossary – Alternative performance measures Continued 

APM 

Closest equivalent statutory measure 

Adjustments to reconcile adjusted to statutory 

Definition and purpose 

Adjusted operating profit* 

Statutory operating profit* 

Separately disclosed items (see note 3) including amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles; impairment of goodwill and other assets; the profit or loss on 
disposals of businesses or other significant non-current assets; costs 
of acquiring and integrating acquisitions; the cost of any fundamental 
restructuring; material claims and settlements; significant recycling of 
amounts from equity to the income statement; and unrealised market 
or fair value gains or losses on financial assets or liabilities, including 
contingent consideration. 

Adjusted operating profit is a key measure of the Group’s performance and 
is based on operating profit before the impact of SDIs. These items relate 
to income or costs that are excluded from adjusted operating profit due to 
their nature or size to provide readers with a clear and consistent view of 
the business performance of the Group and its operating divisions on a 
year-on-year basis. 

Adjusted operating margin 

Statutory operating margin 

As per adjusted operating profit. 

Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share 

   Statutory diluted earnings 

per share 

SDIs after tax (see note 3) including amortisation of acquisition intangibles; 
impairment of goodwill and other assets; the profit or loss on disposals of 
businesses or other significant non-current assets; costs of acquiring and 
integrating acquisitions; the cost of any fundamental restructuring; material 
claims and settlements; significant recycling of amounts from equity to the 
income statement; and unrealised market or fair value gains or losses on 
financial assets or liabilities, including contingent consideration. 

Adjusted operating profit divided by revenue, both before the impact of 
SDIs. These items relate to income or costs that are excluded from adjusted 
operating profit due to their nature or size to provide readers with a clear 
and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its 
operating divisions on a year-on-year basis. 

This metric relates to profit after tax before SDIs divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year 
adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive shares. This is a key 
performance metric for the incentive scheme. 

Adjusted cash flow 
from operations 

Cash flow from operations 

Cash flows relating to separately disclosed items, as identified in the cash 
flow statement. 

This excludes the impact of the cash flows relating to SDIs to reflect the 
cash flows available during recurring operations. 

Adjusted net financing costs 

Statutory net finance costs 

Changes in fair value of contingent consideration. 

Adjusted net financing costs exclude income or costs that, due to their 
nature or size, provide the readers with a clear and consistent view of the 
business performance of the Group on a year-on-year basis. 

65

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGlossary – Alternative performance measures Continued 

APM 

Closest equivalent statutory measure 

Adjustments to reconcile adjusted to statutory 

Definition and purpose 

Adjusted profit after tax 

Statutory profit after tax 

As per adjusted profit and additionally any separately disclosed tax related 
items are excluded. 

ROIC (based on adjusted 
profit) 

No direct equivalent 

Adjusted operating profit is the profit measure used in calculating ROIC. 

Net financial debt 

No direct equivalent 

Total net debt less lease liabilities. 

Adjusted EBITDA 

Statutory EBITDA 

Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and excluding 
SDIs (see note 3) including amortisation of acquisition intangibles; 
impairment of goodwill and other assets; the profit or loss on disposals of 
businesses or other significant non-current assets; costs of acquiring and 
integrating acquisitions; the cost of any fundamental restructuring; material 
claims and settlements; significant recycling of amounts from equity to the 
income statement; and unrealised market or fair value gains or losses on 
financial assets or liabilities, including contingent consideration. 

*  Operating profit is presented on the consolidated income statement. It is not defined per IFRS, however, is a generally accepted profit measure.

Adjusted profit after tax is based on profit after tax before the impact of 
SDIs. These items relate to income or costs that are excluded from adjusted 
operating profit due to their nature or size to provide readers with a clear 
and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its 
operating divisions on a year-on-year basis. 

Adjusted profit after tax (as defined above) divided by invested capital. This 
is a key performance metric for the incentive scheme. 

This measure shows the non-operational financial debt of the Group, 
excluding lease liabilities. 

This metric removes the impact of both SDIs and interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation to provide a clear and consistent view of the business 
performance of the Group year-on-year at a level before the impact of some 
non-cash items and financing costs. 

66

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportShareholders and corporate information 

Shareholders’ enquiries 
Any shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding should, in the first instance, contact our 
Registrar, EQ (‘Equiniti’), using the telephone number or the address below. 

Investor relations 
E: investor@intertek.com 
T: +44 (0) 20 7396 3400 

Electronic shareholders communications 
Instead of receiving paper copies, shareholders can elect to receive communications by email each 
time the Company distributes documents. This can be done by registering for email communications at  
www.shareview.co.uk. In the event that you change your mind or require a paper version of any document 
in the future, please contact the Registrar. 

Registrars 
EQ 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA 
T: +44 (0) 371 384 2653* 
* 

 Lines are open 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays in England and Wales. 
Please use the country code when calling from outside the UK. 

Access to EQ Shareview allows shareholders to view details about their shareholdings, submit a proxy vote for 
shareholders meetings and notify a change of address. In addition to this, shareholders can complete dividend 
mandates online which facilitates the payment of dividends directly into a nominated bank account. 

ShareGift 
If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, you may want to consider donating it to 
ShareGift, a share donation charity. Details of the scheme are available from: 

ShareGift at www.sharegift.org 
T: +44 (0) 20 7930 3737 

Share price information 
Information on the Company’s share price is available at www.intertek.com. 

Financial calendar 
Financial year-end 
Full year results announced 
Annual General Meeting and Trading Update  
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 
Record date for final dividend 
Final dividend payable 
Half-year results announced 
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 
Record date for interim dividend 
Interim dividend payable 
Trading Update 

31 December 2023 
5 March 2024 
24 May 2024 
30 May 2024 
31 May 2024 
21 June 2024 
2 August 2024 
12 September 2024 
13 September 2024 
8 October 2024 
26 November 2024 

Independent Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH 
T: +44 (0) 20 7583 5000 

Brokers 
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP 
T: +44 (0) 20 7742 4000 

Goldman Sachs International 
Plumtree Court, 25 Shoe Lane, London EC4A 4AU 
T: +44 (0) 20 7774 1000 

UBS 
5 Broadgate, London EC2M 2QS 
T: +44 (0) 20 7567 8000 

Registered office 
Intertek Group plc 
33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PS 
T: +44 (0) 20 7396 3400 
www.intertek.com 
Registered number: 04267576 
ISIN: GB0031638363 
LEI: 2138003GAT25WW1RN369 
London Stock Exchange Industrials/Professional Business Support Services 
FTSE 100 
Symbol: ITRK

67

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes

68

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrinted by a CarbonNeutral® Company certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system. 

Printed on material from well-managed, FSC® 
certified forests and other controlled sources. 

100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and, on average 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled and the remaining 
1% used to generate energy. 

The paper is Carbon Balanced with World Land 
Trust, an international conservation charity, who 
offset carbon emissions through the purchase and 
preservation of high conservation value land. 
Through protecting standing forests, under 
threat of clearance, carbon is locked-in, that 
would otherwise be released. 

Intertek Group plc 
33 Cavendish Square, 
London, W1G 0PS 
United Kingdom 

Tel +44 20 7396 3400 
info@intertek.com 
intertek.com

