Our business model Continued 

How we create value

People 

Customers 

Our Purpose is to bring 
quality, safety and 
sustainability to life. 
Here, we explain how we do 
this for our Stakeholders. 

Section 172 statement 
In its discussions and decisions during 
the year, the Board of Directors has 
acted in the way that it considers, in 
good faith, would be most likely to 
promote the success of the Group for 
the benefit of its members as a whole 
(having regard to stakeholders and the 
matters set out in sub-sections 172(1) 
(a)–(f) of the 2006 Companies Act). 

Details of how the Board has engaged 
with stakeholders and how it has had 
regard to their interests is set out in 
Book two.

  Section 172 is set out on pages 56–61  

in Book two 

24

We create amazing opportunities for our 44,000 
people to thrive, always striving to offer the best 
customer service to our clients. 

Why they are important to us 
Our people are our most valuable asset and are critical to our 
success. Customer-centric and passionate about what they do, 
they deliver sustainable value through unmatched expertise 
and quality of work for our customers every day. 

How we engage 
We create a high-performance, growth-oriented, inclusive and 
caring culture with clear, transparent communication and regular 
recognition, in which each colleague has a personal growth plan. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Launch of Champions engagement programme

•  Consistent performance management approach, talent 

development and growth planning 

•  '10X Leadership' development events and '10X Coaching' 

for executives 

•  Training sessions on diversity, equity and inclusion through

our MOSIAC programme 

•  Enriched extensive learning and development material 
through Lucie, our global Learning Management System

•  Engaging employee communication channels

We support 400,000+ clients with innovative 
solutions that enable them to operate with 
higher standards on quality, safety and 
sustainability in each part of their value chain. 

Why they are important to us 
Our customers are at the centre of everything we do, and 
delivering the highest standards of customer service is a crucial 
aspect of becoming the world’s most trusted TQA partner. 

How we engage 
We continuously engage and build our relationships with 
customers, and closely analyse our NPS data. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Communication, partnership and 24/7 support

•  Refreshed intertek.com to provide best-in-class digital 

customer experience 

•  Fast development of innovative Risk-based Quality 

Assurance solutions 

•  Training and webinars from all business lines, covering

all industries 

•  Digital customer portals for improved efficiency,

productivity and visibility 

•  Digital directories providing our clients' customers with

access to product and supply chain information 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur business model Continued 

Investors 

Communities 

Governments and regulators 

We operate a high-quality earnings model with a 
proven track record of sustainable value creation 
over the long-term. 

We support and enhance our communities and the 
environment across our global network of state- 
of-the-art operations in more than 100 countries. 

Why they are important to us 
Delivering for our investors drives our ongoing success, 
enabling us to deliver for all stakeholders today and tomorrow. 

How we engage 
We engage with existing and potential investors and sell-side 
analysts through regular trading updates, investor 
conferences and roadshows throughout the year. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Stock exchange announcements, including financial results 
•  Investor roadshows and participation in investor conferences 
•  May 2023 Capital Markets Event 

•  Meetings and calls 

•  Annual General Meeting 

•  Annual Report, ESG Reporting Index 
•  Shareholder information on intertek.com 
•  Improved Investor section on intertek.com 

Why they are important to us 
Our businesses and people are part of the communities 
in which we work and are dedicated to supporting 
organisations and initiatives that improve the environment, 
and the lives of local people. We are a force for good, close 
to home, that makes the world amazing for everyone. 

How we engage 
Our businesses regularly engage with and contribute 
to our communities, and many colleagues support 
local and charitable causes that reflect the 
diversity of our communities and people. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Support for and partnerships with charities and NGOs 

•  Focused activities to improve local communities 

and environments 

•  BBEB.com platform to share impactful stories and inspire 

positive change in the world 

Governments and regulators expect compliance 
with all global, regional and local regulation, 
responsible business practices and collaboration 
on the transition to net zero. 

Why they are important to us 
‘Doing Business the Right Way’ is part of who we are. As a 
responsible business, we are dedicated to engaging positively 
with governments and regulators to support our communities 
and comply with global, regional and local regulations. 

How we engage 
We interact with trade associations and governmental 
authorities to provide input into industry and regulatory 
improvements in product safety, quality, sustainability and 
risk assurance. Interactions with governments, governmental 
authorities and regulators are reviewed by our Group Legal 
& Risk functions to ensure we fully comply with all laws 
and regulations. 

How they have benefitted in 2023 
•  Our businesses’ economic and tax contribution 

to governments and communities supports the basic 
infrastructure of society

25

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators 

Key performance indicators 

Financial 

Strong 2023 performance 
in revenue, margin, EPS, 
cash and ROIC 

Disciplined performance management 
focused on margin accretive revenue 
growth with strong cash conversion 
and capital allocation to drive strong 
returns on invested capital 

26

The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) 
to monitor performance and measure the financial impact of 
the Group’s strategy. Where applicable, KPIs are based on 
adjusted measures in order to provide a meaningful and 
consistent year-on-year comparison. An explanation and 
reconciliation of statutory to adjusted performance measures 
is given on page 33. A glossary of performance measures is 
provided in Book three, page 64.

Key 

Adjusted actual rates 

Adjusted constant rates 

2023 Adjusted 

2022 Adjusted 

Statutory actual rates 

Statutory 

1.  Revenue, adjusted operating profit and ROIC are recalculated using 2022 exchange rates to form the basis

for Executive Director remuneration, as described in more detail in Book two, page 94. 

2.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash flow from operations, adjusted free cash flow and
adjusted diluted earnings per share are stated before Separately Disclosed Items, which are described on page 32. 
There is no difference between adjusted and statutory revenue. 

3.  Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend of 37.7p (2022: 34.2p) plus the proposed final dividend of 74.0p

(2022: 71.6p). 

4.  2022 ROIC has been prepared using 2023 average exchange rates for adjusted operating profit and adjusted tax,

and year-end 2023 exchange rates for invested capital. 2022 ROIC at actual rates was 18.0%. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Revenue1 (£m) 
Revenue growth measures how well the Group is 
expanding its business and includes currency impacts. 

Like-for-like revenue (£m) 
Revenue growth, including acquisitions following their 12-month 
anniversary of ownership and excluding the historical 
contribution of any business disposals/closures excluding 
acquisitions and disposals. 

Cash flow from operations2 (£m) 
Shows the ability of the Group to turn profit into cash. 

4.3% 

7.1% 

3.4% 

6.2% 

3.7% 

3.1%

2023 

2022 

3,329 

2023 

3,193 

2022 

3,301 

3,193 

2023 

2022 

726 

704 

749 

722 

Operating profit1,2 (£m) 
Measures profitability of the Group and includes 
currency impacts. 

Operating margin1,2 (%) 
Measures profitability as a proportion of revenue. 

Return on invested capital at  
constant rates1,4 (%) 
Measures how effectively the Group generates  
profit from its invested capital. 

6.0% 

10.9% 

7.5% 

30bps 

60bps 

40bps 

250bps 

250bps 

2023 

2022 

486 

452

551 

520 

2023 

2022 

14.6 

14.2 

16.6 

16.3 

2023 

2022 

Diluted earnings per share2 (pence) 
A key measure of value creation for the Board and for shareholders. 

Dividend per share3 (pence) 
Measures returns provided to shareholders. 

Adjusted free cash flow2 (£m) 
Measures the cash available to shareholders.

5.6% 

11.0% 

2.8% 

5.6% 

183.4 

178.4 

223.0 

2023 

211.1 

2022 

111.7 

105.8 

2023 

2022 

2023 

2022 

27

20.5 

18.0 

(2.0%) 

378.4 

386.3 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Non-financial

Health & safety 

Customer satisfaction 

We measure our success by tracking both non-financial 
and financial key performance indicators that reflect 
our strategic priorities. We continue to review the 
sustainability areas that are most material and relevant to 
our stakeholders and have set ourselves targets in those 
areas that are aligned to our corporate strategy. 

Total Recordable Incident Rate ('TRIR') 
Recordable incidents include medical treatment 
incidents, lost time incidents and fatalities per 
200,000 hours worked. 

Customer focus 
Average number of Net Promoter Score ('NPS') 
interviews carried out each month. 

Why we measure it 
A reduction in incidents is an important 
measure of the effectiveness of our safety 
culture. It also lowers rates of absenteeism 
and costs associated with work-related injuries 
and illnesses. 

Why we measure it 
Customers are our priority. Since 2015, we 
have used the NPS process to listen to our 
customers. These insights give us a deep 
understanding of what our customers need 
and want, fuelling our innovations. 

Total Recordable Incident Rate 

Average NPS interviews per month 

0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

5,700 

5,400 

6,000 

6,000

1.  Eligible employees include those with access to the LUCIE training platform and those receiving compliance

training face to face. New joiners complete training throughout the year as part of their induction. 

Target 
TRIR of less than 0.5 per 200,000 hours worked. 

Target 
We will continue to aim to conduct at least  
6,000 NPS interviews per month. 

28

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportKey performance indicators Continued 

Environment 

Employees 

Diversity, equity and inclusion 

Compliance

Operational emissions 
With the adoption of our new near-term absolute 
emissions reduction targets, we now measure 
our environmental performance against this. 
Operational emissions comprise our scope 1, 
scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel and 
employee commuting). 

  More from page 26 in Book two 

Voluntary permanent employee  
turnover and employee engagement 
Voluntary permanent leavers are employees who 
choose to leave the Group themselves. This does  
not include employees on a fixed-term contract. 

Intertek ATIC Engagement Index – based on the  
key drivers of sustainable value creation and 
which measures engagement on a monthly basis 
in every operation with the following metrics: 
Net Promoter Score, Customer Retention, 
Quality, Voluntary Permanent Employee 
Turnover and Total Recordable Incident Rate. 

Gender balance 
Percentage of women in senior management 
roles (Group Executive Committee and their 
direct reports). 

Compliance training 
Completion of annual compliance training by 
eligible employees1 (online or face to face,  
when available) during the training window. 

  More from page 10 in Book two

  More from page 40 in Book two

Why we measure it 
We measure our carbon emissions to reduce  
our impact on the environment and increase 
operational efficiency. We track both location- 
based and marked-based scope 2 emissions. 

Why we measure it 
Ensuring employees are engaged is essential 
to talent retention and we measure and monitor 
this closely at a global and local level through 
our voluntary turnover rate. 

Why we measure it 
We promote diversity in all its forms, including 
gender, age, sexual orientation and disability, as 
well as having an ethnic and social make-up that 
reflects broader society. Achieving better 
gender balance is a driver of progress. 

Why we measure it 
Our commitment to the highest standards of 
integrity and professional ethics is embedded 
in the Group’s culture through the integrity 
principles set out in our Code of Ethics. Every 
year, to support continuing understanding in 
this area, our people are required to complete 
our comprehensive training course. 

Employee voluntary turnover and 
Intertek ATIC Engagement index 

Key financials 

2020 

2021 

2022 

2023 

Operational emissions (in tCO2e) 

300,000 
250,000 
200,000 
150,000 
100,000 
50,000 
0

Employee 
voluntary turnover 
(% of permanent 
employees) 

Intertek ATIC 
Engagement 
index score 

2019  2020  2021  2022  2023

9% 

13% 

14%  12.3% 

89 

80 

80 

87 

Male 

Female 

Women in senior management (%) 

Training completion by eligible employees1 (%) 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

76.4 

23.6 

79.2 

20.8 

77.0 

23.0 

76.7 

23.3 

2023 

2022 

2021 

2020 

97.6 

96.8 

94.2 

95.6 

Target 
2030: Reduce absolute scope 1, scope 2 
and scope 3 (business travel and employee 
commuting) by 50% vs 2019 base line. 

Target 
We aim to keep our voluntary permanent 
turnover rate below 15% and increase our  
Intertek ATIC Engagement Index to 90. 

Target 
2025: We aim to increase the proportion of 
women in senior leadership roles to 30%. 

Target 
We aim to achieve 100% completion of our 
annual compliance training by eligible employees. 

29

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportFinancial review 

Financial review 

Financial highlights 

Intertek 's AAA differentiated 
growth strategy is delivering 
earnings growth and strong 
cash flow 

Our proven high-quality earnings 
model and daily cash discipline 
have delivered earnings growth 
and an all-time high adjusted 
operating cash flow, driving a 
reduction in net debt, negative 
working capital and a strong 
balance sheet. 

Colm Deasy 
Chief Financial Officer

30

£3,329m

Revenue up
4.3% 7.1% 

£486m

Statutory operating p
7.5%  13.0% 

rofit up 

£551m

14.6%

Adjusted operating
6.0% 10.9% 

 profit up 

Statutory operating margin up 
40bps 80bps 

16.6%

Adjusted operating margin up 
30bps 60bps 

183.4p

Statutory diluted EP
2.8% 9.2% 

S up 

111.7p

Dividend per share u
5.6% 

p 

Negative

Working capital

£378m

Adjusted free cash fl
(2.0%) 

ow down 

20.5%

Return on Invested Capital up 
250bps 250bps 

• Actual rates 
• Constant rates

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial review Continued 

Results for the year 

Key financials 

Adjusted 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Diluted EPS 

Profit after tax 

Cash flow from operations 

Statutory 

Revenue 

Operating profit 

Diluted EPS 

Profit after tax 

Cash flow from operations 

Dividend per share 

Dividends paid in the year 

Dividend 
Reflecting the Group’s strong cash generation in 2023, the Board recommends 
a full year dividend of 111.7p per share, a year-on-year increase of 5.6%. 

The full year dividend of 111.7p represents a total cost of £181.2m, or 50% 
of adjusted profit attributable to shareholders of the Group for 2023 (2022: 
£170.6m and 50%). The dividend is covered 2.0 times by earnings (2022: 2.0 times), 
based on adjusted diluted earnings per share divided by dividend per share. 

Consolidated income statement commentary 
Total reported Group revenue increased by 4.3%, with 0.9% growth 
contributed by acquisitions, a like-for-like ('LFL') revenue increase of 
6.2% and a decrease of 280bps from foreign exchange, reflecting 
sterling appreciation against most of the Group's trading currencies. 

The Group’s LFL revenue at constant rates consisted of an increase 
of 1.3% in Consumer Products, 9.0% in Corporate Assurance, 7.0% in 
Health and Safety, 7.9% in Industry and Infrastructure, and 8.7% in 
World of Energy. 

We delivered an adjusted operating profit performance of £551.1m 
(2022: £520.1m), up 10.9% at constant rates and 6.0% at actual rates. 

The Group's adjusted operating margin was 16.6% (2022: 16.3%), 
an increase of 60bps from the prior year at constant exchange rates 
and 30bps at actual rates. 

The Group’s statutory operating profit after Separately Disclosed Items 
('SDIs') for the period was £486.2m (2022: £452.4m), up 13.0% at 
constant rates. The statutory margin was 14.6% (2022: 14.2%). The 
Group’s statutory profit for the year after tax was £318.1m (2022: 
£306.8m). 

Net financing costs 
Adjusted net financing costs were £43.9m, an increase of £12.0m on 
2022 resulting from a combination of higher interest expense and the 
impact of foreign exchange rates. This comprised £3.8m (2022: £2.2m) of 
finance income and £47.7m (2022: £34.1m) of finance expense. Statutory 
net financing costs of £63.9m (2022: £32.6m) included £20.0m of costs 
(2022: £0.7m) relating to SDIs, predominantly driven by changes in the 
fair value of contingent consideration related to acquisitions. 

Tax 
The adjusted effective tax rate was 24.6%, a decrease of 1.7% on the 
prior year (2022: 26.3%). The tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of 
£104.2m (2022: £113.0m), equates to an effective rate of 24.7% (2022: 
26.9%), the decrease mainly driven by the geographical mix of profits. 
The cash tax on adjusted profit before tax was 23.5% (2022: 21.9%). 

Earnings per share 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share ('EPS') at actual exchange rates 
was 5.6% higher at 223.0p (2022: 211.1p). Diluted EPS after SDIs 
was 183.4p (2022: 178.4p) per share and basic EPS after SDIs was 
184.4p (2022: 179.2p). 

31

2023 
£m 

2022 
£m 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

551.1 

520.1 

223.0p 

211.1p 

382.4 

749.0 

359.8 

722.0 

3,328.7 

3,192.9 

486.2 

452.4 

183.4p 

178.4p 

318.1 

725.9 

306.8 

704.1 

111.7p 

105.8p 

176.3 

170.6

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

•  Caleb Brett, the global leader in the 

Crude Oil and Refined products global
trading markets, benefitted from 
improved momentum driven by 
increased global mobility and higher 
testing activities for biofuels with 
high-single digit LFL revenue growth. 
•  Transportation Technologies delivered 
mid-single digit LFL revenue growth 
globally driven by increased investment 
in new powertrains to lower CO2/NOx
emissions and in traditional combustion
engines to improve fuel efficiency. 

•  Our CEA business delivered double digit 
LFL revenue growth, benefitting from 
the increased investments in solar 
panels which is the fastest growing 
form of renewable energy. 

2024 growth outlook 
In 2024, we expect our World of Energy 
division to deliver mid-single digit LFL 
revenue growth at constant currency. 

Mid- to long-term 
growth outlook 
The World of Energy division will 
benefit from increased investment 
from energy companies to meet 
growing demand and consumption 
of energy from the growing 
global population, the scaling up 
of renewables, increased R&D 
investments that OEMs are making 
in EV/Hybrid vehicles and from the 
development of greener fuels. We 
expect low- to mid-single digit LFL 
revenue growth in the medium 
term at constant currency.

Intertek in Action 

Electrification Centre of Excellence, 
Plymouth, Michigan – Supporting the 
move towards electric mobility 

What it is: Strategically located 
near Detroit in the epicentre of the 
automotive industry, our Electrification 
Centre of Excellence in Plymouth, 
Michigan, offers some of the most 
extensive testing capabilities in North 
America for electric vehicle batteries 
and supply equipment. Through 
science-based Total Quality Assurance 
solutions, this facility plays a crucial 
role in supporting manufacturers in 
the transition to greener transport. 

Customer benefit: With sales of 
electric vehicles growing rapidly, our 
Electrification Centre of Excellence 
helps meet the automotive industry’s 
increasing need for regulatory support 
and safety and validation testing. 
As electrification technologies 
continue to advance, the facility will 
support the safety, performance and 
functionality of electric vehicles, 
battery packs, charging systems 
and their related components. 

Financial highlights 2023 

Revenue 

Like-for-like revenue 

Adjusted operating profit 

Adjusted operating margin 

50

2023 
£m 

728.6 

709.2 

65.6 

9.0% 

2022 
£m 

662.0 

662.0 

43.5 

6.6% 

Change at 
actual 
rates 

Change at 
constant 
rates 

10.1% 

7.1% 

50.8% 

11.7% 

8.7% 

57.3% 

240bps 

260bps 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOperating review Continued 

Intertek in Action 

Intertek and Zero Petroleum – Pioneering the 
future of synthetic, carbon-neutral fuels 

What it is: Intertek is collaborating 
with Zero Petroleum, an innovative 
energy company at the forefront 
of developing synthetic, carbon- 
neutral alternatives to traditional 
fossil fuels. Our role is vital in this 
partnership, as we are responsible for 
thoroughly assessing the composition 
and emissions of these synthetic 
fuels and verifying their compliance 
with stringent industry standards 
and regulatory requirements. 

Customer benefit: The overall 
benefits of Zero synthetic fuels are 
substantial in the context of the 
global energy transition. These efuels, 
uniquely created from air and water, 
offer potentially unlimited scale and 
represent a significant advancement 
in moving towards cleaner, more 
sustainable energy sources. Designed to 
directly replace conventional petroleum- 
based fuels, they are applicable 
across various sectors, including 
transportation, aviation and agriculture. 

A key advantage of Zero synthetic 
fuels is their compatibility with 
existing engines, allowing for seamless 
integration without the necessity 
for any modifications or adaptations. 
This compatibility underscores the 
potential of Zero synthetic fuels to 
significantly contribute to reducing 
carbon emissions and advancing 
environmental sustainability.

51

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties 

have assessed climate change will 
not have a meaningful impact on the 
viability of the Group over the five- 
year period to 31 December 2028. 

The Group has a broad customer base 
across its multiple business lines and 
in its different geographic regions, 
and is supported by a robust balance 
sheet and strong operational cash 
flows. The Board considers that 
the diverse nature of business lines 
and geographies in which the Group 
operates significantly mitigates the 
impact that any of these scenarios 
might have on the Group’s viability. 

Based on this assessment, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will 
be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the period to 31 December 2028. The 
statement on going concern is in the 
Directors’ report in Book two, on page 73. 

Principal risks 
The Group is affected by a number of 
risk factors, some of which, including 
macroeconomic and industry-specific 
cyclical risks, are largely outside the 
Group’s control. Some risks are particular 
to Intertek’s operations. The principal 
risks of which the Group is aware 
are detailed on the following pages, 
including a commentary on how the 
Group mitigates these risks. These 
risks and uncertainties do not appear 
in any particular order of potential 
materiality or probability of occurrence. 

There may be other risks that are 
currently unknown or regarded as 
immaterial which could turn out to be 
material. Any of these risks could have 
the potential to impact the performance 
of the Group, its assets, liquidity, 
capital resources and its reputation. 

Changes to principal risks 
Our principal risks continue to evolve 
in response to our changing risk 
environment. We have removed 
Covid-19 as a principal risk for 2023; 
this follows the decision by the Word 
Health Organisation on 5 May 2023 
to declare that the pandemic was no 
longer a Public Health Emergency 
of International Concern. 

Long-term viability statement 
In accordance with provision 31 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors have assessed the 
viability of the Group over a five-year 
period to 31 December 2028, by 

carrying out a robust assessment of 
the potential impact of the principal 
risks and uncertainties on the Group’s 
current position, including those that 
would threaten the Group’s business 
model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. This is documented 
on the following pages. 

The Directors have determined that a 
five-year period is an appropriate period 
over which to provide the viability 
statement of the Group, as the Group’s 
strategic review covers a five-year period. 

Furthermore, the Directors believe 
the five-year period appropriately 
reflects the average business cycles of 
the business lines in which the Group 
operates, particularly in relation to capital 
expenditure investment horizons. In 
modelling the viability scenario, we have 
made the assumption that we will be able 
to refinance external debt and renew 
committed facilities as they become due. 

In addition to the bottom-up strategic 
review process where the prospects 
of each business line are reviewed, 
an assessment has been made of the 
potential operational and financial 
impacts on the Group of the principal 
risks and uncertainties outlined in the 
following pages. The Directors have 
also assessed certain combinations of 
these principal risks and uncertainties 
in a number of severe, but plausible, 
scenarios, as well as the effectiveness 
of any mitigating actions as set out 
in the table on page 53. The Directors 

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Assessing and 
managing our risks 

This section sets out 
a description of the 
principal risks and 
uncertainties that could 
have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s 
strategy, performance, 
results, financial condition 
and reputation. 

Risk framework 
The Board has overall responsibility 
for the establishment and oversight 
of the Group’s risk management 
framework. This work is complemented 
by the Group Risk Committee, whose 
purpose is to manage, assess and 
promote the continuous improvement 
of the Group’s risk management, 
controls and assurance systems. 

This risk governance framework is 
described in more detail in the Directors’ 
report in Book two, on pages 46 and 65.

The Group Audit Director and the 
Group General Counsel, who report to 
the Chief Financial Officer and Chief 
Executive Officer, respectively, have 
accountability for reporting the key risks 
that the Group faces, the controls and 
assurance processes in place and any 
mitigating actions or controls. Both roles 
report to the Audit Committee, attend 
its meetings and meet with individual 
members each year as required. 

Risks are formally identified and recorded 
in a risk register which is owned by 
each of the Group’s divisional, regional 
and functional risk committees. Risk 
registers are updated throughout 
the year by these risk committees 
and are used to plan the Group’s 
internal audit and risk strategy. 

In addition to the risk registers, relevant 
operational and functional leaders for 
each site are required to complete a 
year-end compliance certification to 
confirm that management controls have 
been effectively applied during the year. 
The return covers Sales, Operations, IT, 
Finance, Sustainability and People. 

52

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties Continued

  Scenario 

Associated principal risks 

Description 

Failure to identify, understand and 
respond to regulatory or political changes 
results in loss of revenue, profitability, 
market share and/or adversely changes 
the competitive landscape. 

Failure to respond/adapt to a customer 
service issue leads to a loss of key 
customers and detrimentally impacts 
reputation. 

An ethical and/or quality breach leads 
to litigation (including significant fines 
and debarment from certain territories/ 
activities), reputational damage, loss 
of accreditation and erosion of 
customer confidence. 

A serious data security/IT systems breach 
results in a significant financial penalty 
and a loss of reputation among customers.

Regulatory  
environment 
change 

•  Industry and competitive landscape

•  Customer service

•  Regulatory and political landscape

•  People retention

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Industry and competitive landscape

•  Customer service

•  Business ethics

•  People retention

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Business ethics

•  People retention

•  Financial risk

•  Health, safety and wellbeing

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

•  Customer service

•  People retention

•  IT systems and data security

•  Reputation

•  Macroeconomic

Customer service 
issue 

Ethical and/or  
quality breach 

IT systems 
breach 

53

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportPrincipal risks and uncertainties Continued 

2

Customer service 

3

People retention

A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide customer 
innovation or to deliver our services in accordance with our 
customers’ expectations and our customer promise.

The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to attract and 
retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge in order 
to take advantage of all growth opportunities. 

Possible impact 
•  Customer dissatisfaction and customer loss.
•  Gradual erosion of market share and reputation if competitors are 
perceived to have better, more responsive or more consistent 
service offerings. 

Possible impact 
•  Poor management succession.
•  Lack of continuity.
•  Failure to optimise growth. 
• 
•  Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share. 

Impact on quality, reputation and customer confidence.

Mitigation 
•  Net Promoter Score (‘NPS’) customer satisfaction, customer 

sales trends and turnaround time tracking. 

•  Global and Local Key Account Management (‘GKAM’/’LKAM’) 

initiatives in place. 

•  Customer feedback meetings.
•  Customer claims/complaints reporting.

Mitigation 
•  HR strategy policies and systems. 
•  Development and reward programme to retain and motivate 

employees. 

•  Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of 

leadership and expertise. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022.

Operational 

1

Reputation

Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and growing its 
business. Reputation risk can occur in a number of ways: directly 
as the result of the actions of the Group or a Group company 
itself; indirectly due to the actions of an employee or employees; 
or through the actions of other parties, such as joint venture 
partners, suppliers, customers or other industry participants. 

Possible impact 
•  Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
•  Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs and wasted 

management time. 

•  Destruction of shareholder value.
•  Loss of existing or new business.
•  Loss of key staff. 

Mitigation 
•  Quality Management Systems; adherence to these is regularly 

audited and reviewed by external parties, including accreditation
bodies. 

•  Risk Management Framework and associated controls and 

assurance processes, including contractual review and liability 
caps where appropriate. 

•  Code of Ethics, which is communicated to all staff, who undergo 

regular training. 

•  Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate 

behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting 
on the Group’s behalf. 

•  Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk 

Committee, where staff are encouraged to report, without risk,
any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the 
reputation of the Group. 

•  Relationship management and communication with external

stakeholders. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. The Group continues to 
invest in staff development, quality systems and standard processes to 
prevent operational failures. 

54

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

4 Macroeconomic

5

Health, safety and 
wellbeing 

6

 Industry and
competitive landscape

Macroeconomic factors such as a global/market downturn, inflation, 
supply chain and logistics restrictions, materials shortages, and 
contraction/changing requirements in certain sectors. 

Any health and safety incident arising from our activities. This could 
result in injury to Intertek’s employees, subcontractors, customers 
and/or any other stakeholders affected. Wellbeing impacts on our 
people resulting from pandemics and other similar events. 

A failure to identify, manage and take advantage of emerging and 
future risks. 
Examples include the opportunities provided by new markets and 
customers, a failure to innovate in terms of service offering and 
delivery, the challenge of radically new and different business 
models; the failure to foresee the impact of, or adequately respond 
to and comply with, changing or new laws and regulations; a failure 
to anticipate and address the operational, strategic, regulatory and 
reputational impact of climate change and environmental factors; 
and a failure to identify and take advantage of the impact of 
changes to our clients’ operations and supply chains. 

Possible impact 
• 
Impact on revenue.
•  Falling market share. 
•  Shrinking customer base.
Impact on share price.
• 

Possible impact 
• 
Individual or multiple injuries to employees and others.
•  Litigation or legal/regulatory enforcement action (including

prosecution) leading to reputational damage. 

•  Loss of accreditation.
•  Erosion of customer confidence.
•  Wellbeing – individual or multiple instances of stress-related issues 

and/or illnesses, absenteeism, and related impacts on morale. 

Possible impact 
•  Failure to maximise revenue opportunities.
•  Failure to take advantage of new opportunities.
•  Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
•  Erosion of market share.
• 
Impact on share price.
•  Sanctions and fines for non-compliance with new laws, etc.

Mitigation 
•  We continue to focus on developing business in new markets and for 

Mitigation 
•  Quality management and associated controls, including safety 

new customers. 

•  We continue to focus on innovations in our service offerings.
•  We continue to monitor trends and customer pipelines.
•  We conduct regular strategic and business line reviews, including 

budget forecasting. 

•  We continue to monitor the impacts of external risk factors and have 

access to data and analysis from our external advisers. 

training, appropriate PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), Health
and Safety policies (including due diligence on sub-contractors), 
meetings and communication. 

•  Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount. 
It is expected that Intertek employees will operate to the highest 
standards of health and safety at all times and there are controls in 
place to reduce incidents. 
•  Business continuity planning.
•  Employee wellbeing programme.

Mitigation 
•  GKAM and LKAM initiatives in place.
•  Diversification of customer base. 
•  Focus on new services and acquisitions.
•  Tracking new laws and regulations.
•  Regular strategic and business line reviews. 
•  Development of ATIC-selling initiatives.
•  NPS customer research to understand customer satisfaction.
•  Continuing to drive innovation at the core. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

55

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

Operational (continued) 

7

IT systems and 
data security

Systems integrity: major IT systems integrity issue, or data 
security breach, either due to internal or external factors such 
as deliberate interference or power shortages/cuts, etc. 
Systems functionality: a failure to define the right IT strategies, 
maintain existing IT systems or implement new IT systems with 
the required functionality and which are fit for purpose, in each 
case to support the Group’s growth, innovation and competitive 
customer offering. 
Data security: a failure to adequately protect the Group’s 
confidential information, customer confidential information or 
the personal data of the Group’s employees, customers or other 
stakeholders. 

Possible impact 
•  Loss of revenue due to down time.
•  Potential loss of sensitive data with associated legal implications,

including regulatory sanctions and potential fines. 
•  Potential costs of IT systems' replacement and repair. 
•  Loss of customer confidence.
•  Damage to reputation. 
•  Loss of revenue/profitability if we fail to adopt an IT investment 
strategy which supports the Group's growth, innovation and 
customer offering. 

Information systems policy and governance structure.

Mitigation 
• 
•  Regular system maintenance.
•  Backup systems in place.
•  Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved

to minimise the impact if a failure does occur. 

•  Global Information Security policies in place (IT, Data Protection, 

CyberSecurity). 

•  Adherence to IT finance systems controls (part of Core Mandatory 

Controls ('CMCs')). 

•  Adherence to IT general controls. 
• 
Internal and external audit testing.
•  Processes to ensure compliance with GDPR. 

8

Contracting

Agreeing unfavourable terms with customers and/or suppliers as a 
result of not following agreed contract review processes, and/or 
failing to negotiate appropriate terms. 

Possible impact 
•  Margin−decretive work.
•  Onerous liabilities and exposures.
•  Non-optimised pricing.
•  Financial exposures due to claims and litigation.

Mitigation 
•  Any deviations from our standard contract terms are subject to 
legal review and approval, and all contracts must be approved in 
line with our Authorities Grid (which sets out approval limits based 
on contract values and other relevant factors). 

•  We continue to operate our claims notification procedure, including

claims management and insurer liaison where needed. 

•  Both our contracting and claims processes are supported by 

training programmes for relevant staff, and the use of relevant 
systems and databases. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

56

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
Principal risks and uncertainties Continued 

Legal and Regulatory 

9

Regulatory and  
political landscape 

10

Business ethics

Financial 

11

Financial risk

A failure to identify and respond appropriately to a change in law 
and/or regulation, or to a political decision, event or condition which 
could impact demand for the Group’s services or the Group’s ability 
to grow, innovate and/or provide a competitive customer offering in 
any existing or new industry sector or market. 

Non-compliance with Intertek’s Code of Ethics (‘the Code’) and/or 
related laws such as anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and fair 
competition legislation. Non-compliance could be either accidental 
or deliberate, and committed either by our people or sub-contractors 
who must also abide by the Code. 

Risk of theft, fraud or financial misstatement by employees. On 
acquisitions or investments, the financial risk or exposure arising 
from due diligence, integration or performance delivery failures. 

Possible impact 
•  Loss of revenue, profitability and/or market share. 
• 
Increase to costs of operations, reduction in profitability. 
•  Reduction in the attractiveness of investment in specific 

businesses, sectors or markets and/or adverse change in the 
competitive landscape. 

Possible impact 
•  Litigation, including significant fines and debarment from certain

territories/activities. 
•  Reputational damage.
•  Loss of accreditation.
•  Erosion of customer confidence.
• 

Impact on share price.

Mitigation 
•  Monitoring of regulatory environment and political developments.
•  Analysis of impact of regulatory and political changes on operational 

Standard Operating Procedures ('SOPs') and Group policies. 

•  Membership of relevant associations, e.g. TIC Council with related
advocacy and liaison activities, including in relation to developing 
climate-related or environmental regulations. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 

57

Mitigation 
•  Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
•  Whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk Committee,
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or 
other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 

•  Enhanced processes for engagement with suppliers and third 

parties. 

•  Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour
by any individual employed by the Group or acting on the Group’s 
behalf. 

•  The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of 
local legal and regulatory requirements. There are also extensive 
internal compliance and audit systems to facilitate compliance. 
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations are uncertain. 
•  The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance
with the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and 
internal policy. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 
Ongoing annual confirmations ensure that staff verify compliance with 
the Code. 
During 2023, 106 (2022: 91) non-compliance issues were reported 
through the whistleblowing hotline and other routes. All were 
investigated, with 39 (2022: 24) substantiated and appropriate 
corrective and disciplinary action taken. 

Possible impact 
•  Financial losses with a direct impact on the bottom line. 
•  Large-scale losses can affect financial results.
•  Potential legal proceedings leading to costs and/or 

management time. 

•  Corresponding loss of value and reputation could result in funding 

being withdrawn or provided at higher interest rates. 

•  Possible adverse publicity.

Mitigation 
•  The Group has financial, management and systems controls in 

place to ensure that the Group’s assets are protected from major 
financial risks. 

•  Adherence to Authorities Grid (which sets approval limits for

financial transactions). 

•  Stringent controls on working capital and cash collection.
•  Legal, financial and other due diligence on M&A and other 

investments. 

•  Monitoring adherence to our CMCs and tracking of remediations by 

our compliance and finance controls teams and using our framework 
of risk committees. 

•  A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that 
monthly financial results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also 
operates a rigorous programme of internal audits and there are also 
management reviews. Independent external auditors review the 
Group’s half-year results and audit the Group’s annual financial 
statements. 

2023 update 
This risk remains stable compared with 2022. 
We continue to review and update the CMCs on an annual basis and 
use them for year-end compliance certification. 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report   
 
 
TCFD statement 

TCFD statement 

Our TCFD journey 

We believe that, as a sustainable business 
and a leading provider of sustainability 
solutions to more than 400,000 
companies, Intertek has an important 
role to play in taking action on climate 
change and supporting the transition 
to a low-carbon economy – both for our 
clients and in our own value chain. 

We are also committed to total 
transparency on the effect of climate 
change and the risks and opportunities 
of decarbonisation on our operations, 
strategy and financial planning – including 
by implementing the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') in full. 

We have set ambitious targets to get 
to net zero emissions by 2050, with 
interim targets to 2030, which have 
been validated by the SBTi. In 2023, 
our rigorous monthly performance 
management of climate-related 
action plans delivered operational 
market-based emissions reductions 
of 10.8% against 2022. 

Putting climate change and 
decarbonisation in context 

Climate change policies, disclosure 
requirements, and public, 
consumer and investor pressure 
have led to a “race to net zero” by 
governments and corporations – 
with the aim being decarbonisation 
of the global economy in line 
with Paris Agreement goals 
to limit global warming. 

Decarbonisation to a point of net 
zero carbon emissions will involve 
economic, political and societal 
changes. The key to achieving it 
lies in the energy transition – a 
shift from reliance on fossil fuels 
to renewables and green energy 
sources, with the significant changes 
in energy infrastructure that 
involves. It will require a reduction 
in the carbon footprint of global 
activities: transport and travel; 
facilities and construction; supplies 

consumed; and goods and services 
produced. The likelihood – based 
on the current rate of progress – is 
that achieving net zero within the 
Paris Agreement timeframe will 
require the scale development and 
use of new carbon capture and 
storage technologies, together 
with breakthrough innovations to 
accelerate the reduction of carbon 
emissions linked to manufacturing, 
transportation and consumption. 

Conversely, if decarbonisation 
goals are not met, the effects 
of climate change will increase 
and extreme weather events 
will be more likely. Governments 
and corporations will need to 
consider mitigating the risks of this 
outcome by ensuring that their 
energy, manufacturing and supply 
networks are resilient and secure. 

58

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportOur TCFD journey 

8 Systemic CO2 emission 
1 collection in all sites/ 
0
2 operations 

TCFD statement Continued 

2 Compliant with TCFD 
2
0
2

recommendations 

2 CO2 reduction targets 
2
for all employees 
0
2 included in yearly 
compensation 

2 Country-specific targets 
2
and action plans to 
0
2 reduce emissions 

7 First Group-wide 
1
0 GHG emission 
2 reduction target set 

1 Commitment to net 
2
0 zero by 2050 
2

3 SBTi  
2
0
2

Validation 

  Voluntary 
0 disclosure 
2
0 against TCFD 
2

recommendations 

  Systemic monthly 
2 performance management 
2
0 of emission reductions 
2 and action plans 

59

Our TCFD compliance statement 
The TCFD requires the disclosure 
of information aligned to its core 
elements – governance, strategy, 
risk management, and metrics and 
targets. The TCFD aims to improve the 
disclosure of climate-related risks and 
opportunities and provide stakeholders 
with the necessary information to 
undertake robust and consistent 
analyses of the potential financial 
impacts of climate change. We recognise 
the value that the recommendations 
bring and continue to align and enhance 
our climate-related disclosures. 

We set out below our climate-related 
financial disclosures which are consistent 
with all TCFD recommendations 
and recommended disclosures1. 

Our TCFD disclosures are set 
out in five sections: 

Section 1: our governance of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities 

Section 2: how we consider climate 
change in our strategy 

Section 3: our climate-related risk 
management approach 

Section 4: our climate-related 
metrics and targets 

Section 5: our climate change 
methodology and approach 

We have integrated climate-related 
disclosures throughout our Annual 
Report. These are included through 
cross-references to other sections 
containing further relevant information. 

1.  Figure 4 of Section C of the report entitled 

“Recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures” published 
in June 2017 by the TCFD.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCFD statement Continued 

Section 1: Governance

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities 

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities

•  Our Governance structure (Book two, pages 46-47)

•  our Beyond Net Zero Steering Committee (whose members include our Group CEO, Group Company 

Secretary, Group Head of Sustainability, EVP – Sustainability, SVP – Corporate Development and Group Chief 
Marketing & Communications Officer), which has oversight of our Total Sustainability agenda including 
internal and external climate-related actions over and above our GHG and net zero commitments; and 

•   Internal control and risk management (Book two, 

•  our specific CEO-led working group on TCFD / climate-related risks and opportunities.

page 65) 

1 a) Our Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 
Our Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate- 
related risks are integrated into every Board agenda as part of the Board’s review of risks and our integrated 
risk, control and compliance approach. Climate-related issues are considered as part of the Board’s strategic 
review sessions and reflected in the Board’s strategic review and guidance. 

The Board takes emerging and systemic climate-related risks and opportunities into account: 
1. when considering the Group Risk footprint and our internal controls/risk management policies at each Board 

meeting; and 

2. in reviewing the Group’s principal risks and in the risk modelling that feeds into the longer-term viability 

statement. 

During the year the Board was able to draw on the climate-related expertise of Gill Rider, who is also a member 
of Pennon Group plc’s ESG committee and President of the Marine Biological Association, and Tamara Ingram, 
who is chair of the ESG committee for Marks and Spencer Group plc. 

The Group’s Head of Sustainability and EVP – Sustainability report to the Board on our climate-related risks and 
opportunities, respectively, from an internal and external perspective, as part of an annual in-depth Intertek 
Total Sustainability review. In addition, the Board receives specific updates on our TCFD approach and progress 
during the year. The Board monitors and oversees our progress against our science-based targets and our 
climate-related action plans. 

1 b) Management’s role in identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
We believe that assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities is an integral part of our 
overall integrated risk management approach. Our framework of regional, divisional and functional risk 
committees, considers climate-related risks and opportunities and identifies and implements appropriate 
action plans. This creates an awareness and ownership of climate-related risks and opportunities within our 
operational, HR, compliance, finance and insurance leadership. 

In addition, climate-related risks and opportunities are identified, managed and tracked by: 

•  our Net Zero Steering Committee (whose members include our Group CEO, Group CFO, Group Company 

Secretary, EVP – Sustainability, Head of Finance – Sustainability and Group Head of Risk) focuses on the 
implementation and performance of our net zero roadmap and our science-based emission reduction targets 
to meet our ambition to get us to net zero by 2050; 

60

Our approach means that we can apply the management expertise we have from providing TCFD and other 
climate-related ESG Assurance solutions to our clients in the assessment and management of our own risks 
and opportunities. 

Section 2: Strategy 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium, and long term 

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning 

c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower 
scenario 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (pages 52-57)

•  Strategic Report; Our business model (pages 16-25)

•  Sustainability Report (Book two)

•  Financial Report (Book three)

•  Strategic Report; Our business model]

•  Sustainability Report (Book two)

•  Financial Report (Book three)

At the high level, our ambition is to become a net zero emissions business by 2050 while mitigating the 
physical impact of climate change on our operations and supporting our clients with sustainability solutions. 

Innovative sustainability services have been at the core of our business and strategy for over 100 years. Today’s 
“race to net zero” by governments and corporations is beneficial to Intertek given our investments in sustainability 
– including our operational sustainability solutions; our carbon emissions certification, CarbonClear™; our ESG 
disclosures verification; and our corporate sustainability certification, TSA. Ongoing dependency on traditional oil
and gas, and the significant investments required to scale up renewable energy, will mean our Industry Services 
businesses should benefit from traditional energy investment and the parallel developments in the renewables 
space – and our differentiated World of Energy value proposition and our total energy expertise position us 
strongly to take advantage of the global energy transition required to get to net zero. 

The world will face difficulties in meeting Paris Agreement targets and addressing climate change unless: 
all companies, public and private, commit to reduce carbon emissions to net zero; significantly increased 
investments are made in renewables; and there is breakthrough innovation to accelerate carbon emission 
reductions and facilitate carbon storage and capture. This negative outcome should lead to increased demand 
for our services as it will lead to an increased focus on developing low-carbon products and other innovations 
and technologies that will reduce emissions, including increased investment in carbon capture and storage.

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

2 a) Our climate-related risks and opportunities 
Based on our supply and demand model and decarbonisation scenarios (details of which are set out in section 
5), our view of Intertek’s climate-related risks and opportunities is as follows. 

Climate-related opportunities

  Opportunity area 

Description of opportunities 

Energy 
transition 

The key question for our energy-related businesses is what the risks and opportunities of 
a transition to lower carbon / renewable energy will look like, and over what timeframe. 

The world will be dependent on traditional oil and gas for longer than people think: there 
has been under-investment in oil and gas exploration since 2015; there is structural 
under-investment in alternative energy sources; renewables will take time to scale, 
creating risks for governments and economies in moving away too quickly from traditional 
energy sources. 

This will require our clients to make incremental investments in traditional oil and gas 
infrastructure and E&P. Our Industry Services businesses should therefore benefit over 
the next 20 to 25 years both from traditional energy investment and the parallel 
developments in the renewables space. 

Our Caleb Brett business should benefit from the increasing global demand for oil and gas 
in the short-term, and in the medium- to long-term continue to benefit from an increase in 
the production and consumption of oil-related products as well as the development / 
growth of greener fuels – biofuels and synthetic. Our clients will need to make significant 
investments in traditional oil and gas if they are to continue to meet the growing global 
energy demand. 

The carbon capture and carbon removal technologies which will be required to achieve net 
zero targets are currently at an early stage of development and it is likely that increased 
investments will be required to accelerate their production and availability: this should 
benefit our engineering-based inspection businesses within Industry Services. 

The energy transition that certain of our traditional oil and gas clients face as they move 
to being total energy providers underlines the importance of our differentiated World of 
Energy value proposition. Intertek’s range of energy expertise is able to support our 
clients across the full World of Energy spectrum: from traditional oil and gas, petroleum 
refining and distribution, petrochemicals and power generation to nuclear power, solar, 
biofuels, tidal, wave and wind power. This gives Intertek a high-level, cross-sectional view 
of energy industry topics and trends that we believe will position us strongly to take 
advantage of current and future business development linked to energy transition.

  Opportunity area 

Description of opportunities 

Carbon 
footprint 
transition 

For our Consumer Products businesses, the risks and opportunities of decarbonisation 
will be linked to our clients’ transition to lower-carbon logistics, manufacturing/production 
and supply chain networks. 

We expect consumer spending on products to continue to increase and the number of 
SKUs produced to also increase. An increasing consumer and regulatory focus on 
sustainability will lead to changes in demand for products with lower carbon footprints. 
Equally, manufacturers’ own sustainability goals will lead them to seek raw materials with 
lower carbon footprints and to develop lower carbon footprint products. 

We believe that corporations will face difficulties in achieving their net zero targets given 
the financial, organisational and practical complexities of transitioning to low-carbon 
footprint operations. We therefore expect the demand for existing products to stay high 
for longer. Given the difficulties in getting to net zero without R&D and investments in 
logistics and supply chains, our Consumer Products businesses will benefit from higher 
corporate investments in R&D to design low-carbon products at the start of the value 
chain and from investments in supply chain relocations closer to home markets to reduce 
carbon footprints and increase resilience. 

Policy 

Climate-related laws and regulations will increase over time. 

In the short term, governments are likely to limit policies which require mandatory 
behavioural changes to the industry sectors which are the most critical to 
decarbonisation: energy; infrastructure; and transportation. It is likely that corporates in 
other industry sectors will be encouraged to decarbonise by increasing disclosure and 
transparency requirements. 

The regulatory approach over the medium to longer-term will change depending on 
companies’ / countries’ success in meeting Paris Agreement targets and regulation will 
become less voluntary and more mandatory over time if those targets are likely to be 
missed based on existing behaviours. 

We expect to benefit from increased regulation to drive investment and product 
development by our clients in the energy, infrastructure and transportation sectors. 

We expect our Business Assurance businesses to benefit from an increase in supplier 
audit and management solutions as corporations seek to address their scope 3 / supply 
chain carbon emissions. 

ESG disclosure requirements are likely to increase in response both to new regulations and 
disclosure standards and to increasing investor and stakeholder expectations. We expect 
this to lead to increased demand for our ESG disclosure / verification services.

61

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

Climate-related risks

  Risk area 

Description of risk 

Physical 
impacts 

We consider that there are three types of possible physical impacts: 
1.  Direct physical impacts, where the increased frequency and/or severity of extreme 
weather events causes an increased incidence of disruption to our own operations /
supply chain / transportation networks; 

2. Client physical impacts, where the extreme weather events cause disruption to our 

clients’ operations and therefore changes to client demand – or the geographic location 
of client demand – for our services; and 

3.  Economic physical impacts, where temperature increase and extreme weather events 
reduce economic activity, leading to a fall in demand for our services in line with fall in 
consumer demand / client production. 

Based on our natural catastrophe experience and modelling, and because of the 
capital-light nature of our operations and our ability to redirect work within our own 
network, we believe that the impacts of extreme weather events to Intertek are likely 
to be local and not material at the Group level. 

2 b) The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on our businesses, strategy 
and financial planning 
Intertek has been a global thought and innovation leader in sustainability services for decades, 
and sustainability services are core to our global business. We help customers across all aspects 
of sustainability, covering all major industries, with end-to-end sustainability solutions. 

Climate-related opportunities are one part of our overall sustainability strategy. At the high level, we believe 
that the actions which companies and corporations will need to take to transition to a low-carbon economy 
will be an opportunity for us and will accelerate the demand for our ATIC solutions, including: 

•   our climate-related operational sustainability services (such as energy efficiency, carbon footprint

or zero waste to landfill certifications); 

•   our corporate sustainability solutions (where we help corporations to establish and validate the 

effectiveness of their own sustainability programmes); and 

•   our Intertek ESG Solutions (where we independently verify our clients’ sustainability reporting 

and disclosures). 

Our World of Energy businesses continue to scale up investments in strategic growth areas driven by 
climate-related factors, such as: 

•   An increase in total energy demand driven by GDP and population growth.

•   The need to address structural underinvestment in traditional oil & gas as renewables lack scale. 

•  Technology and infrastructure investments needed to build scale renewable infrastructure.

•   The significant investments and innovations required to meet net zero pathways, including developments 

in hydrogen, synthetic fuels, carbon capture and carbon storage. 

Our strategy includes M&A investments such as our acquisition of Clean Energy Associates which has enabled 
us to expand our sustainability service offering in the fast-growing quality assurance market for solar energy 
and energy storage. It also includes organic innovations such as Intertek Hydrogen, Intertek CarbonClear™ and 
CarbonZero, and Intertek Green R&D. 

Our climate-related risks and opportunities assessment also feeds directly into our wider strategy, portfolio 
and financial planning, including our planning on: 

•   climate-change mitigation activities and our net zero action plans; and

•  the location of our facilities.

We believe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities is as follows: 

Timeframe 

Scenario 

Climate-related opportunities 

Short 

Medium 

Long 

RCP4.5 

RCP8.5 

Transition impacts 
• Energy transition

•  Carbon footprint 

transition 

Policy impacts

  Climate-related risks 

Physical impacts

Key: ◊ – ◊◊◊ = low – high impact 
* Scenario sensitivity

◊

◊

◊

◊◊ 

◊◊ 

◊◊ 

◊ 

◊◊◊

◊◊◊

◊◊◊

◊◊

* 

* 

*

Financial 
impact 

See note 1 

* 

See note 2 

We continue to develop innovative ATIC service offerings to support our clients’ low-carbon transition aims 
and to enable them to comply with the increasing regulatory requirements relating to sustainability and ESG. 

Note 1: Our pre-Covid (2014 – 2019) organic revenue CAGR was c.3%. Sustainability / ESG services were a driver of that revenue growth. 
We expect the Group revenue growth from Sustainability / ESG services to accelerate. 

Note 2: In order to assess our physical impact risk, we have worked with Willis Towers Watson ('WTW') to carry out a portfolio exposure 
assessment based on scenario modelling supported by WTW’s Climate Diagnostic technology platform. For this purpose, our portfolio includes 
943 sites (2022: 985 sites) and associated assets and revenues. 

The result is an assessment of the percentage of our portfolio that is exposed to a material level of climate-related risk over four time periods 
(today; 2030; 2050; 2100) and under two scenarios (RCP4.5 and RCP8.5). 

62

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportClimate Scenario: RCP4.5 (2–3ºC) 

2023 

2030 

2050 

2100 

TCFD statement Continued 

% of portfolio (assets & revenues) exposed to physical impact risks 

55% of portfolio exposed 
to at least 80 heatwave days 
per year by 2050, compared 
to 39% today 

53% exposed to at least 
5 days of heavy rainfall 
over 30mm by 2050 
compared to 46% today 

60 

55 

52

56 

53 

49 

46

39 

Slowly increasing portion 
of locations exposed to 
at least 4 months of 
drought per year 

10% of the portfolio 
exposed to fire weather 
conditions for at least 
80 days in a year 

11% in river flood zones 
by 2050. 1% of flooding 
improbability a year 

4% of the portfolio exposed 
to extreme risk of flooding 
from storm surge events 
and sea level rise by 2050 

Small and largely unchanged portion 
of the total portfolio exposed to severe 
windstorms generating damaging gusts 
(either from tropical cyclones i.e. hurricanes 
or extratropical cyclones i.e. winter storms) 

Heat 

Precipitation 

11 10 

7

Drought 

16 

15 

9

10  10 

8

11  11  11

4

4

4 

4 

2

3

3

3

2

2

2 

2

Fire 

River flood (defended) 

Sea level rise 

Tropical cyclone 

Extratropical cyclone 

% of portfolio (assets & revenues) exposed to physical impact risks 

Climate Scenario: RCP8.5 (4ºC) 

2023 

2030 

2050 

2100 

61% of the portfolio 
exposed to at least 80 
heatwave days per year 
by 2050, compared to 
39% today 

56% of the portfolio 
exposed to at least 5 days 
of heavy rainfall over 30mm 
by 2050 compared to 
46% today 

71 

61 

55 

39 

60 

56 

50 

46 

Increasing portion of 
locations exposed to 
at least 4 months 
of drought per year 

45 

25 

Slowly increasing portion 
of the portfolio exposed 
to fire weather conditions 
for at least 80 days in a year 

10% in river flood zones 
by 2050. 1% probability 
of flooding in a year 

4% of the portfolio 
exposed to extreme risk 
of flooding from storm surge 
events and sea level rise 
by 2050 

Small and largely unchanged portion of 
the total portfolio exposed to severe 
windstorms generating damaging gusts 
(either from tropical cyclones 
i.e. hurricanes or extratropical cyclones 
i.e. winter storms) 

Heat 

Precipitation 

Drought 

Fire 

River flood (defended) 

Sea level rise 

Tropical cyclone 

Extratropical cyclone 

10 

7

9

11  11 

11 10 11

8

4

4

4

5

2

3

3

3

2

2

2 

2

17 

Figure 1: 
Physical risk exposure 
under an RCP4.5 scenario: 

Figure 2: 
Physical risk exposure 
under an RCP8.5 scenario:

63

)

%

(
d
e
s
o
p
x
e
o

i
l

o
f
t
r
o
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

)

%

(
d
e
s
o
p
x
e
o

i
l

o
f
t
r
o
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCFD statement Continued 

Assessing the impact of acute weather events 
The likely impact of an acute weather event is a loss of revenue due to a shutdown of our facilities. It is difficult 
to provide a precise estimate of the financial impact, which depends on factors including the severity of the 
event, the geography affected and our ability to redistribute work, and the duration of the shutdown. 

Our assessment reveals a minimal increase in expected portfolio exposure to acute weather events, and we 
therefore expect the incidence and financial impact of such acute events to be similar to today. Based on 
recent experience, in FY17 hurricanes Harvey and Irma impacted the operations of our clients in southern 
regions of the USA during a three-month period, in turn impacting our business. These two operational 
disruptions reduced our revenue performance by £5m at constant currency over the period August to October 
2017, negatively impacting our divisions. Over the five-year period to date, our operations have been impacted 
by about ten extreme weather events. 

2 c) Our organisational resilience to the risks of climate change and decarbonisation scenarios 
We believe our operations and strategy have a high degree of resilience to the risks of climate change under 
both an RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenario: 

•   Our extensive network – over 1,000 labs in over 100 countries – means that we are well positioned to take 

advantage of any climate-related changes in supply chains (either changes to suppliers, to the raw materials 
being supplied or to the geographic location of supply chains). 

•   Our products inspection and assurance businesses are flexible as they use field-based inspectors and 

auditors and we can deploy personnel / sub-contractors as required. 

•   Our client-base of over 400,000 clients is diverse, with no material dependencies, which also de-risks 

geographic changes in our points of service delivery. 

•   Our capital-light earnings model de-risks us from climate-related changes to our clients’ supply chains and 

physical impacts of climate change as we have a low cost of market entry and exit. 

•   We are able to redirect work within our own network in order to mitigate the impact of climate-related 

disruptions. 

•   We do not anticipate a material impact of climate-related policies directly on our business. As a professional 

services provider, we do not operate in a sector which is likely to be a key focus for mandatory 
decarbonisation behavioural changes. Our broad geographic footprint de-risks us from the impact of national 
regulations. Our capital-light model mitigates our exposure to climate-related policies. 

The assessment shows that our broad geographic footprint and proven high-quality cash generative earnings 
model (covered in more detail in 2 c) below) is an advantage for long-term climate resilience. Nevertheless, it 
does indicate an increased physical impact exposure to our portfolio, varying by type of climate-related 
extreme weather event, under both the RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 scenarios: 
•   a low to medium increase by 2050 in exposure to chronic (extended, non-localised) weather events 

– heat, precipitation, drought, sea level rise; and

•   a low increase by 2050 in exposure to acute (localised, one-off) weather events – river floods, fire, tropical 

and non-tropical storms 

Assessing the impact of chronic weather events 
It is difficult to assess the physical impact of chronic weather events as these are likely to be regional or global 
in nature but can be largely or fully addressed with systemic risk mitigation actions at the Intertek site / 
operational level:

  Physical risk (chronic  
  weather events) 

Impact on business 

Mitigations 

Precipitation 

•  Property damage and business disruption  •  Insurance cover

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Physical / structural protections for sites 

with predicted exposure 

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Productivity changes as severe heat 
affects people and/or equipment 
•  Cost increases linked to an increased

requirement for air conditioning / cooling 

•  Increase energy efficiency / use of solar / 

renewable energy 

•  Operational impact from water scarcity 
•  Changes to demand for our services linked 

to changing consumption patterns, 
population migration or conflict 

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Focus on reducing water usage / efficiency 

Heat 

Drought 

Sea level rise 

•  Property damage and business disruption  •  Insurance cover

•  Add identified climate-related risk into our 
business continuity planning for sites with
predicted exposure 

•  Physical / structural protections for sites 

with predicted exposure 

64

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportTCFD statement Continued 

Section 3: Risk management 

Section 4: Metrics and targets 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

  TCFD recommended disclosures 

Further information 

a) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 

b) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks. 

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organisation’s overall risk management. 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (page 52) 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (page 52) 

•  Principal risks and uncertainties (pages 52-53) 

3 a) Our process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 
Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks take place within our risk committees, and 
separately using the supply-and-demand model we have built for our World of Energy businesses, and our 
work with WTW to model the exposure of our portfolio to the physical impacts of climate change. The most 
significant insight from our work with WTW was that the exposure of our portfolio to acute weather events 
was expected to increase only very marginally in the period to 2050, with any financial impact falling well 
below the threshold for materiality. 

In 2023, we have continued to review the exposure of our portfolio to physical climate change impacts using 
the live model we have built with WTW and with ongoing review as part of our integrated risk management 
process. 

3 b) How we manage climate-related risks 
Climate-related risks, and the related mitigation action plans, are reviewed at least quarterly by the Board and 
are also considered by our framework of regional, divisional and functional risk committees and our Group Risk 
Committee. The risk of physical impacts of climate change on our sites are also considered by a cross- 
functional group including members of our finance, insurance, risk and sustainability teams. The portfolio 
exposure modelling we have done with WTW allows us to assess – on a site-by-site basis – the changing 
likelihood and impact of specific climate events (such as drought, precipitation, flooding and fire) under both 
the RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenario in the short, medium and long term. We use the output of this model in our 
opportunity and risk mitigation planning, and in local site business continuity planning. 

3 c) Integration into our overall risk management 
Our climate-related opportunities are reviewed as part of our overall budget, innovation, M&A, customer 
insight and other processes. At the strategic level, the supply and demand model we have developed to look at 
how the needs of our customers across our different businesses are likely to be affected by decarbonisation 
allows us to assess how that is likely to affect their need for our end-to-end Total Quality Assurance services 
across all points of their logistics, manufacturing/production and supply chain networks. 

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line 
with its strategy and risk management process. 

b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropriate, scope 
3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. 

c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets 

•  Environment section (Book two, page 29) 

•  Environment section (Book two, page 29) 

•  Environment section (Book two, pages 27-29) 

We publicly report on our scope 1, scope 2 and relevant scope 3 GHG emissions and the carbon intensity of 
operational emissions by revenue. Environmental performance is disclosed in Book two of this Report. Our 
measurement and reporting is aligned to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(2015) and the recommendations of the TCFD. As required, we report under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations and we apply the 2019 UK Government Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines, including the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance ('SECR'). Further details 
can be found on page 29. 

We have made several climate-related public commitments, on our own and with other organisations. We have 
joined the global movement of 'Business Ambition for 1.5˚C’ and the UN Race to Zero campaign. In 2023, the 
Science Based Target initiative ('SBTi'), who defines and promotes global best practice in science-based target 
setting, validated our near-term targets: 

"Intertek Group plc commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50% by 2030 from a 2019 base 
year. Intertek Group plc also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel and 
employee commuting 50% within the same timeframe. Intertek Group plc further commits that 70% of its 
suppliers by spend covering purchased goods and services, capital goods and upstream transportation and 
distribution, will have science-based targets by 2027." 

We have rolled out country- and site-level specific targets which are reported monthly in our environmental 
dashboards. Our rigorous GHG emissions performance management programme empowers our regional teams 
to identify emissions sources, track progress against targets and KPIs, and implement concrete and measurable 
climate-related action plans. 

Our annual incentive plan continues to have an ESG element (with a 15% weighting) based on performance 
against a GHG emissions reduction target.

65

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportSection 5: Our climate change methodology and approach

TCFD statement Continued 

The demand for our services depends on the supply of, and demand for, our clients’ products and services and 
their need for our Total Quality Assurance services at specific risk points in their logistics, manufacturing and 
supply chains. 

To assess the impact of global decarbonisation on Intertek and our potential climate-related risks and 
opportunities we have built a bottom-up supply and demand model for our World of Energy (Caleb Brett 
and Moody) businesses which considers how the supply and demand of our clients’ products and services, 
and therefore their need for Intertek’s services, is likely to change in line with two decarbonisation scenarios 
that are aligned to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ('IPCC') Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCPs): 

•  Intermediate (RCP 4.5): Characterised by slowly declining emissions, this pathway assumes climate 
policies will be invoked to limit emissions, resulting in likely global temperature rise of 2–3°C by 2100. 
•  High (RCP 8.5): Characterised by rising emissions, this pathway adheres to the current trajectory and 

assumes no additional efforts are made to constrain emissions, leading to likely global temperature rise of 
>4°C by 2100.

We have also used these two scenarios to evaluate Intertek’s climate-related physical risks. 

We have considered impacts over the short term (0-2 years), medium term (2 years – 2030); and long term 
(2030 – 2050). 

In assessing materiality, we have considered both financial impacts on us and other considerations such as the 
importance of key climate-related topics to our clients and other stakeholders. For financial impacts, we have 
applied a materiality threshold of £20.8m, aligned with the materiality threshold in our financial statements. 
We have considered the materiality of risks on a “net risk” basis i.e. taking into account relevant risk mitigations 
and opportunities that may be linked to those risks. 

Based on our view of global decarbonisation and the nature of our businesses and services, we have divided 
the impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on Intertek’s operations, activities and earnings model 
into three categories: 

•  Transition impacts: the impact of transitioning to low-carbon economies and societies. We further divide 

these into: energy transition impacts (the impact of transitioning to renewables and green energy sources); 
and carbon footprint transition impacts (the impact of reducing the carbon footprint of global activities 
including logistics, manufacturing/production and supply chains); 

•  Policy impacts: the impact of climate-related laws or regulations, or policies intended to drive a 

decarbonisation agenda; and 

•  Physical impacts: the impact of extreme weather events on our and/or our clients’ facilities and operations.

66

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportGroup non-financial and sustainability information statement

Non-financial and sustainability information statement 

The table below is intended to help our stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters and climate-related financial disclosures in line with 
the reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. Our reporting on these topics and key performance indicators 
is contained within this Strategic Report and also in the Sustainability Report, Book two.

  Reporting requirement 

Environment 

Employees 

Social matters 

Human rights 

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 

Description, implementation, due diligence, outcomes and additional information 

Environment

Nomination Committee report 

Risk management 

People and Culture

Communities

Responsible Business

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Responsible Business 

Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud

Description of principal risks and impact of business activity 

Principal risks and uncertainties 

Description of the business model 

Key performance indicators 

Climate-related financial disclosures 

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 4 March 2024. 

On behalf of the Board 

TCFD statement 

Section 172 statement

Our business model

Financial KPIs 

Non-financial KPIs

TCFD statement

André Lacroix 
Chief Executive Officer 

67

  More in Book two, pages 26-32 

  More in Book two, pages 66-69

  More in Book two, page 69

  More in Book two, pages 10-17 

  More in Book two, pages 33-39 

  More in Book two, pages 40 

  More on pages 52-57

  More in Book two, pages 40-41

  More in Book two, pages 42 and 76 

  More on pages 52-57

  More on pages 58-66

  More in Book two, page 56 

  More on pages 16-25 

  More on pages 26-27

  More on pages 28-29 

  More on pages 58-66 

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic ReportNotes

68

Intertek Group plcAnnual Report & Accounts 2023Book three: Financial ReportBook two: Sustainability ReportBook one: Strategic Report