A

n

n

u

a

l

R

e

p

o

r

t

a

n

d

A

c

c

o

u

n

t

s

f

o

r

t

h

e

y

e

a

r

e

n

d

e

d

D

e

c

e

m

b

e

r

3

1

,

2

0

2

3

S

h

e

l

l

p

l

c

Shell plc

Annual Report  
and Accounts

For the year ended December 31, 2023

#PoweringProgress

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents

Introduction

iii

Terms and abbreviations

Strategic Report

2

4

6

6

7

10

12

13

14

29

29

31

32

34

38

41

47

55

63

68

75

79

81

82

83

85

89

100

103

114

116

124

125

128

133

137

141

Chair's message

Chief Executive Officer's review

Powering Progress strategy

Who we are 

Our strategy

How we create value 

Progress against our longer-term 
business targets 

Outlook for 2024 and beyond

Risk factors

Performance in the year

Performance indicators

Generating shareholder value

Group results

Financial framework

Market overview

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Oil and gas information

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate

Other central activities

Our journey to net zero

Introduction

Governance of climate-related risks and 
opportunities

Energy transition strategy

Climate risk management

Climate-related metrics and targets

Other regulatory disclosures

Respecting nature

Powering lives

Contribution to society 

Our people 

Safety

Living by our values

Principal decisions & stakeholders (Section 
172(1) statement)

Reporting for all

Reports are available in  
all inclusive formats at  
Shell.com/annual-publications

Governance

147

155

157

159

160

162

166

167

The Board of Shell plc

Executive Committee

Introduction from the Chair

Statement of compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code

Governance framework

Board activities

Board evaluation

Understanding and engaging with our 
stakeholders

170 Workforce engagement

172

177

179

191

194

211

219

Nomination and Succession Committee

Sustainability Committee

Audit and Risk Committee Report

Directors' Remuneration Report

Annual Report on Remuneration

Directors' Remuneration Policy

Other regulatory and statutory information

Financial Statements and Supplements

229

244

317

336

Independent Auditor's Report related to the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements

Supplementary information - oil and gas 
(unaudited)

Supplementary information - EU Taxonomy 
disclosure

350

Parent Company Financial Statements

Additional Information

361

365

373

v

vii

Shareholder information

Non-GAAP measures reconciliations

Appendix: Significant subsidiaries and other 
related undertakings (audited)

About this Report

Financial calendar

Design and 
production: Friend 
www.friendstudio.com

Print: Toppan Merrill

 
Terms and abbreviations
Currencies
$

US dollar

€

£

euro

sterling

Units of measurement
acre

approximately 0.004 square kilometres

b(/d)

bbl

boe(/d)

GJ

GW

kboe(/d)

barrels (per day)

barrel

barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas volumes are 
converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf 
per barrel

gigajoule

gigawatt

thousand barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas 
volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor 
of 5,800 scf per barrel

kWh

mb/d

kilowatt-hours

million barrels per day

megajoule

a unit of energy equal to one million joules

MMBtu

million British thermal units

mtpa

MW

MWh

Nm3

per day

scf(/d)

TWh

Products
GTL

LNG

LPG

NGL

million tonnes per annum

megawatt

megawatt hours

normal cubic metre

volumes are converted into a daily basis using a calendar year

standard cubic feet (per day)

terawatt hours

gas-to-liquids

liquefied natural gas

liquefied petroleum gas

natural gas liquids

Miscellaneous
Act

UK Companies Act 2006

ADS

AGM

API

APM

ARC

CCS

American Depositary Share

Annual General Meeting

American Petroleum Institute

Alternative performance measure

Audit and Risk Committee

carbon capture and storage

CCS earnings earnings on a current cost of supplies basis

CFFO

CISO

CMD

CMF

CO2

CO2e

COP28

CRC

CRT

CSRD

DE&I

cash flow from operating activities

Chief Information Security Officer

Capital Markets Day

carbon management framework

carbon dioxide

carbon dioxide equivalent
28th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Climate Change Conferences

Carbon Reporting Committee

Commercial Road Transport

Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

iii

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

EC

EMTN

EPS

EPSA

EPTB

Executive Committee

Euro medium-term note

earnings per share

exploration and production sharing agreement

Environmental Products Trading Business

ETS24

Energy Transition Strategy 2024

EV

FCF

FID

GAAP

GHG

HSSE

IAS

IEA

IFRS

IOGP

IPCC

IPIECA

IRM

ISO

KPI

Electric vehicle

free cash flow

final investment decision

generally accepted accounting principles

greenhouse gas

health, safety, security and environment

International Accounting Standards

International Energy Agency

International Financial Reporting Standard(s)

International Association of Oil & Gas Producers

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association 

Information Risk Management

International Organisation for Standardisation

Key performance indicator

LGBT+

Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender

LTIP

NBS

NCF

NCI

Long-term Incentive Plan

Nature-Based Solutions

Net Carbon Footprint

net carbon intensity

NGO

Non-governmental organisation

NOMCO

Nomination and Succession Committee

NZE

OECD

OFCF

OGCI

OML

OPEC

Net zero emissions

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development

organic free cash flow 

Oil and gas climate initiative

oil mining lease

Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries

OPEC+

12 members of the OPEC and 11 other non-OPEC members

OPL

PSC

PSP

QRA

R&D

oil prospecting licence

production-sharing contract

Performance Share Plan

Quarterly Results Announcement

Research and development

REMCO

Remuneration Committee

RNG

RT

SEAM

SEC

SGBP

SIAI

SP

Renewable natural gas

real terms

Safety, Environment and Asset Management

US Securities and Exchange Commission

Shell General Business Principles

Shell Internal Audit and Investigations

social performance

SUSCO

Sustainability Committee

TCFD

TRCF

TSR

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

total recordable case frequency

total shareholder return

WACC

weighted average cost of capital

WTI

West Texas Intermediate

 
 
 
 
Strategic 
Report

We measure our performance for the year by considering 
progress against our longer-term strategy and against our 
annual operating plan.

At Capital Markets Day 2023, we announced eight business targets 
for reporting progress against our Powering Progress strategy, which 
can be found in the section "Progress against our longer-term 
business targets".

Performance against our operating plan for 2023 is assessed using 
a range of financial and non-financial indicators and can be found 
in the section "Performance indicators".

In the "How we create value" section, we show the value that we 
have created in 2023 through our business activities for our different 
stakeholders and wider society.

2

4

6

6

7

10

12

13

14

29

29

31

32

34

38

41

47

55

63

68

75

79

81

82

83

85

89

100

103

114

116

124

125

128

133

137

141

Chair's message

Chief Executive Officer's review

Powering Progress strategy

Who we are 

Our strategy

How we create value 

Progress against our longer-term business targets 

Outlook for 2024 and beyond

Risk factors

Performance in the year

Performance indicators

Generating shareholder value

Group results

Financial framework

Market overview

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Oil and gas information

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate

Other central activities

Our journey to net zero

Introduction

Governance of climate-related risks and 
opportunities

Energy transition strategy

Climate risk management

Climate-related metrics and targets

Other regulatory disclosures

Respecting nature

Powering lives

Contribution to society 

Our people 

Safety

Living by our values

Principal decisions & stakeholders (Section 172(1) 
statement)

1

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Strategic Report

Chair's message

“For Shell, 2023 was a pivotal 
year in our drive to achieve 
more value with less emissions.”

Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair

2
2

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

My geologist's mind has always been intrigued by what lies beneath 
our feet, including the natural energy resources that have propelled 
the world's economic progress for so long. But with the urgent need 
to tackle climate change, I am just as fascinated by the technologies 
that will help the world deliver cleaner power and fuel the future, 
as well as significantly cut carbon emissions.

Along with great challenges, the energy transition offers tremendous 
opportunities to those eager to play their part. For well over a century, 
Shell has pioneered ways of providing energy to people. We are 
a leader in deep-water oil production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
and biofuels, and we aim to become one of the largest providers 
of charging for electric vehicles. 

We aim to lead in the energy transition where we have competitive 
strengths and see strong customer demand and clear support from 
governments. Our strategy is to create value for our shareholders, 
customers and wider society as we reduce our emissions and fulfil 
our purpose to provide more and cleaner energy solutions.

For Shell, 2023 was a pivotal year in our drive to achieve more value 
with less emissions. It was the first year under our new Chief Executive 
Officer, Wael Sawan, who stressed the importance of enhancing our 
returns to shareholders, while staying firm on our target to become a 
net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. We did exactly that by 
maintaining a very healthy balance sheet, increasing our dividends 
and continuing to buy back shares, all while investing capital to 
reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and Scope 3 emissions 
related to the use of the oil products we sell.

People everywhere need a secure, sustainable and affordable energy 
supply. Shell can help to enable a balanced energy transition by 
keeping the world moving with oil and gas, while delivering the low-
carbon alternatives our customers need to decarbonise. To this end, 
we have made it clear that we plan to expand our LNG business and 
develop new low-carbon products and technologies, such as carbon 
capture and storage (CCS). 

I saw this when I visited Qatar's North Field expansion project in 
January 2024. This project will support the delivery of much-needed 
supplies of natural gas around the world and I appreciated the 
opportunity to learn more about how we are developing a CCS 
project there. I also visited Oman and saw how we are moving 
forward with a hydrogen project, enabled by CCS. 

More value, less emissions
Shell's 2023 earnings were strong and we reduced our total combined 
Scope 1 and 2 absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by 
31% [A] compared with 2016 levels. This positions us well as we continue 
to implement our strategy, guided by the free cash flow*, investment and 
cost reduction targets set in 2023. We will continue to create value for 
shareholders and lower emissions.
[A] Reduced from 83 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2016 to 57 million 

tonnes CO2e in 2023

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report
Chair's message continued

Our energy transition update, published on March 14, 2024, aims 
to keep us on track to meet our climate targets and ambitions. As 
we continue to supply oil and gas, we must continually work to lower 
carbon emissions from our own operations and offer our customers 
more low- and zero-carbon fuels to meet their needs in a world on 
its way to net zero. 

In November, I saw first-hand how committed our teams are to 
transforming the refinery in Rheinland, Germany, into an energy and 
chemicals park. We are building a renewable hydrogen electrolyser 
to help decarbonise our own operations and we will convert a 
hydrocracker into a base oils production unit. The teams have also 
almost finished building a plant to produce bioLNG for heavy-duty 
road transport. The use of bioLNG in this slower-to-decarbonise sector 
could be a game changer for accelerating the energy transition.

The energy transition must be just and fair, and we are committed to 
respecting nature and powering lives in our activities. The Board visited 
LNG Canada in June, where we are building a major project designed 
to deliver a secure supply of energy. Our people there have worked 
closely with indigenous communities to help protect the environment.

Innovating for net zero
Tackling climate change will need new technologies. It will also 
demand collective action from governments, businesses and consumers, 
even in the face of heightened instability caused by the Russia-Ukraine 
war and renewed major conflict in the Middle East.

Innovation is vital to the energy transition and is close to my heart. In 
September, I met with students in China who had taken part in the Shell 
Eco-marathon by embracing the challenge to design and make energy-
efficient vehicles. Their passion and perseverance should inspire us all 
to keep pushing the boundaries of what is technically possible. 

Shell is determined to help tackle climate change. We must do this with 
continued innovation and we will lead where we have the expertise 
and experience. For instance, our Raízen biofuels joint venture in Brazil 
and our renewable natural gas acquisition Nature Energy in Denmark, 
completed in February 2023, help us to be well placed to play an 
increasing role in supplying lower-carbon transport fuels. 

Under Wael's leadership in 2023, we began streamlining our business, 
set clear targets, tightened up on spending and reduced emissions. 
The energy transition is an evolution that we are proud to be part 
of. We are carefully choosing where we can make the biggest, 
most positive impact as we move forward to becoming a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050, purposefully and profitably.

Shell has the drive, the ingenuity and the competitive edge to make 
things happen: to create value for investors, customers and society, 
and contribute to a low-carbon world.

Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair

3
3

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Powering Progress

1.

2.

3.

1. We produced first gas from Oman's Mabrouk North-East field in Block 10 

(Shell interest 53.45%) in 2023. Block 10 is our first operated venture in Oman. 

2. In 2023, in China, we opened our largest electric vehicle charging station. The charging 
station is operated by Shell and BYD Electric Vehicle Investment Company Limited. 

3. The Whale platform (Shell interest 60%) was built in Singapore and is expected 

to start production in the Gulf of Mexico in 2024.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report

Chief Executive
Officer's review

“We will deliver more value 
for our shareholders, our 
customers and wider society, 
with less emissions.”

Wael Sawan 
Chief Executive Officer

4
4

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

In 2023, the Russia-Ukraine war continued and renewed conflict in the 
Middle East raised the spectre of another regional war. Too many lives 
have been destroyed and I hope for an end to these human tragedies 
soon. Geopolitical volatility and the fragmentation of our world are 
growing at a time when we should be working together to fight the 
global challenge of climate change.

A balanced energy transition, which Shell supports, is one that 
maintains secure and affordable energy supplies, while the world 
builds the clean energy system of the future. Billions of people depend 
on energy and hundreds of millions still hope to have access to it. 
Energy is vital for lives everywhere.

The energy system has shown promising signs of progress, despite 
geopolitical, supply chain and regulatory challenges. Renewable 
power has seen record growth in recent years and one-fifth of all 
new car sales in the world are now electric. In March, I saw the 
results of this growth first-hand on a Shell electric vehicle charging 
site in Beijing serving around 1,000 customers a day.

At Shell, we sharpened our Powering Progress strategy in 2023 
with a relentless focus on performance, discipline and simplification 
as we move towards becoming a net-zero emissions energy business 
by 2050. We will deliver more value for our shareholders, our 
customers and wider society, with less emissions. At Capital Markets 
Day in June, we showed how we plan to profitably transform Shell 
through the strength of our portfolio, our technological and trading 
capabilities, and our deep customer relationships. We will be guided 
by the financial and climate targets and ambitions we have set.

Performance and discipline
It was another strong year for Shell. One highlight for me was QGC 
in Australia, which had its highest ever liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
production in the fourth quarter and delivered its 1,000th LNG cargo. 
Another was the strong operational performance in our deep-water 
portfolio. Completing the acquisition of Nature Energy, which expanded 
the range of low-carbon energy we can offer, also stood out.

Cash flow from operations for 2023 of around $54 billion was the 
second-highest in our history, income was around $20 billion and 
Adjusted Earnings* around $28 billion. Our performance enabled 
us to return $23 billion to shareholders* through $15 billion in share 
buybacks and $8 billion in dividends. This is 42%* of cash flow from 
operations (CFFO) and around the upper end of our 30-40% of CFFO 
through the cycle target range.

We continue to be disciplined in our investments, focusing on where 
we can have the maximum impact in generating value or lowering 
emissions. In 2023, cash capital expenditure* of $24 billion was 
at the lower end of our $23-27 billion range.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer's review continued

Between 2023 and 2025, we plan to invest around $40 billion in 
oil and gas. An example of more value with less emissions is the Vito 
platform (Shell interest 63.1%) in the Gulf of Mexico, which started 
production in 2023. Vito cost less to build because its topsides and hull 
are a third of the size of its original design and is expected to produce 
around 80% less emissions over its operating life. We are using the 
same concept for two more platforms: Whale (Shell interest 60%) 
and Sparta (Shell interest 51%).

Simplification
From July 1, 2023, our smaller Executive Committee took effect with two 
clear business directorates, and a single finance, strategy, mergers and 
acquisitions and sustainability directorate. This simplification has already 
enabled more streamlined planning and improved decision-making. We 
are also in the process of moving to our new Safety, Environment & Asset 
Management Standards (SEAM), which will reduce the number of key 
requirements to around 500 from the current 1,800 and enable our 
people to focus on implementing our strategy more efficiently.

By the end of 2023, we had achieved around $1 billion of structural 
cost reductions*, positioning us well to save the $2-3 billion we said 
we would by the end of 2025. 

Less emissions
I am proud that by the end of 2023, we had achieved more than 
60% of our target to halve emissions in our own operations by 2030, 
compared with 2016 levels on a net basis. We will work to continue 
reducing emissions from our own operations, including by powering oil 
and gas platforms with renewable energy. In August, our unmanned 
solar- and wind-powered platform in the Timi gas field (Shell interest 
75%) delivered first gas and we will continue to explore this concept.

In support of a balanced energy transition, between 2023 and 2025, 
we will invest around $35 billion in Downstream and Renewables and 
Energy Solutions. In 2023, we invested $5.6 billion in low-carbon 
energy, including the acquisition of Nature Energy and in the 
CrossWind joint venture off the Dutch coast, which will supply 
renewable power to the Holland Hydrogen 1 electrolyser. In China, we 
opened our largest electric vehicle charging station, while globally we 
continued to transform our refineries into energy and chemicals parks. 

Our strategy confirms our commitment to Integrated Gas, particularly 
LNG where we are growing our portfolio even more and will increase 
capacity by around 11 million tonnes per year in the second half of the 
decade – that is an annual increase of more than a quarter of our 
current capacity. LNG plays a major role as a lower-carbon alternative 
to coal and as a partner to wind and solar for electricity generation. 
As we increase our LNG activities, we will continue work on reducing 
our methane emissions to near-zero by 2030.

We want to remain a leader in biofuels and as demand for low-carbon 
fuels grows, we expect to sell less oil products. We aim to lead in the 
energy transition where we have competitive strengths, see strong 
customer demand, and identify clear regulatory support from governments. 
To help drive the decarbonisation of transport, we have set a new 

5
5

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products 
by 15-20% by 2030, compared with 2021 (Scope 3, Category 11) [A]. 

As we pursue more value with less emissions, we must remain 
disciplined. For example, last summer we pulled out of a tender for 
a wind farm off the coast of Germany when it did not meet our test 
for capital discipline. 

The importance of learning
The safety of everyone working for Shell is our top priority. I am deeply 
saddened by the death of five contractor colleagues in incidents that 
took place at Shell operations in 2023. One contractor in Malaysia 
and another in the Philippines died while at work. In Nigeria, two 
contractors were shot, along with four government security agents, in 
an appalling attack on a convoy. Also in Nigeria, a contractor injured 
in a tugboat fire late in 2023 died in early 2024. My heart goes out to 
all the families and friends of those who have died. Our personal safety 
results fell short of what we achieved in 2022 and we are committed to 
doing better through learning from these and other incidents. Applying 
what we have learned in the past has helped us achieve our lowest 
number of process safety events on record in 2023.

I visited Oman in June for our Safety Day. This was significant for me 
because it is where I started at Shell 26 years ago. Talking to our 
people there brought back many memories – my passion for the 
business, my hope for the future, but also how much I had to learn. 
We must always be open to new ideas.

Being the best we can be
Our strategy is also about respecting nature and powering lives. 
We give more detail on how we are progressing in these areas in this 
Annual Report (on pages 116 and 124) and in our Sustainability Report.

In 2023, I visited a number of our teams, including in Abu Dhabi, 
Brazil, China, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Oman, Qatar and the 
United States. I never cease to be impressed by the calibre of people 
I meet on these trips. Shell's best asset is its people. Streamlining our 
organisation can harness their creativity by cutting bureaucracy and 
making processes more efficient. I want our people to focus their 
energies on making Shell the best it can be. 

At Shell, we are guided by the clarity of our purpose to provide more and 
cleaner energy solutions. We focus on what we can control. And, as we 
embed performance, discipline and simplification into Shell's culture, 
I believe we are the investment case through the energy transition. 

Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).
[A] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 

517 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2023, 569 million tonnes CO2e 
in 2021 and 819 million tonnes CO2e in 2016.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy

Who we are

Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical 
companies, employing around 103,000 people [A] 
and with operations in more than 70 countries.

Shell's stakeholders include our customers, investors, employees 
and contractors, pensioners, our strategic partners and suppliers, 
the communities where we work, civil society, academia and think 
tanks, governments and regulators.

We seek to provide the world with the energy it needs today, 
while helping it build a sustainable energy future. 

Our competitive advantages are built upon our large and 
diverse portfolio, people who have outstanding talent, strong 
technological capability and deep customer reach, which we 
are leveraging to help enable a balanced energy transition.

We expect our employees and contractors to maintain our focus on 
safety and abide by our core values of honesty, integrity and respect 
for people.

[A] At December 31, 2023. 

Our operating businesses

Integrated Gas and Upstream

Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions 

Integrated Gas and Upstream (IGU) explores for and extracts 
crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It delivers 
hydrocarbon products from conventional oil and gas operations, 
deep-water exploration and production, liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) activities, and converts natural gas into gas-to-liquids (GTL) 
fuels and other products. The marketing, trading and optimisation 
of LNG are included in IGU. IGU provides the secure energy 
customers need and we aim to do this with lower emissions.

Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES) provides 
products and services to more than 1 million business customers. 
It includes Chemicals and Products, and Marketing, which includes 
Mobility — a business that serves around 33 million retail 
customers a day at more than 47,000 service stations. Marketing 
also includes Lubricants, and Sectors and Decarbonisation 
activities. Downstream and R&ES, underpinned by Trading and 
Supply, aims to meet the evolving energy needs of our customers.

Reporting segments

Integrated Gas | Upstream

Reporting segments

Marketing | Chemicals and Products | Renewables and Energy Solutions

Innovation

Technological innovation is integral to our pursuit of more and cleaner energy solutions as we work towards becoming a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050. Projects & Technology (P&T) manages major projects, driving innovation, while delivering technical 
services to our businesses. P&T provides essential functional leadership across Shell, addressing safety and environment, contracting 
and procurement, and greenhouse gas emissions management. Our research and development activities also encompass safety, 
performance products, and automation and artificial intelligence. 

6
6

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy

Our strategy

Our Powering Progress strategy is to generate more 
value for our shareholders, customers and wider society 
as we work to become a net-zero emissions energy 
business by 2050. Our purpose -- to provide more 
and cleaner energy solutions – drives our strategy. 

Our strategy is built upon: generating shareholder value, achieving net-
zero emissions, powering lives and respecting nature. At our Capital 
Markets Day in June 2023, we announced how we will put our 
strategy into action with a relentless focus on performance, discipline 
and simplification as we aim to deliver more value with less emissions. 

We are building on our strengths in Integrated Gas, Upstream and 
Marketing. We will invest around $40 billion in leading Integrated 
Gas and advantaged Upstream assets over 2023-2025. This will help 
drive significant and resilient cash delivery, while helping to provide 
energy security. Over the same period, investment in Downstream 
and Renewables and Energy Solutions will be around $35 billion, 
of which $10-15 billion will be in low-carbon energy solutions, 
as we help to enable the energy transition.

Achieving net zero
The Paris Agreement aims to strengthen the global response to
the threat of climate change by "holding the increase in the global 
average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels 
and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels". Shell supports the Paris Agreement goal to limit 
the rise in global average temperature this century to 1.5°C above
pre-industrial levels. To achieve this, urgent action is needed to reduce 
emissions across all sectors.

We are working to become a net-zero emissions energy business. 
This means net-zero carbon emissions from our operations. It also means 
net-zero carbon emissions from the energy products we sell (including 
those produced by others), which currently account for over 90% of 
the total emissions we report. We support a balanced energy transition 
where the world maintains a secure and affordable supply of energy, 
while building the clean energy system of the future. We want to play 
our part in the energy transition, purposefully and profitably.

We aim to partner with our customers, suppliers and governments to 
help decarbonise the energy system. Our integrated assets and supply 
chains are designed to provide a secure supply of energy for our 
customers, while also delivering low- and zero-carbon alternatives.

Our Purpose
To power progress together by providing 
more and cleaner energy solutions

Generating Shareholder Value
Growing value through a dynamic portfolio  
and disciplined capital allocation

Respecting Nature
Protecting the environment, 
reducing waste and making 
a positive contribution 
to biodiversity

Powering Progress

Powering Lives
Powering lives through our 
products and activities, and 
supporting an inclusive society

Underpinned by our core values  
of honesty, integrity, respect for people,
and our focus on safety

Achieving Net-Zero Emissions
Working with our customers and sectors  
to accelerate the energy transition  
to net-zero emissions

7
7

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our strategy continued

Generating 
shareholder 
value

Achieving net-
zero emissions

We aim to generate more value for 
shareholders through disciplined capital 
allocation and a focus on performance.

We aim to become a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050 and will work 
with customers to help them decarbonise.

We aim to generate more value for shareholders through disciplined 
capital allocation and a focus on delivering strong performance. 
We seek to provide enhanced distributions through our progressive 
dividend policy and share buyback programmes, which together 
target shareholder distributions* of 30-40% of cash flow from 
operations through the cycle. 

In 2023, total shareholder distributions* amounted to $23 billion, 
comprising $8 billion in cash dividends and $15 billion in share 
buybacks, and we generated $54 billion in cash flow from operating 
activities. This resulted in total shareholder distributions*of 42% of cash 
flow from operating activities*, around the upper end of our target 
range. Our capital expenditure was $23 billion and our cash capital 
expenditure* was $24 billion. We reduced our total debt to $82 
billion and our net debt* to $44 billion as of December 31, 2023.

We aim to grow our price-normalised free cash flow* by more than 
6% per year through 2030 and grow price-normalised free cash flow 
per share* by 10% per year through 2025. In 2023, we increased 
our dividend to $0.344 per share in the fourth quarter of 2023.

We are focusing on operational, financial and carbon performance, 
while maintaining our balance sheet strength. We take a disciplined 
approach to our portfolio and capital spending, aiming to invest 
where we have an enduring competitive advantage. 

In 2023, we announced capital expenditure targets of $22-25 billion 
per year in 2024 and 2025 and targeted structural cost reductions* 
of $2-3 billion by end-2025. By the end of 2023, we had made 
$1 billion in structural cost reductions*.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

We have a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 
2050, purposefully and profitably. Our net-zero target covers emissions 
from our operations (Scope 1), emissions from the energy we buy to 
run our operations (Scope 2) and emissions from our customers' use 
of the energy products we sell (Scope 3). We have a target to halve 
Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions from assets and activities under our 
operational control by 2030, compared with 2016 levels on a net basis. 
By the end of 2023 we had reduced our absolute emissions by 31% [A].

Our energy transition update includes an ambition to reduce customer 
emissions from the use of our oil products by 15-20% by 2030, 
compared with 2021 (Scope 3, Category 11) [B]. Our net carbon 
intensity reduction targets are: 9-12% by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 
15-20% by 2030, 100% by 2050 compared with a 2016 baseline.

We place a high priority on combatting methane emissions. Our 
target is to maintain methane emissions intensity below 0.2% for 
operated oil and gas assets (including liquefied natural gas) and to 
reach near-zero methane emissions by 2030. In 2023, we achieved 
this with methane emissions intensity at 0.05%. We have a target to 
end routine flaring from upstream operations by 2025, subject to the 
completion of the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company 
of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) [C].

We are transforming our business and selling more low-carbon 
products and services, and will work with our customers across 
sectors to accelerate the energy transition. We engage with 
governments and other stakeholders, including international 
organisations and industry associations, and participate in global 
events, such as COP28. Through this engagement we seek to support 
robust policies, legislation and regulations designed to generate the 
demand for investment in the low-carbon energy system.

[A] Reduced from 83 million tonnes of CO2e in 2016 to 57 million tonnes of CO2e in 2023. 
[B] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 

517 million tonnes CO2e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

[C] In January 2024, Shell announced an agreement to sell SPDC. Completion of the 

transaction is subject to approvals by the Nigerian government and other conditions.

8
8

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our strategy continued

Powering
lives

Respecting 
nature

We work to power lives through our 
products and activities, and by supporting 
an inclusive society.

We aim for a positive impact on 
biodiversity, zero waste and using water, 
other resources and materials efficiently. 

We seek to make a positive impact on the lives of people around 
the world. We help to power lives and livelihoods by providing 
vital energy for homes, businesses, and transport. 

We support livelihoods by providing employment and training in 
the communities where we operate, and buying goods and services 
from local suppliers, contributing to a more inclusive economy. 
In 2023, we spent around $49 billion on goods and services 
from suppliers*around the world. Our activities generate revenues 
for governments through the taxes and royalties we pay, and 
the taxes we collect on their behalf. In 2023, taxes paid and 
collected* were $67 billion. This helps governments fund health 
care, education and other essential services.

Around 760 million people [A] in the world have no electricity and over 
half the world population has insufficient energy to lead a good life [B]. 
We deliver energy commercially, by investing in businesses that supply 
energy access in emerging markets; and socially, by investing funds, 
expertise and resources in access to energy programmes.

Shell aims to become one of the most diverse and inclusive 
organisations in the world. Our focus is on gender; race and ethnicity; 
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+); and disability. In 
2023, representation of women in senior leadership [C] grew to 32%. 
Our 2023 Shell People Survey showed a result of 83 points out of 100 
for all questions relating to diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I). This 
suggests that overall our people feel ours is a workplace in which they 
belong, feel safe and respected, and have equal opportunities to 
progress and grow. We seek to respect human rights in all parts of our 
business. Since 2022, we have implemented practices to improve and 
maintain worker welfare for employees and contractors.

[A] International Energy Agency, SDG7: Data and Projections, 2023.
[B] UN Human Development Index, Approximately 75 GJ final energy per capita is the 

threshold where populations reach 0.8 on the UN Human Development Index which can 
be considered a good life.

[C] Senior Leadership is a Shell measure based on compensation grade levels. This measure is 
distinct from "senior manager" as per statutory disclosure requirements. See "Our people" 
on page 128. 

In 2023, we reviewed our progress and performance on respecting 
nature. We consolidated our respecting nature ambitions announced 
as part of our Powering Progress strategy in 2021 into the following 
themes: having a positive impact on biodiversity, aiming for zero 
waste and using water, other resources and materials efficiently.

We have already achieved some of the respecting nature 
commitments we set when we launched Powering Progress. Our 
commitment to reduce fresh-water consumption in highly water-
stressed areas by 15% was achieved ahead of the target date of 
2025. We have also conducted detailed assessments to inform our 
approach to fresh water and waste, which will be tailored to local 
conditions. We have concluded that our ambition to use 1 million 
tonnes of plastic waste a year in our global chemical plants by 2025 
is unfeasible due to lack of available plastic waste feedstock, slow 
technology development and regulatory uncertainty.

The remaining commitments announced in 2021 have either been 
incorporated into our new Safety, Environment and Asset 
Management (SEAM) Standards, which take effect from mid-2024, 
or are included in the relevant business objectives and processes.

When planning new major projects, we conduct detailed 
environmental, social and health impact assessments. At the end of 
2023, 89% of major installations operated by Shell were certified 
against the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System, 
or were in compliance with equivalent environmental frameworks 
required by local regulations. We are pursuing certification for 
the remainder.

Air quality continues to be embedded in our environmental standards. 
We are developing a range of lower-emission choices for customers, 
from electric vehicle charge points to biofuels, to help people and 
companies use lower-emission modes of transport. We continue to 
explore how we can source responsibly in our supply chain. 

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

9
9

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
How we create value continued

We aim to meet the world's growing need for 
more and sustainable energy solutions in ways 
that are economically, environmentally and 
socially responsible. Through our business 
activities we create value for our shareholders, 
customers and wider society.

Business activities

Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy

How we 
create value

Our inputs [A]

Financial capital

Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders ($ billion) [B]:
187 2022: 190

Total debt ($ billion) [B]: 
82 2022: 84

Net debt* ($ billion) [B]:
44 2022: 45 

Average capital employed ($ billion) [B]: 
273 2022: 270

Cash capital expenditure* ($ billion): 
24 2022: 25
Operations

Refining and chemicals availability:
91% 2022: 96%
Oil & gas production available for sale (kboe/d):
2,791 2022: 2,864
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes):
28 2022: 30
Human capital

Number of employees (thousands) [B]:
103 2022: 93

Number of training days (thousands):
295 2022: 266

Relationships

Ranking in the Global 500 list most valuable oil & gas 
company [C]:

1 2022: 1

Customers, joint arrangements, government relations, suppliers. 
Operating countries [B]:
>70 2022: >70
Intellectual capital

Research and development expenses ($ million):
1,287 2022: 1,075

Number of patents [B][D]:
8,829 2022: 8,647
Natural resources

Proved oil and gas reserves (million boe) [B]:
9,787 2022: 9,578

Energy consumed (million MWh) [E]:
205 2022: 209

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).
[A] In 2023 unless stated otherwise.
[B] At December 31.
[C] Source: Brand Finance Global 500.
[D] Includes patents granted and pending patent applications. Number of patents 

in 2022 has been revised.

[E] 2022 figure restated, following the review of data.

10
10

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

11
11

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our outcomes and impacts 
for our stakeholders [A]

Cash flow from operating activities
($ billion):
54 2022: 68

Free cash flow*
($ billion):
36 2022: 46

Shareholder distributions*
($ billion):
23 2022: 26

Adjusted Earnings* ($ billion):
28 2022: 40

Absolute emissions (Scope 1 and 2 – 
million tonnes of CO₂ equivalent):
57 2022: 58| 2016: 83

Net carbon intensity (grams of CO₂ 
equivalent per megajoule):
74 2022: 76 | 2016: 79

Methane emissions intensity 
0.05% 2022: 0.05%

Women employees in senior 
leadership positions [B]:
32% 2022: 30%

Taxes paid and collected*
($ billion):
67 2022: 68

Total spend on goods and services*[C]
($ billion):
49 2022: 48

Fresh water consumed by four major 
facilities in high water-stressed areas 
(million m³):
17 2022: 18 | 2018: 25

Total waste disposed (million tonnes):
2 2022: 2

Operational spills of more than 100 
kilograms (thousand tonnes):
0.37 2022: 0.06

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).
[A] In 2023 unless stated otherwise.
[B] At December 31.
[C] 2022 comparative has been revised following a new reporting methodology.

EnergyuseCustomersectorsEnergy solutionsAssets and capabilitiesSUPPORTING THE DELIVERY            OF INTEGRATED ENERGY SOLUTIONSCommercialMarineAviationIndustrialMobilityElectricityGas-to-liquidsLiqueﬁed natural gasFuelsChemicalsBiofuelsHydrogenNatural gasLubricantsTechnology and        operational excellenceOilLNG and GTLEnergy and chemicals parksRenewablesGasTransportBiomassPowerPeopleCarbon removals and offsetsValue enhanced by            trading and optimisationCommercialroad transportShell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy

Progress against
our longer-term
business targets

In 2023, we made good progress on the longer-term business targets that we announced at Capital Markets Day 
in June 2023. All other business targets have been retired in our drive for simplification and focus on performance.

More value

Less emissions

42%

38%

30–40%

Net-zero emissions 
by 2050 (Scope 1, 2 
and 3) [D]

million tonnes of CO2e

1,645

1,240 1,185

Shareholder 
distribution 30-40% 
of CFFO* through 
the cycle [A]

%

Price-normalised 
FCF growth* > 
6% per year 
through 2030 [B]

$ billion

2022 2023

25

20

2022

2023

2030

Price-normalised 
FCF growth/share* 
> 10% per year 
through 2025 [B]

$/share

3.8

2.9

Structural cost 
reduction* vs. 
2022 ($2-3 billion) 
by end of 2025 [C]

$ billion

2022

2023

2025

2-3

1.0

2023

2025

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).
[A] CFFO: cash flow from operating activities.
[B] FCF: free cash flow.
[C] 2025 target reflects annualised savings achieved by end-2025.

12
12

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

0

2016 2022 2023 2050

Halving Scope 1 & 2 
emissions by 2030 
under operational 
control (2016 
baseline) [D], [H]

million tonnes of CO2e

83

58

57

41

2016 2022 2023 2030

Eliminate routine 
flaring from 
upstream 
operations by 2025 
[D], [E]

million tonnes

0.2

0.1

0.1

0

2021

2022

2023

2025

Methane emissions 
intensity maintained 
below 0.2% until 
2025 [D], [F] and 
achieve near-zero 
methane emissions 
by 2030 [D], [G]

%

maintain below 0.2%

0.06%

0.05%

0.05%

~0

2021

2022

2023 2030

[D] See "Our journey to net zero" section.
[E] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.
[F] In view of the methane emissions intensity target of below 0.2% having been met 
the reference to the target year of 2025 has been removed as part of the energy 
transition strategy update.

[G] Methane emissions were 41 thousand tonnes in 2023 (2022: 40, 2021: 55)
[H] 2030 target is on a net basis.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy

Outlook
for 2024 and beyond

Delivering our strategy will require clear and deliberate capital 
allocation choices. We intend to focus on investing in businesses where 
we believe we have an enduring competitive advantage. The outlook 
for cash capital spending in 2024 and 2025 is in the $22-25 billion 
per year range. Additionally, we aim to reduce structural costs by 
$2-3 billion by the end of 2025, compared with 2022.

Our target for shareholder distributions is 30-40% of cash flow from 
operations through the cycle. We may return cash to shareholders 
through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. We increased 
our dividend per share in 2023 and it is now 25% higher than the 
dividends for 2022. Subject to Board approval, we aim to grow the 
dividend per share by around 4% every year. When setting the level of 
shareholder distributions, the Board looks at a range of factors, including 
the macro environment, our underlying business earnings and cash flow, 
the current balance sheet, future investment, acquisition, and divestment 
plans and existing commitments.

In 2023, we renewed our focus on performance, discipline and 
simplification. We intend to demonstrate delivery of our targets, 
while strengthening the foundation of our lower-carbon businesses. 

Recent times have been a stark reminder that energy security cannot 
be taken for granted. We support a balanced energy transition, where 
the world does not dismantle the current energy system faster than the 
clean energy system of the future can be built.

We are committed to our liquefied natural gas (LNG) business and 
growing it with some of the lowest emissions in our industry. We will 
increase capacity for our LNG portfolio by around 11 million tonnes per 
year in the second half of the decade – that is an annual increase of 
more than a quarter of our current capacity. LNG plays an important 
role as a lower-carbon alternative to coal and as a partner to wind 
and solar power for electricity generation. Our Upstream business aims 
to keep liquids production levels flat, while producing oil with lower 
emissions. We will be transforming our Downstream, Renewables 
and Energy Solutions business to offer more low-carbon solutions, 
while reducing sales of oil products. 

The statements in this "Outlook" section are forward-looking statements 
based on management's current expectations and certain material 
assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied herein. 

Financial framework

Balanced Capital 
Allocation

Enhanced shareholder distributions

Strong balance sheet

Disciplined investment

Targeting total shareholder distributions 
of 30-40% of cash flow from operating 
activities through the cycle

Around 4% annual growth
in dividend per share, subject
to Board approval

Targeting AA credit metrics 
through the cycle

Cash capex within $22-25 billion
per annum for 2024 and 2025

13
13

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors

The risks discussed below could have a 
material adverse effect separately, or in 
combination, on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition. Accordingly, 
investors should carefully consider 
these risks.

Strategic risks

Further background on each risk is set out in the relevant sections of this 
Report, indicated by way of cross references.

The Board's responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing our 
significant and emerging risks is discussed in "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on pages 219-227.

We are exposed to macroeconomic risks, including fluctuating prices 
of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals.

See "Market overview" on page 38.

How this risk is managed
We maintain a diversified portfolio to manage the 
impact of price volatility. We test the resilience of 
our projects and other opportunities against a range 
of prices and costs for crude oil, natural gas, oil 
products and chemicals. We prepare annual 
strategic and financial plans that test different 
scenarios and their impact on prices on our 
businesses and organisation as a whole. Through 
this process, we identify potential interventions that 
would preserve cash levels. We also aim to maintain 
a strong balance sheet through the cycle to provide 
resilience against weak market prices.

Risk description
The prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals can be volatile and are affected by supply 
and demand, both globally and regionally. Under high oil and gas prices, our entitlement to proved 
reserves under some production-sharing contracts has been, and could continue to be, reduced. Higher 
prices could also reduce demand for our products which could result in lower profitability in certain 
businesses in the Group, particularly in our Chemicals and Products, and Marketing businesses. Some of 
the reduction in demand could be permanent. Higher prices can also lead to more capacity being built, 
potentially resulting in an oversupplied market which would negatively affect our businesses. In the past, 
a high oil and gas price environment has generally led to sharp increases in costs and this could continue.

In addition, macroeconomic, geopolitical and technological uncertainties have affected, and could 
continue to affect, production costs and demand for our products. Government actions may affect the 
prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals. These include price caps on gas, the 
promotion of electric vehicle sales or the phasing-out of future sales of new diesel or gasoline vehicles 
(as announced in the UK and due to come into force in 2035). Oil and gas prices can also move 
independently of each other (as seen with European gas prices in 2022). Factors that influence supply 
and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, pandemics such as COVID-19, 
political instability, conflicts, such as Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine and the conflict in Gaza, 
economic conditions, including inflation, and actions by major oil- and gas-producing countries. 

In a low oil and gas price environment, we have generated, and could continue to generate, less revenue 
from our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses, and parts of those businesses could become less 
profitable or incur losses. Low oil and gas prices have also resulted and could continue to result in the 
debooking of proved oil or gas reserves, if they become uneconomic in this type of price environment. 
Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, have resulted and could continue to result 
in projects being delayed or cancelled. Assets have been impaired in the past, and there could be 
impairments in the future. Low oil and gas prices have affected, and could continue to affect, our ability 
to maintain our long-term capital investment and shareholder distribution programmes. Prolonged periods 
of low oil and gas prices could adversely affect the financial, fiscal, legal, political and social stability 
of countries that rely significantly on oil and gas revenue. 

Accordingly, price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial 
opportunities depends in part on the accuracy of our price assumptions.

See "Market overview" on page 39.

Risk description
We use a range of commodity price and margin assumptions, which we review on a periodic basis. 
These ranges help us to evaluate the robustness of our capital allocation for our evaluation of projects 
and commercial opportunities. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, this could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends on how we react 
to competitive forces. 

Risk description
We face competition in all our businesses. We seek to differentiate our services and products, though 
many of our products are competing in commodity-type markets. Accordingly, failure to manage our costs 
and our operational performance could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. We also compete with state-owned hydrocarbon entities and state-backed utility 
entities with access to financial resources and local markets. Such entities could be motivated by political 
or other factors in making their business decisions. Accordingly, when bidding on new leases or projects, 
we could find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage because these state-owned entities may not 
require a competitive return. If we are unable to obtain competitive returns when bidding on new leases 
or projects, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
The range of commodity prices and margins used in 
our project and portfolio evaluations is subject to a 
rigorous assessment of short-, medium- and long-term 
market drivers. These drivers include the extent and 
pace of the energy transition.

See "Outlook for 2024 and beyond" on page 13. 

How this risk is managed
We continually assess the external environment - 
the markets and the underlying economic, political, 
social and environmental drivers that shape them - 
to evaluate changes in competitive forces. We 
define multiple future potential scenarios and 
business environments by identifying drivers, 
uncertainties, enablers and constraints to our 
competitiveness. These scenarios help us to find 
issues which affect our operating environment 
and have implications for our strategy.

14
14

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Strategic risks continued

Rising concerns about climate change and effects of the energy 
transition could lead to a fall in demand and potentially lower 
prices for fossil fuels. Climate change could also have a physical 
impact on our assets and supply chains. This risk has resulted in 
adverse litigation and regulatory developments which may recur 
in the future, resulting in project delays or cancellations, potential 
additional litigation, operational restrictions and additional 
compliance obligations.

Risk description
Societal demand for urgent action on climate change has increased, especially since the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on Global Warming 
of 1.5°C effectively made the more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement to limit the rise 
in global average temperature this century to 1.5°C the default target. This increasing 
focus on climate change and drive for an energy transition have created a risk 
environment that is changing rapidly, resulting in a wide range of stakeholder actions at 
global, local and company levels. The potential impact and likelihood of the associated 
exposure for Shell could vary across different time horizons, depending on the specific 
components of the risk.

We expect that a growing share of our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will be 
subject to regulation, resulting in increased compliance costs and operational 
restrictions. Regulators may seek to limit certain oil and gas projects or make it more 
difficult to obtain required permits. Additionally, climate activists are challenging the 
grant of new and existing regulatory permits, and protesting at some of our facilities and 
projects. We expect that these challenges and protests are likely to continue and could 
delay or prohibit operations in certain cases. Our journey to achieving our target of 
becoming a net-zero emissions energy business has resulted in and could continue to 
require additional costs. We also expect that actions by customers to reduce their 
emissions will lower demand and potentially affect prices for fossil fuels, as will increasing 
levels of GHG emissions regulation through taxes, fees and/or other incentives. This 
could be a factor contributing to additional provisions for our assets and result in 
lower earnings, cancelled projects and potential impairment of certain assets.

The pace and extent of the energy transition could pose a risk to Shell if we decarbonise 
our operations and the energy we sell at a different speed relative to society. If we are 
slower than society, customers may prefer a different supplier, which would reduce 
demand for our products and adversely affect our reputation besides materially 
affecting our financial results. If we move much faster than society, we risk investing 
in technologies, low-carbon products or markets for which or where demand fails to 
materialise. The operating margins for our low-carbon products and services have been, 
and could continue to be lower than the margins we have experienced historically in 
our oil and gas operations. Changes in climate-related regulations may also impact 
our returns. The physical effects of climate change such as, but not limited to, increases 
in temperature and sea levels and fluctuations in water levels could also adversely 
affect our operations and supply chains. 

Certain investors have decided to divest their investments in fossil fuel companies. 
If this were to continue, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our 
securities and our ability to access capital markets. Stakeholder groups are also putting 
pressure on commercial and investment banks to stop financing fossil fuel companies. 
Some financial institutions have started to limit their exposure to fossil fuel projects. 
Accordingly, our ability to use financing for these types of future projects may be 
adversely affected. This could also adversely affect our partners' ability to finance 
their portion of costs, either through equity or debt. 

In some countries governments, regulators, non-governmental organisations and individuals 
have filed lawsuits seeking to hold fossil fuel companies liable for costs associated with 
climate change. Losing climate change lawsuits that have been filed against us could have 
a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. For example, 
in May 2021, the District Court in The Hague, the Netherlands, ruled that by end 2030, 
Shell must reduce its aggregate net Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 45%, compared with 
2019 levels. The Scope 1 component is a results-based obligation and the Scope 2 and 3 
components are a significant best-efforts obligation.

As new technologies are developed to more accurately measure emissions, we may be 
required to revise our emissions estimates and reduction targets. Even if we meet our 
targets, our efforts may be characterised as insufficient.

In summary, rising climate change concerns, the pace at which we decarbonise 
our operations relative to society and effects of the energy transition pose multiple 
challenges to our business. These could, individually or collectively, result in, for 
example, financial penalties, additional provisions or payments of financial damages, 
and have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

15
15

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 82-115, "Climate change and 
energy transition" on pages 259-269, "Renewables and energy 
solutions" on pages 75-78 and "Legal proceedings and other 
contingencies" on pages 312-314.

How this risk is managed
Our response to the evolving risk outlook requires transparency and 
clarity around our plans and actions to achieve our climate target. Our 
climate change risk management approach is supported by standards 
and manuals as part of our Health, Safety, Security and Environment 
and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework. Climate 
change and risks resulting from GHG emissions are reviewed and 
managed in accordance with other significant risks through the Board 
and the Executive Committee. We have established several dedicated 
internal forums related to climate change and the energy transition. 
These are at different levels of the organisation and seek to address, 
monitor and review climate change issues. 

Our strategy to assess and manage risks and opportunities resulting 
from climate change includes considering different time horizons and 
their relevance to risk identification and business planning. We actively 
monitor societal developments, such as regulation-driven carbon-
pricing mechanisms and customer-driven preferences for products. We 
incorporate these into potential scenarios which provide insights into 
how the energy transition may unfold in the medium and long term. 
These insights and those from various other external scenarios (such 
as those prepared for the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report) guide how 
we set our strategic direction, capital allocation and carbon emission 
reduction targets. 

Overall, we mitigate climate-related risks through our Powering Progress 
strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. With our focus on 
performance, discipline and simplification, we believe that we are in a 
better position to achieve both our financial and climate-related targets 
and ambitions. This approach includes: 
￮

reducing the GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and 2) 
by improving our energy efficiency, deploying renewable electricity, 
managing flaring, and reducing methane emissions in our assets 
and projects;

￮ growing our world-leading liquefied natural gas (LNG) business while 
decarbonising our LNG portfolio in two main ways: by growing our 
portfolio with a lower carbon intensity, and by focusing on reducing 
emissions of methane;

￮ managing our Upstream portfolio to support a balanced energy 
transition by cutting emissions from oil and gas production, while 
keeping oil production stable. Oil production is increasingly from 
our deep-water business which, through innovation, produces higher-
margin and lower-carbon barrels; and
transforming our businesses in Downstream and Renewables and 
Energy Solutions to offer more low-carbon solutions, while reducing 
sales of oil products. 

￮

Our investments in low-carbon solutions are subject to financial modelling 
and stress-testing, due diligence and risk assessments to ensure that 
our capital is allocated to the most attractive low-carbon projects and 
opportunities. In addition, we are working to effectively adapt our assets 
and activities to enhance our resilience to the physical risks related to 
climate change where needed. 

We are also working with governments on their climate policy to help 
establish regulatory frameworks that will enable society to reach the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. We signed up to the Oil and Gas 
Decarbonization Charter announced at COP28, within which 
organisations have pledged to achieve near-zero methane emissions by 
2030 and zero routine flaring by no later than 2030. We also intend to 
contribute to the World Bank's Global Flaring and Methane Reduction 
Fund, which was launched at COP28. In relation to the ruling delivered 
by the District Court in The Hague in May 2021, we have appealed the 
ruling but continue to implement our Powering Progress strategy to 
become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, regardless 
of whether we win or lose the appeal.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Strategic risks continued

We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees of 
political, legal and fiscal stability. This exposes us to a wide range of 
political developments that could result in changes to contractual terms, 
laws and regulations. We and our joint arrangements and associates 
also face the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide. 

Risk description
Developments in politics, laws and regulations can and do affect our supply chains and operations. 
Potential impacts, which we have experienced in the past, include: forced divestment of assets; 
expropriation of property; cancellation or forced renegotiation of contract rights; delay of new projects; 
additional taxes, including windfall taxes (especially during periods of prolonged high oil and gas prices 
experienced in recent years, such as 2022), restrictions on deductions and retroactive tax claims; antitrust 
claims; changes to trade compliance regulations; price controls; local content requirements; foreign 
exchange controls; changes to environmental regulations; changes to regulatory interpretations and 
enforcement; and changes to disclosure requirements. Many parts of the world are facing economic and 
fiscal challenges and growing pressure on cost-of-living standards. These issues impact our business as 
governments, in response to political and social pressures, pursue policies that could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 

The world is also facing continued geopolitical instability, including Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, 
which impacts market conditions and our operations. The broader consequences of the conflict in Gaza 
remain uncertain and a wider regional escalation could have greater impacts on our operations in the 
Middle East and beyond. 

From time to time, social and political factors play a role in unprecedented and unanticipated judicial 
outcomes that could adversely affect Shell. Non‑compliance with policies and regulations could result in 
regulatory investigations, litigation and, ultimately, sanctions. Certain governments and regulatory bodies 
have, in Shell's opinion, exceeded their constitutional authority by: attempting unilaterally to amend or 
cancel existing agreements or arrangements; failing to honour existing contractual commitments; and 
seeking to adjudicate disputes between private litigants. Certain governments have also adopted laws 
and regulations that could potentially conflict with other countries' laws and regulations, potentially 
subjecting us to criminal and civil sanctions. Such developments and outcomes could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 

An erosion of our business reputation could have a material adverse 
effect on our brand, our ability to secure new hydrocarbon or low-carbon 
opportunities or access capital markets, and on our licence to operate. 

Risk description
Our reputation is an important asset. The Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) govern how Shell 
and its individual companies conduct their affairs, and the Shell Code of Conduct tells employees 
and contract staff how to behave in line with the SGBP. Our challenge is to ensure that all employees 
and contract staff comply with the Principles and the Code of Conduct. Real or perceived failures of 
governance or regulatory compliance or a perceived lack of understanding of how our operations 
affect surrounding communities could harm our reputation.

Societal expectations of companies are increasing, with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, 
contribution to society, safety and minimising damage to the environment. There is increasing focus on 
the role of oil and gas in the context of climate change and the energy transition. Non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) continue to challenge Shell's social and legal licence to operate through activities 
to block or delay projects and by bringing legal actions, diverting our resources. In key markets, we are 
seeing an increasing number of protests at external events such as the Annual General Meeting, claims 
brought by NGOs and our brand communications have been subject to bans from advertising regulators 
in the UK and the Netherlands, following complaints received from members of the public. During 
prolonged periods of high oil and gas prices, the oil and gas industry could be accused of profiteering 
from higher fuel and electricity prices and therefore impacting living costs. This could negatively affect 
our brand, reputation and licence to operate, which could limit our ability to deliver our strategy, reduce 
consumer demand for our branded and non-branded products, harm our ability to secure new resources 
and contracts, and restrict our ability to access capital markets or attract staff. Many other factors, 
including the materialisation of other risks discussed in this section, could negatively affect our reputation 
and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

16
16

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

See "Other regulatory and statutory information"  
on page 225.

How this risk is managed
We continually monitor geopolitical developments 
and societal issues relevant to our interests. 

Our Legal and Tax functions are organised globally 
and support our business lines in seeking to ensure 
compliance with local laws and fiscal regulations, 
and filing proactive claims where warranted to 
protest unfair practices. Our Corporate Relations 
department liaises with governments in countries 
where we operate to understand and engage on 
local policies and to advocate Shell's position on 
topics relevant to our industry. 

We are prepared to exit a country if we believe we 
can no longer operate there in accordance with our 
standards and applicable law, and we have done 
so in the past. 

With regard to the conflict in Gaza, we have made 
adjustments to our operations in the Middle East to 
reduce our exposure and are closely monitoring the 
risk of a wider regional escalation. 

See "Living by our values" on page 137.

How this risk is managed
The SGBP set out our responsibilities to 
shareholders, customers, employees, business 
partners and society. They set the standards for how 
we conduct business with integrity, care and respect 
for people. All Shell employees and contractors, and 
those at joint ventures we operate, are expected to 
behave in line with these business principles. We 
undertake a range of activities to help embed the 
SGBP throughout the organisation. This involves 
training, encouraging people to discuss the 
dilemmas they face in their work.

We continually assess and monitor the external 
environment for potential risks to our reputation. 
We engage in dialogue with our key stakeholders, 
such as investors, industry and trade groups, 
academics, governments and non-governmental 
organisations to gain greater insights into societal 
expectations of the Shell Group of companies. 
We also take proactive steps when warranted, 
through legal means to protect our reputation 
from unwarranted accusations.

We have mitigation plans for identified individual 
risks at the Group, country and line of business level. 
Our country chairs are responsible for implementing 
country plans which are updated annually. We 
continually develop and defend our brand in line 
with Shell's purpose and promises and target our 
efforts to drive brand differentiation, relevance 
and preference.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks

Some of the consequences of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine remain 
unpredictable. The evolving geopolitical situation, including sanctions and 
export controls, has caused challenges to our operations, the security of 
our people, and has created new reputational exposure, both of which 
are likely to continue in the medium to longer term. 

Risk description
The Russia-Ukraine war continues to pose challenges to our operations and commercial decisions. 
The subsequent sanctions and export controls imposed by countries around the world are continuing 
to have a material impact on a number of our activities, including supply, trading and treasury activities. 
More sanctions and export controls could be expected. 

This continuing war could give rise to additional events that could materially impact our operations, 
which may be temporary or more permanent in nature. These risks and future events could impact the 
security of our people, our supply chain, commodity prices, credit, commodity trading, treasury and 
legal activities. In addition, there are potential reputational risks associated with how Shell's decisions 
in response to evolving challenges are perceived. The tensions also create heightened cyber security 
threats to our information technology (IT) infrastructure. 

Any of these factors, individually or in aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.

The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective 
judgements based on available information and the application 
of complex rules. This means subsequent downward adjustments 
are possible.

Risk description
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective judgements and determinations based 
on available geological, technical, contractual and economic information. Estimates can change over 
time because of new information from production or drilling activities, changes in economic factors, such 
as oil and gas prices, alterations in the regulatory policies of host governments, or other events. Estimates 
also change to reflect acquisitions, divestments, new discoveries, extensions of existing fields and mines, 
and improved recovery techniques. Published proved oil and gas reserves estimates could also be 
subject to correction because of errors in the application of rules and changes in guidance. Downward 
adjustments could indicate lower future production volumes and could also lead to impairment of assets. 
This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

See "Other regulatory and statutory information" 
on page 225. 

How this risk is managed
In response to the invasion, a Group Crisis 
Team was set up to assess the situation, consider 
potential scenarios of how events may further 
develop and coordinate responses accordingly. 
The team continues to play an oversight and cross-
coordination role across Shell's different lines 
of businesses.

Care for our people remains Shell's top priority. 

We continue to closely monitor and respond to 
the sanctions that have been imposed and follow 
international guidelines where relevant to our 
business activities.

Shell no longer participates in any joint ventures 
with Gazprom and related entities with ongoing 
operations inside Russia. Shell has also exited all 
its downstream business (including service stations, 
fuels supply and lubricants) in Russia.

See "Supplementary information - oil and gas 
(unaudited)" on pages 317-335.

How this risk is managed
A central group of reserves experts undertakes the 
primary assurance of the proved reserves bookings. 
A multidisciplinary committee reviews and endorses 
all major proved reserves bookings. Shell's Audit 
and Risk Committee reviews all proved reserves 
bookings and Shell's CEO is responsible for final 
approval. The Internal Audit function also provides 
further assurance through audits of the control 
framework, from which information disclosed 
in "Supplementary information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)" is obtained. 

17
17

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

Our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of large and 
integrated projects and our ability to replace proved oil and gas reserves.

See "Oil and gas information" on pages 55-62.

How this risk is managed
We continue to explore for and mature 
hydrocarbons across our Upstream and Integrated 
Gas businesses. We use our subsurface, project 
and technical expertise, and actively manage non-
technical risks across a diversified portfolio of 
opportunities and projects. This involves adopting 
an integrated approach for all stages, from basin 
choice to development. We use competitive 
techniques and benchmark our approach 
internally and externally. 

Risk description
We face numerous challenges in developing capital projects, especially those which are large and 
integrated. Challenges include: uncertain geology; frontier conditions; the existence and availability 
of necessary technology and engineering resources; the availability of skilled labour; the existence of 
transport infrastructure; project delays; the expiration of licences; delays in obtaining required permits; 
potential cost overruns; and technical, fiscal, regulatory, political and other conditions. These challenges 
are particularly relevant in certain developing and emerging market countries, in frontier areas and in 
deep-water fields, such as off the coast of Namibia. We may fail to assess or manage these and other 
risks properly. Such potential obstacles could impair our delivery of these projects, our ability to fulfil the 
full potential value of the project as assessed when the investment was approved, and our ability to fulfil 
related contractual commitments. This could lead to impairments and could have a material adverse 
effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 

Future oil and gas production will depend on our access to new proved reserves through exploration, 
negotiations with governments and other owners of proved reserves and acquisitions, and through 
developing and applying new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields. Failure to replace 
proved reserves could result in an accelerated decrease of future production, potentially having a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

Oil and gas production available for sale

Shell subsidiaries

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Total

Million boe [A]

2023

2022

937

82

938

108

1,019

1,046

2021

1,047

134

1,181

[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. 

Proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves [A][B]

Shell subsidiaries

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Total

Million boe [C]

Dec 31, 
2023

Dec 31, 
2022

Dec 31, 
2021

8,283

1,504

8,317

1,261

8,456

909

9,787

9,578

9,365

Attributable to non-controlling interest of Shell subsidiaries

378  

365 

267

[A] We manage our total proved reserves base without distinguishing between proved reserves from subsidiaries and 

those from joint ventures and associates.

[B] Includes proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations.
[C] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.

18
18

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which 
we work, to a wide range of health, safety, security and environment risks.

See "Safety" on pages 133-136 and "Living by our 
values" on pages 139.

Risk description
The health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks to which we and the communities in which we 
work are potentially exposed cover a wide spectrum, given the geographical range, operational diversity 
and technical complexity of our operations. These risks include the effects of natural disasters (including 
weather events and earthquakes), social unrest, pandemic diseases, criminal actions by external parties, 
and safety lapses. If a major risk materialises, such as an explosion or hydrocarbon leak or spill, which we 
have experienced in the past, this could result in injuries, loss of life, environmental harm, disruption of 
business activities, loss or suspension of permits, loss of our licence to operate and loss of our ability to bid 
on mineral rights. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

Our operations are subject to extensive HSSE regulatory requirements that often change and are likely to 
become more stringent over time. Governments could require operators to adjust their future production 
plans, affecting production and costs. We could incur significant extra costs in the future because of the 
need to comply with such requirements. We could also incur significant extra costs due to violations of 
or liabilities under laws and regulations that involve elements such as fines, penalties, clean-up costs and 
third-party claims. If HSSE risks materialise, they could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition. 

How this risk is managed
We have internal standards and a clear governance 
structure to help manage HSSE risks and avoid 
potential adverse effects. Our governance structure 
and standards also help us to develop mitigation 
strategies aimed at ensuring that if an HSSE 
risk materialises, we avoid the worst possible 
consequences and have ways to remediate any 
environmental damage. Our standards describe 
how key control processes need to be implemented, 
for example, to ensure safe production and 
equipment care. When planning new major 
projects, we conduct detailed environmental, 
social and health impact assessments. We 
routinely practise our emergency response plans 
for potential events, such as spills or fire, which 
pose a significant risk. 

Our standards and governance structure are 
currently defined in our Health, Safety, Security, 
Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) 
Control Framework and supporting guidance 
documents. We are in the process of transitioning 
to new Safety, Environment and Asset 
Management Standards as part of the 
Shell Performance Framework.

The Shell Internal Audit and Investigation team 
provides assurance on the HSSE & SP controls 
to the Audit and Risk Committee.

A further erosion of the business and operating environment in Nigeria 
could have a material adverse effect on us. 

See "Upstream" on page 52 and "Legal proceedings 
and other contingencies" on pages 312-314. 

Risk description
In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse conditions. These include: security incidents 
affecting the safety of our people, host communities and operations; sabotage and crude theft; ongoing 
litigation; limited infrastructure; challenges presented by delayed government and partner funding and 
budget delays; and regional instability created by militant activities. Some of these risks and adverse 
conditions, such as security issues affecting the safety of our people and sabotage and theft, have 
occurred in the past and are likely to continue in the future, with a potential material adverse effect 
on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
We test the economic and operational resilience 
of our Nigerian projects against a wide range 
of assumptions and scenarios. We seek to 
proportionally share risks and funding commitments 
with joint-venture partners. When we participate 
in joint ventures in Nigeria, we require that they 
operate in accordance with good industry practice. 
We monitor the security situation, and liaise with 
host communities, governmental and non-
governmental organisations to help promote 
peaceful and safe operations. 

Upon completion of the announced sale (subject 
to regulatory approvals and other conditions) 
of our onshore Nigeria business, our exposure to 
these risks is expected to reduce. Shell has other 
businesses in Nigeria that are outside the scope 
of the announced transaction.

19
19

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

We rely heavily on information technology systems in our operations. 

See "Other central activities" on page 81. 

Risk description
Our continued focus on digitalising our business processes, and our increasing dependence on 
information technology (IT) systems for our core operations, mean that we are heavily reliant on secure, 
affordable and resilient IT services provided both in-house and by third parties.

Externally, we observe several developments impacting our IT and cyber risk profile: deterioration of the 
cyber security threat landscape represented by increasing volumes of attacks by sophisticated cyber 
actors, technology developments (such as artificial intelligence), geopolitical conflicts and increases 
in regulations across the markets in which Shell operates. We have observed an increase in social 
engineering (manipulation of individuals) as a method of financially driven cyber crime. Threat actors 
are targeting bank account changes, invoice settlement and identity fraud to extract money from 
corporations. Ransomware attacks on corporations continue to be widespread. These contribute to 
potential breaches and disruptions of critical IT services, such as the security incident involving the transfer 
of files which Shell experienced in 2023. If breaches are not detected early and responded to effectively, 
they could impact our operations and the safety of our staff and/or harm our reputation and/or result in 
material regulatory fines. This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

Our business exposes us to risks of social instability, criminality, civil 
unrest, terrorism, piracy, cyber disruption and acts of war that could 
have a material adverse effect on our operations. 

How this risk is managed
Our global integrated Information Risk 
Management (IRM) and cyber defence teams 
are staffed with cyber security professionals that 
monitor, assure and defend our global IT landscape. 
Our cyber security capabilities are embedded into 
our IT systems, and our IT is protected by various 
detective and protective technologies. A structured 
approach to identify, assess and mitigate the IT and 
cyber security risks is built into our support processes 
and aligns to industry best practices. We 
continuously track cyber attacks, threat intelligence 
and vulnerabilities in our IT landscape and have a 
well-structured incident management and escalation 
process in place. The security of IT services, where 
operated by external IT companies, is managed 
through contractual clauses and additionally 
through formal supplier assurance reports for critical 
IT services. Shell engages an external party to 
perform periodic benchmarking of Shell's approach 
to cyber security risk management in comparison to 
industry and peers. We develop our cyber security 
capabilities, based on external dynamics, 
benchmarking outcomes and assurance results 
and take a risk-based approach in our investment 
decisions related to cyber security risk strategy. 

Our information risk management practices, and 
cyber security risks and strategy are regularly 
discussed by and among our Chief Information 
Security Officer, Shell's Information and Digital 
Technology leadership, the Executive Committee, 
the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board of 
Directors. These discussions involve consideration 
of changes in the external environment, how 
Shell is responding to cyber security risks and 
implementation of further remedial actions as 
appropriate. In 2023, these reviews were 
supplemented by dedicated deep dives into areas 
such as the emerging risks (and opportunities) 
associated with generative artificial intelligence.

See "Safety" on page 136.

Risk description
As seen in recent years, these risks can manifest themselves in the countries where we operate and 
elsewhere. These risks impact people, our operations and assets. Risks which have materialised in the past 
include: acts of terrorism; acts of criminality, including maritime piracy, sabotage and tapping into our 
pipelines in Nigeria; cyber espionage or disruptive cyber attacks; conflicts, including war - such as Russia's 
full-scale invasion of Ukraine; civil unrest such as the 2023 political unrest in Pakistan; malicious acts 
carried out by individuals within Shell, such as data exfiltration during divestments; and environmental 
and climate activism (including disruptions by non-governmental organisations) especially in the USA and 
north-west Europe, where, for example, activists boarded and protested during the sailing of the Penguins 
floating production and storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel to Norway.

The above risks can threaten the safe operation of our assets and the transport of our products. They 
can harm the well-being of our people, inflict loss of life and injuries, and disrupt our operational activities. 
They can also damage the environment and negatively impact our reputation. These risks could have a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
We seek to obtain the best possible information to 
enable us to assess threats and risks. We conduct 
detailed threat and risk assessments for Shell- 
operated venture assets, facilities, businesses, 
projects and activities, so that security risk 
mitigations achieve the principles of deter, detect, 
delay and respond. Further mitigations include 
strengthening the security of assets, reducing 
our exposure as appropriate and using journey 
management plans. We also invest in information 
risk management capabilities and crisis 
management and business continuity measures. 
We learn from incidents, in order to continually 
improve our security risk management in Shell.

20
20

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

The Groningen region in the Netherlands continues to experience 
earthquakes induced by historical gas production activities, affecting 
local communities.

Risk description
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). 
An important part of NAM's gas production comes from the onshore Groningen gas field, in which EBN, 
a Dutch government entity, has a 40% interest and NAM a 60% interest. The Dutch government issues 
annual gas production instructions for the Groningen field. As per the latest instruction, production ceased 
on October 1, 2023. However, the Dutch government has indicated to NAM it could decree a restart of 
minimal production in exceptional circumstances during the current gas year, which occurred on January 
8-10, 2024, for a cold spell of several days. 

The region is still experiencing earthquakes induced by historical gas production. This has resulted in 
damaged buildings in the region, which has led to complaints and lawsuits from the local community and 
promises of compensation from the Dutch government to the region. The Dutch State has taken over the 
handling of damage claims from NAM for all claim categories, as well as activities to strengthen buildings 
in the region, while NAM remains financially responsible insofar as the costs correspond to NAM's 
liability. While we expect the cessation of production from the Groningen gas field on October 1, 2023, 
to further reduce seismicity, any additional earthquakes, or the government passing on costs to NAM 
beyond NAM's liability, could have further material adverse effects on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

See "Upstream" on page 49 and "Legal 
proceedings and other contingencies" on page 313.

How this risk is managed
NAM is working with the Dutch government and 
other stakeholders to fulfil its obligations to residents 
of the area. These include compensating for 
damage caused by the earthquakes and paying to 
strengthen houses where this is required for safety. 
In 2022, NAM started arbitrations with the Dutch 
government to have its financial liability determined 
for costs which the Dutch government compensated 
to claimants and subsequently charged to NAM. 

Shell and ExxonMobil intend to reach a final, all-
encompassing settlement with the Dutch government 
on the new design of the Dutch "Gasgebouw" and 
the winding-down of natural gas production in 
Groningen. Shell, ExxonMobil and the Dutch 
government reached agreements in 2018 (Heads 
of Agreement) and 2019 (Interim Agreement), 
and subsequently have been engaged in discussions 
on the interpretation and implementation of these 
agreements and on a final and all-encompassing 
settlement. However, as these discussions have 
not led to such a settlement, in December 2023, 
the NAM shareholders asked an independent 
arbitration panel to rule on the interpretation 
and implementation of the agreements made in 
2018/2019. The purpose of this arbitration is for 
a neutral third party to assess the situation and 
provide clarity. The arbitration is expected to take 
several years, and the judgment will be binding. 
The arbitration does not preclude a final and all-
encompassing settlement, provided Shell, 
ExxonMobil and the Dutch government agree 
to pursue such a settlement.

21
21

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

We are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, 
interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected 
by the global macroeconomic environment and the conditions of financial 
and commodity markets. 

Risk description
Our subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates are subject to differing economic and financial 
market conditions around the world. Political or economic instability affects such markets.

We use debt instruments, such as bonds and commercial paper, to raise significant amounts of capital. 
Should access to debt markets become more challenging, the impact on our liquidity could have a 
material adverse effect on our operations. For example, some financial institutions have started to limit 
their exposure to fossil fuel projects. Group financing costs could also be affected by interest rate 
fluctuations or any credit rating deterioration.

We are exposed to changes in currency values and to exchange controls as a result of our substantial 
international operations. Our reporting currency is the US dollar, although, to a material extent, we 
also hold assets and are exposed to liabilities in other currencies. While we undertake some foreign 
exchange hedging, we do not do so for all our activities. Even where hedging is in place, it may not 
function as expected.

Commodity trading is an important component of our businesses. Processing, managing and monitoring 
many trading transactions across the world, some of which are complex and, depending on the terms of 
our commodity contracts, exposes us to operational and market risks, including commodity price risks. 
We use derivative instruments such as futures, options and contracts for difference to hedge market risks. 
Due to differences between derivative instruments available in the market to hedge market risks and the 
actual market risks we are exposed to, perfect hedging is not always achievable. Therefore, our hedging 
has from time to time not functioned as expected and may not function as expected in the future. We 
undertake commodity trading to optimise commercial margins or to profit from expected market price 
movements. Even with sound risk management procedures and controls in place, this activity involves 
forecasting and hence we are exposed to the risk of incurring significant losses if prices develop 
contrary to management expectations. 

We are exposed to credit risk; our counterparties could fail or be unable to meet their payment and/or 
performance obligations under contractual arrangements.

Our pension plans invest in government bonds, so they could be affected by a sovereign debt downgrade 
or other default.

If any of the above risks materialise, they could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.

See "Financial framework" on page 34.

How this risk is managed
We use various financial instruments for managing 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate 
movements. Our treasury operations are highly 
centralised and seek to manage credit exposures 
associated with our substantial cash, foreign 
exchange and interest rate positions. Our 
portfolio of cash investments is diversified to avoid 
concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or 
counterparty. Other than in exceptional cases, the 
use of external derivative instruments is confined to 
specialist trading and central treasury organisations 
that have the appropriate skills, experience, 
supervision, control and reporting systems. 

In effecting commodity trades and derivative 
contracts, we operate within procedures and 
policies designed to ensure that market risks are 
managed within authorised limits and trading can 
only be performed by staff with the appropriate 
skills and experience. We closely monitor 
developments in sanctions and export controls 
to ensure compliance with applicable laws and 
regulatory guidance. Senior Management regularly 
reviews mandated trading limits. A department that 
is independent from our traders monitors our market 
risk exposures daily, using value-at-risk techniques 
alongside other risk metrics as appropriate.

We have credit risk policies in place which seek 
to ensure that products are sold to customers 
with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies 
include detailed credit analysis and monitoring 
of customers against counterparty credit limits. 
Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit 
insurance, prepayments and collateral are used 
to manage credit risk.

We maintain committed credit facilities. 
Management believes it has access to sufficient 
debt funding sources (capital markets) and to 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet 
foreseeable requirements. 

22
22

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

Our future performance depends on the successful development and 
deployment of new technologies that provide new products and solutions.

See "Other central activities" on page 81.

Risk description
Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to help meet the world's energy demands 
competitively. If we fail to effectively develop or deploy new technology, products and solutions, or fail 
to make full, effective use of our data in a timely and cost-effective manner, there could be a material 
adverse effect on the delivery of our strategy and our licence to operate. We operate in environments 
where advanced technologies are used. In developing new technologies, products and solutions, 
unknown or unforeseeable technological failures or environmental and health effects could harm our 
reputation and licence to operate or expose us to litigation or sanctions. The associated costs of new 
technology are sometimes underestimated. Sometimes the development of new technology is subject 
to delays. If we are unable to develop the right technology and products in a timely and cost-effective 
manner, or if we develop technologies, products and solutions that harm the environment or people's 
health, there could be a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

We have substantial pension commitments, the funding of which is subject 
to capital market risks and other factors.

Risk description
Liabilities associated with defined benefit pension plans are significant, and the cash funding requirement 
of such plans can also involve significant liabilities. They both depend on various financial and 
demographic assumptions. Volatility in capital markets or government policies could affect investment 
performance, inflation and interest rates, causing significant changes to the funding level of future 
liabilities and/or short-term liquidity requirements. Changes in assumptions for mortality, retirement age or 
pensionable remuneration at retirement could also cause significant changes to the funding level of future 
liabilities. We operate a number of defined benefit pension plans and, in case of a shortfall, we could be 
required to make substantial cash contributions (depending on the applicable local regulations). This 
could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
Shell's Projects and Technology organisation and 
the relevant business lines work together to determine 
the content, scope and budget for developing new 
technology that supports our activities. The new 
technology is developed using a robust technology 
maturation process, to systematically de-risk both 
technical and commercial risks, while ensuring 
portfolio alignment with Shell's strategic ambitions 
and deployment commitments. A significant 
proportion of Shell's technology contributes to our 
emissions reduction targets. We benefit from 
collaborations with leading academic research 
institutes and universities, and from providing access 
to mentors and subject matter expertise to start-ups. 
In our Shell GameChanger programme, we help start-
ups and businesses on unproven early-stage ideas to 
mature early-stage technologies. In our Shell Ventures 
scheme, we invest in and partner with start-ups and 
small and medium-sized enterprises that are in the 
early stages of developing new technologies. 

See "Financial framework" on page 34.

How this risk is managed
A pensions forum chaired by the Chief Financial 
Officer oversees Shell's input to pension strategy, 
policy and operation. A risk committee supports the 
forum in reviewing the results of assurance processes 
with respect to pension risks. Local trustees manage 
the funded defined benefit pension plans and set the 
strategic asset allocation for the plans, including the 
extent to which currency, interest rate and inflation 
risks are hedged, and the contributions paid are 
based on independent actuarial valuations that 
align with applicable local regulations. Pension fund 
liquidity is managed by holding appropriate liquid 
assets and maintaining credit facilities. Where 
appropriate, transactions to transfer pension 
liabilities to third parties are also considered.

23
23

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Operational risks continued

We mainly self-insure our hazard risk exposures. Consequently, we could 
incur significant financial losses from different types of risks that are not 
insured with third-party insurers. 

Risk description
Our Group insurance companies (wholly owned subsidiaries) provide insurance coverage to Shell 
subsidiaries and entities in which Shell has an interest. These subsidiaries and entities may also insure 
a portion of their risk exposures with third parties, but such external insurance would not provide any 
material coverage in the event of a large-scale safety or environmental incident. Accordingly, in the event 
of a material incident, we would have to meet our obligations without access to material proceeds from 
third-party insurers. We have in the past incurred adverse impacts from events, such as Hurricane Ida in 
2021. We may, in the future, incur significant losses from different types of hazard risks that are not 
insured with third-party insurers, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash 
flows and financial condition. 

Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint 
arrangements or with associates. This could reduce our degree of control 
and our ability to identify and manage risks. 

Risk description
When we are not the operator, we have less influence and control over the behaviour, performance and 
operating costs of joint arrangements or associates. Despite having less control, we could still be exposed 
to the risks associated with these operations, including reputational, litigation (where joint and several 
liability could apply) and government sanction risks. For example, our partners or members of a joint 
arrangement or an associate, (particularly local partners in developing countries), may be unable to 
meet their financial or other obligations to projects, threatening the viability of a given project. Where 
we are the operator of a joint arrangement, the other partner(s) could still be able to veto or block certain 
decisions, which could be to our overall detriment. Accordingly, where we have limited influence, we are 
exposed to operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

See "Corporate" on page 80.

How this risk is managed
We continually assess the safety performance 
of our operations and make risk mitigation 
recommendations, where relevant, to keep the risk 
of an accident as low as possible. Our insurance 
companies are adequately capitalised and they 
may transfer risks to third-party insurers where 
economical, effective and relevant. 

See "Other regulatory and statutory information" 
on page 225.

How this risk is managed
For every major project where we share control, 
Shell appoints a Joint Venture Asset Manager, 
whose responsibility is to manage performance and 
create and protect value for Shell. The Joint Venture 
Asset Manager seeks to influence operators and 
other partners to adapt their practices in order to 
drive value appropriately and to mitigate identified 
risks. An annual review assesses how the joint 
venture's standards and processes align with those 
of Shell. The Joint Venture Asset Manager follows 
up on any gaps identified. 

24
24

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Conduct and culture risks

We are exposed to regulatory and conduct risk in our trading operations.

See "Living by our values" on page 138.

Risk description
Commodity trading is an important component of our business. Our commodity trading entities are 
subject to many regulations, including requirements for standards of conduct. The risk of ineffective 
controls, poor oversight of trading activities, and the risk that traders could deliberately operate outside 
compliance limits and controls, either individually or as a group, has occurred. This has resulted in losses 
in the past and may result in further losses in the future. The rapidly changing regulatory environment 
creates a risk of insufficient, delayed or incorrect implementation of new or changes to existing regulatory 
requirements. Violations of such regulatory requirements could also expose us and/or our employees to 
regulatory fines and have an adverse effect on our licence to operate. These risks could harm our 
reputation and have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 

Violations of antitrust and competition laws carry fines and expose us 
and/or our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.

Risk description
Antitrust and competition laws apply to Shell and its joint arrangements and associates in the vast 
majority of countries where we do business. Shell and its joint arrangements and associates have been 
fined for violations of antitrust and competition laws in the past. This includes a number of fines by the 
European Commission Directorate-General for Competition (DG COMP). Because of DG COMP's fining 
guidelines, any future conviction of Shell or any of its joint arrangements or associates for violation of EU 
competition law could potentially result in significantly larger fines and have a material adverse effect on 
us. Violation of antitrust laws is a criminal offence in many countries, and individuals can be imprisoned 
or fined. In certain circumstances, directors may receive director disqualification orders. It is also now 
common for persons or corporations allegedly injured by antitrust violations to sue for damages. 
Any violation of these laws can harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on 
our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

Violations of anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws 
carry fines and expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions 
and civil suits.

Risk description
Anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws apply to Shell, its joint arrangements and 
associates in all countries where we do business. Shell and its joint arrangements and associates have in 
the past settled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission regarding violations of the US Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act. Any violation of anti-bribery, tax-evasion or anti-money laundering laws, including 
potential violations associated with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited's 
investment in Nigerian oil block OPL 245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that block, 
could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial 
condition. Violations of such laws also could expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions, 
civil suits and other consequences, such as debarment and the revocation of licences.

How this risk is managed
We maintain a trading compliance function managed 
by a Chief Compliance Officer, as regulated by the 
UK Financial Conduct Authority, the US Commodities 
Futures Trading Commission and the Securities 
Commission of The Bahamas, with adequate 
resources, including employees and budget; a 
comprehensive governance structure, including 
mitigating control measures; and established 
reporting lines. Employees in Shell's trading 
organisation receive clear guidance through the 
Shell Code of Conduct; the organisation's Trading 
Compliance Manual, supplemented with specific 
policies; a specific compliance website; mandatory 
training modules where completion is monitored; and 
additional training sessions. Shell leaders reinforce 
the importance of managing compliance and conduct 
risk in the trading organisation. Shell's Trading 
Compliance function has a dedicated monitoring 
and surveillance team, which has systems for trade 
surveillance and monitoring communication. 

See "Living by our values" on page 138.

How this risk is managed
We maintain an antitrust programme with adequate 
resources, a comprehensive governance structure and 
established reporting lines. Staff receive guidance on 
the requirements listed in Shell's Ethics and Compliance 
Manual, including via an antitrust-specific website; 
training modules, where completion is monitored; and 
messages from Shell leaders on the importance of 
managing antitrust risks. Staff must understand and 
comply with the Protect Shell Policy, which explains 
Shell's position on managing antitrust risks in 
engagements with parties external to Shell. In response 
to fast-moving external antitrust developments and 
trends, internal guidance is continually being monitored 
to ensure that it remains relevant. 

See "Living by our values" on page 137 and "Legal 
proceedings and other contingencies" on pages 
312-314.

How this risk is managed
We maintain an anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion and 
anti-money laundering (ABC/AML) programme with 
adequate resources, a comprehensive governance 
structure and established reporting lines. Staff receive 
guidance on the requirements listed in Shell's Ethics 
and Compliance Manual; an ABC/AML-specific 
website; training modules, where completion is 
monitored; and messages from Shell leaders on 
the importance of managing ABC/AML risks. 

On July 21, 2022, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's 
office announced it had dismissed its investigation 
into bribery allegations related to OPL 245. 

25
25

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Conduct and culture risks continued

Violations of data protection laws carry fines and expose us and/or 
our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.

See "Living by our values" on page 137. 

Risk description
Data privacy and the management of personal data have become an issue of increasing importance 
and focus for companies and regulators in recent years. Following the implementation of the EU General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, we have on a global basis seen updates to, or the 
introduction of, data privacy laws largely based on the GDPR. More than 100 countries globally now 
have data privacy laws. Shell companies are increasingly processing large volumes of personal data 
as we continue to acquire small companies with relatively large amounts of customer data. In doing so, 
we must consider how we manage personal data effectively and responsibly, including managing the 
associated cyber risks. In some countries that are key to Shell's business operations, such as China, 
relevant legislation continues to be amended or introduced. Shell must be able to adapt dynamically 
to such legislative changes and be capable of updating our internal programmes if necessary. Many 
countries require mandatory notification of data breaches often within short time frames (72 hours) in 
certain situations. In these circumstances we might be required to report to affected individuals and 
regulators in the relevant countries. Non-compliance with data protection laws could harm individuals 
and expose us to regulatory investigations. This could result in fines, which could be up to 4% of global 
annual turnover if under the GDPR; orders to stop processing certain data; harm to our reputation; and 
loss of the trust of existing and potential customers, stakeholders, governments, and employees. With 
regard to data breaches in the past, we notified a number of data privacy regulators of personal 
data breaches and have had fines issued against us and this could happen in the future. In addition 
to imposing fines, regulators may also issue orders to stop processing personal data, which could 
disrupt operations. We could also be subject to litigation from persons or entities allegedly affected 
by data protection violations.

Violation of data protection laws is a criminal offence in some countries, and individuals can be 
imprisoned or fined. Any violation of these laws could harm our reputation and have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
Over the last decade, the Shell Group has 
continued to invest in and develop a mature and 
robust privacy compliance programme based on 
our Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs). BCRs are 
perceived as a positive mechanism by data privacy 
regulators for enabling lawful data sharing and 
demonstrating accountability within large corporate 
groups. BCRs allow intra-group transfers of personal 
data without needing to enter into additional 
complex intra-group agreements. The overall 
objective of the programme is to enable the 
Shell Group of companies to collect, handle and 
manage personal data in a professional, ethical, 
and lawful manner.

Shell's Chief Privacy Officer also serves as the 
"Data Protection Officer" (DPO) under the EU's 
General Data Protection Regulation and other 
applicable data privacy laws, except where there 
is a requirement to have a locally based DPO, 
such as in China and the Philippines. 

Our staff receive guidance on the requirements 
listed in Shell's Ethics and Compliance Manual, 
a website focusing on data privacy, training 
modules where completion is monitored and 
regular messages from Shell leaders on the 
importance of managing data privacy risks. 

We monitor new and imminent data privacy 
legislation and seek to ensure we have a robust 
impact assessment process in place for the relevant 
businesses. We design our operations and 
processes based on the relevant data privacy 
requirements, and we build controls into our 
processes and practices which cover the 
handling of personal data. 

We maintain a Group-wide incident management 
process designed to immediately identify and 
remediate data privacy breaches. The process also 
helps us to comply with country-level requirements 
for reporting breaches. 

Some of our acquired companies are not yet in 
full compliance with our Binding Corporate Rules. 
Following assessments for each of those companies, 
specific actions are planned and put in place to 
achieve compliance, with regular updates made 
on their progress to management. 

26
26

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Conduct and culture risks continued

Violations of trade compliance laws and regulations, including sanctions, 
carry fines and expose us and our employees to criminal proceedings and 
civil suits.

Risk description
We use "trade compliance" as an umbrella term for various national and international laws designed to 
regulate the movement of items across national boundaries and restrict or prohibit trade, financial flows 
and other dealings with certain parties, countries and territories. For example, the EU, the UK and the 
USA continue to impose comprehensive sanctions on countries and territories such as Syria, North Korea, 
and Crimea and other territories in Eastern Ukraine. The USA continues to have comprehensive sanctions 
against Iran and Cuba. The EU, the UK and some other nations such as Canada and Australia continue 
to maintain targeted sanctions against Iran. The EU and the USA introduced sectoral sanctions against 
Venezuela in 2017, which the USA expanded in 2018 and 2019 and relaxed temporarily in 2023. 

Since 2014, the EU and the USA have imposed and increased restrictions and controls directed at 
defined oil and gas activities in Russia, as well as restricting access to EU and USA financing sources 
for certain Russian state-owned entities and military and dual-use controls. In February 2022, countries 
around the world began imposing additional sanctions and trade controls against Russia over its full-scale 
invasion of Ukraine, including regional trade bans, designations of entities (including Russian banks 
and state-owned entities) and individuals as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Parties, and 
restrictions on access by Russia to financial systems. In addition, the USA, the UK, Canada and Australia 
have introduced restrictions on the import of Russian-origin LNG. These restrictions are subject to different 
wind-down periods and limited exceptions. Furthermore, it is likely that sanctions against Russia will 
continue to escalate. Russia has in turn adopted a significant number of countermeasures, including 
making it an offence to take steps to comply with foreign sanctions.

Many other nations have adopted or expanded trade compliance programmes similar to those 
administered by the EU, the UK and the USA. Intergovernmental cooperation in this area has increased 
and there is growing pressure to enforce existing sanctions globally.

Abiding by all the laws and regulations on trade compliance is often complex and challenging because 
of factors such as: the expansion of sanctions; the frequent addition of prohibited parties as well as other 
measures; the number of markets in which we operate; the risk of differences in how jurisdictions apply 
sanctions; and the large number of transactions we process. Shell has voluntarily self-disclosed potential 
violations of sanctions in the past.

Any violation of sanctions could lead to loss of import or export privileges and significant penalties on or 
prosecution of Shell or its employees. This could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect 
on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

See "Living by our values" on page 138.

How this risk is managed
We continue to develop and maintain a trade 
compliance programme with adequate resources, 
robust screening protocols, a comprehensive 
governance structure and established reporting 
lines. Staff receive guidance on the requirements 
listed in Shell's Ethics and Compliance Manual, 
a specific website for trade compliance, training 
modules where completion is monitored 
and messages from Shell leaders on the 
importance of managing trade compliance 
risks. The effectiveness of the trade compliance 
programme is assessed annually (or more 
frequently if necessary) and we are continually 
seeking ways to improve it. 

The successful delivery of our strategy is dependent on our people and 
on a culture that aligns to our goals and reflects the changes we need 
to make as part of the energy transition. 

See "Our People" on pages 128-132, "Living by our 
values" on page 137 and "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on pages 223-224.

Risk description
Shell's culture is defined as the shared values, practices and beliefs of its employees. It is influenced 
by decisions on organisation structure and accountabilities, people and skills, how work is done using 
processes and systems and what mindset and behaviours exist. All these elements need to act in harmony 
to create our desired culture and ensure successful and sustained performance in line with our strategy.

As the energy system transforms and we reshape our portfolio, elements of our culture will need to 
change. For example, we will have to develop new skills, and adapt processes and systems, which, in 
some areas, will need to be different from those required for our traditional oil and gas businesses. We 
will have to continually leverage our learner mindset to anticipate and respond to the faster pace of 
change in the external market. However, we also will need to retain our shared values of "honesty, 
integrity and respect for people" to ensure trust and openness in how we do business, and to ensure 
staff feel valued and perform at their best.

If we fail to maintain a culture that aligns to our strategy, this could harm our reputation and have 
a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

How this risk is managed
The Shell General Business Principles, Code of 
Conduct and Ethics and Compliance Manual help 
everyone at Shell act in line with our values.

Our Mindset and Behaviours framework, which 
emphasises psychological safety, is at the heart 
of our leadership programmes.

We have set clear goals for diversity, equity and 
inclusion and monitor these on a regular basis. 
We also continually assess our culture and staff 
engagement through tools such as the annual 
Shell People Survey.

People development is a priority for our 
organisation. We have increased learning offerings 
related to new skills that may be needed, including 
hydrogen production, carbon capture and storage, 
and energy management. Where appropriate, we 
recruit talent externally to add to the skills and 
experiences of our workforce.

In 2023, we introduced the Shell Performance 
Framework, replacing the Shell Control Framework 
with an aim to ensure that all elements of culture 
(structure and accountabilities, people and skills, 
mindset and behaviours and processes and systems) 
are leveraged to deliver on our strategy.

27
27

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued

Investors should also consider the following, which could limit shareholder remedies.

Other (generally applicable to an investment in securities)

The Company's Articles of Association determine the jurisdiction for shareholder disputes. This could limit 
shareholder remedies. 

Risk description
Our Articles of Association generally require that all disputes between our shareholders in such capacity and the Company or our subsidiaries (or our Directors 
or former Directors), or between the Company and our Directors or former Directors, be exclusively resolved by arbitration in London, the United Kingdom. Our 
Articles of Association also provide that, if this provision were to be determined invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the dispute could only be brought before 
the courts of England and Wales. Accordingly, the ability of shareholders to obtain monetary or other relief, including in respect of securities law claims, could be 
determined in accordance with these provisions. 

28
28

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report

Performance
in the year

Performance indicators

Shell's journey in the energy transition

These indicators enable management to evaluate 
Shell's performance against our annual operating plan. 
They are also used as part of the determination of 
Executive Directors' remuneration. See "Directors' 
Remuneration Report" on pages 191-193.

Safety remains our top priority. Sadly, five contractor colleagues 
died in incidents that took place at Shell operations in 2023. 
This is a reminder of our need to relentlessly focus on safety.

Contribution of low-
carbon products (%)

65

60

54

2021

2022

2023

The percentage of Marketing segment Adjusted Earnings from low-carbon 
energy products (on a life-cycle basis), defined as biofuels and electric vehicle 
charging, as well as non-energy products, defined as lubricants, bitumen, 
sulphur, and earnings from convenience retail.

In 2023, we exceeded our targets for Financial delivery, Shell's journey 
in the energy transition and Operational excellence..

See "Our journey to net zero" on page 95.

We had another year of very strong financial delivery with the 
second-highest cash flow from operations in Shell's history, despite 
the external uncertainty and volatility.

In Shell's journey in the energy transition we made good 
progress on increasing the number of electric vehicle charge points 
and reducing operational emissions. The contribution of low-carbon 
products in the Adjusted Earnings of the Marketing segment decreased 
mainly due to lower lubricants demand and higher costs for low-carbon 
Mobility products. 

Operational excellence ensures we deliver for our customers and 
drive financial performance. We had good Project delivery outcomes 
in 2023 and the Customer excellence indicators were very positive. 
Upstream controllable availability was outstanding but midstream 
was impacted by unplanned maintenance. Chemicals and Refining 
availability was impacted by ongoing challenges at Shell Polymers 
Monaca, and the recovery after a fire in Deer Park.

Reducing operational 
emissions (thousand 
tonnes CO2)

3,988

2,010

1,081

GHG abatement projects that resulted in sustained GHG reductions (e.g. flare 
reduction projects or energy efficiency projects), site closures and decommissioning 
or transformations, and use of renewable electricity for Scope 2 reductions. 

2021

2022

2023

See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 103-113.

Electric vehicle (EV) 
charge points 
(thousand)

196

139

86

Financial delivery

Cash flow from 
operating activities 
($ billion)

68

54

All charge points in Mobility which include both public out-of-home and Shell 
Recharge Solutions.

45

See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 89-99.

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

Cash flow from operating activities is the total of all the cash receipts and 
payments associated with our sales of oil, gas, chemicals and other products. 
The components that provide a reconciliation from income for the period are 
listed in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". This indicator reflects our 
ability to generate cash to service and reduce our debt, and for distributions 
to shareholders and for investments.

See "Financial framework" on page 35.

29
29

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Performance indicators continued

Operational excellence

Project delivery 
on schedule (%)

87

82

69

Upstream controllable 
availability (%)

87.8

87.3

84.7

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

Project delivery on schedule reflects our capability to complete major projects on 
time and within budget. Project delivery on schedule measures the percentage 
of projects delivered on schedule.

Project delivery 
on budget (%)

104

103

105

Project delivery on budget reflects the aggregate cost against the aggregate 
baseline for those projects, where a figure greater than 100% means over budget. 

2021

2022

2023

Upstream controllable availability performance reflects our ability to optimally 
run our Upstream assets. Reliability issues, turnarounds and maintenance at own-
operated or third-party facilities all impact controllable availability, but it excludes 
the impact of extreme unexpected events that are outside our control, such as 
government restrictions and hurricanes. Upstream controllable availability includes 
all Shell-operated assets (excluding Groningen) and selected assets not operated 
by Shell, but for which Shell has strategic influence. 

Midstream 
availability (%)

87.3

89.3

89.1

Customer 
satisfaction (index)

8.2

8.3

8.4

Midstream availability shows to what extent LNG assets are ready to process 
product as a comparison with capacity, considering the impact of planned 
and unplanned maintenance.

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

Refinery and chemical 
plant availability (%)

95.6

95.5

91.2

The customer satisfaction index (CSI) is the quantitative measurement of customer 
experience (CX) performance. It is provided from the global transactional survey 
programme (both email and digital surveys). CSI is calculated using simple 
average methodology from individual customer responses/satisfaction scores 
(overall satisfaction with Shell) covering all businesses and countries.

Brand Share 
Preference (%)

14.2

13.8

14.2

2021

2022

2023

Brand Share Preference is the percentage of customers who answer "Shell" 
in response to the question: "Assuming that all the fuel station companies that 
you would consider are conveniently located, which one company do you prefer 
most?". Responses are taken from survey respondents in more than 60 countries 
covering both fuel and non-fuel retail consumers.

Safety

2021

2022

2023

Refinery and chemical plant availability is the weighted average of the 
actual uptime of plants as a percentage of their maximum possible uptime. 
The weighting is based on the capital employed, adjusted for cash and non-
current liabilities. This indicator is a measure of the operational excellence 
of our refinery and chemical plant facilities.

See "Chemicals and Products" on page 69.

Personal safety
(SIF-F cases per 100 
million working hours)

6.9

2.0 [A]

2.6

Process safety 
(number of events)

103

66

63

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

Serious Injury, Illness and Fatality (SIF) is defined as a serious work-related injury 
or illness that resulted in a fatality or a life-altering event, which is defined as 
a long-term or permanent injury or illness with a significant impact on daily 
activities. Serious Injury and Fatality Frequency (SIF-F) is calculated by dividing 
the number of employee and contractor SIF by 100 million working hours.

A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any 
material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, from a process with 
the greatest actual consequence resulting in harm to employees, contract staff, 
or a neighbouring community, damage to equipment, or exceeding a threshold 
quantity, as defined by the API Recommended Practice 754 and IOGP Standard 
456. A Tier 2 process safety event is a release of lesser consequence.

See "Safety" on page 136. 

[A] 2022 adjustment on SIF-F from 1.7 to 2.0 due to a change in classification for one injury 

after publication.

30
30

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

See "Safety" on page 136.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Generating 
shareholder 
value

We are committed to 
enhancing shareholder 
distributions with a focus 
on performance, 
discipline and 
simplification.

31

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Group results 

Key metrics 

$ million, except where indicated

2023

2022

2021

Segment earnings*[A] [B]
$ million

Income attributable to Shell plc 
shareholders

  19,359 

  42,309 

  20,101 

Integrated
Gas

Income for the period

19,636

42,874

20,630

Total segment earnings*[A] [B] 

  20,281 

  41,562 

  17,482 

2021

2022

2023

Adjusted Earnings*[A] 

Adjusted EBITDA*[A] 

28,250

39,870

19,289

68,538

84,289

55,004

Upstream

2021

Cash flow from operating activities

54,191

68,414

45,104

Cash flow from investing activities

(17,734)

(22,448)

(4,761)

2022

2023

Free cash flow*

36,457

45,965

40,343

Cash capital expenditure*

24,392

24,833

19,697

Marketing

2021

8,060

7,046

9,603

8,528

22,212

16,222

3,535

2,133

2,950

404

4,515

1,530

(1,514)

(1,059)

3,038

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

2021

2022

2023

Chemicals
and
Products

Renewables
and Energy
Solutions

Corporate

2021

(2,606)

2022

2023

(2,461)

(2,811)

the net effect of lower realised prices, and higher contributions from 
trading and optimisation, unfavourable deferred tax movements, 
and lower volumes.

See "Integrated Gas" on page 41.

Upstream earnings*in 2023 were $8,528 million, compared with 
$16,222 million in 2022. The decrease was mainly driven by lower 
realised oil and gas prices, lower volumes, and net impairment charges 
and reversals.

See "Upstream" on page 47.

Marketing earnings* in 2023 were $2,950 million, compared with 
$2,133 million in 2022. The increase was mainly driven by higher 
Marketing margins, including higher unit margins in Mobility, higher 
margins in Lubricants due to lower feedstock costs, and higher volumes 
in Sectors and Decarbonisation. These were partly offset by higher 
operating expenses and depreciation charges, mainly as a result of 
asset acquisitions.

See "Marketing" on page 63.

Operating expenses*[C]

39,960

39,476

35,965

Underlying operating expenses*[C]

39,201

39,456

35,309

ROACE on a Net Income basis*

 8.4 %

 16.7 %

 8.8 %

ROACE on an Adjusted Earnings plus Non-
controlling interest basis *

 11.6 %

 15.8 %

 8.5 %

Total debt at December 31 [D]

  81,541 

  83,795 

  89,086 

Net debt* at December 31 [D] 

  43,542 

  44,837 

52,556

Gearing* at December 31

 18.8 %

 18.9 %

 23.1 %

Oil and gas production available for sale 
(thousand boe/d)

Proved oil and gas reserves at December 31 
(million boe)

Basic earnings per share ($)

Adjusted Earnings per share* ($) 

2,791 

  2,864 

  3,237 

9,787   9,578 

  9,365 

2.88 

4.20 

5.76 

5.43

2.59 

2.49 

Dividend per share ($)

  1.2935 

1.0375

0.8935

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current 

cost of supplies basis. 

[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".
[C] The most comparable GAAP financial measure is Production and manufacturing expenses 

(2023: $25 billion, 2022: $26 billion).

[D] See Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Earnings 2023-2022
Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders in 2023 was $19,359 
million, compared with $42,309 million in 2022. With non-controlling 
interest included, income for the period in 2023 was $19,636 million, 
compared with $42,874 million in 2022. After current cost of supplies 
adjustment, total segment earnings*in 2023 were $20,281 million, 
compared with $41,562 million in 2022.

Adjusted Earnings* in 2023 were $28,250 million, compared with 
$39,870 million 2022. The decrease was mainly driven by lower 
realised oil and gas prices, lower volumes and lower refining margins, 
partly offset by higher LNG trading and optimisation margins, and 
higher Marketing margins.

2023 income attributable to Shell plc shareholders also included net 
impairment charges and reversals of $6,219 million, and unfavourable 
movements of $1,284 million due to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives. These charges and unfavourable movements 
are included in identified items amounting to a net loss of $8,252 million.

Integrated Gas earnings*in 2023 were $7,046 million, compared 
with $22,212 million in 2022. The decrease was mainly driven 
by unfavourable movements due to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives, net impairment charges and reversals,

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

32
32

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Group results continued

Chemicals and Products earnings* in 2023 were $1,530 million, 
compared with $4,515 million in 2022. The decrease was mainly 
driven by net impairment charges and reversals, and lower Products 
margins, which were mainly driven by lower refining margins and partly 
offset by higher margins from trading and optimisation. Segment 
earnings also reflected higher depreciation charges, due to start-up 
of operations at Shell Polymers Monaca in the USA, partly offset 
by higher Chemicals margins.

See "Chemicals and Products" on page 68.

Renewables and Energy Solutions earnings* in 2023 were $3,038 
million, compared with a loss of $1,059 million in 2022. The increase 
was mainly driven by favourable movements due to the fair value 
accounting of commodity derivatives. This was partly offset by lower 
margins, mainly from trading and optimisation due to lower gas 
and power prices in 2023, net impairment charges and reversals, 
unfavourable tax movements and higher operating expenses.

See "Renewables and Energy Solutions" on page 75.

Return on average capital employed
Our return on average capital employed (ROACE)* decreased to 8.4%, 
compared with 16.7% in 2022, mainly driven by lower earnings.

Total debt, Net debt and gearing
Total debt was $81,541 million at the end of 2023, compared with 
$83,795 million at the end of 2022.

Net debt* was $43,542 million at the end of 2023, compared with 
$44,837 million at the end of 2022.

Gearing* was 18.8% at the end of 2023, compared with 18.9% at the 
end of 2022.

Significant accounting estimates and judgements
See Note 2 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 
249-259.

Legal proceedings
See Note 31 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 
312-314.

Corporate segment earnings* in 2023 were an expense of 
$2,811 million, compared with an expense of $2,461 million in 2022. 
The rise in expense was mainly driven by unfavourable movements 
in currency exchange rate effects and tax credits.

Production available for sale
Oil and gas production available for sale in 2023 was 2,791 thousand 
boe/d, compared with 2,864 thousand boe/d in 2022. This reduction 
was mainly driven by divestments and partly offset by growth from 
new fields.

See "Corporate" on page 79.

Oil and gas production available for sale [A]

Crude oil and natural gas liquids

1,454   1,460 

1,685 

Thousand boe/d

2023

2022

2021

Synthetic crude oil

Natural gas [B]

Total

Of which:

Integrated Gas

Upstream

52  

46 

54 

1,285 

1,357 

1,498 

2,791

  2,864 

  3,237 

939  

921 

  1,004 

1,800  

1,897 

  2,178 

Oil sands (part of Chemicals and Products)

52  

46 

54 

[A] See "Oil and gas information". 
[B] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf

per barrel. 

Proved reserves
The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the 
Shell share of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and 
associates are summarised in "Oil and gas information" on pages 
55-62 and set out in more detail in "Supplementary information –
oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 317-335.

Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased 
by 1,274 million boe in 2023. Total oil and gas production was
1,065 million boe. Accordingly, after taking production into account, 
our proved reserves increased by 209 million boe in 2023, to 
9,787 million boe at December 31, 2023.

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 29) and 
Form 20-F (page 33) for the year ended December 31, 2022, 
as filed with the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales 
and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities was $54,191 million in 2023, 
compared with $68,414 million in 2022. The cash flow from operating 
activities in 2023 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA, and 
working capital inflow of $7.8 billion, partly offset by tax payments 
of $13.7 billion, and derivatives outflow of $6.1 billion.

Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure* was $24,392 million in 2023, compared
with $24,833 million in 2022. The cash capital expenditure in 2023 
consisted of $12.5 billion investments in oil, oil products and other, 
$5.6 billion investments in low-carbon energy solutions, $4.0 billion 
investments in LNG gas and power marketing and trading and 
$2.3 billion investments in non-energy products. 

See "Our journey to net zero" on page 95.

Operating expenses and Underlying operating expenses
Operating expenses* were $39,960 million in 2023, compared 
with $39,476 million in 2022. Underlying operating expenses* 
were $39,201 million, compared with $39,456 million in 2022.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

33
33

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Financial framework 

sources (capital markets) and to undrawn committed borrowing 
facilities to meet foreseeable requirements.

We manage our businesses to deliver strong cash flows, sustain our 
strategy and create profitable growth. Management applies Shell's 
cash to support disciplined capital expenditure and maintain a resilient 
balance sheet; target AA credit metrics through the cycle; deliver 
a progressive dividend to shareholders with growth of around 4% 
annually (subject to Board approval); and target total distributions 
to shareholders of 30-40% of our cash flow from operating activities 
through the cycle.

The Board may choose to return cash to shareholders through a 
combination of dividends and share buybacks. When setting the level 
of shareholder distributions, the Board looks at a range of factors, 
including the macro environment, the underlying business earnings and 
cash flows of the Group, the current balance sheet, future investment, 
acquisition and divestment plans, and existing commitments.

Liquidity and capital resources
Shell generated free cash flow* of $36.5 billion in 2023, aided 
by disciplined capital management, portfolio simplification and 
operational performance improvements. Net debt* decreased to 
$43.5 billion at December 31, 2023 (December 31, 2022: $44.8 
billion). Total debt reduced to 81.5 billion at December 31, 2023 
(December 31, 2022: 83.8 billion), Gearing* decreased to 18.8% at 
December 31, 2023, compared with 18.9% at December 31, 2022. 

See Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 288-289.

Liquidity
We satisfy our funding, liquidity and working capital requirements by 
using cash generated from our operations, the issuance of debt and 
through divestments. In 2023, access to the international debt capital 
markets remained strong, with our debt principally financed from 
these markets through central debt programmes consisting of: 
￮ a $10 billion global commercial paper (CP) programme, with 

maturities between 183 days and 364 days;

￮ a $10 billion US CP programme, with maturities not exceeding 

397 days;

￮ an unlimited Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme (also 

referred to as the Multi-Currency Debt Securities Programme); and

￮ an unlimited US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. 

The CP, EMTN and US shelf debt is issued by Shell International 
Finance B.V., the issuance company for Shell, with its debt being 
guaranteed by Shell plc. In the future, Shell will also be able to issue 
debt through a new US subsidiary, Shell Finance US Inc., with 
its debt also being guaranteed by Shell plc.

We also maintain committed credit facilities. Of the $9.92 billion total 
facility, $1.92 billion matures in 2024 (with a one-year bank extension 
option, taking final maturity to 2025) and $8.0 billion in 2026. This 
remained fully undrawn at December 31, 2023. These core facilities 
and cash on balance sheet provide back-up coverage for our CP 
programmes. Other than certain borrowings by subsidiaries in their 
local jurisdictions, we do not have any other committed credit facilities. 

Our total debt decreased by $2.3 billion to $81.5 billion at December 
31, 2023. The total debt excluding lease liabilities matures as follows: 
10% in 2024; 12% in 2025; 7% in 2026; and 71% in 2027 and 
beyond. The portion of debt maturing in 2024 is expected to be 
repaid from some combination of cash balances, cash generated from 
operations, divestments and the issuance of new debt. In 2023, we did 
not issue any bonds under our US shelf registration, EMTN programme 
or CP programmes. The Group had no CP outstanding at December 31, 
2023. Management believes it has access to sufficient debt funding 

34
34

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

While our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, such as foreign 
withholding taxes on the transfer of funds in the form of cash dividends, 
loans or advances, such restrictions are not expected to have a 
material impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations. 

Market risk and credit risk
We are affected by the global macroeconomic environment, as well as 
financial and commodity market conditions. This exposes us to treasury 
and trading risks, including liquidity risk, credit risk, and market risk 
(interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk). 
The size and scope of our businesses require a robust financial control 
framework and effective management of our various risk exposures.

See "Risk factors" on page 22 and Note 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 

on pages 302-308.

We use various financial instruments for managing exposure to 
commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements. 
Our treasury and trading operations are highly centralised and seek 
to manage credit exposures associated with our substantial cash, 
commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate positions. Our portfolio 
of cash investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any 
one instrument, country or counterparty. The use of external derivative 
instruments is confined to specialist trading and central treasury 
organisations that have robust control and reporting systems, and 
employees with appropriate skills, experience and supervision. Credit 
risk policies are in place to ensure that sales of products are made 
to customers with appropriate creditworthiness, and include credit 
analysis and monitoring of customers against counterparty credit 
limits. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit insurance, 
prepayments and collateral are used to manage credit risk.

In effecting commodity trades and derivative contracts, we operate 
according to internal procedures and policies designed to ensure that 
market risks are managed within authorised limits and trading can only 
be performed by staff with the appropriate skills and experience. We 
closely monitor developments in sanctions and export controls to ensure 
compliance with applicable laws and regulatory guidance. Management 
regularly reviews mandated trading limits. A department that is 
independent from our traders monitors our market risk exposures daily, 
using value-at-risk techniques alongside other risk metrics as appropriate.

Pension commitments
We have substantial pension commitments, the funding of which is 
subject to capital market risks. We address key pension risks in a number 
of ways. A pensions forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, 
oversees Shell's input to pension strategy, policy and operation. A risk 
committee supports the forum in reviewing the results of assurance 
processes with respect to pension risks. Local trustees manage the funded 
defined benefit pension plans and set the strategic asset allocation for 
the plan, including the extent to which currency, interest rate and 
inflation risks are hedged. The contributions paid are based on 
independent actuarial valuations that align with applicable local 
regulations. Pension fund liquidity is managed by holding appropriate 
liquid assets and maintaining credit facilities. Where appropriate, 
transactions to transfer pension liabilities to third parties are also 
considered. Our total employer contributions were $0.7 billion 
in 2023 and are estimated to be $0.5 billion in 2024.

See "Risk factors" on page 23 and Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 

on pages 294-300.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued

Cash flow from operating activities
The most significant factors affecting our cash flow from operating 
activities are earnings, which are mainly impacted by: realised prices 
for crude oil, natural gas and LNG; production levels of crude oil, 
natural gas and LNG; chemicals, refining and marketing margins; 
and movements in working capital and derivative financial instruments. 

The impact on earnings from changes in market prices depends 
on: the extent to which contractual arrangements are tied to market 
prices; the dynamics of production-sharing contracts; the existence of 
agreements with governments or state-owned oil and gas companies 
that have limited sensitivity to crude oil and natural gas prices; tax 
impacts; and the extent to which changes in commodity prices flow 
through into operating expenses. Changes in benchmark prices of 
crude oil and natural gas in any particular period provide only a broad 
indicator of changes in our Integrated Gas and Upstream earnings 
in that period. Changes in any factors, from within the industry or the 
broader economic environment, can influence refining and marketing 
margins. The precise impact of any changes depends on how the oil 
markets respond to them. The market response is affected by factors 
such as: whether the change affects all crude oil types or only a specific 
grade; regional and global crude oil and refined products inventories; 
and the collective speed of response of refiners and product marketers 
in adjusting their operations. As a result, margins fluctuate from region 
to region and from period to period.

Divestment and cash capital expenditure
The levels of divestment proceeds and cash capital expenditure in 
2023 and 2022 reflect our discipline and focus as we implement 
our Powering Progress strategy. Proceeds from sale of property, plant 
and equipment and businesses were $2.6 billion for 2023, compared 
with $1.4 billion in 2022 and divestment proceeds* for 2023 were 
$3.1 billion, compared with $2.1 billion in 2022. Cash capital 
expenditure split per segment is presented in the table below: 

Cash capital expenditure*

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Marketing [A]

Chemicals and Products

Renewables and Energy Solutions [B]

Corporate

2023

4,196 

8,343 

5,612 

3,192 

2,681 

368 

$ million

2021

3,502 

6,168 

2,273 

5,175 

2,359 

220 

2022

4,265 

8,143 

4,831 

3,838 

3,469 

287 

Total cash capital expenditure

  24,392 

  24,833 

19,697 

[A] Includes acquisition of Nature Energy in 2023.
[B] Includes acquisition of Sprng in 2022 and Savion in 2021.

Capitalisation table

$ million

December 
31, 2023

December 
31, 2022

Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders

186,607 

190,472 

Current debt

Non-current debt

Total debt [A]

Total capitalisation

9,931 

9,001 

71,610 

74,794 

81,541 

83,795 

  268,148 

  274,267 

[A] Of total debt of $81.5 billion (2022: $83.8 billion), $53.4 billion (2022: $55.2 billion) 
was unsecured and $28.2 billion (2022: $28.6 billion) was secured. $48.4 billion was 
issued by Shell International Finance B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell plc with its 
debt guaranteed by Shell plc (December 31, 2022: $51.0 billion). See Note 20 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" for further disclosure on total debt and Net debt.

Guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements
There were no guarantees or other off-balance sheet arrangements 
at December 31, 2023, or December 31, 2022, that were reasonably 
likely to have a material effect on Shell. 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Cash flow from operating activities in 2023 was $54.2 billion, 
compared with $68.4 billion in 2022. The cash flow from operating 
activities in 2023 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA, and 
working capital inflow of $7.8 billion (compared with working capital 
outflow of $5.4 billion in 2022), partly offset by tax payments of 
$13.7 billion (compared with tax payments of $13.1 billion in 2022), 
and derivatives outflow of $6.1 billion (compared with derivatives 
inflow of $0.6 billion in 2022).

Cash flow from investing activities in 2023 was an outflow of 
$17.7 billion, compared with an outflow of $22.4 billion in 2022. 
The cash flow from investing activities in 2023 included cash capital 
expenditure* of $24.4 billion (compared with cash capital expenditure 
of $24.8 billion in 2022), divestment proceeds* of $3.1 billion 
(compared with divestment proceeds of $2.1 billion in 2022), interest 
received of $2.1 billion (compared with interest received of $0.9 billion 
in 2022), and net other investing cash inflows of $1.4 billion (compared 
with net other investing cash outflows of $0.6 billion in 2022).

Cash flow from financing activities in 2023 was an outflow of 
$38.2 billion, compared with outflows of $42.0 billion in 2022, mainly 
due to lower repurchases of shares of $14.6 billion (2022: $18.4 
billion) and Derivative financial instruments favourable movement of 
$0.7 billion (2022: $1.8 billion unfavourable movement), partly offset 
by higher net repayment of debt of $9.8 billion (2022: $7.9 billion 
net repayment). 

Cash and cash equivalents were $38.8 billion at December 31, 
2023 (December 31, 2022: $40.2 billion).

Prior year Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the financial year 
ended December 31, 2022, compared with the financial year ended 
December 31, 2021, can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 
(page 241) and Form 20-F (page 219) for the year ended December 
31, 2022, as filed with the Registrar of Companies for England and 
Wales and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively. 

See "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows" on page 248.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

35
35

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued

Contractual obligations
The table below summarises our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2023, by expected settlement period. The amounts presented 
have not been offset by any committed third-party revenue in relation to these obligations.

Contractual obligations

Debt [A]

Leases

Purchase obligations [B]

Other long-term contractual liabilities [C]

Total

Less than 1 
year

Between
1 and 3 years

Between
3 and 5 years

5 years
and later

5.4 

6.2  

33.1 

0.1 

44.7 

10.4 

9.5 

28.1 

0.9 

49.0 

8.3 

6.6 

14.0 

0.1 

29.1 

30.4 

16.8 

59.6 

0.5 

107.2 

$ billion

Total

54.4 

39.1 

134.8 

1.7 

230.0 

[A] See Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". Debt contractual obligations exclude interest, which is estimated to be $1.6 billion payable in less than one year, $2.7 billion 
between one and three years, $2.4 billion between three and five years, and $13.4 billion in five years and later. For this purpose, we assume that interest rates with respect to variable 
interest rate debt remain constant at the rates in effect at December 31, 2023, and that there is no change in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than repayment at scheduled 
maturity as reflected in the table. Lease contractual obligations include interest.

[B] Purchase obligations disclosed in the above table exclude commodity purchase obligations that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of 
time through sale agreements with third parties. Examples include long-term non-cancellable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or 
crude oil at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in measuring liquidity and cash flow, as the cash outflows generated by these purchases will generally be 
offset in the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions.

[C] Includes obligations included in "Trade and other payables" and provisions related to onerous contracts included in "Decommissioning and other provisions" in "Non-current liabilities" in the 

"Consolidated Balance Sheet" that are contractually fixed as to timing and amount. In addition to these amounts, Shell has certain obligations that are not contractually fixed as to timing and 
amount, including contributions to defined benefit pension plans (see Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements") and obligations associated with decommissioning and restoration 
(see Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements").

Dividends
Subject to Board approval, Shell aims to grow the dividend per 
share by around 4% every year. In total, Shell targets the distribution 
of 30--40% of our cash flow from operations through the cycle to 
shareholders. Shell may choose to return cash to shareholders 
through a combination of dividends and share buybacks.

During 2023, 479.4 million ordinary shares were purchased 
and cancelled. Overall, a total nominal share value of €34 million 
($40 million), 6.8% of the Company's total issued share capital at 
December 31, 2022, was purchased and cancelled during 2023 for 
a total cost of $14.6 billion, including expenses, at an average price 
of $30.43 per share.

When setting the level of shareholder distributions, the Board looks at 
a range of factors, including the macro environment, the earnings and 
cash flows of the Group, the current balance sheet, future investment, 
acquisition and divestment plans and existing commitments. We 
returned $8.4 billion to our shareholders through dividends and 
$14.6 billion through share buybacks in 2023. Total shareholder 
distributions represented 42% of cash flow from operating activities*. 

The fourth quarter 2023 dividend of $0.344 per share will be paid
on March 25, 2024, to shareholders on the register at February 16, 
2024, and represents an increase of 4% compared with the third 
quarter of 2023.

The buybacks completed in the first half of 2023 were in accordance 
with the authorities granted by shareholders at the 2022 Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). The buybacks completed in the second 
half of 2023 were in accordance with the authorities granted by 
shareholders at the 2023 AGM. At the 2023 AGM, authority was 
granted for the Company to repurchase up to a maximum of 10% of its 
issued ordinary shares, excluding treasury shares, (692 million ordinary 
shares), both on and off market, allowing purchases on Amsterdam as 
well as London exchanges. As at December 31, 2023, 512 million 
ordinary shares could still be repurchased under the current AGM 
authorities. The purpose of the share repurchases in 2023 was to 
reduce the issued share capital of the Company.

See Note 29 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 312.

Purchases of securities
The intent to purchase shares was announced alongside the quarterly 
results during 2023, and covered the period up until the next quarterly 
announcement. In 2023, share buybacks of $4 billion were announced 
on February 2, $4 billion on May 4, $3 billion on July 27 and 
$3.5 billion on November 2 (finalised in the first quarter of 2024). 
In addition, on February 1, 2024, a further buyback of $3.5 billion 
was announced along with the fourth quarter 2023 results; it is 
intended that this will be completed by the announcement date
of the first quarter 2024 results.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

New resolutions will be proposed at the 2024 AGM to renew the 
authority for the Company to purchase its own share capital, up to 
specified limits, for a further year. These proposals will be described 
in more detail in the 2024 Notice of Annual General Meeting.

Shares are also purchased by the employee share ownership 
trusts and trust-like entities (see Note 27 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on page 309) to meet delivery commitments 
under employee share plans. All share purchases are made in
open-market transactions. 

The table on the next page provides information on purchases of shares 
in 2023 and January 2024 by the Company and affiliated purchasers. 
Purchases in euros and sterling are converted into dollars using the 
exchange rate on each transaction date.

36
36

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued

Purchases of equity securities by issuer and affiliated purchasers in 2023 [A]

Number
purchased
for employee
share plans

Number
purchased
for cancellation 
[C]

Euro Shares

Weighted
average
price ($)[D]

Number
purchased
for employee
share plans

Number 
purchased for 
cancellation 
[C]

GBP Shares

Weighted
average
price ($)[D]

Number
purchased
for employee
share plans

ADSs [B]

Weighted
average
price ($)[D]

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

3,902,011 

20,898,179 

38,967,828 

— 

30,080,360 

28,936,231 

10,731,810 

18,948,478 

11,763,447 

739,283 

14,221,426 

  5,906,655 

20,450,532 

  4,803,972 

22,460,338 

11,449,910 

221,360,640 

3,187,890 

2,992,417 

3,187,890 

2,992,417 

28.34 

30.14 

28.79 

— 

29.77 

29.51 

29.95

30.66

32.11

32.93 

32.95 

32.47 

30.66 

32.32 

32.32 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

  24,834,916 

  21,394,954 

  38,609,399 

  16,525,479 

  21,885,562 

  20,935,786 

  26,627,705 

  12,520,862 

  7,852,588 

217,618 

  25,366,076 

1,703,851 

  20,831,873 

967,773 

  21,415,661 

28.82

30.10

28.69

30.28

29.44

29.08

29.94

30.25

25.70

32.40 

32.47 

31.94 

808,490 

55.87

— 

— 

43,473 

56.24 

— 

— 

— 

— 

20,630 

59.93 

— 

— 

533,346 

1,440,509 

1,558,442 

1,118,693 

— 

— 

64.88 

66.02 

65.97 

64.60 

64.02 

66.03 

66.03 

2,889,242 

  258,800,861 

30.27 

  5,523,583 

1,189,886 

  20,282,994 

1,189,886 

  20,282,994 

31.54 

31.54 

650,966 

650,966 

Purchase period

January

February

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

October

November

December

Total 2023

January

Total 2024

[A] Reported as at transaction date.
[B] American Depositary Shares. 
[C] Under the share buyback programme. 
[D] Includes stamp duty and brokers' commission.

Financial information relating to the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust
The results of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Trust) 
are included in the consolidated results of operations and financial 
position of Shell. Certain condensed financial information in respect 
of the Trust is given below.

On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through 
assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share 
of the Company. This assimilation had no impact on voting rights or 
dividend entitlements. Dutch withholding tax, applied previously on 
dividends on A shares, no longer applies on dividends paid on the 
ordinary shares following the assimilation.

In relation to the assimilation of the Company's A and B shares, the 
Trust will continue in existence for the foreseeable future to facilitate 
the payment of unclaimed dividend liabilities for shareholders of the 
former B shares until these are either claimed or forfeited in line with 
the terms outlined. Dividends which are unclaimed after six years will 
be forfeited and unconditionally revert to The Shell Transport and 
Trading Company Limited and BG Group Limited, as appropriate.

The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited and BG Group 
Limited have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare 
Trustees (Jersey) Limited (the Trustee). For the years 2023, 2022 
and 2021, the Trust recorded income before tax of £nil, £nil, and 
£2.2 billion respectively. In each period, this reflected the amount 
of dividends payable on the dividend access shares. Dividends 
are also classified as unclaimed where amounts have not cleared 
recipient bank accounts.

At December 31, 2023, the Trust had total equity of £nil (December 31, 
2022: £nil; December 31, 2021: £nil), reflecting assets of £4 million 
(December 31, 2022: £6 million; December 31, 2021: £7 million) and 
unclaimed dividends of £4 million (December 31, 2022: £6 million; 
December 31, 2021: £7 million). The Trust only records a liability for 
an unclaimed dividend to the extent that dividend cheque payments 
have not been presented within 12 months, have expired or have 
been returned unpresented. As these unclaimed dividends relate to 
dividends that were announced by the Company during the period the 
Company was still named Royal Dutch Shell plc, and it is expected that 
the Company will not announce any further dividends on the dividend 
access shares, the Trust continues to be named the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust. 

37
37

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Market overview

Shell maintains a large business portfolio across an integrated value 
chain and is exposed to fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural gas, 
oil products, chemicals and power.

See "Risk factors" on page 14. 

This diversified portfolio provides resilience when prices are volatile. 
Our annual planning cycle and periodic portfolio reviews aim to 
ensure that our levels of capital investment and operating expenses 
are appropriate in the context of a volatile price environment. 

We prepare annual strategic and financial plans that test different 
scenarios and their impact on prices, our businesses and organisation. 
We test the resilience of our projects and other opportunities against 
a range of prices for crude oil, natural gas, oil products, chemicals 
and power. Through this process, we identify potential interventions 
that we believe can drive value, preserve cash levels and maintain a 
strong balance sheet. This provides us with resilience against weak 
market prices.

The range of commodity prices and margins used in our project and 
portfolio evaluations is subject to a rigorous assessment of short-, 
medium- and long-term market drivers. These drivers include the 
extent and pace of the energy transition.

Photo: Shell staff working on the trading floor at Shell Centre, London.

Global economic growth
After a strong economic recovery from the lows of the COVID-19 
pandemic, growth in 2023 was more moderate. Several forces are 
holding global economic growth back. These include the Russia-
Ukraine war and international trade restrictions. Others are more 
cyclical and include the effects of sharp interest rate increases and 
liquidity withdrawals by central banks intended to rein in inflation. 
Rising public debt is also resulting in governments withdrawing the 
fiscal support they extended during the pandemic. 

The latest World Economic Outlook, published by the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) in January 2024, estimated global economic 
growth from 2022 to 2023 to be 3.1%, down from 3.5% in 2022 and 
6.3% in 2021. Advanced economies continue to drive the decline in 
global growth, with weaker manufacturing offsetting stronger services 
activity. The slowdown was pronounced in Europe, while the USA 
remained relatively resilient. Developing economies, on average, 
have experienced stable growth over 2022-2023, although with 
sizeable shifts across regions. China experienced relatively strong 
growth, despite headwinds from its real estate crisis and weak 
consumer confidence. 

38
38

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Looking to 2024, the IMF's projections for the global economy are 
consistent with a soft landing, with inflation declining and growth 
holding up despite the rise in interest rates. But there are several 
downside risks to the outlook. These include: volatile commodity prices 
amid geopolitical and climate change risks; and upward surprises in 
inflation and a corresponding tightening of financial conditions and 
fiscal consolidation that could weigh on growth. The IMF projects 
global growth to be around 3% over the medium term (2024-2028) — 
below the historical average of 3.8% over the past two decades. In the 
context of geopolitical risks, this is in an environment where interest 
rates are expected to be higher for longer.

Global prices, demand and supply
The following table provides an overview of the main crude oil 
and natural gas price markers to which Shell is exposed:

Oil and gas average industry prices [A]

Brent ($/b)

West Texas Intermediate ($/b)

Henry Hub ($/MMBtu)

EU TTF ($/MMBtu)

Japan Customs-cleared Crude ($/b) - 3 months

2023

2022

2021

83 

78 

2.5 

13 

89 

101 

95 

6.4 

40 

98 

71 

68 

4.0 

16 

60 

[A] Yearly average prices are based on monthly average spot prices. The 2023 average price 

for Japan Customs-cleared Crude is based on available market information up to the end 
of the period.

Crude oil and oil products 
The global benchmark oil price Brent averaged about $83 per 
barrel (bbl) in 2023, down from $101/bbl in 2022. This reflected 
a normalisation of the market from the period of significant volatility 
in 2022. As trade flows adjusted after the disruption caused by the 
Russian invasion of Ukraine and more supply became available, 
supply security concerns have eased and the market balance 
loosened in 2023. 

Global demand continued to recover in 2023, at a similar pace 
to 2022. Incremental demand has amounted to around 2.3 million 
barrels per day (mb/d), of which 1.7 mb/d came from China, where 
demand rebounded after the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions. However, 
demand growth in OECD markets, particularly OECD Europe, has 
moderated significantly because of slower economic growth. 

Global supply increased by around 1.9 mb/d in 2023, slightly slower 
than demand growth. Most of the non-OPEC growth has come from the 
USA and Brazil, which accounted for around 1.5 mb/d and 0.4 mb/d, 
respectively. Iran, which is exempt from the OPEC production cut, has 
also markedly ramped up supply. To balance the market, OPEC+, led 
by Saudi Arabia and Russia, implemented a series of moves to limit 
the supply available to the market. In April 2023, OPEC+ announced 
a 1.66 mb/d voluntary production cut. This was followed by an 
additional 1 mb/d voluntary cut by Saudi Arabia from May, which 
was eventually extended through to the first quarter of 2024, with 
possibility for a further extension. Russia also announced a production 
cut of 500 thousand barrels a day (kb/d) for March through to the end 
of 2023, in addition to a 300 kb/d exports reduction from September 
to the end of the year. The actual crude output from Saudi Arabia and 
Russia dropped by around 1 mb/d and 0.2 mb/d, respectively in 2023 
compared with 2022, based on the IEA estimate.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Market overview continued

In 2024, the expected economic slowdown and potential supply 
disruptions caused by geopolitical tensions could impact demand. 
Macroeconomic risks and demand concerns had already started 
weighing on the market from the fourth quarter, with Brent dropping 
by $16/bbl by the end of 2023 from the year's peak. The instability in 
the Middle East remains a significant risk factor. As of now, conflicts in 
the vicinity of key oil trade routes, such as the Red Sea, have not yet 
caused severe disruption to supplies. But the risk of disruption could 
increase if the Israel-Hamas war escalates into a regional conflict.

Natural gas
Gas market 
Weak demand, combined with high inventories, has put downward 
pressure on natural gas prices in key markets in 2023. Although prices 
were lower than 2022 levels, they remained elevated versus historical 
levels and continued to show strong volatility. 

Title Transfer Facility (TTF): In Europe, TTF spot prices averaged
$13.15/MMBtu (62% lower year-on-year). Strong LNG imports 
and weak regional demand enabled European inventories to 
reach 110 billion cubic metres (bcm), almost 100% full at the end 
of October. By year-end, inventories fell to 95 bcm (86%), which 
is still a comfortable level for that time of the year. Despite storages 
at multi-year highs, supply-side risks in the Middle East, and the threat 
of renewed industrial action in Australia, increased price volatility in 
October, with spot TTF prices surging to $17.0/MMBtu by the middle 
of the month, a 40% increase from the start of the month. By year-end, 
prices retreated to $12.66/MMBtu as Egyptian exports and Israeli 
pipeline flows resumed and inventories remained elevated. 

Japan Korea Marker (JKM): Spot LNG prices in Asia followed a similar 
trajectory as in Europe, averaging $14.03/MMBtu (48% lower year-
on-year). LNG demand in China remained subdued in 2023, relative to 
previous years. The return of incremental nuclear capacity in Japan has 
kept inventories at elevated levels through much of the year, capping 
the upside in prices.

Henry Hub: Henry Hub gas benchmark prices in North America had 
a less volatile year compared with 2022. Spot prices ranged from 
$1.77/MMBtu to $3.77/MMBtu with an average of $2.54/MMBtu. 
The lower volatility was attributable to a warm first quarter, cool 
second quarter, stronger-than-expected dry gas production, an 
increase in LNG facility maintenance and a continued storage surplus. 
Temperatures in the first quarter averaged near three degrees warmer 
than normal. Temperatures in the second quarter averaged one degree 
cooler than normal. Winter 2023-2024 has been considerably warmer 
than the 10-year normal. In 2023, natural gas dry production averaged 
101.45 billion cubic feet a day (bcf/d) or 4.37 bcf/d above 2022. In 
the summer of 2023, natural gas storage in the 48 lower states of the 
USA averaged 467 bcf higher than in the summer of 2022.

The market is expected to remain loose through the remainder of the 
2023-2024 winter as production slowly increases and LNG export 
facilities undergo maintenance. The bearish sentiment is expected to 
continue into the summer of 2024, which is reflected by the softness 
of the prices seen in summer futures contracts on the New York 
Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). 

Power
United States: US power prices were largely lower across all major 
markets in 2023 compared with 2022. One of the key drivers for 
the overall lower power prices and volatility in 2023 was the decline 
in gas prices. After a volatile 2022, where prices ranged from below 
$4/MMBtu to nearly $10/MMBtu, Henry Hub, the benchmark gas 
price in North America, stayed mostly below $3/MMBtu for most of 
2023. Power price volatilities were largely driven by weather events 
throughout the year and across the country. For the western part of 
the USA, colder than normal temperatures that started in December 
2022 lingered through March, resulting in strong prices in Mid-C (Mid-
Columbia) ($108/MWh) and CAISO (California) ($92/MWh) in the 
first quarter of 2023. For the eastern part of the USA, a combination 
of a warm winter and mild summer brought stable prices across the 
PJM and MISO (Midcontinent) markets. For Texas, record-breaking 
summer temperatures resulted in strong price performance. ERCOT 
(Texas) market prices spiked over $5,000/MWh in June, August 
and September, with On-Peak prices averaging $282/MWh for 
August and $121/MWh for September.

Europe: European power prices came down from the record levels 
in 2022, but were still elevated. In Germany, for example, the average 
power price in 2023 was around $103/MWh, down from an average 
price of $248/MWh in 2022. German power prices were still 
significantly higher than the average price of $38/MWh in the period 
2015-2019. Power prices are primarily driven by natural gas prices, 
which were lower in 2023 than in 2022, but still more than double the 
average of around $5.6/MMBtu between 2015 and 2019. In addition, 
the availability of both hydropower and French nuclear power plants 
was markedly better in 2023 than in 2022, resulting in lower power 
prices. The continued deployment of solar and wind capacity is 
progressively affecting power system operations, which can be 
seen from the impact of weather on hourly prices.

Australia: The power and gas markets in Eastern Australia began 2023 
with firm price caps on gas and coal after extreme price volatility in 
2022. This -- combined with lower demand because of milder winter 
weather, improved coal generator availability and continued growth 
in renewable generation -- reduced tightness in international markets. 
Healthy domestic gas storage and stronger winter flows from LNG 
producers to southern markets moderated gas and power prices as 
they returned to normal levels. Prices, however, continued to be higher 
than historical levels. Power prices averaged around A$90/MWh for 
2023 compared with A$190/MWh in 2022 and A$75/MWh in 
2021. Gas prices averaged around A$12/GJ (gigajoule) for 2023 
compared with around A$40/GJ in 2022 and A$10/GJ in 2021. 
There has also been increased intraday volatility, as more renewables 
and distributed solar have entered the system to replace coal. 

Crude oil and natural gas price assumptions
Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial 
opportunities depends on the accuracy of our price assumptions. We 
use a rigorous assessment of short-, medium- and long-term market 
uncertainties to determine what ranges of future crude oil and natural 
gas prices to use in project and portfolio evaluations. Market 
uncertainties include, for example, future economic conditions, 
geopolitics, actions by major resource holders, production costs, 
technological progress and the balance of supply and demand.

See "Risk factors" on page 14 and Note 12 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 

on pages 281-283.

39
39

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Market overview continued

Refining and chemical margins 
In 2023, gross refining margins continued to be well-supported, albeit 
at a lower level than the highs seen in 2022. The effect of sanctions on 
Russian oil products meant that Europe was short of middle distillate, 
leading to low stocks and very high middle distillate product crack 
spreads. This was exacerbated by refinery slowdowns during the hot 
European summer as cooling systems struggled to cope. In addition, 
there were low US gasoline stocks at the start of the US summer 
holiday season when demand was rising as many more people were 
driving. This led to a wider spread between gasoline and crude in the 
Atlantic basin. In the East, Chinese oil demand growth was capped by 
the economic slowdown. The low product stocks of gasoline and diesel 
in the Atlantic basin required product flow from Asia providing margin 
support for Asian refineries outside of China. But this was dampened by 
Chinese product export quotas which remained at the same elevated 
level as in 2022. In 2023, new refinery capacity -- such as the Al Zour 
refinery, the Beaumont expansion and Oman Duqm refinery -- came 
on line and increased product supply to the market, keeping margins at 
a lower level than in 2022.

For 2024, further new refinery capacity, such as that from Dangote 
in Nigeria, is expected to come on line. Meanwhile, demand growth 
is expected to slow with China's economic outlook being a key factor. 
Currently, product stock levels in the Atlantic basin of mogas and 
diesel are at higher levels than a year ago, suggesting lower 
spreads between products and crude oil next year.

Chemical cracker margins remained pressured in 2023 because 
of global oversupply and weak demand. Slowing global market 
conditions, and high inflation and interest rates, have impacted end-
consumer demand. New capacity growth, primarily in Asia and the 
USA, led to global oversupply with producers continuing to match 
demand through lower cracker utilisation. The Russia-Ukraine war 
and conflicts in the Middle East have impacted energy prices, 
resulting in lower margins.

The outlook for petrochemical margins in 2024 and beyond depends 
on feedstock costs and the balance of supply and demand. Global 
oversupply is expected to persist through the year with a slow demand 
recovery. A recovery in demand is needed to absorb excess capacity. 
The supply of petrochemicals will depend on how new facilities coming 
on line and plant closures will impact net capacity, with utilisation 
balancing the system. Product prices will reflect the cost of raw 
materials, which is closely linked to crude oil and natural gas prices.

Refining margins

Global indicative refining margin [A]

Indicative refining margin 

2023

12.45 

2022

18.03 

$/bbl

2021

4.79 

[A] The Indicative refining margin (IRM) is an approximation of Shell's global gross refining 
unit margin, calculated using price markers from third-party databases. It is based on a 
simplified crude and product yield profile at a nominal level of refining performance. The 
actual margins realised by Shell may vary due to factors including specific local market 
effects, refinery maintenance, crude diet optimisation as the crudes in the IRM are 
indicative benchmark crudes, operating decisions and product demand. Gross refining 
unit margin is defined as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives 
and relevant freight costs, divided by crude and feedstock intake in barrels. It is only 
applicable to the impact of market pricing on refining business performance, excluding 
trading margin.

Petrochemical margins

Global indicative chemical margin [A]

$/tonne

2023

2022

2021

Indicative chemical margin 

132.63 

48.04 

216.44 

[A] The Indicative chemical margin (ICM) is an approximation of Shell's global chemical 

margin performance trend (including equity-accounted associates), calculated using price 
markers from third-party databases. It is based on a simplified feedstock and product yield 
profile at a nominal level of plant performance. The actual margins realised by Shell may 
vary due to factors including specific local market effects, chemical plants maintenance, 
optimisation, operating decisions and product demand. Chemical unit margin is defined 
as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives and relevant freight 
costs, divided by a nominal denominator expressed in metric tonnes. It is only applicable 
to the impact of market pricing on Chemical business performance.

The statements in this "Market overview" section are forward-looking 
statements based on management's current expectations and certain 
material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied herein.

See "About this Report" on pages v-vi and "Risk factors" on page 14.

40
40

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated 
Gas

Integrated Gas (IG) includes liquefied natural 
gas (LNG) and the conversion of natural gas 
into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels and base oils. IG 
activities also include natural gas exploration 
and extraction, and the operation of the 
upstream and midstream infrastructure 
necessary to deliver gas and gas products 
to market. The marketing, trading and 
optimisation of LNG is also part of IG. We are 
committed to investing in our IG activities and 
plan to continue growing our LNG portfolio.

Segment earnings ($ billion)

7.0 2022: 22.2

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

13.9 2022: 16.1

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

17.5 2022: 27.7

Production (thousand boe/d)

939 2022: 921

LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes)

28 2022: 30

LNG sales volumes (million tonnes)

67 2022: 66

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

41

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued

Key metrics

Segment earnings*[A] [B] 

Identified items 

Adjusted Earnings* [A] 

Adjusted EBITDA* [A] 

Cash flow from operating activities 

Cash capital expenditure*

Liquids production available for sale (thousand b/d)

Natural gas production available for sale (million scf/d)

Total production available for sale (thousand boe/d)

LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes)

LNG sales volumes (million tonnes)

$ million, except where indicated

2023

7,046 

(6,861)

13,907

23,759

17,520

4,196

128

4,700

939

28.3

67.1

2022

22,212 

6,075

16,137

26,569

27,692

4,265

128

4,600

921

29.7

66.0

2021

8,060 

(988)

9,048

16,754

13,210

3,502

169

4,842

1,004

31.0

64.2

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings, and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Integrated Gas,
see "Market overview" on pages 38-40.

Integrated gas data table

LNG liquefaction volumes

Production available for sale 
In 2023, natural gas production increased by 2% compared 
with 2022, mainly because of the new fields and ramp-up in 
Oman, Canada, Australia and Trinidad and Tobago. Lower levels 
of maintenance at Pearl GTL in Qatar, and in Trinidad and Tobago 
also contributed to the higher production levels. These were partly 
offset by the derecognition of Russia's Sakhalin-related volumes 
and production-sharing contract effects in Egypt and at Pearl GTL. 
In 2023 and 2022, natural gas and liquids made up 86% and 14% 
of total production, respectively.

LNG liquefaction and sales volumes
LNG liquefaction volumes decreased by 5% compared with the 
previous year, mainly as a result of the derecognition of Sakhalin-
related volumes.

LNG sales volumes increased primarily because of higher purchases 
from third parties but this was partly offset by the derecognition of 
Sakhalin-related volumes.

Through our trading organisation, we market and sell a portion of 
our share of equity production of LNG together with third-party LNG 
through our hubs in the UK, the UAE and Singapore. Shell has term 
sales contracts for the majority of our LNG liquefaction and term 
purchase contracts. We are able to optimise the income we generate 
from our LNG cargoes through our shipping network, regasification 
terminals and ability to purchase and deliver LNG spot cargoes from 
third parties. For example, if one customer does not need a scheduled 
cargo, we can deliver it to another customer who does need it. 
Similarly, if a customer needs an additional cargo not available from 
our production facilities, we contract with third parties to deliver the 
additional cargo. We conduct paper trades, primarily to manage 
commodity price risk related to sales and purchase contracts. 
We also sell LNG for trucks in India, China and Europe, and 
LNG for shipping in the USA, Europe and Singapore.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Australia

Brunei

Egypt

Nigeria

Oman

Peru

Qatar

Russia

Trinidad and Tobago

Total

Million tonnes

2023

13.3 

2022

13.2 

2021

13.1 

1.1 

0.3 

3.3 

2.7 

0.8 

2.4 

— 

4.3 

1.2 

0.5 

3.6 

2.8 

0.8 

2.4 

0.9 

4.3 

1.4 

0.3 

4.3 

2.5 

0.6 

2.4 

2.8 

3.6 

28.3 

29.7 

31.0 

Earnings 2023-2022
Segment earnings in 2023 were lower in comparison to 2022 and 
reflected the net effect of lower realised prices and higher contributions 
from trading and optimisation (decrease of $1,143 million), lower 
volumes (decrease of $466 million), and unfavourable deferred 
tax movements (decrease of $728 million). 

Segment earnings included identified items: mainly unfavourable 
movements of $4,407 million due to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives and net impairment charges and reversals 
of $2,247 million. In 2022, identified items included favourable 
movements of $6,273 million due to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives and net impairment reversals of $779 million. 
In 2022, these were partly offset by other impacts of $608 million, 
mainly loan write-downs, as well as charges of $387 million as 
provisions for onerous contracts.

Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA were driven by the same 
factors as the segment earnings, and adjusted for identified items.

42
42

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 39) and Form 
20-F (page 43) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively. 

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities for 2023 was primarily driven by 
Adjusted EBITDA and a working capital inflow of $2,023 million, partly 
offset by net cash outflows, related to derivatives of $4,668 million, 
and tax payments of $3,574 million.

Cash capital expenditure
Our cash capital expenditure in 2023 was at the same level as 
in 2022. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be around 
$5 billion in 2024.

Portfolio and business development 
Significant portfolio and business developments: 
￮ In January 2023, we produced first gas from Oman's Mabrouk 

North-East field in Block 10 (Shell interest 53.45%).

￮ In June 2023, we completed the purchase of 25% of the 

shareholding in the QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) joint venture, which 
owns a 37% interest in the North Field South (NFS) project. Shell's 
ownership of NFS via its joint-venture shareholding is 9.375%.
￮ In October 2023, we sold our 35% interest in Indonesia's Masela 
PSC to Indonesia's PT Pertamina Hulu Energi and PETRONAS 
Masela Sdn. Bhd. The sale included the Abadi gas project.
￮ In October 2023, we and our partners in the Oman LNG LLC 

venture signed an amended shareholders' agreement for Oman LNG 
LLC (Oman LNG), extending the business beyond 2024. We will 
remain the largest private shareholder in Oman LNG, with a 30% 
interest.

￮ In December 2023, Shell entered into agreements with the 

government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and Atlantic 
LNG shareholders to restructure the Atlantic LNG facility, which will 
change Shell's overall shareholding in Atlantic LNG. These changes 
aim to take effect in a phased approach, starting on October 1, 
2024, and are expected to be completed by May 2, 2027. On 
completion, Shell is expected to have a 45% share in Atlantic LNG.

Business and property
Integrated Gas 
A complete list of LNG and GTL plants in operation and under construction in which we have an interest is provided below.

LNG liquefaction plants in operation at December 31, 2023 [A]

Asset

Location

Shell interest (%)

100% capacity 
(mtpa) [B]

Shell-operated

Asia

Brunei

Oman

Qatar

Oceania

Australia

Africa

Egypt

Nigeria

South America

Peru

Brunei LNG

Oman LNG

Qalhat LNG [C]

Lumut

Sur

Sur

QatarEnergy LNG N(4) [D]

Ras Laffan

Australia North West Shelf [D]

Karratha

Gorgon LNG [D]

Prelude [D]

Barrow Island

Browse Basin

Queensland Curtis LNG T1 [D]

Curtis Island

Queensland Curtis LNG T2 [D]

Curtis Island

Egyptian LNG T1

Egyptian LNG T2

Nigeria LNG

Idku

Idku

Bonny

Peru LNG

Pampa Melchorita

Trinidad and Tobago

Atlantic LNG T1

Atlantic LNG T2/T3

Atlantic LNG T4

Point Fortin

Point Fortin

Point Fortin

25  

30  

11

30  

16.7  

25 

67.5  

50  

97.5

35.5  

38  

25.6

20  

46  

57.5  

51.1

7.6 

7.1 

3.7 

7.8 

16.9 

15.6 

3.6 

4.3 

4.3

3.6 

3.6 

24.1

4.5 

3 

6.6 

5.2

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

[A] We have offtake rights via a lease to 100% of the capacity (2.5 mtpa) of the Kinder Morgan-operated Elba Island liquefaction plant in Georgia, USA.
[B] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains can process as reported by the operator. 
[C] The interest is held via an indirect shareholding through Oman LNG. 
[D] These assets are clustered as integrated assets and have onshore or offshore upstream production.

43
43

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued

LNG liquefaction plants under construction at December 31, 2023

Africa

Nigeria

North America

Canada

Asia

Qatar

Asset

Train 7 [B]

Location

Bonny

LNG Canada T1-2 [C]

Kitimat

QatarEnergy LNG NFE(2) [D]

QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) [E]

Ras Laffan

Ras Laffan

Shell interest (%)

100% capacity 
(mtpa) [A]

Shell-operated

 25.6 

 40.0 

 25.0 

 25.0 

 7.6 

 14.0 

 8.0 

 6.0 

No

No

No

No

[A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains are expected to process as reported by the operator. 
[B] First LNG is expected later in the 2020s.
[C] Construction started in October 2018 and first LNG is expected around the middle of the 2020s.
[D] Shell holds 25% in the joint venture, which owns 25% of the North Field East expansion project, which has a nameplate capacity of 32 mtpa. First LNG is expected later in the 2020s. 
[E] Shell holds 25% in the joint venture, which owns 37.5% of the North Field South expansion project, which has a nameplate capacity of 16 mtpa. First LNG is expected later in the 2020s.

GTL plants in operation at December 31, 2023

Asia

Malaysia

Qatar

Asset

Shell MDS

Pearl 

[A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity of the plant.

Location

Shell interest (%)

100% capacity 
(b/d) [A]

Shell-operated

Bintulu

Ras Laffan

 72.0 

 100.0 

14,700 

140,000 

Yes

Yes

In 2023, we also had interests and rights in the regasification terminals listed below. Extension of leases or rights beyond the periods mentioned 
below will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

LNG regasification terminals 

Project name

Costa Azul

Cove Point [A]

Dragon LNG

Eemshaven

Elba Island

Elba Island

Elba Island Expansion

Location

Baja California, Mexico

Lusby, MD, USA

Milford Haven, UK

Groningen, the Netherlands

Elba Island, GA, USA

Elba Island, GA, USA

Elba Island, GA, USA

GATE (Gas Access to Europe)

Rotterdam, the Netherlands

Lake Charles

Lake Charles Expansion

Singapore SGM

Singapore SETL

Singapore SETL

Lake Charles, LA, USA

Lake Charles, LA, USA

SLNG, Singapore

SLNG, Singapore

SLNG, Singapore

Shell Energy India Pvt Ltd (formerly Hazira)

Gujarat, India

Shell LNG Gibraltar

Gibraltar

[A] Contract expired in August 2023 and was not extended.
[B] Licences to import LNG and sell regasified LNG in Singapore with no volume cap.
[C] Exclusive licence to import LNG and sell regasified LNG in Singapore for up to 1.0 mtpa.

Shell capacity 
rights (mtpa)

Capacity rights 
period

Shell interest (%) 
and rights

2.7

1.8

3.1

3.1

4.6

2.8

4.2

1.5

4.4

8.7

[B]

[B]

2008–2028

Capacity rights

2003–2023

Capacity rights

2009–2029  

50 

2022–2027

Capacity rights

2003–2027

2006–2036

2010–2035

Leased

Leased

Leased

2015–2031

Capacity rights

2002–2030

2005–2030

Leased

Leased

2013–2029

Import rights

2018–2035

Import rights

up to 1.0 [C]

2021–2025

Import rights

5

2005–2035  

up to 0.04

2018–2038  

100 

51 

44
44

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued

First gas from Block 10 in heartland of Oman

We produced first gas from Oman's Mabrouk North-East field 
in Block 10 (Shell interest 53.45%) in 2023. Block 10 is our first 
operated venture in the country, a market that is core to our 
integrated gas and upstream strategy. 

Phase 1 of Block 10 was developed in close cooperation with 
Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), which is a joint venture 
operated by the government of Oman (60%), Shell (34%), 
TotalEnergies (4%) and Partex (2%).

Production from Block 10 started in January 2023 and is expected 
to reach 0.5 billion standard cubic feet of gas per day by the 
middle of 2024. The gas is supplied to Oman's gas network, which 
feeds local industries and export facilities, such as Oman LNG. 

When Shell became operator of Block 10 in March 2022, 
we sought to provide quality accommodation for employees 

and contractors at Block 10. We are building a 590-bed 
accommodation unit with catering, sports facilities and WiFi 
access for our staff and contractors in the field.

We have also implemented a comprehensive road safety 
programme at Block 10. The programme is not limited to Shell 
operations but has already supported changes to road safety 
regulations in Oman. Shell, together with the Royal Oman Police 
and the Ministry of Education, has also set up a road safety 
educational programme and curriculum for children in Oman. 

Shell has been present in Oman for more than 80 years. As part 
of our own net-zero targets and the ambitions of Oman, we are 
evaluating a potential hydrogen project, which could be supplied 
by gas from Block 10. There is potential for the produced CO2 
to be stored underground and supplied to manufacture low-
carbon products. 

Photo: Block 10 facility in Mabrouk North-East field, Oman.

45
45

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued

Oil and natural gas production, exploration and development
Australia 
We operate the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) venture's natural 
gas operations in Queensland's Surat Basin. Our interests range from 
44% to 74% in 25 field compression stations and six central processing 
plants. Our production of natural gas from the onshore Surat Basin 
supplies the QCLNG liquefaction plant and the domestic gas market. 

Qatar
We operate the Pearl GTL plant (Shell interest 100%) in Qatar under
a development and production-sharing contract with the government. 
The fully integrated facility has the capacity to produce, process and 
transport 1.6 billion standard cubic feet per day (scf/d) of gas from 
Qatar's North Field. 

We have a 30% interest in QatarEnergy LNG N(4), which comprises 
integrated facilities to produce around 1.4 billion scf/d of gas from 
Qatar's North Field, an onshore gas-processing facility operated by 
QatarEnergy LNG. We also have 25% of the shareholding in the 
QatarEnergy LNG NFE(2) joint venture which owns a 25% interest in 
the North Field East (NFE) project. Thus, Shell's ownership of NFE via 
its joint-venture shareholding is 6.25%. In June 2023, we purchased 
25% of the shareholding in the QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) joint venture 
which owns a 37% interest in the North Field South (NFS) project. 
Shell's ownership of NFS via its joint-venture shareholding is 9.375%. 

Russia
In the first quarter of 2022, Shell announced its intent to withdraw 
in a phased manner from its involvements in all Russian hydrocarbons, 
including crude oil, petroleum products, gas and LNG. Note 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 
2022, presented in the "Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F" 
for that year, sets out Shell's progress made with respect to such 
intention, including its exit from the Sakhalin-2 project. Shell still holds 
a 27.5% (minus one share) interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment 
Company Ltd. (SEIC), a Bermudan entity, which purportedly no longer 
holds any licences, rights and obligations in Sakhalin-2. The accounting 
treatment of SEIC is stated and explained in Note 14 "Investments in 
securities" to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 285. In 
February 2023, Shell noted that SEIC had renounced a long-term LNG 
purchase contract by failing to perform, meaning the contract stood 
terminated. Shell still holds one long-term LNG purchase contract with 
a Novatek entity.

Trinidad and Tobago
We have interests in three concessions with producing fields: Central 
Block (Shell interest 65%), North Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 
80.5%) and East Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 100%). 

We have a 100% interest in exploration blocks 5(c)REA, 5(d) and 6(d). 
In 2023, we signed PSCs for three new exploration blocks 25a, 25b 
and 27 in the Columbus Basin (Shell interest 50%). We operate Block 
27 and BP is the operator of the remaining two. Additionally, we 
relinquished our 35% interest in the PSC for Atlantic Area Block 5.

Other
We also have interests in Barbados, Colombia, Cyprus and Tanzania.

In 2023, we sold our interest (35%) in the Masela PSC in Indonesia, 
which includes the Abadi gas project.

We have a 50% interest in Arrow, a Queensland-based joint venture 
with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Arrow owns 
coalbed methane assets and a domestic power business.

In addition, Shell has interests in offshore production, LNG liquefaction 
and exploration licences in the Browse Basin and in the North West 
Shelf (NWS) and Greater Gorgon areas of the Carnarvon Basin. 
Woodside is the operator on behalf of the NWS joint venture (Shell 
interest 16.7%). We have a 25% interest in the Chevron-operated 
Gorgon LNG joint venture that includes offshore production.

In the Browse Basin, Shell operates the Prelude field (Shell interest 
67.5%), the Crux gas and condensate development field (Shell interest 
84.5%) and other backfill projects for Prelude FLNG.

In 2023, we sold our stake in the Browse joint arrangement (Shell 
interest 27%), which covers the Brecknock, Calliance and Torosa 
gas fields. 

Bolivia
We hold a 37.5% interest in the Caipipendi block where we produce 
and deliver natural gas to domestic and export markets. Repsol is the 
operator. We also have a 25% interest in the Tarija XX West block, 
where we produce from the Itaú field. 

Canada
In Canada, we produce and market natural gas, natural gas liquids 
and condensate. We hold mineral acres, primarily in the Montney 
play in British Columbia and Alberta. We operate four natural gas 
processing area facilities at our Groundbirch asset in British Columbia, 
with another natural gas processing facility under construction. 

China
We develop and produce from the onshore Changbei tight-gas 
field under a PSC with China National Petroleum Company.

Egypt 
We have a 25% interest in the Burullus Gas Company (Burullus) joint 
venture, which operates the West Delta Deep Marine concession
(Shell interest 50%) and supplies gas to the domestic market and an 
Egyptian LNG plant. We have a 50% interest in the Rashid Petroleum 
Company (Rashpetco) joint venture, which operates the Rosetta 
concession (Shell interest 100%). We have a 30% interest in the
El Burg Offshore Company (EBOC) joint venture, which operates
the El Burg offshore concession (Shell interest 60%). 

We have interests in several exploration concessions in the Nile Delta, 
the wider East Mediterranean and the Red Sea.

Oman
We have an operated concession to develop and produce natural 
gas and condensate from Block 10 (Shell interest 53.45%). We have a 
separate gas sales agreement and oil supply agreement for production 
from the block. We also have an exploration and production-sharing 
agreement with the government for the exploration and appraisal of 
natural gas and condensate in Block 11 (Shell interest 67.5%), 
operated by Shell.

46
46

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Upstream

Upstream explores for and extracts crude 
oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It 
also markets and transports oil and gas, 
and operates the infrastructure necessary 
to deliver them to the market. Shell's Upstream 
business delivers reliable energy from 
conventional and deep-water oil and 
gas operations. We are committed to our 
Upstream activities and plan to maintain our 
liquids production to the end of the decade.

Segment earnings ($ billion)

8.5 2022: 16.2

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

9.8 2022: 17.3

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

21.5 2022: 29.6

Production (thousand boe/d)

1,800 2022: 1,897

47

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

Key metrics

Segment earnings*[A] [B]

Identified items 

Adjusted Earnings* [A] 

Adjusted EBITDA* [A]

Cash flow from operating activities 

Cash capital expenditure*

Liquids production available for sale (thousand b/d)

Natural gas production available for sale (million scf/d)

Total production available for sale (thousand boe/d)

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings, and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

$ million, except where indicated

2023

8,528 

2022

16,222 

(1,267)   

(1,096)   

9,794 

30,607 

21,450 

8,343 

1,325 

2,754 

1,800 

17,319 

42,100 

29,641 

8,143 

1,333 

3,272 

1,897 

2021

9,603 

1,587 

8,015 

27,170 

21,562 

6,168 

1,515 

3,845 

2,178 

Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Upstream, see "Market 
overview" on pages 38-40.

Production available for sale
In 2023, liquids production was flat and natural gas production 
decreased by 16%, compared with 2022.

Total production, compared with 2022, decreased mainly due to the 
impact of divestments. The impact of field decline was more than offset 
by growth from new fields.

Earnings 2023-2022
Segment earnings, compared with 2022, mainly reflected lower 
realised oil and gas prices (decrease of $5,696 million) and lower 
volumes (decrease of $2,001 million).

Segment earnings in 2023 also included net impairment charges 
and reversals of $642 million, and net charges of $295 million, 
which related to the impact of the weakening Argentine peso and 
strengthening Brazilian real on a deferred tax position. These 
charges and gains are part of identified items and compare with 
2022, where segment earnings included net impairment reversals 
and charges of $853 million, and charges of $1,385 million relating 
to the EU solidarity contribution and $802 million relating to the UK 
Energy Profits Levy.

Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA were driven by the same 
factors as the segment earnings and adjusted for identified items.

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 45) and Form 
20-F (page 49) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities for 2023 was primarily driven by 
Adjusted EBITDA, partly offset by tax payments of $8,470 million.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure in 2023 was higher, compared with 2022. 
The increase was mainly a result of the ramp-up of projects in the Gulf 
of Mexico, Malaysia and the UK. This was partially offset by the Brazil 
Atapu Transfer of Rights in 2022. Cash capital expenditure is expected 
to be around $8 billion in 2024.

Portfolio and business developments
Significant portfolio and business developments:
￮ In February 2023, we started production at our operated Vito 
floating production facility (Shell interest 63.1%) in the Gulf of 
Mexico.

￮ In February 2023, we completed the sale of our 50% interest in the 
CJSC Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance in Russia to a subsidiary 
of GazpromNeft (GPN). In March 2023, we completed the sale of 
our 50% interest in Salym Petroleum Development LLC to a 
subsidiary of GPN.

￮ In February 2023, we sold our 100% interest in Shell Onshore 

Ventures LLC in the USA which held a 51.8% membership interest in 
Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV.

￮ In March 2023, we divested our 50% interest in the offshore Block 

SK307 PSC in Malaysia, and our 40% interest in the offshore Baram 
Delta Operations (BDO) PSC to Petroleum Sarawak Exploration & 
Production Sdn. Bhd.

￮ In April 2023, we completed the restart of operations at the 

operated Pierce field (Shell interest 92.5%) in the UK Central North 
Sea following a significant upgrade. Pierce is a joint arrangement 
between Shell and Ithaca Energy (UK) Limited (interest 7.48%).

￮ In August 2023, we started production at the Timi platform in 
Malaysia. Timi is developed as part of the SK318 PSC. Our 
subsidiary, Sarawak Shell Berhad (SSB), is the operator holding 75% 
equity. The other two partners are PETRONAS Carigali Sdn Bhd 
(15%) and Brunei Energy Exploration (10%).

￮ In December 2023, we took FID on the Sparta project (Shell interest 
51%) in the Gulf of Mexico. This will be a Shell-operated production 
hub developed with Equinor Gulf of Mexico LLC (49%).

￮ In December 2023, the Sepetiba FPSO production started in the 

Mero field.

￮ In January 2024, we reached an agreement to sell The Shell 

Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) to 
Renaissance. Completion of the transaction is subject to approvals 
by the Federal Government of Nigeria and other conditions.

48
48

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

Business and property
Our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are involved in all 
aspects of upstream activities. These activities include land tenure and 
the exploration, development and production of crude oil, natural gas 
and natural gas liquids. They also include the marketing and 
transportation of oil and gas, as well as the operation of the 
infrastructure necessary to deliver them to market.

The conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which oil and 
gas interests are held vary from country to country.

In almost all cases outside North America, legal agreements are 
generally granted by, or entered into with, a government, state-owned 
company, government-run oil and gas company or agency. The 
exploration risk usually rests with the independent oil and gas 
company. In North America, these agreements may also be with 
private parties that own mineral rights.

Of these agreements, the following are most relevant to our interests:
￮ Licences (or concessions), which entitle the holder to explore for 
hydrocarbons and exploit any commercial discoveries. Under a 
licence, the holder bears the risk of exploration, development and 
production activities, and is responsible for financing these activities. 
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to the totality of production 
less any royalties in kind. The government, state-owned company or 
government-run oil and gas company may sometimes enter into a 
joint arrangement as a participant, sharing the rights and obligations 
of the licence but usually without sharing the exploration risk. In a 
few cases, the state-owned company, government-run oil and gas 
company or agency has an option to purchase a certain share of 
production.

￮ Lease agreements, which are typically used in North America and 
are usually governed by terms similar to licences. Participants may 
include governments or private entities. Royalties are paid either in 
cash or in kind.

￮ Production-sharing contracts (PSCs) entered into with a government, 
state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company. PSCs 
generally oblige the independent oil and gas company, as 
contractor, to provide all the financing and bear the risk of 
exploration, development and production activities in exchange for 
a share of the production. Usually, this share consists of a fixed or 
variable part that is reserved for the recovery of the contractor's cost 
(cost oil). The remaining production is split with the government, 
state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company on a 
fixed or volume/revenue-dependent basis. In some cases, the 
government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas 
company will participate in the rights and obligations of the 
contractor and will share in the costs of development and 
production. Such participation can be across the venture or on a 
field-by-field basis. Additionally, as the price of oil or gas increases 
above certain predetermined levels, the independent oil and gas 
company's entitlement share of production normally decreases, and 
vice versa. Accordingly, its interest in a project may not be the same 
as its entitlement.

Europe
Germany
Shell is a 50% shareholder in BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH & Co. 
KG (BEB), which owns interests in various concessions, mainly in 
Lower Saxony. ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH has a 
service contract with BEB, under which it provides operating services 
to BEB for most of the concessions.

Italy
Shell has a 39% interest in the Val d'Agri producing concession, 
operated by ENI S.p.A., and a 25% interest in the Tempa Rossa 
producing concession, operated by TotalEnergies EP Italia S.p.A.

Netherlands
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse 
Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). NAM holds a 60% interest in the 
onshore low-calorific Groningen gas field (the remaining 40% interest 
is held by EBN, a Dutch government entity), the Schoonebeek oil 
field, some 25 smaller hydrocarbon production licences and two 
underground gas storage facilities.

The Dutch government issues annual gas production instructions for the 
Groningen field. As per the latest instruction, production has ceased 
since October 1, 2023. However, the Dutch government has indicated 
to NAM it could decree a restart of minimal production in exceptional 
circumstances during the current gas year, which occurred on January 
8-10, 2024, for a cold spell of several days.

Historical production from the Groningen field induces earthquakes 
which have led to damage claims, security concerns, and a strengthening 
operation to make buildings earthquake resistant. In June 2018, NAM's 
shareholders and the Dutch government signed a Heads of Agreement 
(HoA) to inter alia reduce, and eventually cease production from the 
Groningen field. Under the terms of the HoA, it was agreed that the 
Dutch government would pass on to NAM costs insofar as the costs 
corresponded to NAM's liability. Further agreements were signed to 
implement the HoA. As part of these agreements, Shell guaranteed half 
of NAM's 60% share of earthquake-related costs for damage claims and 
the strengthening of buildings. We are currently in discussions with the 
Dutch government about appropriate financial securities for the longer 
term as agreed under the HoA.

NAM is working with the Dutch government and other stakeholders to 
fulfil its obligations to residents of the area. These include compensating 
for damage caused by the earthquakes and paying to strengthen 
houses where this is required for safety. In 2022, NAM started 
arbitrations with the Dutch government to have its financial liability 
determined for costs which the Dutch government compensated to 
claimants and subsequently charged to NAM.

In October 2021, NAM announced that it would split up its non-
Groningen assets into several new legal entities, with the intent to 
divest those legal entities. No split-up has occurred to date.

See "NAM (Groningen gas field) Litigation" on page 313.

Norway
Shell is a partner in 19 production licences on the Norwegian 
continental shelf, and the operator of seven of these. We have 
interests in two producing gas fields: Shell-operated Ormen Lange 
(Shell interest 17.8%) and Equinor-operated Troll (Shell interest 8.1%). 
Additionally, we hold an interest in the Equinor-operated Irpa (Shell 
interest 10%) gas discovery under development. We operate two 
fields which are being decommissioned, Knarr and Gaupe. We are 
also the technical service provider for the Nyhamna processing plant, 
operated by Gassco.

49
49

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

UK
Shell operates a number of assets on the UK continental shelf mostly 
under unincorporated joint-venture agreements. Shell also has non-
operated positions in the West of Shetland area, including Clair (Shell 
interest 27.97%) and Schiehallion (Shell interest 44.89%). Both Clair 
and Schiehallion are operated by BP.

In April 2023, Shell restarted operations at the Pierce field (Shell 
interest 92.5%) in the UK North Sea after a major redevelopment to 
enable gas production, after years of the field producing only oil. The 
Haewene Brim floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) 
vessel, which produces from the Pierce field, is currently shutdown to 
address an integrity threat to the mooring lines. The work is nearing 
completion with production expected to resume in the near future.

Progress continues to develop the operated Penguins FPSO vessel 
(Shell interest 50%) and the Jackdaw platform (Shell interest 100%) 
in the North Sea. Both are expected to become operational in the 
mid-2020s.

In November 2023, we completed the sale of our 30% stake in 
the Cambo field to Ithaca Energy, following regulatory approval. 
The agreement to sell was signed in September 2023.

During the third quarter of 2023, the UK government announced that the 
Acorn carbon capture, utilisation and storage project (Shell interest 30%) 
was selected as one of two clusters to enter "Track 2" of the UK's cluster 
sequencing process for carbon capture and storage (CCS). In 2024, we 
expect to start more detailed discussions on the project between the UK 
government and the Acorn co-venturers. It was also announced that 
Acorn had received CCS licences from the North Sea Transition Authority 
for the Acorn East and East Mey CO2 stores, expanding its transport and 
storage system's capacity deep beneath the North Sea. In addition, 
ventures in which Shell has a 50% interest were awarded three carbon 
storage appraisal licences.

Decommissioning of the Heather A platform and Curlew FPSO asset 
continued in 2023, and we began a campaign of subsea well plug 
and abandonment activity to decommission 25 wells in the Central 
North Sea. All remaining staff left Brent Charlie on October 6, 2023, 
bringing 47 years of continuous presence on Brent installations to an 
end. We expect the topside to be lifted in 2024. The Offshore 
Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning (OPRED) 
continues to assess the Brent Field decommissioning programme for 
the Brent gravity-based substructures.

Rest of Europe
Shell also has interests in Albania.

Asia (including the Middle East and Russia)
Brunei
Shell and the Brunei government are 50:50 shareholders in Brunei 
Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad (BSP). BSP has long-term 
onshore and offshore oil and gas concession rights and sells most of its 
gas production to Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad, with the remainder 
sold in the domestic market.

In addition to our interest in BSP, we have a non-operated interest in 
the offshore Block B concession (Shell interest 35%) which is operated 
by TotalEnergies. The gas and condensate are produced from the 
Maharaja Lela field.

We have a non-operated interest under a PSC in a gas-holding area 
for deep-water Block CA2, which is operated by Petronas. Shell's 
interest increased in 2023 from 12.5% to 20% when we acquired 
7.5% from Petronas.

We operate the deep-water Block CA1 (Shell interest 86.95%), in 
which the Jagus East field is located, under a PSC. As referred to in the 
Malaysia section, the Jagus East field and the Geronggong field, held 
by BSP, form part of the unitised GKGJE field. In 2023, we relinquished 
the exploration acreage that formed part of Block CA1.

Iraq
Shell has a 44% interest in the Basrah Gas Company, which gathers, 
treats and processes associated gas that was previously flared from the 
Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair fields. Processed gas and 
associated products, such as condensate and LPG, are sold to the 
domestic market. Any surplus condensate and LPG is exported.

Kazakhstan
Shell is the joint operator with ENI S.p.A. of the onshore Karachaganak 
oil and condensate field (Shell interest 29.3%) and, in north-west 
Kazakhstan which covers more than 280 square kilometres.

We also have an interest in the North Caspian Sea PSA (Shell interest 
16.8%) which includes the Kashagan field in the Kazakh sector of the 
Caspian Sea. The North Caspian Operating Company is the operator. 
This shallow-water field covers around 3,400 square kilometres.

We have a 7.4% interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC), 
which owns and operates an oil pipeline running from the Caspian 
Sea to the Black Sea across parts of Kazakhstan and Russia. We hold 
our interest in the CPC via three legal entities. Two of these are wholly 
owned by Shell and the other is a joint venture with Rosneft, Rosneft-
Shell Caspian Ventures Ltd (Cyprus) (RSCV) (Shell interest 49%), 
which was formed in 1996 to own and manage pipeline capacity 
rights. We continue to manage our interest in CPC held through RSCV 
in full compliance with applicable laws, including sanctions.

Kuwait
The wholly owned Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V. 
holds three Enhanced Technical Service Agreements with Kuwait 
Oil Company. These contracts run up to 2026 for Jurassic Gas and 
2027 for Conventional Oil and Heavy Oil.

Malaysia
Shell explores for and produces oil and gas off the coast of Sabah 
and Sarawak under 19 PSCs, in which our interests range from 21% 
to 92.5%.

Offshore Sabah
We operate two producing oil fields: the Malikai deep-water field 
(Shell interest 35%) in the Block G PSC, and the unitised Gumusut-
Kakap Geronggong-Jagus East (GKGJE) field which straddles the 
Malaysia-Brunei border (Shell interest 37.89%).

We hold a 50% participating interest in exploration phase Block 2W, 
SB-X PSC and ND6/7 PSCs. The exploration activities in Block ND6/7 
PSC have been suspended because of Malaysia's border disputes with 
Indonesia.

We have non-operated interests of 21% in the unitised Siakap North-
Petai deep-water field in Block G and 30% in the Kebabangan 
Cluster PSC.

In our non-operated portfolio, we hold exploration interests ranging 
from 25.1% to 40% in the Block SB 2K, N and SB2V PSCs.

50
50

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

Offshore Sarawak
We are the operator of eight producing gas fields and one producing 
oil and gas field holding interests ranging from 30% to 50%. Nearly 
all the gas produced offshore Sarawak is supplied to Malaysia LNG 
(MLNG) and to our gas-to-liquids plant in Bintulu. The fields are under 
the MLNG, SK308, SK408 and SK308 PSCs.

We are also the operator for the Block SK318 PSC. This block contains 
the Timi field (Shell interest 75%), and the Rosmari-Marjoram fields 
(Shell interest 80%). Rosmari is unitised between the Block SK318 PSC 
and Block SK316 PSC (no Shell interest) with the resulting Shell interest 
at 68%. Rosmari-Marjoram is a natural gas project situated around 
220 kilometres off the coast of Bintulu, comprising a remotely operated 
offshore platform and onshore gas plant. Rosmari-Marjoram will mainly 
be powered by renewable energy from solar power offshore and 
hydroelectric power onshore. Timi achieved first gas in August 2023 
and the gas is moved through an 80-kilometre pipeline to the F23 
production hub.

We hold participating interests ranging from 70% to 92.5% in the 
exploration phase Block SK312, SK437, SK439 and SK440 PSCs. In 
March 2023, we signed one new PSC for Block SK3B (Shell interest 
45%), a deep-water block, off the coast of Sarawak.

In our non-operated portfolio, we hold a 20% interest in the Pegaga 
field under the Block SK320 PSC and a 30% interest in the Jerun field 
which is part of the Block SK408 PSC. Jerun is a gas development with 
an integrated central processing platform. The Block SK408 PSC also 
contains the producing non-operated Larak and Bakong fields.

In March 2023, we divested our 50% interest in the offshore Block 
SK307 PSC and our 40% interest in the offshore Baram Delta 
Operations (BDO) PSC to Petroleum Sarawak Exploration & 
Production Sdn. Bhd.

51
51

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Timi platform, powered by sun 
and wind, achieves first gas 

Our unmanned solar- and wind-powered platform in the Timi gas 
field (Shell interest 75%) shows how we are working to produce 
energy with less emissions. Timi delivered first gas in August 
2023 and is expected to produce up to 50,000 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day at peak production. 

The Timi field is situated about 200 kilometres (km) off the 
coast of Sarawak, Malaysia, and is part of our operated SK318 
production-sharing contract. Timi features Shell's first wellhead 
platform in Malaysia that is powered by a solar and wind hybrid 
power system. The design demonstrates our Upstream business's 
ability to deliver projects that support a balanced energy 
transition. In addition to delivering value for shareholders with 
less emissions, Timi is also more cost efficient to operate because 
it is around 60% lighter in weight than a conventional drilling 
wellhead platform that relies on oil and gas for power. 

The field qualifies as a critical habitat because it lies within the 
Luconia Shoals National Park where migratory mammals, turtles 
and coral reefs are found. The project therefore required a 
biodiversity action plan designed with conservation initiatives in 
collaboration with the local university. 

Timi is not the only Shell asset in Malaysia powered by 
renewable energy. In May 2020, we produced first gas from 
a fully solar-powered platform in the Gorek field, about 145 km 
offshore Malaysia. In 2022, we took the final investment 
decision on the Rosmari-Marjoram gas project, the largest 
integrated offshore and onshore project in Sarawak, which 
will be primarily powered by renewable energy. 

Shell retains a strong presence in Malaysia's upstream, gas-to-
liquids, downstream and business services sectors. We remain 
committed to supporting the country's economic progress and 
energy transition efforts through competitive and resilient 
investments. 

Photo: Aerial photograph of the Timi platform in Malaysia before operations started. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

Oman
Shell has a 34% interest in Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), 
which operates the Block 6 oil concession. Shell is entitled to 34% of 
oil produced from Block 6 through its interest in Private Oil Holdings 
Oman Ltd. The government of Oman has a 60% interest in PDO and 
the Block 6 oil concession through its wholly owned company, Energy 
Development Oman (EDO). PDO operates a concession area of about 
90,000 square kilometres and has more than 200 producing oil fields.

We have a 50% interest in Block 42 under an Exploration and 
Production Sharing Agreement (EPSA) where Shell is the operator. The 
other 50% interest is held by the government through its wholly owned 
company, OQ. We have a 100% interest in Block 55 under an EPSA.

Russia
In the first quarter of 2022, Shell announced its intent to withdraw in 
a phased manner from its involvement in all Russian hydrocarbons, 
including crude oil, petroleum products, gas and LNG. In connection 
with this:
￮ On February 22, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 50% interest 
in the CJSC Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance to a subsidiary of 
GazpromNeft (GPN); and

￮ On March 3, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 50% interest in 
Salym Petroleum Development LLC to a subsidiary of GPN. Salym 
Petroleum Development N.V. (SPD), a joint operation with GPN 
which was formerly developing the Salym project and in which Shell 
previously had a 50% interest, was liquidated in December 2023, 
and its wholly owned subsidiary Salym Petroleum Services B.V. was 
liquidated in November 2023.

Onshore
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) 
is the operator of the SPDC joint venture (SPDC JV, Shell interest 30%) 
which has 15 Niger Delta onshore oil mining leases (OMLs). 

SPDC also has three shallow-water oil mining leases (OML 74, 77 and 
79) and a 40% interest in the non-operated Sunlink joint venture, which 
has one shallow-water lease (OML 144).

On January 16, 2024, Shell agreed to sell SPDC to Renaissance, 
subject to approvals by the Federal Government of Nigeria and other 
conditions. As part of the transaction, parties have agreed a sharing 
mechanism that, upon completion, will give Shell an interest in the 
performance of the export feedgas business going forward. Shell will 
retain its interest in one shallow-water lease (OML 144).

Offshore
Our main offshore deep-water activities are carried out by our wholly 
owned subsidiary Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company 
Limited (SNEPCo). SNEPCo has interests in three deep-water blocks 
that are under PSC terms: the producing assets Bonga (OML 118) and 
Erha (OML 133), and the non-producing asset Bolia Chota (OML 135). 
SNEPCo operates OML 118 (Shell interest 55%), including the Bonga 
field FPSO vessel. We also operate OML 135, encompassing the Bolia 
and Doro fields (Shell interest 55%). We have a 43.8% non-operated 
interest in OML 133 (including the Erha FPSO).

Authorities have investigated our involvement in the 2011 settlement of 
litigation pertaining to OPL 245.

Syria
Shell holds a 65% interest in Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. 
(SSPD), a joint venture between Shell and the China National 
Petroleum Corporation. SSPD holds a 31.25% interest in Al Furat 
Petroleum Company, a Syrian joint stock company, whose role was to 
perform petroleum operations. Shell also holds a 70% interest in two 
exploration licences via Shell South Syria Exploration B.V. In December 
2011, in compliance with international sanctions on Syria, including 
European Council Decision 2011/782/CFSP, Shell suspended all 
exploration and production activities in Syria. SSPD continued to fulfil 
minimum contractual obligations towards the Syrian finance and labour 
ministries, in compliance with applicable trade control laws. In 2023, 
as part of the minimum contractual obligations, payments for taxes 
related to salary and social security amounted to $1,350.

Rest of Middle East and Asia
Shell also has interests in the United Arab Emirates.

Africa
Nigeria
Shell operates a number of interests in onshore and offshore oil 
exploration and production assets in Nigeria. 

See Note 31 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 312-314.

Business update
In 2021, the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) entered into effect, creating a 
new regulatory framework for the petroleum industry in Nigeria. The 
PIA introduces significant changes and we are actively engaged in the 
implementation process to ensure that these changes are implemented 
in a timely manner in our operations.

Security issues, sabotage and crude oil theft in the Niger Delta 
continued and remained significant challenges to our onshore 
operations in 2023. We will continue to monitor the situation closely 
and evaluate implications for the integrity of our infrastructure and the 
sustainability of our current operations. We continue to put the safety 
of our employees and contractors first.

In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse 
conditions which could have a significant adverse effect on our 
operational performance, earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

See "Respecting nature" on pages 116-123.

52
52

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

There are limitations to the extent to which we can mitigate these risks. 
We monitor the security situation, and liaise with host communities, 
governmental and non-governmental organisations to help promote 
peaceful and safe operations for our people and local communities. 
We test the economic and operational resilience of our Nigerian 
projects against a wide range of assumptions and scenarios. We seek 
to proportionally share risks and funding commitments with joint-venture 
partners. When we participate in joint ventures in Nigeria, we require 
that they operate in accordance with good industry practice. Upon 
completion of the announced sale (subject to regulatory approvals and 
other conditions) of our onshore Nigeria business, our exposure to 
these risks are expected to reduce. Shell has other businesses in 
Nigeria that are outside the scope of the announced transaction.

See "Risk factors" on page 19.

We support the Nigerian government's efforts to improve the efficiency, 
functionality and domestic benefits of Nigeria's oil and gas industry. 
We report spills and how we respond to spills, including those that are 
caused by third-party interference. We implement a maintenance 
strategy to support sustainable equipment reliability and we have a 
multi-year programme to reduce routine flaring of associated gas.

See "Our Journey to net zero" on page 104.

Rest of Africa
Shell also has interests in Algeria, Mauritania, Namibia, São Tomé 
and Príncipe, South Africa and Tunisia.

In 2021, Shell announced plans to hand back upstream assets 
associated with the Miskar and Hasdrubal concessions to the 
government of Tunisia. In June 2022, Shell handed back the Miskar 
concession upon its expiry. Discussions continue regarding the 
Hasdrubal early relinquishment.

North America 
USA
The majority of our oil and gas interests in the USA comprise leases 
for federal offshore blocks in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 
Such leases usually have a fixed primary term and, once production 
is established, remain in effect through continued production, subject 
to compliance with the relevant terms and provisions (including 
applicable laws and regulations).

In February 2023, we completed the sale of our 100% interest in Shell 
Onshore Ventures LLC, which held a 51.8% membership interest in Aera 
Energy LLC, an onshore production entity located in California.

We are the operator of nine production hubs: Mars (Shell interests 
33.7% to 100%), Olympus (Shell interests 71.5% to 100%), Auger 
(Shell interests 27.5% to 100%), Perdido (Shell interests 33.3% to 
40%), Ursa (Shell interests 45.4% to 100%), Enchilada/Salsa (Shell 
interests 37.5% to 75%), Appomattox (Shell interest 79%), Vito (Shell 
interest 63.1%), and Stones (Shell interest 100%). We also have an 
interest in the West Delta 143 offshore processing facilities (Shell 
interest 71.5%).

We continue to produce from the Coulomb field (Shell interest 100%) 
which ties into the Na Kika platform (Shell interest 50%) co-owned and 
operated by BP Exploration and Production Inc.

We continued exploration, development and decommissioning 
activities in the Gulf of Mexico in 2023.

In February 2023, we began production at Vito (Shell interest 63.1%), 
a Shell-operated production hub located approximately 10 miles (16 
kilometres) south of the Shell-operated Mars hub. Vito is expected to 
produce up to 100,000 boe/d.

In March 2023, we announced our FID for Dover (Shell interest 100%), 
a planned subsea tieback to the Shell-operated Appomattox (Shell 
interest 79%) production hub. Dover is expected to start production in 
late 2024/early 2025 and produce up to 21,000 boe/d.

In December 2023, FID was taken on the Sparta development (Shell 
interest 51%). This will be a Shell-operated production hub, which 
straddles four blocks of the Garden Banks area and replicates much 
of the Vito and Whale topsides design. The Sparta development is 
expected to reach first oil in 2028 and reach peak production of 
approximately 90,000 boe/d.

FID was also taken on the Perdido Phase 3 development, a planned 
subsea tieback campaign delivering three wells in the Great White 
unit to increase production at the Shell-operated Perdido spar (Shell 
interests 33.3% to 40%). After completion of this campaign in April 
2025, these wells collectively are expected to produce up to 
22,000 boe/d at peak production.

In 2023, we continued to build our Gulf of Mexico portfolio through 
inorganic growth, acquiring an additional 20% working interest in the 
Kaikias field (Shell interest now 100%). Kaikias is a subsea tieback to the 
Shell-operated Ursa production hub (Shell interests 45.4% to 100%).

In early 2024, the Whale production hub (Shell interest 60%) arrived at 
its offshore destination in the Alaminos Canyon area. Whale is expected 
to start production in late 2024 and reach a peak production of 
approximately 100,000 boe/d.

Shell holds an interest in one licence in the North Slope area of Alaska. 
In 2020, we received regulatory approval to combine our near-shore 
leases in West Harrison Bay into a single unit. Shell is seeking a co-
owner to operate the unit.

In February 2024, we began production at Rydberg (Shell interest 80%), 
a subsea tie-back to the Shell-operated Appomattox production hub 
(Shell interest 79%). Rydberg is expected to produce up to 14,000 
barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d) at peak rates.

Gulf of Mexico
Shell's major production area in the USA is the Gulf of Mexico. We 
have a total of 288 active federal offshore leases, where Shell is the 
operator, and 116 active federal offshore leases, where Shell has a 
non-operated interest.

53
53

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued

In the north-western Argentina basin, we have a non-operated interest 
in the onshore Acambuco area (Shell interest 22.5%), operated by Pan 
American Energy.

In addition to the producing interests, we are the operator of two 
frontier exploration blocks offshore Argentina (Shell interest 60% each) 
and we have a non-operated interest in an adjacent block (Shell 
interest 30%), operated by Equinor.

Brazil
Shell's operated assets in Brazil consist of the Bijupirá and Salema 
fields (Shell interest 80% each), which are being decommissioned; the 
producing BC-10 field (Shell interest 50%) in the Campos Basin; the 
Gato do Mato and the adjacent Sul de Gato do Mato areas in the 
Santos Basin (Shell interest 50%), subject to unitisation and with 
development options under evaluation. We also hold interests in 
exploration blocks: 11 in the Santos Basin (Shell interests 70% to 
100%), six blocks in the Barreirinhas Basin (Shell interests 50% to 
100%), five blocks in the Campos Basin (Shell interests 40% to 100%) 
and one block in the Potiguar Basin (Shell interest 100%).

Our non-operated portfolio consists of eight producing fields in the 
offshore Santos Basin: the Sapinhoá field (Shell interest 30%, 
operated by Petrobras and straddling the BM-S-9 and Entorno de 
Sapinhoá blocks already unitised); the Lapa field (Shell interest 30% in 
Block BM-S-9A, operated by TotalEnergies); the Berbigão and Sururu 
fields (Shell interest 25% in Block BM-S-11A, operated by Petrobras 
and subject to ongoing unitisation agreement discussions); the Atapu 
field (Shell interest 16.7% and straddling the BM-S-11A and Atapu PSC 
area already unitised); the Tupi field (Shell interest 23%, already 
unitised, in Block BM-S-11 and operated by Petrobras); the Iracema 
field (Shell interest 25% in Block BM-S-11 and operated by Petrobras); 
and the Mero field in the Libra PSC area (Shell interest 19.3%, already 
unitised with an adjoining open area and operated by Petrobras).

In addition to the producing assets, we hold interests in five non-
operated exploration blocks: three in the Santos Basin (Shell 
interests 20% to 40%, operated by Petrobras) and two in the 
Potiguar Basin (Shell interests 40%, both operated by Petrobras).

In December 2023, the Sepetiba FPSO production started in the Mero 
field. Mero is expected to receive two more FPSOs and start producing 
from these by the end of 2025.

Rest of South America
Shell also has interests in Suriname and Uruguay. 

Trading and Supply
Shell markets and trades crude oil from most of its Upstream operations.

Simplified platforms lower costs 
and emissions in Gulf of Mexico 

Our oil and gas business is working to generate more 
value from our assets with less emissions, while providing the 
energy the world needs. In the US Gulf of Mexico, we are the 
leading operator and have one of the lowest greenhouse gas 
intensities in the world for producing oil, compared with those 
of other members of the International Association of Oil & 
Gas Producers. 

Our operated deep-water platform Vito (Shell interest 63.1%) 
started production in 2023. Vito is a third the size of its original 
design, which will reduce its emissions by around 80% over its 
operating life. We are using the same design concept for our 
operated Whale facility (Shell interest 60%), which is expected 
to start production in 2024.

In December 2023, we took the final investment decision to 
build the Sparta platform (Shell interest 51%), which will be our 
15th deep-water host in the Gulf of Mexico. Its design is based 
on decades of technical expertise and showcases our simplified 
approach to designing platforms. The Sparta development will 
be the first of Shell’s replicable projects to feature all-electric 
topsides equipment, significantly reducing GHG intensity and 
emissions. Sparta is expected to start production in 2028.

Photo: The Whale platform in Singapore where it was built.

Rest of North America
Shell also has deep-water licences and one shallow-water licence 
in Mexico.

South America
Argentina
Shell has interests in the onshore Vaca Muerta Basin in the Neuquén 
Province. We are the operator of the Cruz de Lorena, Sierras Blancas, 
Coiron Amargo Sur Oeste (Shell interest 90% each), and Bajada de 
Añelo (Shell interest 50%) areas. We have non-operated interests in the 
areas of Rincon La Ceniza and La Escalonada (Shell interest 45% each), 
both operated by Total Austral S.A., and in the Bandurria Sur area (Shell 
interest 30%), operated by YPF S.A. We are the administrator in a joint 
property agreement that regulates the operation of the pipeline (Shell 
interest 60%) which connects Sierras Blancas and the regional 
distribution network. Shell has a participating interest in an oil pipeline 
located in the northern area of the basin which connects to the Pacific 
Evacuation Route (Shell interest 13.3%), operated by YPF S.A.

54
54

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Oil and gas information

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Crude oil and 
natural gas liquids
(million barrels)

Synthetic crude oil
(million barrels)

Natural gas
(thousand million scf)

Total 
(million boe)

Shell subsidiaries

Increase/(decrease) in 2023:

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases and sales of minerals in place

Total before taking production into account

Production [A]

Total

At January 1, 2023

At December 31, 2023

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Increase/(decrease) in 2023:

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases and sales of minerals in place

Total before taking production into account

Production [B]

Total

At January 1, 2023

At December 31, 2023

Total

Increase/(decrease) before taking production into account

Production

Increase/(decrease)

At January 1, 2023

At December 31, 2023

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in
Shell subsidiaries at December 31, 2023

425

3

97

(117)

408

(508)

(100)

3,612

3,512

(7)

—

—

85

78

(23)

55

337

392

—

486

(531)

(45)

3,949

3,904

—

35

—

—

11

46

(20)

26

731

757

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

46

(20)

26

731

757

378

2,602

—

336

(97)

2,841

(2,613)

228

23,048

23,276

(84)

—

30

1,516

1,462

(368)

1,094

5,359

6,453

—

4,303

(2,981)

1,322

28,407

29,729

909

3

155

(123)

944

(978)

(34)

8,317

8,283

(21)

—

5

346

330

(87)

243

1,261

1,504

—

1,274

(1,065)

209

9,578

9,787

—

378

[A] Includes 41 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 233 thousand million scf; synthetic crude oil: 1 million barrels). 
[B] Includes 5 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 27 thousand million scf). 

55
55

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Proved reserves
Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased by 
1,274 million boe in 2023. This consisted of an increase of 944 million 
boe from Shell subsidiaries and an increase of 330 million boe from the 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates. After taking production into 
account, our proved reserves increased by 209 million boe in 2023 to 
9,787 million boe at December 31, 2023.

Shell subsidiaries
Before taking production into account, Shell subsidiaries' proved 
reserves increased by 944 million boe in 2023. This consisted of an 
increase of 408 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, 
an increase of 490 million boe (2,841 thousand million scf) of natural 
gas and an increase of 46 million barrels of synthetic crude oil. The 
944 million boe increase comprised a net increase of 909 million boe 
from revisions and reclassifications, an increase of 155 million boe from 
extensions and discoveries, an increase of 3 million boe from improved 
recovery and a net decrease of 123 million boe related to purchases 
and sales of minerals in place.

After taking into account production of 978 million boe (of which 41 
million boe were consumed in operations), Shell subsidiaries' proved 
reserves decreased by 34 million boe in 2023 to 8,283 million boe. 
In 2023, Shell subsidiaries' proved developed reserves (PD) increased 
by 100 million boe to 6,321 million boe and proved undeveloped 
reserves (PUD) decreased by 134 million boe to 1,962 million boe.

Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Before taking production into account, the Shell share of joint 
ventures and associates' proved reserves increased by 330 million 
boe in 2023. This consisted of an increase of 78 million barrels of 
crude oil and natural gas liquids, and an increase of 252 million 
boe (1,462 thousand million scf) of natural gas. The 330 million boe 
increase comprises a net increase of 346 million boe from purchase 
of minerals in place, an increase of 5 million boe from extensions 
and discoveries, and a net decrease of 21 million boe from 
revisions and reclassifications.

After taking into account production of 87 million boe (of which 5 
million boe were consumed in operations), the Shell share of joint 
ventures and associates' proved reserves increased by 243 million 
boe to 1,504 million boe at December 31, 2023.

The Shell share of joint ventures and associates' PD decreased by 
100 million boe to 508 million boe, and PUD increased by 343 million 
boe to 996 million boe.

See "Supplementary information - oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 317-335 for more 

information about proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of 

the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and associates.

Proved undeveloped reserves
In 2023, Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of joint ventures and 
associates' PUD increased by 209 million boe to 2,958 million boe. 
There were decreases of 494 million boe as a result of maturation to 
PD, mainly 81 million boe in Mabrouk North-East (Oman), 77 million 
boe in Vito (USA), 74 million boe in Gorgon (Australia) and 262 
million boe spread across other fields. These were offset by an increase 
of 47 million due to de-maturation of PD to PUD, an increase of 146 
million boe as a result of revisions, reclassifications and entitlement 
changes, a net increase of 347 million boe due to purchases and sales 
of minerals in place, a net increase of 160 million boe due to extensions 
and discoveries, mainly due to 57 million boe in Sparta (USA), 39 
million boe in Groundbirch (Canada), and 64 million boe spread 
across other fields, and an increase of 3 million boe due to 
improved recovery.

In addition to the maturation of 494 million boe from PUD to PD, 
90 million boe was matured to PD as through PUD as a result of 
project execution during the year.

PUD held for five years or more (PUD5+) on December 31, 2023, 
amounted to 212 million boe, an increase of 56 million boe compared 
with the end of 2022. The increase in PUD5+ during 2023 was driven 
mainly by changes in Assa North (Nigeria) and Gbaran (Nigeria).

The fields with the largest PUD5+ on December 31, 2023, were Assa 
North (Nigeria) and Tupi (Brazil). These PUD5+ remain undeveloped 
because of delays in drilling operations and security incidents (Nigeria) 
or because of ongoing development involving a large number of deep-
water wells (Brazil).

During 2023, we spent $7.2 billion on development activities related 
to PUD maturation. 

Delivery commitments
We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations under 
a variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally commit 
us to sell quantities based on production from specified properties, 
although some natural gas sales contracts specify delivery of fixed 
and determinable quantities, as discussed below.

In the past three years, we met our contractual delivery commitments, 
with the notable exceptions of Egypt, Trinidad and Tobago, and 
Malaysia. The delivery commitments for Egypt and Trinidad and 
Tobago have been renegotiated. In the period 2024-2026, we are 
contractually committed to deliver to third parties, joint ventures and 
associates a total of some 5,380 billion scf of natural gas from our 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The sales contracts contain 
a mixture of fixed and variable pricing formulae that are generally 
referenced to the prevailing market price for crude oil, natural gas or 
other petroleum products at the time of delivery. 

In the period 2024-2026, we expect to meet our delivery commitments 
for almost all the areas in which they are carried, with an estimated 
70% coming from PD, 5% through the delivery of gas that becomes 
available to us from paying royalties in cash, and 25% from the 
development of PUD as well as other new projects and purchases. 

The key exception is: 
￮ In Malaysia, a the third-party gas supply line under maintenance was 
not repaired in 2023. Force majeure has been declared, and no 
penalties have been incurred, resulting in an expected true shortfall 
of some 68 billion scf of gas (62% of the promised gas delivery).

56
56

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Summary of proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
(at December 31, 2023) 

Crude oil and 
natural gas liquids 
(million barrels)

Natural gas 
(thousand million scf)

Synthetic crude oil 
(million barrels)

Total (million 
boe) [A]

Based on average prices for 2023

Proved developed

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America

USA

Canada

South America

Total proved developed

Proved undeveloped

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America

USA

Canada

South America

Total proved undeveloped

Total proved developed and undeveloped

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America

USA

Canada

South America

Total

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries

[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.

Exploration
Shell continues to explore for and mature hydrocarbons across our 
Integrated Gas and Upstream businesses. Exploration may result in 
discoveries of oil and gas that we can develop, helping maintain 
energy security and contributing to our strategy.

We use our subsurface, project and technical expertise, and actively 
manage non-technical risks across a diversified portfolio of opportunities 
and projects. This involves adopting an integrated approach for all 
stages, from basin choice to development. We use competitive 
techniques and benchmark our approach internally and externally.

In 2023, hydrocarbons were found in the UK, the Gulf of Mexico, 
Brazil, Namibia, Brunei, Egypt, Colombia and Oman.

57
57

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

124

1,098

53

230

305

2

841

2,653

38

684

26

29

—

134

3

337

1,251

162

1,782

79

259

439

5

1,178

3,904

—

2,325

9,284

5,098

875

268

706

1,273

19,829

305

5,987

1,359

972

—

217

777

283

9,900

2,630

15,271

6,457

1,847

485

1,483

1,556

29,729

—

—

—

—

—

—

757

—

757

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

757

—

757

378

525

2,699

932

381

351

881

1,060

6,829

91

1,717

260

196

—

172

137

385

2,958

616

4,416

1,192

577

523

1,018

1,445

9,787

378

UK
In 2023, Shell farmed into two BP-operated exploration licences in the 
West of Shetlands area, acquiring a 33.33% non-operated interest. 
We were also awarded nine licences as part of the 33rd Offshore 
Licensing Round, two of which are pending government approval 
(Shell-operated interests 55.5% to 100%). Additionally we relinquished 
four operated and two non-operated exploration licences across the 
UK Continental Shelf (Shell interests 40% to 100%).

Brunei
In 2023, the exploration acreage that formed part of Block CA1 
was relinquished.

Malaysia
In 2023, Shell signed two exploration PSCs, one for an offshore 
Sarawak block (Shell interest 45%, operator) and one for a Sabah 
ultra-deep-water block (Shell interest 40%, non-operated).

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Location of oil and gas exploration and production 
activities

Location of oil and gas exploration and production 
activities [A] (at December 31, 2023)

Development 
and/or 
Production

Shell 
operator [B]

Exploration

Egypt
In 2023, Shell signed an agreement to farm out 40% of its 
participating interest in the Concession Agreement for Gas and 
Crude Oil Exploration and Exploitation for the North East El 
Amriya Offshore Area of the Mediterranean Sea. The transaction 
is awaiting government approval. Shell will remain the operator 
with a 60% interest.

Gulf of Mexico 
In 2023, Shell sold its operated working interests in six blocks (Shell 
interest 55.88% in four of them, 75% in two). We acquired 20 blocks in 
Lease Sale 259 (Shell interest 100%, operator). We relinquished leases 
for 25 blocks, with 12 of these blocks relinquished ahead of expiration 
(Shell interests 50% to 100%). We also were apparent high bidder for 
65 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico in Lease Sale 261.

Brazil
In 2023, the government ratified one Petrobras-operated Santos Basin 
block (Shell interest 40%), which was secured in 2022 in the 1st 
Production Sharing Permanent Offer Bid Round. Shell relinquished five 
operated blocks (Shell interest 40% to 65%) and one non-operated 
block (Shell interest 40%) ahead of expiration. We also secured 29 
Petrobras-operated Pelotas Basin blocks in the 4th Permanent Offer 
Concession Bid-Round (Shell interest 30%) and these are pending 
government ratification.

Trinidad and Tobago
In 2023, Shell relinquished one non-operated licence (Shell interest 
35%). We also signed three deep-water PSCs for three exploration 
blocks in the Columbus Basin (Shell interest 50%). We are an operator 
in one of them, BP is the operator of the other two.

Other
In Mauritania, in 2023, Shell acquired an exploration and production 
licence for one offshore block (Shell interest 90%, operator). We sold a 
40% participating interest in our operated offshore block PSC and our 
remaining interest is 50%.

In Bolivia, in 2023, we relinquished one operated exploration licence 
(Shell interest 100%).

In Colombia, in 2023, we relinquished one non-operated licence (Shell 
interest 60%).

In Suriname, in 2023, we acquired one block in the Demerara Bid 
Round (Shell interest 60%, operator). We also relinquished our non-
operated interest in one PSC for the shallow-water block.

In Uruguay, in 2023, the government ratified two exploration 
blocks secured in the 2022 Open Uruguay Round (Shell-operated 
interest 100%).

For further information, see "Supplementary information - oil and gas (unaudited)" on 

pages 317-335.

58
58

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Europe

Albania

Cyprus

Germany

Italy

Netherlands

Norway

UK

Asia

Brunei

China

Kazakhstan

Malaysia

Oman

Qatar

Oceania

Australia

Africa

Egypt

Mauritania

Namibia

Nigeria

São Tomé and Príncipe

North America

Barbados

Canada

Mexico

USA

South America

Argentina

Bolivia

Brazil

Colombia

Suriname

Trinidad and Tobago

Uruguay

In São Tomé and Príncipe, in 2023, we signed an agreement to farm 
out our interest in three blocks (45% interest in two of them, 25% 
interest in the third). The remaining Shell-operated interest will be 40% 
in each block.

South Africa

Tanzania

Tunisia

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

[A] Includes joint ventures and associates. Where a joint venture or an associate has 

properties outside its base country, those properties are not shown in this table. 
[B] In several countries where "Shell operator" is indicated, Shell is the operator of some 

but not all exploration and/or production ventures.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Oil and gas production available for sale

Crude oil and natural gas liquids [A]

Europe

Italy

UK

Other [B]

Total Europe

Asia

Brunei

Kazakhstan

Malaysia

Oman

Russia

Other [B]

Total Asia

Total Oceania [B]

Africa

Nigeria

Other [B]

Total Africa

North America

USA

Canada

Total North America

South America

Argentina

Brazil

Other [B]

Total South America

Total

2023

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

2022

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell
subsidiaries

Thousand barrels

2021

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

8,373 

23,458 

2,493 

34,324 

1,271 

38,765 

12,630 

82,849 

— 

25,240 

160,755 

10,370 

37,137 

1,084 

38,221 

112,912 

597 

113,509 

12,152 

136,825 

1,425 

150,402 

507,581 

— 

— 

524 

524 

14,395 

— 

— 

— 

— 

7,443 

21,838 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

627 

— 

— 

627 

22,989 

9,091 

23,905 

3,722 

36,718 

3,256 

29,667 

16,759 

82,006 

10,955 

24,965 

— 

— 

621 

621 

16,282 

— 

— 

— 

1,963 

7,498 

167,608 

25,743 

9,391 

27,554 

1,855 

29,409 

121,690 

687 

122,377 

9,023 

127,862 

1,583 

138,468 

503,971 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2,587 

— 

— 

2,587 

28,951 

9,677 

25,554 

5,456 

40,687 

1,076 

35,592 

17,983 

78,745 

21,012 

30,061 

184,469 

11,844 

35,911 

5,540 

41,451 

164,811 

2,640 

167,451 

4,836 

126,566 

1,620 

133,022 

578,924 

— 

— 

1,205 

1,205 

17,894 

— 

— 

— 

7,769 

7,548 

33,211 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1,566 

— 

— 

1,566 

35,982 

[A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of production-sharing contracts (PSCs), where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under 

those contracts. 

[B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 10,100 thousand barrels or where specific disclosures are prohibited. 

Synthetic crude oil

North America - Canada

Thousand barrels

2023

2022

2021

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell
subsidiaries

19,102 

16,949 

19,891 

59
59

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Natural gas [A]

Europe

Netherlands

Norway

UK

Other [B]

Total Europe

Asia

Brunei

China

Kazakhstan

Malaysia

Oman

Russia

Other [B]

Total Asia

Oceania

Australia

Total Oceania

Africa

Egypt

Nigeria

Other [B]

Total Africa

North America

USA

Canada

Total North America

South America

Bolivia

Brazil

Trinidad and Tobago

Other [B]

Total South America

Total

2023

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

2022

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

Million standard cubic feet

2021

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

— 

55,351 

— 

133,210 

— 

159,107 

150,318 

70,585 

38,774 

— 

— 

— 

174,523 

69,647 

45,159 

— 

— 

— 

178,577 

49,128 

47,127 

— 

— 

— 

259,677 

55,351 

289,329 

133,210 

274,832 

159,107 

13,531 

48,170 

75,521 

173,638 

55,675 

— 

369,125 

735,660 

700,248 

700,248 

21,434 

96,967 

3,423 

121,824 

104,079 

137,660 

241,739 

35,432 

71,162 

199,877 

14,204 

320,675 

136,684 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

118,252 

254,936 

29,773 

29,773 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

857 

857 

15,328 

56,008 

57,932 

200,249 

— 

2,085 

378,313 

709,915 

693,293 

693,293 

49,618 

118,032 

11,966 

179,616 

112,560 

122,753 

235,313 

40,360 

73,975 

186,150 

12,912 

313,397 

138,007 

— 

— 

— 

— 

37,897 

118,435 

294,339 

22,577 

22,577 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2,227 

2,227 

17,989 

55,967 

72,176 

193,871 

— 

4,113 

447,743 

791,859 

696,562 

696,562 

86,348 

161,916 

23,473 

271,737 

198,578 

116,423 

315,001 

45,214 

72,107 

121,411 

11,006 

249,738 

147,865 

— 

— 

— 

— 

125,973 

118,397 

392,235 

19,272 

19,272 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

393 

393 

2,379,823 

340,917 

2,420,863 

452,353 

2,599,729 

571,007 

[A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of PSCs, where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts. 
[B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 41,795 million scf or where specific disclosures are prohibited. 

60
60

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Average realised price by geographical area

Crude oil and natural gas liquids 

2023

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

2022

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

77.19 

76.57 

58.31 

84.33 

75.07 

46.45 

71.93 

75.12 

79.10 

82.24 

— 

— 

— 

— 

67.98 

81.75 

94.52 

88.69 

78.37 

104.84 

92.89 

62.10 

85.84 

90.06 

91.26 

100.81 

— 

— 

— 

— 

71.21 

97.80 

$/barrel

2021

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

68.30 

63.82 

63.56 

70.89 

62.75 

46.58 

64.28 

64.28 

64.18 

70.09 

— 

— 

— 

— 

56.91 

69.34 

2023

2022

$/barrel

2021

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell
subsidiaries

69.26 

86.93 

60.11 

2023

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

17.47 

2.84 

11.05 

3.25 

3.74 

2.25 

5.10 

7.40 

18.89 

7.60 

6.23 

— 

— 

— 

3.69 

9.78 

2022

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

Shell
subsidiaries

27.24 

39.11  [A]

10.71 

3.74 

13.21 

7.08 

8.46 

4.08 

8.71 

10.88 

10.88 

6.75 

— 

— 

— 

3.90 

17.59  [A]

2.54 

7.74 

3.43 

4.40 

2.70 

4.04 

5.39 

$/thousand scf

2021

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

9.86 

6.91 

4.04 

— 

— 

— 

1.82 

7.60 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

Synthetic crude oil

North America - Canada

Natural gas

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

[A] As revised, following a reassessment.

61
61

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued

Average production cost by geographical area

Crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas [A]

2023

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

25.33 

9.64 

21.23 

— 

— 

— 

9.03 

12.29 

Shell
subsidiaries

20.93 

6.35 

9.01 

11.12 

9.62 

9.70 

7.36 

9.08 

Shell
subsidiaries

24.83 

6.75 

10.32 

13.66 

11.03 

11.15 

6.91 

10.20 

2022

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

$/boe

2021

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates

12.25 

8.06 

24.97 

— 

— 

— 

7.74 

9.59 

21.48 

5.66 

9.26 

11.47 

10.88 

10.64 

5.80 

9.12 

8.59 

7.64 

24.68 

— 

— 

— 

5.51 

8.23 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.

Synthetic crude oil

North America - Canada

19.47 

23.05 

18.87 

2023

Shell
subsidiaries

2022

Shell
subsidiaries

$/barrel

2021

Shell
subsidiaries

62
62

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Marketing

Marketing comprises Mobility, Lubricants, 
and Sectors and Decarbonisation activities. 
Mobility operates our retail network, including 
electric vehicle charging services. Lubricants 
produces, markets and sells lubricants for 
road transport, and for machinery used in 
manufacturing, mining, power generation, 
agriculture and construction. Through Sectors 
and Decarbonisation we provide services, 
fuels and other products that help 
customers reduce emissions in the aviation, 
marine and agricultural sectors, among 
others. We are high-grading our electric 
vehicle charging network to focus on key 
markets, such as China, Europe and the USA.

Segment earnings ($ billion)

3.0 2022: 2.1

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

3.2 2022: 2.8

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

6.1 2022: 2.4

Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d)

2,554 2022: 2,503

63

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued

Key metrics

Segment earnings*[A] [B] 

Identified items 

Adjusted Earnings* [A]

Adjusted EBITDA* [A]

Cash flow from operating activities 

Cash capital expenditure*

Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d)

$ million, except where indicated

2023

2,950 

2022

2,133 

(229)   

(622)   

3,180 

6,037 

6,088 

5,612 

2,554 

2,754 

5,324 

2,376 

4,831 

2,503 

2021

3,535 

68 

3,468 

6,021 

5,019 

2,273 

2,433 

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings, and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Marketing, see "Market 
overview" on pages 38-40.

Marketing sales 
In 2023, Marketing sales volumes were 2% higher than in 2022, 
mainly as a result of improved demand from aviation.

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities was primarily driven by Adjusted 
EBITDA; working capital inflows of $873 million; and the timing impact 
of payments, relating to emission certificates and biofuel programmes 
of $296 million. These inflows were partly offset by tax payments 
of $744 million and non-cash cost-of-sales (CCS) adjustments of 
$221 million.

Earnings 2023-2022
Segment earnings in 2023 were 38% higher than in 2022, reflecting 
higher Marketing margins (increase of $1,465 million), including higher 
unit margins in Mobility; higher margins in Lubricants because of lower 
feedstock costs; and higher volumes in Sectors and Decarbonisation. 
These increases were partly offset by higher operating expenses 
(increase of $703 million) and higher depreciation charges 
(increase of $264 million), mainly due to asset acquisitions.

Cash capital expenditure 
Cash capital expenditure in 2023 reflected $3.3 billion in low-carbon 
energy solutions, compared with $1.4 billion in 2022. 

Cash capital expenditure in low-carbon energy solutions was 136% 
higher than in 2022, mainly due to the acquisition of Nature Energy 
and the expansion of our Mobility electric vehicle charging business. 

See "Our journey to net zero" on page 95.

Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be around $3 billion 
in 2024.

Portfolio and business developments
Significant portfolio and business development:
￮ In February 2023, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the 
shares of Nature Energy Biogas A/S for nearly $2 billion. This 
supports our ambitions to build an integrated renewable natural 
gas (RNG) value chain at global scale. 

Segment earnings in 2023 included impairment charges of 
$457 million and charges of $111 million related to redundancy and 
restructuring partly offset by gains of $298 million, related to indirect 
tax credits. These charges and gains are part of identified items and 
compare with 2022, which included net impairment charges and 
reversals of $321 million; net losses of $135 million related to the 
sale of assets; and provisions for onerous contracts of $62 million.

Adjusted Earnings increased by $426 million compared with 2022, 
as a result of the following: 
￮ Mobility Adjusted Earnings were $53 million lower, mainly as a 

result of higher operating expenses and higher depreciation. This 
was partly offset by better margins. 

￮ Lubricants Adjusted Earnings were $339 million higher, mainly 

because of higher margins due to lower feedstock costs.

￮ Sectors and Decarbonisation Adjusted Earnings were $141 million 
higher, mainly because of increased volumes and higher earnings 
in joint ventures.

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 61) and Form 
20-F (page 65) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

64
64

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued

Business and property
Mobility
Shell is one of the world's largest mobility retailers by number of 
sites, with more than 47,000 Shell-branded mobility locations in 
more than 80 markets at the end of 2023. We operate different 
models across these markets, from full ownership of sites to brand 
licensing agreements. As we aim to high-grade our network, we plan 
to divest around 500 Shell-owned sites (including joint ventures) 
each year until 2025.

Every day, around 33 million retail customers visit our mobility locations 
for a range of quality fuels, electric vehicle charging, and convenience 
and non-fuel products and services. Through Shell Fleet Solutions, our 
business customers can obtain fuel cards, road services and carbon-
offset offers, among other products and services. 

We are expanding our convenience and non-fuel retail offer to cater to 
our customers' needs. At many of our sites, we offer convenience items, 
including beverages and fresh food, and services such as lubricant 
changes and car washes. At the end of 2023, Shell operated 13,000 
convenience stores worldwide. We have upgraded close to 2,000 
stores with our Shell Café premium fresh coffee and food offer since 
launching in 2021.

Shell Mobility aims to take a leadership position in the energy 
transition by marketing more and cleaner fuels for our customers, 
focusing on growing our presence in key markets like China, Europe 
and the USA. To support this, we acquired Volta Inc. in 2023 and now 
own and operate one of the largest public electric vehicle charging 
networks in the USA. At the end of 2023, Shell had around 54,000 
public charge points globally at Shell forecourts, on-street locations, 
mobility hubs and other sites, such as supermarkets. 

Shell opened its largest electric vehicle charging station in the world 
in Shenzhen, China, with 258 public fast-charging points.

As we work to provide more low-carbon alternatives to our customers, 
we continue to develop traditional fuels for drivers of internal 
combustion engine vehicles. Aided by our partnership with Scuderia 
Ferrari, we have concentrated on developing fuels with special 
formulations designed to clean engines and improve performance. 
We sold fuels under the Shell V-Power brand in 68 markets in 2023. 

Shell Commercial Road Transport (CRT) provides fuels, lubricants and 
digital services to customers with heavy-duty vehicles in their fleets. 
In 2023, Shell opened its first public electric vehicle charging facility 
for trucks in Hamburg, Germany. This consists of four fast-charging 
stations, and multiple eDepot solutions, which provide charging 
facilities at customer sites. 

We also offer drivers using heavy-duty LNG-fuelled trucks access to 
operated and partner networks in Europe. In 2023 we opened our 
first LNG refuelling sites in Austria and Hungary.

Our largest electric vehicle charging 
station opens in Shenzhen

We opened our largest electric vehicle (EV) charging station 
globally in Shenzhen, China, in September 2023. The Shell 
Recharge Shenzhen Airport EV Station is designed to serve 
thousands of drivers every day with 258 fast-charging points 
in one of the country's major economic and technology hubs. 

China is one of the most important growth markets for Shell 
Mobility and will play a key role in Shell's electric vehicle 
charging strategy which is to continue building the infrastructure 
needed to meet our customers' future demand for charging. 
Globally, we are focusing on public charging and we expect 
to increase our charge points to around 200,000 by 2030.

The Shenzhen charging station -- operated by Shell and BYD 
Electric Vehicle Investment Company Limited, a joint venture 
between Shell and Chinese electric vehicle manufacturer BYD -- 
served more than 3,300 electric vehicles a day during its trial 
operation. 

The rooftop solar panels installed at the Shenzhen station have 
the capacity to generate about 300,000 kilowatt-hours of 
renewable electricity per year, and this would be available to 
charge customers' vehicles. In addition to charging, the station 
also offers convenience retailing, food and beverages, and a 
drivers' lounge. 

Through joint ventures and wholly owned enterprises, Shell in 
China operates a retailing network of around 2,000 fuel stations 
and an electric vehicle charging network of 25,000 public 
charge points. The utilisation rate of our electric vehicle chargers 
in all of China was around 25% in 2023, which is two-and-a-half 
times the industry average.

Shell offers products and services to meet the different energy 
and mobility needs of drivers. In September 2023, we opened 
the Panlong Integrated Energy Station in Wuhan. This station 
offers petrol and diesel, charging and hydrogen refuelling.

Photo: Electric vehicle charging station at Shenzhen airport, China. 

65
65

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued

In Germany, Shell is building a bioLNG liquefaction plant at Shell's 
Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland. This liquefaction plant will 
supply the German market with bioLNG from 2024 and will help 
our CRT customers decarbonise their operations. Since 2022, 
Shell's customers in the Netherlands have been able to receive 
a bioLNG blend.

Lubricants
Shell Lubricants has been the number one global finished lubricants 
supplier in terms of market share for 17 consecutive years, according 
to Kline & Company data for 2022. Shell lubricants are available 
across more than 160 markets for passenger cars, motorcycles, 
trucks, coaches, and machinery used in manufacturing, mining, 
power generation, agriculture and construction. 

We also make premium lubricants for conventional vehicles and Shell
E-fluids for electric vehicles using gas-to-liquids (GTL) base oils that are 
made from natural gas at our Pearl GTL plant in Qatar.

See "Integrated Gas" on page 46. 

Our global lubricants supply chain has a network of 32 lubricants 
blending plants, four base oil plants (one of which we operate), 
10 grease plants and six GTL base oil storage hubs.

During 2023, we completed the acquisition from M&I Materials 
Development Limited of the MIDEL premium product range of ester-
based dielectric transformer fluids, which provide a differentiated 
position in Transformer Oils. These oils are used in power distribution, 
offshore wind parks, utility companies and traction power systems. We 
also acquired the MIVOLT brand of dielectric fluids for the direct 
immersion cooling of battery systems and power electronics. MIVOLT's 
ester-based immersion cooling fluids support the development of 
thermally efficient electric vehicle batteries, battery storage systems 
and data centres.

Sectors and Decarbonisation
Sectors and Decarbonisation sells fuels, speciality products and 
services, including low-carbon energy solutions, to a broad range 
of commercial customers, including in the aviation, marine 
and agricultural sectors. 

Shell Aviation provides aviation fuel, lubricants and low-carbon 
solutions globally. In May 2023, Shell announced a multi-year offtake 
agreement for sustainable aviation fuel with Montana Renewables, 
one of the largest sustainable aviation fuel producers in North America. 
In 2022, Shell launched Avelia, one of the world's first blockchain-
powered digital sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) book-and-claim 
solutions for business travel. Since then, customers – including Google, 
Bank of America and Yokogawa – have joined the platform. Avelia is 
designed to help trigger demand for SAF, encouraging investment in 
production, which could lower the price point for these fuels.

Shell Marine offers customers marine fuels and lubricants, as well 
as low-carbon solutions, and has a supply network that covers key 
bunkering locations around the world. Through our marine activities, 
we primarily provide the shipping and maritime sectors with lubricants, 
and we provide fuels, chemical products, and related technical and 
digital services. We supply more than 300 grades of lubricants and 
seven types of fuel to vessels worldwide, ranging from ocean-going 
tankers to fishing boats. Shell Marine lubricant products are used in 
around 10,000 vessels and are available in more than 700 ports 
across more than 60 countries. 

Shell Bitumen supplies customers across 60 markets and provides 
enough bitumen to resurface 500 kilometres of road lanes every 
day. It also invests in research and development to create 
innovative products, such as bitumen that can help reduce the 
impact of asphalt production and paving on local air quality.

Shell Sulphur Solutions manages the value chain of sulphur from 
refining to marketing. It provides sulphur for use in applications, 
such as fertiliser, mining and chemicals. It also licenses Shell Thiogro 
technologies to create sulphur-enhanced fertilisers. 

Shell and the non-operated joint venture Raízen (Shell interest 44%) 
are, together, one of the world's largest blenders and distributors of 
biofuels. In 2023, around 9.7 billion litres of biofuels (2022: 9.5 billion 
litres) went into Shell's sale of fuels worldwide, which includes the Shell 
share of sales made by Raízen. In addition, in 2023, Raízen produced, 
on a 100% basis, around 3.12 billion litres of ethanol (2022: 3 billion 
litres) and around 5.8 million tonnes of sugar from sugar cane (2022: 
4.8 million tonnes). The cellulosic ethanol plant at Raízen's Costa 
Pinto mill in Brazil produced 30 million litres of second-generation 
ethanol in 2023 (2022: 26 million litres). The majority of the ethanol 
and cellulosic ethanol produced by Raízen is sold unblended to 
international customers in markets such as the USA, Europe and Japan.

RNG, also known as biogas or biomethane, is gas derived from 
processing organic waste in a controlled environment until it is fully 
interchangeable with conventional natural gas. 

In February 2023, Shell completed the acquisition of Nature Energy, 
one of the largest producers of RNG in Europe. This acquisition 
supports our ambitions to build an integrated RNG value chain at 
global scale as we seek to profitably grow our low-carbon offerings 
across multiple sectors. Shell aims to generate additional value 
from our trading and supply chain. Together with its partners, Nature 
Energy owns and operates 13 biogas plants in Denmark and one in 
the Netherlands.

Shell is constructing two facilities which will convert dairy manure 
to RNG and which will be located at the Bettencourt Dairies in 
Wendell, Idaho, USA. Shell Downstream Bovarius is expected to 
produce around 400,000 MMBtu a year of negative-carbon-intensity 
RNG. The second facility, Shell Downstream Friesian, is expected to 
produce around 350,000 MMBtu a year of negative-carbon-intensity 
RNG using cow manure from the dairy once operational. Both facilities 
are expected to be operational in 2024.

66
66

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued

Marketing data tables 

Marketing sales volumes [A][B][C]

Branded mobility locations [A]

Europe

Asia [B]

Oceania [B]

Africa

Americas [C]

Total [D]

2023

8,346 

2022

8,260 

2021

8,178 

10,824 

10,470 

10,753 

1,087 

2,917 

1,083 

2,815 

1,060 

2,724 

23,830 

23,597 

23,305 

47,004 

46,225 

46,020 

[A] Includes different models, from full-ownership retail sites, and sites operated by joint 

ventures, through to trademark licensing agreements, and excludes sites closed for more 
than six months.

[B] Asia includes Turkey; Oceania includes French Polynesia, Guam, Palau and New 

Caledonia.

[C] Includes around 8,110 sites operated by the Raízen joint venture. 
[D] Includes 10,112 sites operated through trademark licensing agreements.

Europe

Mobility

Lubricants

Sectors and Decarbonisation

Total

Asia

Mobility

Lubricants

Sectors and Decarbonisation

Total

Africa

Mobility

Lubricants

Sectors and Decarbonisation

Total

Americas

Mobility

Lubricants

Sectors and Decarbonisation

Thousand b/d

2023

2022

2021

377 

16 

186 

579 

524 

39 

138 

701 

47 

3 

9 

59 

787 

24 

404 

359  [D]

17 

175  [D]

551 

531  [D]

38 

113  [D]

682 

47  [D]

3 

8  [D]

58 

797  [D]

25 

390  [D]

360 

16 

121 

497 

512 

42 

107 

661 

45 

3 

7 

55 

828 

24 

368 

Total

1,215 

1,212 

1,220 

Total product sales 

Mobility

Lubricants

Sectors and Decarbonisation

Total

Gasolines

Kerosenes

Gas/Diesel oils

Fuel oil

Other products [E]

Total

1,735 

1,734  [D]

1,745 

82 

737 

2,554 

1,183 

365 

716 

13 

277 

83 

686  [D]

2,503 

1,160 

321 

731 

11 

280 

85 

603 

2,433 

1,165 

232 

746 

7 

283 

2,554 

2,503 

2,433 

[A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, 

that are in the nature of exchange contracts.

[B] Includes the Shell share of Raízen's sales volumes and other joint ventures' sales volumes.
[C] Excludes sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing 

agreements.

[D] Previously reported within the Sectors and Decarbonisation class of business, with effect 
from July 1, 2023, the Commercial Road Transport business (CRT) is part of Mobility and 
Customer Operations is part of Lubricants. Comparative information has been revised.

[E] Includes LPG sales volumes of 14 thousand b/d (2022: 14 thousand b/d; 2021: 13 

thousand b/d).

67
67

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

68

Chemicals 
and Products

Chemicals and Products includes refineries 
which turn crude oil and other feedstocks into 
a range of products. It also includes chemicals 
manufacturing plants with their own marketing 
network. We move products around the 
world for domestic, industrial and transport 
use. The business also includes pipelines, 
trading of oil, oil products and petrochemicals, 
and the extraction of bitumen from mined oil 
sands which is converted into synthetic oil. We 
are expanding our product portfolio to include 
sustainable chemicals made from bio-based 
and circular feedstocks. We are also 
repurposing our refineries into energy and 
chemicals parks to help us meet customers' 
low-carbon and sustainability needs.

Segment earnings ($ billion)

1.5 2022: 4.5

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

3.7 2022: 4.7

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

7.0 2022: 12.9

Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d)

1,349 2022: 1,402

Refining & Trading sales volumes (thousand b/d)

1,570 2022: 1,700

Chemicals sales volumes (thousand tonnes)

11,245 2022: 12,281

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Key metrics 

Segment earnings*[A] [B]

Identified items

Adjusted Earnings*[A]

Adjusted EBITDA*[A]

Cash flow from operating activities 

Cash capital expenditure*

Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation (%)

Refinery utilisation (%)

Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d)

Refining & Trading sales volumes (thousand b/d)

Chemicals sales volumes (thousands tonnes) 

$ million, except where indicated

2023

1,530 

2022

4,515 

2021

404 

(2,160)   

(204)   

(1,712) 

3,690 

7,710 

6,987 

3,192 

 68 %

 85 %

1,349

1,570 

11,245 

4,719 

8,561 

12,906 

3,838 

 79 %

 86 %

1,402

1,700 

12,281 

2,115 

5,635 

3,709 

5,175 

 85 %

 80 %

1,639

2,026

14,216

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings, and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis.
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Business conditions 
For the business conditions relevant to Chemicals and Products, 
see "Market overview" on pages 38-40.

Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation 
Utilisation is defined as the actual usage of the plants as a percentage 
of the rated capacity. Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation was 
11 percentage points lower than in 2022, mainly due to planned and 
unplanned maintenance.

Refinery utilisation
Utilisation is defined as the actual usage of the plants as a 
percentage of the rated capacity. Refinery utilisation was in line 
with 2022.

Chemicals and Products sales
Chemicals sales volumes were 8% lower than in 2022, mainly because 
of lower demand driven by oversupply and a weak economic outlook.

Refining & Trading sales volumes were 8% lower than in 2022 due to 
lower Trading sales volumes in the USA and Asia.

Earnings 2023-2022
Segment earnings in 2023 were 66% lower than in 2022, reflecting 
lower Products margins (decrease of $1,528 million), mainly driven 
by lower refining margins and partly offset by higher margins from 
trading and optimisation. The segment earnings also reflected higher 
depreciation charges (increase of $546 million) due to the start-up of 
operations at Shell Polymers Monaca in the USA. These losses were 
partly offset by higher Chemicals margins (increase of $612 million).

These charges and gains are part of identified items and compare 
with 2022, which included:
￮ net impairment charges and reversals of $226 million; 
￮ legal provisions of $149 million;
￮ unfavourable movements of $147 million related to the fair value 

accounting of commodity derivatives;

￮ tax charges relating to the EU solidarity contribution of $74 million; 
partly offset by gains of $223 million, related to the sale of assets; 
and

￮ gains of $104 million, related to the remeasurement of redundancy 

and restructuring costs.

In 2023, Adjusted Earnings from Chemicals accounted for (44)%, 
Refining for 66% and Trading and Supply for 78%. The decrease in 
Adjusted Earnings of $1,029 million was driven by the following:
￮ Products Adjusted Earnings were $778 million lower than in 2022, 
mainly driven by lower refining and oil sands margins and partly 
offset by higher margins from Trading & Optimisation.

￮ Chemicals negative Adjusted Earnings were $251 million more than
in 2022, mainly because of higher depreciation and operating 
expenses, partly offset by higher margins and Income from 
associates.

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 66) and Form 
20-F (page 70) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.

Segment earnings in 2023 included the following: 
￮ net impairment charges and reversals of $2,204 million, mainly 

related to the Chemicals assets in Singapore;

￮ charges of $84 million related to redundancy and restructuring; 
partly offset by favourable movements of $213 million related 
to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities was primarily driven by Adjusted 
EBITDA, working capital inflows of $609 million, cash inflows relating 
to commodity derivatives of $529 million, and dividends (net of profits) 
from joint ventures and associates of $300 million. These inflows 
were partly offset by the timing impact of payments relating to 
emission certificates and biofuel programmes of $1,224 million,
non-cash cost-of-sales (CCS) adjustments of $627 million, and 
tax payments of $484 million.

69
69

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure decreased by $0.6 billion in 2023 mainly 
because of the completion of construction of our cracker facilities 
in Pennsylvania, USA, in 2022. Our cash capital expenditure is 
expected to be in the range of $3-4 billion in 2024.

Portfolio and business developments
Significant portfolio and business developments:
￮ In November 2022, we commenced operations of our Pennsylvania 
Chemical project, Shell Polymers Monaca (SPM). The facility was 
not fully functional during 2023 due to operational and start-up 
challenges.

￮ In June 2023, Shell announced its intention to conduct a strategic 

review of energy and chemicals assets on Bukom and Jurong Island 
in Singapore.

￮ In January 2024, we announced the final investment decision to 
convert the hydrocracker of the Wesseling site at the Energy and 
Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany into a production unit for 
Group III base oils.

Business and property
Chemicals
Our plants produce a range of base chemicals, including ethylene, 
propylene and aromatics, and intermediate chemicals, such as styrene 
monomer, propylene oxide, solvents, detergent alcohols, ethylene 
oxide and ethylene glycol. We have the capacity to produce around 
8.1 million tonnes of ethylene a year (including the Shell share of 
capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, 
which may be different from nominal equity interest). Our Pennsylvania 
Chemical project, SPM, which commenced operations in November 
2022, was not fully functional during 2023 due to operational and 
start-up challenges. The facility ramped up to full operation during the 
first quarter of 2024. We are expanding our product portfolio to 
include sustainable chemicals made from bio-based and circular 
feedstocks, and more intermediates and performance chemicals, such 
as polyethylene and polycarbonate. We operate chemical plants 
worldwide and have a balance of locations, feedstocks and products.

In addition to our stand-alone, chemicals-only production sites, we 
are repurposing our refineries into energy and chemicals parks. This 
is under way at Norco in the USA, Scotford in Canada, Rotterdam in 
the Netherlands and Rheinland in Germany. We continue to explore 
options for the former Convent Refinery in Louisiana, USA, which has 
been shut down. The energy and chemicals parks are expected to 
focus more on meeting customers' low-carbon and sustainability needs.

In 2023, we supplied more than 11 million tonnes of petrochemicals 
to more than 1,000 industrial customers. Products made from chemicals 
are used in everyday life, including in medical equipment, construction, 
transport, electronics, agriculture and sports.

Products – Refining & Trading
Refining
We have interests in eight refineries worldwide, with a capacity to 
process a total of 1.6 million barrels of crude oil a day. The distribution 
of our refining capacity is 60% in Europe, 26% in the Americas and 
14% in Asia.

We continue to evaluate ways to high-grade our refining portfolio 
to meet our strategic aims and to capitalise on the strong integration 
between our customers, trading operations and chemical plants. 
We are repurposing our refining sites into energy and chemicals parks. 
This will mean developing new facilities or converting existing units to 
support low-carbon products, while dismantling existing units that do 
not deliver sustainable long-term value. We initiated a strategic review 
of our Bukom and Jurong Island assets in Singapore.

We announced the final investment decision to convert the 
hydrocracker of the Wesseling site at the Energy and Chemicals 
Park Rheinland in Germany into a production unit for Group III base 
oils. These mineral base oils have a very high viscosity index and are 
produced with hydrocracking technology. The market for high-quality 
engine and transmission oils, as well as e-fluids and cooling fluids, 
some of which are made from these oils, is expected to grow. Crude 
oil processing will end at the Wesseling site by 2025 but continue 
at the Godorf site.

Trading and Supply
Through our main trading offices in London, Houston, Singapore 
and Rotterdam, we trade crude oil, low-carbon fuels, refined 
products, chemical feedstocks and environmental products. Trading 
and Supply trades in physical and financial contracts, lease storage 
and transportation capacities, and manages global shipping and 
wholesale commercial fuel activities. 

Operating in around 25 countries, with about 180 Shell and joint-
venture (including pipeline) terminals, we believe our supply and 
distribution infrastructure is well positioned to make deliveries 
around the world. 

Shipping and Maritime enables the safe delivery of the Shell Trading 
and Supply contracts. This includes supplying feedstocks for our 
refineries and chemical plants, and finished products such as gasoline, 
diesel and aviation fuel to our Marketing segment and customers. 

Shell Wholesale Commercial Fuels provides fuels for transport, 
industry and heating. These range from reliable main-grade fuels 
to premium products. 

Pipelines
We own and operate eight tank farms across the USA through 
Shell Pipeline Company LP (Shell interest 100%). It transports around 
1.5 billion barrels of crude oil, refined products and chemicals a year 
through around 6,000 kilometres of pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico 
and nine US states. Our non-operated ownership interests 
provide another 13,000 kilometres of pipeline.

We carry more than 40 types of crude oil and more than 20 grades 
of fuel and chemicals, including gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel, 
chemicals and ethylene.

We own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream 
and logistics assets. Our assets include interests in entities that own 
crude oil and refined products pipelines and terminals that serve as 
key infrastructure to:
￮ transport onshore and offshore crude oil production to US Gulf 

Coast and Midwest refining markets; and 

￮ deliver refined products from those markets to major demand 

centres.

Our assets also include interests in entities that own natural gas and 
refinery gas pipelines that transport offshore natural gas to market hubs 
and deliver refinery gas from refineries and plants to chemical sites 
along the US Gulf Coast. 

70
70

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Crude distillation capacity [A]

Thousand b/stream day [B]

Europe

Asia

Africa

Americas

Total

975 

237 

— 

435 

1,646 

2023

2022

990 

237 

23 

449 

2021

1,023 

307 

90 

729 

1,698 

2,149 

[A] Average operating capacity for the year, excluding mothballed capacity. 
[B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime.

Crude oil processed [A]

Europe

Asia

Africa

Americas

Total

Thousand b/d

2023

2022

2021

732 

168 

— 

322 

715 

184 

16 

353 

761 

223 

57 

455 

1,222 

1,268 

1,496 

[A] Includes natural gas liquids, share of joint ventures and associates and processing

for others.

Refinery processing intake [A]

Oil Sands
Synthetic crude oil is produced by mining bitumen-saturated sands, 
extracting the bitumen and transporting it to a processing facility where 
hydrogen is added to make a wide range of feedstocks for refineries. 
The Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP) in Alberta, Canada, includes 
the Albian Sands mining and extraction operations, the Scotford 
upgrader and the Quest CCS project.

We have a 50% interest in 1745844 Alberta Ltd. (formerly known 
as Marathon Oil Canada Corporation), which holds a 20% interest 
in the Athabasca Oil Sands Project.

Chemicals and Products data tables
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell 
owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint 
ventures and associates are only included where explicitly stated. 

Refining & Trading sales volumes [A][B]

Europe

Asia

Africa

Americas

Total

Gasolines

Kerosenes

Gas/Diesel oils

Fuel oil

Other products [C]

Total

Thousand b/d

2023

2022

2021

809 

324 

27 

410 

830 

377 

39 

454 

426 

870 

47 

683 

1,570 

1,700 

2,026 

293 

124 

642 

232 

279 

410 

117 

616 

270 

287 

551 

123 

735 

337 

280 

Crude oil

Feedstocks

1,570 

1,700 

2,026 

Total

[A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, 

that are in the nature of exchanges. Sales of condensate are included. 

[B] Certain contracts are held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. 

The effect in 2023 was a reduction in refining and trading sales of around 1,202 thousand 
b/d (2022: 1,197 thousand b/d; 2021: 1,127 thousand b/d).

[C] Includes LPG sales volumes of 70 thousand b/d (2022: 67 thousand b/d; 2021: 

81 thousand b/d).

Europe

Asia

Africa

Americas

Total

2023

1,222 

127 

1,349 

764 

171 

— 

414 

Thousand b/d

2022

1,267 

135 

1,402 

763 

184 

16 

439 

2021

1,496 

143 

1,639 

806 

225 

57 

551 

1,349 

1,402 

1,639 

Cost of crude oil processed or consumed [A]

[A] Includes crude oil, natural gas liquids and feedstocks processed in crude distillation units 

and in secondary conversion units.

Total

2023

71.13 

2022

84.39 

$/barrel

2021

60.51 

Refinery processing outturn [A]

[A] Includes Upstream and Integrated Gas margins on crude oil supplied by Shell subsidiaries, 

joint ventures and associates. 

Gasolines

Kerosenes

Gas/Diesel oils

Fuel oil

Other

Total

Thousand b/d

2023

489 

168 

516 

88 

149 

2022

477 

166 

512 

90 

193 

2021

624 

141 

611 

108 

258 

1,410 

1,438 

1,742 

[A] Excludes own use and products acquired for blending purposes.

71
71

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Manufacturing plants at December 31, 2023

Refineries 

Location

Asset class

Shell interest 
(%) [A]

Thousand barrels/stream day, 100% capacity [B]

Crude
distillation
capacity

Thermal
cracking/
visbreaking/
coking

Catalytic
cracking

Hydro-
cracking

Miro [C]

Rheinland

Schwedt [C] [E]

Pernis

Pulau Bukom

Durban [C] [D]

g	n

g	n

g	n

Buenos Aires [F]

n	c

Scotford

Sarnia

Norco

g

c

g

32 

100 

38 

100 

100 

36 

44 

100 

100 

100 

313 

339 

234 

447 

237 

180 

112 

100 

85 

40 

32 

46 

— 

— 

25 

14 

— 

5 

96 

— 

57 

53 

— 

37 

22 

— 

21 

250 

29 

119 

— 

87 

— 

104 

61 

— 

— 

83 

10 

44 

Europe

Germany

Netherlands

Asia

Singapore

Africa

South Africa

Americas

Argentina

Canada

Alberta

Ontario

USA

Louisiana

[A] Shell interest is rounded to the nearest whole percentage point; Shell share of production capacity may differ. 
[B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime. 
[C] Not operated by Shell.
[D] Refinery operations were paused from Q2 2022.
[E] Refinery has been classified as Held for Sale.
[F] Owned through Raízen joint venture.

g Integrated refinery and chemical complex 
n Refinery complex with cogeneration capacity 
c Refinery complex with chemical unit(s)

Chemicals data tables
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint ventures 
and associates are only included where explicitly stated.

Ethylene capacity [A]

Europe

Asia

Americas [B]

Total

2023

1,710 

2,542 

3,821 

8,073 

Thousand tonnes/year

2022

1,710 

2,542 

3,821 

8,073 

2021

1,726 

2,542 

2,321 

6,589 

[A] Includes the Shell share of capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest. Nominal capacity is quoted 

at December 31, 2023.

[B] Includes data pertaining to Shell Polymers Monaca which commenced operations in November 2022. The facility was not fully functional during 2023 due to operational and start-up 

challenges. The facility ramped up to full operation in the first quarter of 2024.

72
72

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Wind and hydrogen for decarbonisation in Rotterdam

We are aiming for more value with less emissions by working to 
integrate our assets and projects. Take our investment in Holland 
Hydrogen 1 (HH1), for example. HH1 will be one of Europe's largest 
renewable hydrogen facilities when it is operational in the middle 
of the decade.

Construction of the 200 MW electrolyser facility HH1 began at the 
end of 2022. HH1 is designed to produce up to 80,000 kilograms 
of renewable hydrogen per day and will be powered by the 
Hollandse Kust Noord wind farm, operated by the CrossWind 
joint venture (Shell interest 79.9%) with Eneco. HH1 will supply 
hydrogen to the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rotterdam, 
which will use it to partially decarbonise its production of petrol, 
diesel and jet fuel.

In June 2023, Hollandse Kust Noord, which lies 18.5 kilometres 
off the west coast of the Netherlands, produced its first electricity. 
Hollandse Kust Noord has been operational since December 2023 
with an installed capacity of 759 MW, generating at least 3.3 TWh 
per year. CrossWind is exploring the use of innovative technologies, 
including artificial intelligence (AI), to help ensure a continuous 
supply of electricity, even when there is no wind. 

HH1 is energy transition being put into action where we are 
leveraging our expertise across the value chain to produce 
renewable hydrogen which will be used to decarbonise our 
own energy products and, when the hydrogen market develops, 
potentially supply other customers.

Photo: Final installation of the Hollandse Kust Noord wind park, located 18.5 kilometres off the coast of Egmond aan Zee. The wind farm was built by CrossWind, a joint venture between 
Shell and Eneco. 

Chemicals sales volumes [A]

Europe

Base chemicals

Intermediates and other chemicals products

Total

Asia

Base chemicals

Intermediates and other chemicals products

Total

Americas

Base chemicals

Intermediates and other chemicals products

Total

Total product sales

Base chemicals

Intermediates and other chemicals products

Total

[A] Excludes feedstock trading and by-products.

73
73

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Thousand tonnes/year

2023

2022

2021

1,741 

1,848 

3,589 

1,190 

1,917 

3,107 

1,508 

3,041 

4,549 

4,439 

6,806 

11,245 

2,809 

1,955 

4,764 

825 

2,147 

2,972 

2,125 

2,420 

4,545 

5,759 

6,522 

12,281 

3,883 

2,076 

5,959 

1,354 

2,656 

4,010 

1,984 

2,263 

4,247 

7,221 

6,995 

14,216 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued

Major chemical plants [A]

Europe

Germany

Netherlands

UK

Asia

China

Singapore

Americas

Canada

USA

Total

Location

Rheinland

Moerdijk

Mossmorran [D]

Nanhai [D]

Jurong Island [E]

Pulau Bukom

Scotford

Monaca [F]

Deer Park

Geismar

Norco

Ethylene

Polyethylene

Styrene
monomer

Ethylene
glycol

Higher olefins
[C]

Additional
products

Thousand tonnes/year, Shell share capacity [B]

324 

971 

415 

1,100 

281 

1,161 

— 

1,500 

889 

— 

1,432 

8,073 

— 

— 

— 

605 

40 

— 

— 

1,600 

— 

— 

— 

— 

815 

— 

645 

1,069 

— 

475 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

153 

— 

415 

924 

— 

462 

— 

— 

400 

— 

2,245 

3,004 

2,354 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1,390 

— 

1,390 

A

A, I

O

A, I

A, I, P, O

A

A, I

A, I

I

A

[A] Major chemical plants are large integrated chemical facilities, typically producing a range of chemical products from an array of feedstocks. 
[B] Shell share of capacity of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates (Shell- and non-Shell-operated), excluding capacity of the Infineum additives joint ventures. 
[C] Higher olefins are linear alpha and internal olefins (products range from C4 to C2024). 
[D] Not operated by Shell.
[E] The polypropylene and olefins production mentioned refers to Shell share of capacity of our non-operated joint ventures Petchem Corporation of Singapore (PCS) and The Polyolefin 

Company (TPC) which are on Jurong Island. 

[F] Shell Polymers Monaca commenced its operations in November 2022. The facility was not fully functional during 2023 due to operational and start-up challenges.  The facility ramped up to 

full operation in the first quarter of 2024.

A  Aromatics, lower olefins 
I 
Intermediates
P  Polypropylene 
O  Other 

Other chemical locations [A]

Europe

Germany

Netherlands

Americas

Argentina

Canada

[A] Other chemical locations reflect locations with smaller chemical units, typically serving more local markets. 

A  Aromatics, lower olefins 
I 
O  Other 

Intermediates 

Location

Products

Karlsruhe

Schwedt

A

A

Rotterdam

A, I, O

Buenos Aires

Sarnia

I

A, I

74
74

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

75

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES) 
includes renewable power generation, the 
marketing and trading and optimisation of 
power and pipeline gas, as well as carbon 
credits and digitally enabled customer 
solutions. R&ES also includes hydrogen 
production and marketing, development of 
commercial carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
hubs, investment in nature-based projects that 
avoid or reduce carbon emissions (NBS), and 
Shell Ventures, which invests in companies 
working to accelerate the energy and mobility 
transformation. We are building a business 
to profitably deliver clean energy for our 
customers, using a strong portfolio of 
energy solutions to help them decarbonise.

Segment earnings ($ billion)

3.0 2022: (1.1)

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

0.7 2022: 1.7

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

3.0 2022: (6.4)

External power sales (terawatt hours)

279 2022: 243

Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers
(terawatt hours)

738 2022: 843

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued

Key metrics

Segment earnings*[A] [B] 

Identified items 

Adjusted Earnings*[A]

Adjusted EBITDA*[A]

Cash flow from operating activities 

Cash capital expenditure*

External power sales (terawatt hours) [C]

Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers (terawatt hours) [D]

$ million, except where indicated

2023

3,038 

2,333 

705  

1,413

2,984

2,681

279

738

2022

(1,059)   

(2,805)   

1,745 

2,459

(6,394)

3,469

243

843

2021

(1,514) 

(1,272) 

(243) 

(21)

451

2,359

247

899

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". 
[C] Physical power sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and physical trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms, and wholesale traders.
[D] Physical natural gas sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and physical trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms, and wholesale traders. Excluding sales 

of natural gas by other segments and LNG sales.

Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Renewables and Energy 
Solutions, see "Market overview" on pages 38-40.

External power sales
In 2023, our external power sales increased compared with 2022 
as a result of organic customer growth across the portfolio and 
portfolio additions.

Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers
In 2023, the decrease in our sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers 
was mainly driven by commercial decisions to reduce our supply to 
certain counterparties.

Earnings 2023-2022 [A]
Segment earnings reflected lower margins (decrease of $684 million), 
mainly from trading and optimisation. This was because of lower gas 
and power price volatility in 2023, unfavourable tax movements 
(decrease of $218 million) and higher operating expenses, resulting 
from business growth (increase of $186 million).

Segment earnings also included favourable movements of $2,756 million, 
due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, partly offset by 
net impairment charges and reversals of $669 million. These favourable 
movements and charges are part of identified items and compare with 
2022 which included unfavourable movements of $2,443 million due 
to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, and impairment 
charges of $361 million. 

In 2023, Adjusted Earnings from Energy Marketing and Trading and 
Optimisation accounted for 216% of Renewables and Energy Solutions 
Adjusted Earnings. This was partially offset by Renewable Power 
Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, NBS and Shell Ventures that accounted 
for a negative 116%. 

Prior year earnings summary [A]
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 74) and Form 
20-F (page 78) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.
[A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax, unless stated otherwise. 2022-2021 reported 

pre-tax segment figures.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities was primarily driven by working 
capital inflows of $3,723 million and Adjusted EBITDA. This was partly 
offset by net cash outflows, related to derivatives of $1,988 million and 
tax payments of $762 million.

Cash capital expenditure
Within cash capital expenditure, $2.3 billion was in low-carbon energy 
solutions. This includes Renewable Power Generation, Environmental 
Solutions, Hydrogen and CCS. In 2022, cash capital expenditure 
included $2.9 billion in low-carbon energy solutions. Higher cash 
capital expenditure in 2022 was mainly a result of the acquisition 
of the renewable energy platform Sprng Energy group. 

See "Our journey to net zero" on page 95.

Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be in the range
of $4-5 billion in 2024. 

Portfolio and business development
Key portfolio and business developments: 
￮ In March 2023, we entered into a joint venture with Eku Energy 

(Shell interest 45%) to deliver a utility-scale battery energy storage 
system in Australia. 

￮ In June 2023, Hollandse Kust Noord, our offshore wind park in the 

Netherlands (Shell interest 79.9%), delivered its first megawatt hours 
of electricity. 

￮ In November 2023, we sold our home energy businesses in the UK 

and Germany to Octopus Energy Group. 

Business and property
We are building a business to profitably deliver clean energy for our 
customers.

Energy Marketing
We provide electricity and smart energy solutions to residential, 
commercial and industrial customers. We do this through direct 
electricity sales, storage solutions and energy optimisation services. 
Our largest markets for commercial and industrial customers are 
Australia and the USA. In Australia, we are one of the largest 
commercial and industrial retailers of electricity in the market.

We entered into a joint venture with Eku Energy to deliver a utility-scale 
battery energy storage system in Australia. With this system, Shell will 
have access to 100% of the battery system's offtake over a 20-year 
period. Completion of the project is expected in late 2024.

76
76

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued

In November 2023, we divested our retail businesses in the UK and 
Germany to Octopus Energy, and we are winding down the business in 
the Netherlands. We continue to sell natural gas and power to retail 
customers in the USA and Australia.

Trading and Optimisation
We trade and optimise power and pipeline gas, and carbon credits 
from our own assets and from third parties. We work in partnership 
with Shell businesses across the regions to offer energy solutions that 
can help our customers decarbonise. We have a gas and power 
trading presence in key markets, including North America and Europe.

Renewable Power Generation
We enable renewable power generation by owning and operating 
wind farms and solar plants, and participating in joint ventures. We 
target selective growth in markets where there is integration potential. 

In the USA, Shell's Brazos Wind Farm achieved its first power following 
the dismantling and refurbishing of existing wind turbines and the 
commissioning of new ones. In December 2023, we strategically sold 
60% of our interest in Brazos to InfraRed Capital Partners to release 
capital for investment in other renewables projects. Shell will retain 
100% of the power offtake. 

In June 2023, the Hollandse Kust Noord offshore wind development 
within the CrossWind joint venture (Shell interest 79.9%) reached a 
significant milestone by producing its first megawatts of renewable 
electricity. The electricity from this wind farm is planned to supply the 
200 MW electrolyser Holland Hydrogen 1 (Shell interest 100%) in the 
Netherlands as it comes on line. 

At the end of 2023, our share of renewable power generation capacity 
was 2.5 GW in operation and 4.1 GW in development. Our renewable 
power capacities are listed below:

Renewable power generation capacity in operation and 
in development as of December 31, 2023 - by region

Location

Asia

Europe

Americas

Australia

Total

In operation [A]

In development [B]

100% 
capacity 
(MW)

2,285 

1,128 

103 

— 

Shell 
interest 
(MW)

1,936

537

51

0

100% 
capacity 
(MW)

1,636 

1,722 

2,182 

120 

Shell 
interest 
(MW)

1,354 

1,263 

1,318 

120 

3,516 

2,525

5,660 

4,055 

Renewable power generation capacity in operation 
and in development as of December 31, 2023

2023

2022

2021

Renewable power generation capacity 
(Shell interest - gigawatts):

In operation [A]

In development [B]

2.5

4.1

2.2

4.2

0.7

2.3

[A] Renewable generation capacity post commercial operation date.
[B] Renewable generation capacity under construction and/or committed for sale under

long-term offtake agreements (PPA).

Hydrogen 
Hydrogen can help to decarbonise hard-to-abate sectors, such as 
heavy industry and heavy-duty transport, as well as decarbonise our 
own assets. We are part of joint ventures and alliances that have built 
electrolysers and hydrogen filling stations. We have also participated 
in feasibility studies that aim to show the viability of a global import 
and export market for hydrogen. We aim to develop opportunities 
where we see adjacencies with our integrated business and pathways 
to attractive returns. 

Since 2021, we have operated an electrolyser (Shell interest 100%) in 
Germany, which produces hydrogen using electricity from renewable 
sources. In July 2022, we announced the final investment decision to 
build Holland Hydrogen 1 to produce renewable hydrogen. 

Carbon capture and storage
CCS is a combination of technologies that capture and store CO2 deep 
underground, preventing its release into the atmosphere. R&ES offers 
CCS services to our customers. We report existing CCS operations that 
help decarbonise our own assets in the segment where the relevant 
asset sits.

We have a 33.3% interest in the Northern Lights Joint Venture, where 
the other partners are Equinor and TotalEnergies (equal partners). The 
project is in Norway and is under construction. Phase One is expected 
to be ready for start-up in 2025. In 2023, the Northern Lights CCS joint 
venture signed agreements with both Yara International and Ørsted for 
the transport and permanent storage of CO2, marking an important 
step in helping to create a commercial market for CCS in Europe.

Nature and Environmental Solutions
Nature and Environmental Solutions include our NBS business and the 
Environmental Products Trading Business (EPTB). NBS invests in projects 
that conserve, enhance and restore ecosystems – such as forests, 
grasslands and wetlands – to prevent GHG emissions or reduce 
atmospheric CO2 levels. 

Through EPTB we develop, source offtake, trade and supply 
environmental products across compliance and voluntary markets. 
This includes working with our other businesses such as Integrated Gas 
or Marketing to provide integrated energy solutions to customers.

Shell Ventures
Shell Ventures are corporate venture funds where we act as an investor 
and a partner to start-ups and businesses to accelerate the energy and 
mobility transformation. We invest in companies that work on solutions 
to lower emissions, electrify energy systems, gain data-based insights 
and provide innovative consumer solutions.

Investments
Within R&ES, we maintain an integrated business model, with 
trading and optimisation, to help us manage our value delivery. Our 
investments are subject to financial modelling and stress-testing, due 
diligence and risk assessments to ensure that our capital is allocated 
to the most attractive low-carbon projects and opportunities. We 
monitor and evaluate the performance of our acquisitions against our 
expectations. Some acquired companies in new business sectors are 
not yet in full compliance with our Binding Corporate Rules. Following 
assessments of each new acquisition, specific actions are put in place 
to achieve compliance with our Binding Corporate Rules.

77
77

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued

Brazos windfarm 
upgrade and 
first power

Shell's upgraded Brazos Wind Farm produced its first power in 
2023. This was achieved after we decommissioned and restored a 
legacy wind farm at the end of its useful life and "repowered" it by 
building newer, more efficient turbines on the same acreage of land.

Brazos is expected to generate 182 megawatts, which will be 
put into the Texas electricity grid. From there, it is used for both 
residential and commercial needs. The energy that Brazos 
generates is enough to power more than 50,000 households. 
We are recycling the decommissioned turbine blades to be 
used as a component in concrete.

In December, we sold 60% of our interest in Brazos to InfraRed 
Capital Partners, releasing capital for investment in other 
renewables projects. Shell will retain 100% of the power offtake. 
The Brazos wind farm in Texas, USA is an example of an investment 
which is bringing more green electricity to the grid today. It is also 
a demonstration of capital discipline in our power investments 
where during development or upon achieving operations, we may 
choose to sell a share of the project to a third party to release 
capital to be used in the next renewable generation project. 
This allows us to make further investments in the energy transition, 
as we transform to a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050.

Harnessing wind power is a vital part of the energy transition and 
there has been unprecedented global growth over the past 12 
months. At COP28, countries agreed to triple capacity by 2030. 

Photo: Brazos wind farm is located in Fluvanna, Texas, 112 kilometres (70 miles) south-east of Lubbock, on the Caprock of the Llano Estacado.

78
78

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Corporate

Corporate covers the non-operating 
activities supporting Shell. It comprises 
Shell's holdings and treasury organisation, 
self-insurance activities, headquarters 
and central functions. 

Segment earnings ($ billion)

(2.8) 2022: (2.5)

Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)

(2.7) 2022: (2.4)

Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)

(0.8) 2022: 2.2

79

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value | Corporate continued

Key metrics

Segment earnings*[A] [B]

Identified items

Adjusted Earnings*[A]

Adjusted EBITDA*[A]

Cash flow from operating activities 

2023

2022

$ million

2021

(2,811)   

(2,461)   

(2,606) 

(69)   

(90)   

81 

(2,742)   

(2,371)   

(2,686) 

(987)   

(832)   

(725)   

2,192 

(554) 

1,154 

[A] Segment earnings, Adjusted Earnings, and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis.
[B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". 

Overview
All finance expense, income and related taxes are included 
in Corporate segment earnings rather than the business 
segment earnings. 

Earnings 2023-2022
An increase in the negative segment earnings was mainly driven 
by unfavourable movements in currency exchange rate effects 
and tax credits.

The holdings and treasury organisation manages many of the 
Corporate entities. It is the point of contact between Shell and 
external capital markets, conducting a range of transactions, such as 
raising debt instruments and conducting foreign exchange transactions. 
Treasury centres in London and Singapore support these activities. 

Headquarters and central functions provide business support in 
communications, finance, health, human resources, information 
technology (IT), legal services, real estate and security. They also 
provide support for shareholder-related activities. The central functions 
are supported by business service centres, which process transactions, 
manage data and produce statutory returns, among other services. 
Most headquarters and central-function costs are recovered from 
the business segments. Costs that are not recovered are retained 
in Corporate. 

Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2022, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2021, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 77) and Form 
20-F (page 81) for the year ended December 31, 2022, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.

Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operating activities decreased primarily due to 
unfavourable working capital movements.

Self-insurance
We mainly self-insure our hazard risk exposures. We continually assess 
the safety performance of our operations and make risk mitigation 
recommendations, where relevant, to keep the risk of an accident as 
low as possible. Our insurance companies are adequately capitalised 
and they may transfer risks to third-party insurers where economical, 
effective and relevant.

See "Risk factors" on page 24.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

80
80

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Generating shareholder value

Other central activities

Information technology and cyber security 
Digitalisation is a key success factor in delivering Shell's Powering 
Progress strategy. Shell is transforming its IT systems to support its 
evolving portfolio of businesses. We invest in new technologies, such 
as artificial intelligence and machine learning, to enhance our IT 
capabilities and bring value to the business. 

The growing dependence on IT and data brings risks. A breach of IT 
systems or loss of data could cause significant harm to Shell in the form 
of loss of productivity, loss of intellectual property, regulatory fines or 
reputational damage. Sanctions, including regulatory fines, might be 
imposed on Shell if authorities find Shell in breach of cyber security or 
data protection regulations. Cyber security is key to managing those 
risks, especially in today's increasingly regulated environment where 
cyber threats are growing.

Shell operates a multi-level defence strategy, underpinned by the Shell 
Performance Framework. Our advanced cyber defence capabilities 
help us prevent, detect, respond to and evolve as cyber security and 
data privacy risks become more complex. We continuously assess and, 
where relevant, improve these capabilities to reduce the likelihood of 
successful cyber attacks. 

Our global integrated Information Risk Management (IRM) and cyber 
defence teams are staffed with cyber security professionals that 
monitor, assure and defend our global IT landscape. The combined 
Global Functions Chief Information Officer and Chief Information 
Security Officer (CISO) roles were split as of November 1, 2023. 
This resulted in a dedicated CISO role within Shell's Information & 
Digital Technology (IDT) leadership.

Cyber security risk management
Our cyber security capabilities are embedded in our IT systems and 
our IT is protected by various detective and protective technologies. 
A structured approach to identify, assess and mitigate IT and cyber 
security risks is built into our support processes and aligns with industry 
best practices. We continuously track cyber attacks, threat intelligence 
and vulnerabilities in our IT landscape and have an established incident 
management and escalation process in place. The security of IT 
services, where operated by external IT companies, is managed 
through contractual clauses and additionally through formal supplier 
assurance reports for critical IT services. Shell engages an external 
party to perform periodic benchmarking of Shell's approach to cyber 
security risk management in comparison to industry and peers. We 
develop our cyber security capabilities, based on external dynamics, 
benchmarking outcomes and assurance results and take a risk-based 
approach in our investment decisions related to cyber security risk 
strategy. Shell's first line of defence is formed by a workforce that is 
trained to be cyber security aware. In 2023, our annual safety day 
included cyber security awareness raising. Robust governance 
processes are embedded across Shell to increase cyber awareness, 
monitor key cyber risks, and provide risk assurance. Our IRM practices 
and cyber security risks and strategy are regularly discussed by 
and among our CISO, Shell's Information and Digital Technology 
leadership, the Executive Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the Board of Directors. These discussions involve consideration of 
changes in the external environment, how Shell is responding to cyber 
security risks and implementation of further remedial actions as 
appropriate. In 2023, these discussions were supplemented by 
dedicated deep dives into areas such as the emerging risks and 
opportunities associated with generative artificial intelligence. Shell 
employees and contract staff are required to complete mandatory 
training courses and participate in regular awareness campaigns 

aimed at protecting us against cyber threats. Shell has reported 
incidents in 2023 to regulatory authorities in several jurisdictions. 
None of these had a material impact on Shell, including its business 
strategy, results of operations, or financial condition.

The IRM and cyber defence leadership teams involved in monitoring 
and managing our cyber security threat risk and assurance process 
have an average of around 25 years of experience. This group is 
led by our CISO, who has more than 20 years of experience in the 
information technology and information security field, including serving 
as the chief information officer for various large public companies. Our 
CISO holds qualified technical expert certifications, has completed the 
London School of Economics Executive Development programme and 
holds an undergraduate degree in management information systems, 
risk management and corporate finance. Our CISO is active in various 
cyber security industry trade groups, having previously held leadership 
positions in the Oil & Gas Cyber Security Network and the Chief 
Information Officers Strategy Exchange.

Projects & Technology
Projects & Technology and the relevant business lines work together 
to determine the content, scope and budget for developing new 
technology that supports our activities. The new technology is 
developed, using a robust maturation process, to systematically de-risk 
technical and commercial risks. This is done while we seek to align our 
portfolio with Shell's strategic ambitions and deployment commitments. 

A significant proportion of Shell's technology contributes to our 
emissions reduction targets. We collaborate with leading academic 
research institutes and universities, and provide start-ups with access 
to mentors and subject matter experts. Shell Ventures invests in 
and partners with start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises 
that are in the early stages of developing new technologies. 
The Shell GameChanger programme helps companies to mature
early-stage technologies.

See "Risk factors" on page 23.

Intellectual property
At Shell, we have a wide-ranging intellectual property (IP) portfolio 
which includes patents, trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and 
copyrights. These legally recognised forms of IP enable companies to 
protect aspects of their IP and to derive value from them. For example, 
the distinctive Shell pecten, a trademark in use since the early 20th 
century, and trademarks in which the word Shell appears, help 
raise the profile of our brand globally. 

We protect and defend our IP around the world. Equally we respect 
the valid IP rights of others. Not doing so risks damage to our business 
and reputation, negatively impacts our ability or licence to operate, 
and could result in legal and financial risks as well as the loss of IP 
rights. At December 31, 2023, we held 8,829 patents, which includes 
granted patents and pending patent applications.

Shell holds trademarks in countries all around the world, including 
some in which we no longer have operations. For example, in 2023, 
we renewed our trademark LINEVOL in Syria and paid $370 to the 
Syrian Arab Republic, Ministry of Finance, and $713 in agent and 
handling fees. In addition, we renewed one international trademark 
application, which amongst other countries, included the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, through the World Intellectual Property Organization 
Madrid system, for a fee of $113 for Iran specifically. We ceased 
all operations in Syria in 2011 and Iran in 2018 and the renewals of our 
trademarks are not indicative of any sales of products in either country.

81
81

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Our journey 
to net zero 
We aim to be a net-zero 
emissions energy 
business by 2050 and 
work with our customers 
and across sectors to 
help accelerate the 
energy transition.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero

82

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Introduction

Shell recognises that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the use 
of hydrocarbon-based energy contribute to climate change. The Paris 
Agreement aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of 
climate change by "holding the increase in the global average 
temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and 
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-
industrial levels". Shell supports the more ambitious goal of the Paris 
Agreement, which is to limit the rise in global average temperature 
this century to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.

Shell's Powering Progress strategy is designed to generate shareholder 
value, while meeting our target of becoming a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050. 

Since 2017, Shell has supported the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The TCFD 
framework aims to improve the disclosure of climate-related risks and 
opportunities and provide stakeholders with the information they need 

to undertake robust and consistent analyses of the potential financial 
impacts of climate change. The TCFD recommends disclosure of 
qualitative and quantitative information aligned to its four core 
elements: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics 
and targets. 

We recognise the value that the recommendations bring and, 
in accordance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.6R, set out below our
climate-related financial disclosures consistent with all of the TCFD 
Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures. By this we mean the 
four recommendations and the 11 recommended disclosures set out in 
Figure 4 of Section C of the report entitled "Recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures" published in June 
2017 by the TCFD. We also take into account relevant supplemental 
guidance including, for example, the TCFD's additional guidance 
"Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures" (also known as the 2021 TCFD 
Annex) published in October 2021 by the TCFD. We continue 
to align and enhance our climate-related disclosures. 

TCFD disclosures index

TCFD Pillars

Governance

Strategy

Risk Management

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Recommendations

Describe the board's oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities

Describe management's role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities

Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities 
the organisation has identified over the short, medium 
and long term

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation's business, strategy, 
and financial planning

Describe the resilience of the organisation's strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario

Describe the organisation's processes for identifying 
and assessing climate-related risks

Describe the organisation's processes for managing 
climate-related risks

Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organisation's overall risk management

Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line 
with its strategy and risk-management process

Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks

Describe the targets used by the organisation to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets

83
83

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Reference

See page 85.

See page 86.

See page 89.

See page 93.

See page 94.

See page 100.

See page 100.

See page 101.

See page 103.

See page 104.

See page 107.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Governance

Board 

Sustainability Committee

Remuneration Committee

Audit and Risk Committee

Executive Committee

CEO

Capital Investment Committee

Carbon Reporting Committee

We deliver our strategy through our businesses 

Strategy

We seek to deliver more value with less emissions through:

portfolio changes: acquisitions of and investments in new, low-carbon projects,
  decommissioning plants, divesting assets and reducing our production through
  natural decline

growing our world-leading LNG business with lower carbon intensity
cutting emissions from oil and gas production, while keeping oil 
production stable

improving the energy efﬁciency of our operations
transforming our remaining integrated reﬁneries into low-carbon energy and chemicals

transforming our businesses to offer more low-carbon solutions,
while reducing sales of oil products

  parks, which involves decommissioning plants

using more renewable electricity in our operations

  developing carbon capture and storage (CCS)
using high-quality carbon credits, if required

Our ﬁnancial strength and access to capital give us the ability to reshape our portfolio as the energy system transforms

Climate Risk Management

Key Risks

Commercial risk

Regulatory risk

Physical risk

Societal risk

Climate risk assessment
and monitoring integrated
into Shell’s overall risk 
management processes via:

mandatory standards and manuals
project-level risk management 
management and Board reviews

internal audits 
annual assurance letter process

We evaluate our delivery through our Metrics and Targets

Metrics and Targets

Emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2)

Target

Target

Target

Halving Scope 1 and 2  
emissions by 2030 [A] 
under operational control  
(2016 baseline)

Eliminating  
routine flaring
from upstream  
operations by 2025 [B]

Maintain methane 
emissions intensity below 
0.2% and achieve 
near-zero methane 
emissions by 2030

Net-zero 
emissions by 2050
(Scopes 1, 2 and 3)

Emissions from the products we sell (Scope 3) 

Target

Ambition

Net carbon intensity (NCI)
Introducing a range of 15-20% for our  
target to reduce NCI by 2030 
(2016 baseline)

Updated

Oil products ambition 
Reduce customer emissions from the use  
of our oil products by 15-20% by 2030,  
Scope 3, Category 11 [C] 
(2021 baseline)

New

[A] On a net basis.
[B] Subject to completion of the sale of Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC).
[C] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

84
84

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Governance of climate-related
risks and opportunities

Board oversight of climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Our governance framework is designed to effectively deliver on the 
energy transition ambitions and targets of our Powering Progress 
strategy, which seeks to deliver more value with less emissions.

See our "Powering Progress strategy" on pages 6-13.

The Board reviews our energy transition strategy periodically 
and oversees its implementation and delivery. In 2023, the Board 
considered climate-related matters throughout the year, including 
the assessment of climate-related risks and the effectiveness of 
corresponding risk management activities. The Board also challenged 
and endorsed business plans, including consideration of major capital 
expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. In 2023, the Board 
convened nine times and continued to oversee the Powering Progress 
strategy and net-zero initiatives, including at the Board Strategy 
Days in June 2023.

See "Governance framework" on page 160 and "Board activities" on page 162.

The Board of Directors has the primary oversight of the delivery of 
Shell's energy transition strategy and is supported by the Sustainability 
Committee (SUSCO) [A], the Remuneration Committee (REMCO) and 
the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC). The importance of our energy 
transition strategy means that these committees are informed about 
climate-related matters on a frequent basis throughout the year. 
See "Climate change governance organogram" below.
[A] The SUSCO was previously the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee.

The SUSCO assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing 
Shell's progress with respect to climate and sustainability elements of 
Shell's Powering Progress strategy.

During 2023, the SUSCO refocused its agenda on the areas of 
greatest strategic importance to Shell, in line with its updated terms 
of reference. This allowed the SUSCO to more effectively oversee 
Shell's progress with respect to sustainability. 

The SUSCO reviewed the progress made against the non-financial 
elements of Shell's Powering Progress strategy, including progress 
against the ambitions and targets under the goals of achieving
net-zero emissions, respecting nature and powering lives.

The SUSCO met four times in 2023. After each meeting, the SUSCO 
Chair provided updates to the Board. 

See the SUSCO's activities in 2023 on pages 177-178. 

The REMCO develops the remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
and Executive Committee members and sets performance conditions 
designed to challenge and support the Executive Committee (EC) 
to reduce net carbon emissions, while generating shareholder value. 
The REMCO met four times during 2023, with climate-related matters 
discussed at each meeting.

See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 191-193 and the "Annual Report on 

Remuneration" on pages 194-210.

Climate performance and remuneration
Energy transition targets were part of the 2023 annual bonus 
scorecard (15% weighting), applicable to the majority of Shell's 
employees, as well as the 2023 Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
awards for senior executives (25% weighting) and the 2023 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards for other employees 
(12.5% weighting), both vesting in 2026.

See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 191-193 for further information.

See the "Governance framework" for the Board's oversight on pages 160-161.

The ARC provides oversight of the effectiveness of the risk management 
framework and the integrity of our financial reporting to ensure that our 
financial statements reflect the risks and opportunities associated with 
our energy transition strategy and climate change. In 2023, the ARC 
met six times with climate-related matters regularly addressed. 

See the "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on pages 179-190.

85
85

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Management's role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

Climate change governance organogram

Shell plc Board
Oversight of climate 
change risk management

Sustainability Committee
Non-executive Directors appointed by 
the Board to review the progress of Shell 
with respect to sustainability and review 
the non-ﬁnancial elements of the strategy

Remuneration Committee
Non-executive Directors 
appointed by the Board to set 
the remuneration policy in 
alignment with strategy

Audit and Risk Committee
Non-executive Directors appointed 
by the Board to oversee the 
effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control

CEO

Internal Audit
and Investigation

Integrated Gas and
Upstream Director

Downstream and
Renewables Director

Projects and
Technology Director

Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer

On January 30, 2023, Shell announced it would reduce the size of its 
EC with the changes taking effect from July 1, 2023. The new structure 
is designed to focus on performance, discipline and simplification 
across the organisation as we deliver our Powering Progress strategy. 

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has the delegated authority from the 
Board to manage Shell's actions in relation to the Company's strategy. 
The CEO is assisted on climate-related matters by members of the EC 
to review and implement Shell's energy transition strategy and ensure 
that such matters are appropriately monitored:
￮ The Integrated Gas and Upstream Director is responsible for 
identifying and delivering low-carbon and emission-reduction 
investment opportunities in our oil and gas business, as well as 
managing and reducing carbon emissions from the business and 
using renewable energy to power our oil and gas extraction 
activities.

￮ The Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions Director 

is responsible for identifying and delivering climate-related 
opportunities, as well as managing and mitigating the climate risks 
of our Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions business. 

￮ The Projects & Technology (P&T) Director is responsible for setting 

emissions, climate and reporting standards that are applicable to all 
our businesses. The P&T Director is also responsible for developing 
new technologies that will help our businesses to deliver on net-zero 
emissions reduction targets through both energy efficiency measures 
and solutions for decarbonisation. 

￮ The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for monitoring the 
effective application of the Shell Performance Framework, which 
provides the basis for managing our material risks, including climate-
related risks and opportunities, and the assurance over our financial 
information, carbon emissions and climate-related disclosures. 
In addition, the CFO is responsible for Corporate Strategy, 
Sustainability and Carbon, including supporting the CEO in 
developing Shell's energy transition strategy and our Carbon 
Management Framework (CMF). 

86
86

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Additional supporting governance
There are two key supporting management committees, with 
representatives from across Shell, which play a critical role in 
driving our energy transition strategy:
￮ The Capital Investment Committee (CIC) facilitates portfolio 

management and capital allocation decisions and reviews each 
investment opportunity that is, due to its size or risk profile, subject 
to approval by the CEO or the Board. These reviews ensure that
risk-reward trade-offs, together with other defined criteria including 
climate risks and opportunities, are embedded in investment 
decision-making. This committee is made up of senior executives, 
including the CEO, CFO and individual business directors.

￮ The Carbon Reporting Committee (CRC) includes senior 

management representatives focusing on climate-related matters 
from across the businesses, P&T climate-related disciplines and 
functions including Finance, Legal and Strategy. The CRC is 
responsible at the Group level for the Carbon Control Framework, 
the calculation methodologies and reporting of GHG emissions 
metrics, and the review and approval of external GHG-related 
disclosures. It is tasked with ensuring that GHG emissions measures, 
both absolute emissions and carbon intensities, and associated 
metrics comply with all regulatory and legal requirements. 

In addition to these committees, our network of country chairs supports 
the overall governance, development and deployment of climate-
related initiatives. They facilitate the setting of each country's plans and 
their engagement with external stakeholders in support of our strategy.

Processes by which management is informed about 
climate-related issues 
Several processes are employed across the organisation to ensure 
that management teams can effectively monitor and manage climate-
related matters. Our response to the evolving risk outlook requires 
transparency and clarity around our plans and actions to achieve our 
climate targets. The management teams are supported by a 
combination of carbon-management-related standards and 
frameworks, forums at various levels of the organisation, and capability 
development programmes. These include our carbon management 
framework (CMF), carbon pricing, and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
and Energy Management process, policies and controls, which form 
part of our Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework.

Carbon management framework
Shell's CMF provides the structure and processes to drive 
delivery of Group carbon targets. The CMF seeks to manage 
and reduce emissions in a manner that is similar to how we use 
our financial framework. Carbon budgets are used as input to 
and guidance for the annual business plan process. They act as 
an effective mechanism to maintain absolute emissions below 
a capped level and help drive a change in product mix. The 
carbon budgets are allocated to the businesses and enable 
trade-offs between emitting carbon and generating shareholder 
value to occur within those budgets. The CMF informs portfolio 
decisions and supports delivery of our decarbonisation targets.

For the 2023 operating plan cycle, our net carbon intensity 
(NCI) targets were translated into net absolute emissions 
budgets for each business (see definition on page 88). 
These budgets were used by each business to optimise their 
operating plans. Performance against the targets embedded 
in the operating plan and the relative mix of products driving 
the Group's NCI are monitored and reviewed by the EC on 
a quarterly basis, facilitating corrective action if required.

Examples of how our decarbonisation targets are taken into 
account in fundamental decisions across the organisation are:
￮ Carbon metrics (profitability per unit of carbon emitted) is 
a key parameter considered in decision-making and when 
comparing different growth opportunities against each 
other within the various businesses.

￮ We translate our carbon targets into carbon budgets for 

each business as input and guidance to the annual business 
plan process. Businesses need to deliver a plan that 
maximises value within their carbon budgets.

87
87

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Greenhouse gas and energy management

Each Shell entity and Shell-operated venture is responsible 
for the development of its GHG emissions and energy 
management plans. Plans are in place for all significant assets.

Our Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management process sets 
out Shell's requirements for GHG reduction opportunities and 
portfolio choices to meet our carbon budgets and achieve 
our decarbonisation targets. These requirements allocate 
accountabilities for GHG and energy management within 
businesses, assets and projects, including responsibility for 
analysing our emissions, benchmarking performance, identifying 
improvement opportunities, and forecasting future performance. 
These requirements are applied to capital project delivery and 
through the asset-level annual business planning process, 
ensuring it is reflected in both opportunity realisation and 
strategic asset management planning.

A key aspect of the GHG and Energy Management process 
is the development of an energy efficiency and greenhouse gas 
reduction opportunity curve, economically assessed against the 
current and future costs of carbon. This information provides the 
basis for forecasts of absolute GHG emissions and associated 
intensities at the asset and project level. These forecasts are then 
aggregated to inform decisions on potential decarbonisation 
opportunities across our businesses.

A Global Process Council for GHG and Energy Management, 
led by the Global Process Owner for GHG and including 
business and functional experts, meets regularly to evaluate 
opportunities for the ongoing improvement of processes, tools, 
communications, and capabilities needed within the businesses 
to achieve our decarbonisation aspirations.

The requirements of our GHG & Energy Management Process 
are integrated into our annual business planning cycle.

Definition - Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
We follow the GHG Protocol's Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard, which defines three scopes of 
GHG emissions:
￮ Scope 1: direct GHG emissions from sources under Shell's 

operational control.

￮ Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from generation of 
purchased energy consumed by Shell assets under 
operational control.

￮ Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions, including emissions 
associated with the use of energy products sold by Shell.

Carbon pricing

We consider the potential costs associated with operational 
GHG emissions when we assess the resilience of projects. For 
each region, we have developed short-, medium- and long-term 
estimates of future costs of carbon. These are reviewed 
and updated annually. See Note 4 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" for further details on our regional 
cost of carbon estimates. 

Up to 2030, costs for carbon emissions estimates are largely 
policy driven through emission trading schemes or taxation 
which is levied by governments and which varies significantly 
on a country-by-country basis. Beyond 2030, where policy 
predictions are more challenging, the costs for carbon emissions 
are estimated based on the expected costs of abatement 
technologies required for 2050. The estimated cost is trending 
towards $125 or $170 per tonne (RT23), depending on the 
country, in 2050. Shell’s mid-price outlook of $125 - $170 per 
tonne used for the operating plan sits within the middle tranche 
of the abatement costs range of $100 - $200 which 
incorporates a broad range of technologies.

See "The resilience of Shell's strategy" on page 94 for more information 
on how carbon costs impact our resilience to climate-related risks, including 
sensitivity analysis.

See the "Shell Climate and Energy Transition Lobbying Report 2023" which will 
be published in April 2024 for more information on Shell's advocacy across a range 
of issues including carbon pricing.

88
88

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Energy transition strategy

Powering Progress is our strategy to generate more value with less 
emissions for the benefit of our shareholders, customers and wider 
society as we work to become a net-zero emissions energy business 
by 2050. Our purpose -- to provide more and cleaner energy solutions 
– drives our strategy.

Our strategy supports a balanced energy transition by responsibly 
delivering the oil and gas people need today, while helping to build 
the energy system of the future. As we implement our strategy, we are 
becoming a multi-energy business offering our customers more and 
cleaner energy solutions. Our energy transition plans cover all our 
businesses. They aim to reduce emissions from our operations, and help 
our customers transition to cost-competitive and cleaner energy.

We are reducing emissions from our operations, and helping our 
customers move to cost-competitive and cleaner energy. Our energy 
transition plans cover all our businesses:
￮ Integrated Gas - Growing our world-leading LNG business with 

lower carbon intensity.

￮ Upstream - Cutting emissions from oil and gas production, while 

keeping oil production stable.

￮ Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions – Transforming our 
businesses to offer more low-carbon solutions, while reducing sales 
of oil products.

See the "Our strategy" section on pages 7-9.

Board holds Strategy Days in 
Canada and visits LNG project

In June 2023, the Board held its Strategy Days in Canada, 
where members discussed the key elements of Shell's energy 
transition strategy with the Executive Committee. Board 
members also visited LNG Canada (Shell interest 40%, non-
operated), which is being built on the west coast of Canada. 
They met with employees, customers, suppliers and other key 
stakeholders, including leaders of the Haisla Nation in the 
nearby community of Kitimat, British Columbia. 

LNG Canada is expected to start production in the middle of this 
decade. It is designed to have the lowest carbon intensity of any 
large liquefaction facility currently operating anywhere in the 
world ― about 60% lower than the average facility today and 
35% lower than the best-performing facility.

Photo: Viewing the LNG Canada plant construction progress from the south end of 
liquefaction train 1.

89
89

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our strategy aims to support the more ambitious 
goal of the Paris Agreement
Tackling climate change is an urgent challenge. It requires 
a fundamental transformation of the global economy and the 
energy system so that society stops adding to the total amount 
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, achieving what is 
known as net-zero emissions. That is why Shell has set a target 
to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. 

The Paris Agreement aims to strengthen the global response 
to the threat of climate change by "holding the increase in 
the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels". Shell supports the 
more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement, which is to limit the 
rise in global average temperature this century to 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels. 

To help us get there, we have set short-, medium- and long-term 
targets to reduce the carbon intensity of the energy products 
we sell, measured using our net carbon intensity metric. We 
believe these targets are aligned with a 1.5°C pathway derived 
from scenarios developed for the IPCCs Sixth Assessment 
Report (AR6). For more information see "Setting targets for 
NCI" on page 107.

Becoming a net-zero emissions energy business means reducing 
emissions from our operations, and from the fuels and other 
energy products, such as electricity, that we sell to our 
customers. It also means capturing and storing any remaining 
emissions using technology, protecting natural carbon sinks, 
and providing high-quality carbon credits to our customers 
to compensate for hard-to-abate emissions.

An increasing number of countries and companies have 
announced targets to achieve net-zero emissions by the 
middle of the century, and we are starting to see some 
changes in the demand and supply of energy. However, 
achieving the 1.5°C goal will be challenging and requires 
unprecedented global collaboration. The pace of change 
will also vary around the world.

Climate-related risks and opportunities identified 
by Shell over the short, medium and long term
We are continually enhancing our approach to assessing and 
managing risks and opportunities resulting from climate change. 
This includes considering different time horizons and their relevance to 
risk identification and business planning. We actively monitor societal 
developments, such as regulation-driven carbon pricing mechanisms 
and customer-driven preferences for products. We incorporate these 
into potential scenarios which provide insights into how the energy 
transition may unfold in the medium and long term. These insights and 
those from various other external scenarios (such as those prepared 
for the IPCC AR6) guide how we set our strategic direction, capital 
allocation and carbon emission reduction targets.

The process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks and 
opportunities is set out in the "Climate Risk Management" section. Shell 
has identified climate change and the associated energy transition as 
a material risk based on societal concerns and developments related 
to climate change and managing GHG emissions. The risks could 
potentially result in changes to the demand for our products, supply 
chains and markets; further changes to the regulatory environment in 
which we operate, and increased litigation (see Note 31 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements "Legal proceedings and other 
contingencies" on page 313). The risks are composed of a combination 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

of complex and interrelated elements that affect Shell's overall business 
value chain, and our asset, product and business portfolio. The risk 
landscape is evolving rapidly. To achieve our emissions reduction 
targets, active holistic management of all climate-related risk 
components is important. The composite risk is broken down
into the following sub-components:
￮ commercial risk;
￮ regulatory risk;
￮ societal risk (including litigation risk); and
￮ physical risk.

Overall, we mitigate climate-related risks through our Powering 
Progress strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. With our 
focus on performance, discipline and simplification, we believe that 
we are in a better position to achieve both our financial targets and 
climate-related targets and ambitions. This approach includes:
￮ reducing the GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and 2) 

by improving our energy efficiency, deploying renewable electricity, 
managing flaring and reducing methane emissions from our assets 
and projects;

￮ growing our world-leading liquefied natural gas (LNG) business, 
while decarbonising our LNG portfolio in two main ways: by 
growing our portfolio with a lower carbon intensity, and by focusing 
on reducing emissions of methane;

￮ managing our Upstream portfolio to support a balanced energy 
transition by cutting emissions from oil and gas production, while 
keeping oil production stable. Oil production is increasingly from
our deep-water business which, through innovation, produces
higher-margin and lower-carbon barrels; and

￮ transforming our businesses in Downstream and Renewables and 

Energy Solutions to offer more low-carbon solutions while reducing 
sales of oil products. 

In addition, we are working to effectively adapt our assets and 
activities to enhance our resilience to the physical risks related 
to climate change where needed.

See page 92 for more details of Physical risks.

We are also working with governments on their climate policies to help 
establish regulatory frameworks that will enable society to reach the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. 

We signed up to the Oil and Gas Decarbonisation Charter announced 
at COP28, within which organisations have pledged to achieve near-
zero methane emissions by 2030 and zero routine flaring by no later 
than 2030. We also intend to contribute to the World Bank's Global 
Flaring and Methane Reduction Fund, which was launched at COP28.

As a leading global energy business, Shell seeks to identify 
opportunities in the energy transition. These risks and opportunities 
are described below. Climate-related risks are also summarised in 
the "Risk factors" section of the Strategic Report on page 15.

Time horizons: short, medium and long
Due to the inherent uncertainty and pervasive risks across our strategy 
and business model, we monitor climate-related risks and opportunities 
across multiple time horizons. 
￮ Short term (up to three years): we develop detailed financial 

projections and use them to manage performance and expectations 
on a three-year cycle. These projections incorporate decarbonisation 
measures required to meet our short-term targets.

￮ Medium term (generally three to 10 years): these are embedded 

within our operating plan, with our continued focus on the customer, 
the investments and portfolio shifts required in the medium term that 
will reshape Shell's portfolio. 

￮ Long term (generally beyond 10 years): it is expected that our 

portfolio and product mix will look very different.

Transition risks

Climate-related commercial risk

￮ The transition to a low-carbon economy may lead to lower sales volumes and/or margins due to a 

general reduction or elimination of demand for oil and gas products, possibly resulting in underutilised 
or stranded oil and gas assets, and a failure to secure new opportunities.

￮ Changing preferences of investors and financial institutions could reduce access to and increase the 

Relevant time horizon:
medium and long

cost of capital.

Potential material impacts on the organisation

Lower demand and margins for oil and 
gas products 
Changing customer sentiment towards renewable 
and sustainable energy products may reduce 
demand for our oil and gas products. An excess of 
supply over demand could reduce fossil fuel prices. 
This could be a factor contributing to additional 
provisions for our assets and result in lower 
earnings, cancelled projects and potential 
impairment of certain assets.

Changing preferences of investors and 
financial institutions
Financial institutions are increasingly aligning 
their portfolios to a low-carbon and net-zero world, 
driven by both regulatory and broader stakeholder 
pressures. A failure to decarbonise the business 
portfolios in line with investor and lender 
expectations could have a material adverse effect 
on our ability to use financing for certain types 
of projects. This could also adversely affect our 
partners' ability to finance their portion of costs, 
either through equity or debt.

Sensitivity analysis of a 1% shift in Shell's weighted 
average cost of capital on asset carrying values is 
presented in the section "Carbon pricing and 
discount rate sensitivities" on page 96.

Remaining in step with the pace and 
extent of the energy transition
The energy transition provides us with significant 
opportunities, as described in "Transition 
opportunities" below. If we fail to stay in step with 
the pace and extent of change or customers' and 
other stakeholders' demand for low-carbon products, 
this could adversely affect our reputation and future 
earnings. If we move much faster than society, we 
risk investing in technologies, markets or low-carbon 
products that are unsuccessful. Therefore we cannot 
transition too quickly or we will be trying to sell 
products that customers do not want. This could also 
have a material adverse effect on financial results.

Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts 
to help meet the world's energy demands competitively. 
If we are unable to develop the right technology and 
products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we 
develop technologies, products and solutions that harm 
the environment or people's health, there could be an 
adverse effect on our future earnings. 

90
90

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Transition risks continued

Climate-related regulatory risk

The transition to a low-carbon economy will likely increase the cost of compliance for our assets and/or 
products, and may include restrictions on the use of hydrocarbons. The lack of net-zero-aligned global 
and national policies and frameworks increases the uncertainty around this risk.

Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long

Potential material impacts on the organisation

Restrictions on use of hydrocarbons
As of June 2023, more than 90% of the 
global economy was signed up to net-zero 
commitments, according to the Net Zero Stocktake 
2023 report from Net Zero Tracker. This brings an 
increasing risk that governments may set future 
regulatory frameworks that further restrict 
exploration and production of hydrocarbons, and 
introduce controls to limit the use of such products. 
Failure to replace proved reserves could result in an 
accelerated decrease of future production, which 
could have a material adverse effect on our 
earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 

Lack of net-zero-aligned global and 
national policies and frameworks 
The lack of net-zero-aligned global and national 
policies and frameworks increases the uncertainty 
around how carbon pricing and other regulatory 
mechanisms will be implemented in the future. This 
makes it harder to determine the appropriate 
assumptions to be taken into account in our financial 
planning and investment decision processes.

Increased compliance costs 
Some governments have introduced carbon pricing 
mechanisms, which we believe can be an effective 
way to reduce GHG emissions across the economy 
at the lowest overall cost to society. 

Shell's cost of compliance with the EU Emissions 
Trading Scheme (ETS) and related schemes was 
around $493 million in 2023, as recognised in 
Shell's Consolidated Statement of Income for 2023. 
A further $3,133 million of costs were incurred in 
respect of biofuels ($2,581 million) and renewable 
power ($552 million) programmes (see Note 5 to 
the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on 
pages 270-271).

Shell's annual carbon cost exposure is expected to 
increase over the next decade because of evolving 
carbon regulations. The forecast annual cost exposure is 
estimated to be around $1 billion in 2024 and around 
$4 billion in 2033. This estimate is based on a forecast 
of Shell's equity share of emissions from operated and 
non-operated assets, and real-term carbon cost estimates 
using the mid-price scenario (see Note 4 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 259-269 
for more information). This exposure also takes into 
account the estimated impact of free allowances as 
relevant to assets based on their location. 

Climate-related societal risk (including litigation risk)

As societal expectations develop around climate change, there is a potential impact on Shell's licence 
to operate, reputation, brand and competitive position. This is likely to include litigation.

Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long

Potential material impacts on the organisation

Decline in reputation and brand
Societal expectations of businesses are increasing, 
with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, 
contribution to society, safety and minimising 
damage to the environment. There is an increasing 
focus on the role of the oil and gas sector in the 
context of climate change and the energy 
transition. This could negatively affect our brand, 
reputation and licence to operate, which could limit 
our ability to deliver our strategy, reduce consumer 
demand for our branded and non-branded 
products, harm our ability to secure new resources 
and contracts, and restrict our ability to access 
capital markets or attract staff.

Deteriorating relationships with 
key stakeholders
Failure to decarbonise Shell's value chain in 
line with societal, governmental and investor 
expectations is a material risk to Shell's reputation 
as a responsible and market-leading energy 
company. The impact of this risk includes 
shareholder divestment, greater regulatory 
scrutiny and potential asset closure resulting 
from public interest groups' protests.

Litigation
There is an increasing risk to oil and gas companies 
from public, private and governmental lawsuits. 
Such action may have wide-ranging consequences, 
including forcing entities to hand over strategic 
autonomy in part to regulators, divest from 
hydrocarbon technologies, denial of regulatory 
approvals and/or paying fines/penalties or large 
compensation packages to the plaintiff.

Litigation continued
In some countries, governments, regulators, 
organisations and individuals have filed lawsuits of 
a wide variety, including seeking to hold oil and gas 
companies liable for costs associated with climate 
change, or seeking court-ordered reductions in 
emissions, challenging the regulatory approvals and 
operating licences, or challenging energy transition 
strategies and plans. While we believe these lawsuits 
to be without merit, losing could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 

For example, in May 2021, the District Court in The 
Hague, the Netherlands, ruled that by end 2030, 
Shell must reduce its aggregate net Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions by 45%, compared with 2019 levels. The 
Scope 1 component is a results-based obligation 
and the Scope 2 and 3 components are a significant 
best-efforts obligation. 

We have appealed the ruling but continue to 
implement our Powering Progress strategy to become 
a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, 
regardless of the outcome of the appeal. 

91
91

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Physical risks

Climate-related physical risk

The potential physical effects of climate change may impact Shell's assets, operations, supply chains, 
employees and markets.

Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long

Potential material impacts on the organisation

Shell's 2023 assessment continued
Additionally, the impact of physical climate change 
on our operations is unlikely to be limited to the 
boundaries of our assets. The overall impact, 
including how supply chains, resource availability 
and markets may be affected, also needs to be 
considered for a holistic assessment of this risk. 
Our assets manage this risk as part of broad risk 
and threat management processes as required 
by our HSSE & SP Control Framework, part of 
the wider Shell Performance Framework.

Types of physical risk
Mitigation of physical risks, whether or not related 
to climate change, is considered and embedded 
in the design and construction of our projects, 
and/or operation of our assets to minimise the 
risk of adverse incidents to our employees and 
contractors, the communities where we operate, 
and our equipment. 

The potential impact of physical changes comes 
from both acute and chronic physical risks. Acute 
risks, such as flooding and droughts, wildfires and 
more severe tropical storms, and chronic risks, such 
as rising temperatures and rising sea levels, could 
potentially impact some of our facilities, operations 
and supply chains. The frequency of these hazards 
and impacts is expected to increase in certain high-
risk locations. Extreme weather events, whether 
or not related to climate change, could have 
a negative impact on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.

Shell's 2023 assessment
In 2023 we carried out a detailed review to 
assess the impact of a range of changing climatic 
conditions including changes in temperature, 
precipitation, wind and sea levels across segments 
and geographies for our significant assets. We used 
IPCC climate modelling data covering three future 
climate scenarios (RCP2.6, RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 [A]) 
across the time horizons 2025, 2030 and 2050.

In the short to medium term, the risks were found 
to be related to factors that Shell is already aware 
of (whether or not related to climate change) and 
the assets are actively managing to mitigate, e.g. 
hurricane impacts in the US Gulf Coast, rising air 
temperatures in the Middle East and water scarcity 
in Europe and Asia. As an example, in recent years 
the Rhine river in Europe has seen historic lows 
during the summer months leading to challenges in 
the use of barges for transportation of our products. 
Dredging of harbours and investment in shallower-
draft barges have helped to mitigate the risk.

In the long term, the results of the exercise indicated 
that while we have evaluated against current known 
risk factors and our current asset portfolio, the 
frequency and severity of the identified risk factors 
may increase by 2050. The level of predictability 
is such that the need for investment in climate 
adaptation measures at the assets is not immediate 
and the results mean we are in a position to monitor 
the assets and determine whether there is any need 
for adaptation action, e.g. the impact of potential 
water scarcity on various assets.

We tested over 70% of the carrying value of our 
physical assets as at  December 31, 2022, to assess 
the potential impact of climate-related changes on 
our significant assets. 13% (based on the carrying 
value) of physical assets tested are considered to be 
exposed to climate-related physical risks in the short 
to medium term which the assets are already actively 
managing to mitigate. In addition, we reviewed 
significant acquisitions made in 2023 of which none 
are considered to be exposed to climate-related 
physical risks in the short to medium term.

Our plan reflects the impact of mitigating actions in 
the short to medium term. We will continue to monitor 
and assess the future exposure of our assets in the 
longer term to changing climatic conditions to 
establish the need for any further adaptation 
actions and related metrics. 

[A] Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) refers to the greenhouse gas concentration (not emissions) trajectory adopted by the IPCC. The pathways describe different climate change 

scenarios, all of which are considered possible depending on the amount of GHG emitted in the years to come. 

92
92

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Transition opportunities

Climate-related opportunities

The transition to a low-carbon economy also brings significant opportunities for us to benefit from changing 
customer demands, given our position as a leading global energy provider.

Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long

Potential material impacts on the organisation

As the global energy mix changes, our current infrastructure, know-how and global footprint put us in an ideal position to service the changing energy demands 
of the market. Our research and development (R&D) activities are key to achieving our net-zero emissions target. 

As we work to deliver more value with less emissions we 
are focusing on:

1. Natural gas
Demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG) is expected to 
continue to grow. As one of the world's largest suppliers of 
LNG, with around 40 million tonnes of equity capacity, we 
can ship natural gas to where it is needed. LNG is critical to 
the energy transition and plays an important role in enabling 
countries to replace coal-fired power generation with a less 
carbon-intensive alternative, and provides grid stability 
alongside wind and solar power in electricity generation. 
Shell seeks to provide more affordable, reliable and cleaner 
energy to our customers. 

In October 2023, we and our partners in the Oman 
LNG LLC (Oman LNG) venture signed an amended 
shareholders' agreement for Oman LNG, extending the 
business beyond 2024. We will remain the largest private 
shareholder in Oman LNG, with a 30% interest.

2. Continuing the transformation of our 
remaining integrated refineries into energy 
and chemicals parks

An important aim of our Powering Progress strategy is 
to continue to transform selected integrated refineries 
into energy and chemicals parks, which includes 
repurposing units to deliver more lower-carbon,
high-value, sustainable products.

We are continuing to transform our refining business as 
part of our drive to create more value with less emissions. 
In early 2024, we announced our investment decision to 
convert the hydrocracker at our Energy and Chemicals Park 
Rheinland in Germany into a unit that will produce premium 
base oils, used to make high-quality lubricants, such as 
engine and transmission oils. The hydrocracker at the 
Wesseling site near Cologne will stop processing crude oil 
into petrol, diesel and jet fuel diesel by 2025. The planned 
changes are expected to reduce Shell's Scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions by around 620,000 tonnes a year.

3. Biofuels 
Developing biofuels production is a key theme 
of our energy transition strategy. We are 
developing biofuels such as sustainable aviation 
fuel, biodiesel and renewable natural gas (RNG) 
to help our customers decarbonise without having 
to change their cars, trucks, planes or ships.

4. Downstream, Renewables and 
Energy Solutions
This encompasses our biofuels, charging for 
electric vehicles, renewable power, hydrogen 
and fuels of the future businesses as well 
as developing our carbon capture and 
storage business. 

In March 2023, we entered into a joint venture 
with Eku Energy (Shell interest 45%) to deliver 
a utility-scale battery energy storage system 
in Australia. We have access to 100% of the 
battery system's offtake over a 20-year period. 
Completion of the project is expected in 
late 2024.

In June 2023, Hollandse Kust Noord, our 
offshore wind park in the Netherlands (Shell 
interest 79.9%), delivered its first megawatts 
of renewable electricity.

In 2023, Shell's spending on CCS opportunities 
(operating expenses and cash capital 
expenditure) amounted to around $340 million, 
an increase of 55% from the $220 million in 
2022. Shell's equity share of captured and 
stored CO2 was around 0.5 million tonnes 
in 2023 (0.4 million tonnes in 2022).

Shell and the non-operated joint venture Raízen 
(Shell interest 44%) are together one of the 
world's largest blenders and distributors of 
biofuels. Shell plans to continue to invest in and 
increase the production of these low-carbon fuels. 
Our low-carbon fuels projects and operations 
around the world form part of a wider 
commitment to provide a range of energy choices 
for customers. For example, we believe that 
sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) provide the most 
effective way of reducing emissions within the 
aviation sector, with wider adoption of SAF 
enabling us to provide more low-carbon fuels 
to our customers. Biofuels may also present 
opportunities in the shipping, road freight and 
other sectors. Together with our customers, we 
are working on changing energy demand and 
developing ways to help increase the use of low-
carbon fuels and decrease carbon emissions 
from this sector. 

Shell completed the acquisition of Nature 
Energy in February 2023, one of the largest 
producers of RNG in Europe. This acquisition 
supports Shell's ambitions to build an integrated 
RNG value chain at global scale and to 
profitably grow its low-carbon offerings 
to customers across multiple sectors. 

In 2023, we announced a multi-year agreement 
to buy sustainable aviation fuel from Montana 
Renewables, the largest SAF producer in North 
America, and to work together on building 
blending and distribution capabilities to deliver 
SAF to customers. We also signed an agreement 
to supply SAF to Emirates airlines at Dubai 
International Airport, the first time that SAF 
has been used in the airport's fuelling system. 

Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on 
Shell's businesses, strategy and financial planning
The transformation of the energy system to net-zero emissions will 
require simultaneous action in three areas:
￮ an unprecedented improvement in the efficiency with which energy 

is used;

￮ a sharp reduction in the carbon intensity of the energy mix; and
￮ the mitigation of residual emissions using technology and 

natural sinks. 

While it is difficult to predict the exact combination of actions that will 
deliver the net-zero goal, scenarios help us to consider the variables 
and the potential direction and pace of the transition needed. 

Scenarios are not intended to be predictions of likely future events or 
outcomes and, therefore, are not the basis for Shell's operating plans 
and financial statements. 

We have been developing scenarios within Shell for almost 50 years, 
helping Shell leaders to explore ways forward and make better 
decisions. Shell Scenarios are designed to stretch management's 
thinking when it comes to considering events that may be remotely 
possible. Scenarios help management make choices in times
of uncertainty and transition as we grapple with tough energy and 
environmental issues. They are aligned to different energy transition 
pathways and help in decision-making by guiding the identification
of risks and opportunities. 

93
93

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Different socio-economic and technological parameters are used
to construct these scenarios, such as:
￮ sectoral and regional energy demand;
￮ future trajectory of oil consumption and demand for natural gas; 
￮ renewable electricity demand and the pace of the electrification

of scenario parameters above). The low-, medium- and high-pricing 
outlooks are prepared by a team of experts, reviewed by the EC and 
approved by the CEO and CFO. The mid-pricing outlook represents 
management's reasonable best estimate and is the basis for Shell's 
financial statements, operating plans and impairment testing. 

of the global energy system;
￮ supply of solar and wind energy;
￮ pace of uptake of electric vehicles;
￮ demand for biofuels;
￮ growth of the hydrogen economy;
￮ level of carbon capture and storage (CCS); 
￮ deployment of lower-carbon energy technologies; and
￮ global trade of oil and gas.

Management consideration of different climate change outcomes 
informs a range of areas, including but not limited to the setting of the 
long-term strategy, business planning, and investment and divestment 
decisions. The outcomes considered by management vary in relation
to the extent and pace of the energy transition.

Impact on strategic planning
The application of scenario analysis informs our assessment of the 
impact of a wide range of risks and opportunities, including climate-
change-related issues, on our strategy and business planning at the 
Group and business levels. At the Group level, the potential impacts of 
the energy transition on our business model are discussed and assessed 
by the Board and the Executive Committee as part of the annual 
strategic and business planning cycle. This assessment allows us to 
challenge accepted ways of thinking, identify material risks and 
opportunities, and identify key tensions and trade-offs.

Key financial and non-financial components 
of business planning
The Board approves our annual business plan. The plan 
contains operational and financial metrics, and its objective 
is to drive the delivery of our Powering Progress strategy. 

Decarbonisation targets are key to our business planning 
process. Each business owner offers viable Scope 1, 2 and 3 
reduction opportunities as part of this process, in line with the 
CMF (see page 87).

The business plan is underpinned by assumptions about internal 
and external parameters and includes: 
￮ commodity prices;
￮ refining margins;
￮ production levels and product demand;
￮ exchange rates; 
￮ future carbon costs;
￮ the schedules of capital investment programmes; and 
￮ risks and opportunities that may have material impacts 

on free cash flow.

These assumptions are developed with input from our scenarios 
and internal estimates and outlooks. The level of uncertainty 
around these assumptions increases over longer time horizons.

Impact on business and financial planning
There is no single scenario that underpins Shell's business and 
financial planning. Scenarios are not intended to be predictions of 
likely future events or outcomes and, therefore, are not the basis for 
Shell's operating plans and financial statements. Our scenarios help 
in developing our future oil and gas pricing outlooks. The oil and 
gas pricing outlooks take account of factors relating to the energy 
transition, such as potential changes in supply and demand (see details 

94
94

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell's operating plan reflects Shell's energy transition strategy. We will 
continue to update our business plan, price outlooks and assumptions 
as we move towards net-zero emissions by 2050.

As described in "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by 
Shell over the short, medium and long term", the low-pricing outlooks 
could result in increased commercial, regulatory and societal risks, 
as well as transition opportunities. How these risks are prioritised is 
described in "Shell's processes for identifying and assessing climate-
related risks". Given our target to become a net-zero emissions energy 
business by 2050, the use of low-pricing outlooks is part of our 
resilience testing and resulting actions. 

Our strategy and national net-zero commitments 
In accordance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.6FG, we have 
considered the extent to which country-level net-zero 
commitments have been considered in developing our 
transition plan.

Our Powering Progress strategy aims to deliver a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050. The pace of the energy 
transition will be heavily influenced by government policy, 
creating a strong country and regional dimension in seeking 
to deliver the aims of the Paris Agreement. Our commitment 
is a global one and, as such, we look to deliver our strategy 
through a global lens.

We seek to translate our energy transition strategy into specific 
targets and plans at a business segment level, ensuring we take 
capital deployment and portfolio decisions in the context of the 
globally integrated nature of our operations. However, we 
continue to recognise the importance of engagement and 
collaboration in delivering the fundamental changes to the 
energy system that are required. This includes supporting and 
advocating for policies that aim to reduce carbon emissions 
and working with governments and other stakeholders in the 
development of policy that supports the transition to a low-
carbon energy system. As national transition plans develop, 
consideration will be given to the impact on our operations and 
the associated implications for our energy transition strategy.

Resilience of Shell's strategy to different
climate-related scenarios 
Shell's financial strength and access to capital give us the 
ability to reshape our portfolio as the energy system transforms. 
They also allow us to withstand volatility in oil and gas markets.

As we work towards net-zero emissions, we continue to exercise focus 
and discipline to optimise our capital allocation, balancing energy 
security and demand, as well as internal and external transition 
considerations and opportunities. We will make clear, disciplined 
choices about where we can create the most value for our investors 
and customers through the energy transition.

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements "Segment information" on pages 

272-277 for more information.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Cash capital expenditure evolution by segment

f
e

d

c

b

a

1%
12%

26%

12%

18%

31%

1%

14%

15%

20%

17%

33%

2%
11%

13%

23%

17%

34%

2021

2022

2023

a

d

Upstream

Chemicals & 
Products

b

e

Integrated Gas

Renewables 
& Energy Solutions

c

f

Marketing

Corporate

Operational expenditure evolution by segment

f
e

d

c

b

a

1%
8%

29%

21%

12%

29%

1%
9%

29%

21%

13%

27%

1%
10%

29%

23%

12%

25%

2021

2022

2023

a

d

Upstream

Chemicals & 
Products

b

e

Integrated Gas

Renewables 
& Energy Solutions

c

f

Marketing

Corporate

Cash capital expenditure by segment for 2024 is expected to be 
approximately $8 billion for Upstream, $5 billion for Integrated Gas, 
$3 billion for Marketing, $3-4 billion for Chemicals and Products, 
and $4-5 billion for Renewables and Energy Solutions.

Investing in the energy transition

Total cash capital expenditure*of $24.4 billion in 2023 

Non-energy
products [A]

$2.3 billion

Low-carbon
energy solutions [B]

$5.6 billion

LNG, gas and power
marketing and trading [C]

$4.0 billion

Oil, oil products
and other [D]

$12.5 billion

[A] Products for which usage does not cause Scope 3, Category 11 emissions: Lubricants, 
Chemicals, Convenience Retailing, Agriculture & Forestry, Construction & Road.

[B] E-Mobility and Electric Vehicle Charging Services, Low-Carbon Fuels, Renewable Power 
Generation, Environmental Solutions, Hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy 
products as those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than conventional 
hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. 

[C] LNG Production & Trading, Gas & Power Trading, and Energy Marketing.
[D] Upstream segment, GTL, Refining & Trading, Marketing fuel and hydrocarbon sales, 

Shell Ventures, Corporate segment.

Movements in cash capital expenditure in 2023 versus 2022 were 
driven by:
￮ Non-energy products: 41% lower in 2023 than in 2022 due to the 

completion of Shell Polymers Monaca in 2022 and greater inorganic 
expansion in Lubricants and Convenience Retailing in 2022. 

￮ Low-carbon energy solutions: increased by 30% mainly due to the 
acquisition of Nature Energy (nearly $2 billion) and the roll-out of 
electric vehicle charging. 

￮ LNG, gas and power marketing and trading: comparable year 

on year. 

￮ Oil, oil products and other: remained at a similar level to 2022.

Energy transition: Total cash capital expenditure* by segment

Classification

Non-energy products [A]

Segment

Marketing

Low-carbon energy solutions [B]

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

LNG, gas and power 
marketing and trading [C]

Oil, oil products and other [D]

Renewables & Energy Solutions

Integrated Gas

Renewables & Energy Solutions

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

Renewables & Energy Solutions

Corporate

2023

2022

$ billion

2.3

5.6

4.0

12.5

0.9

1.4

3.3

2.3

3.7

0.3

0.5

8.3

1.4

1.8

0.1

0.4

1.5

2.4

1.4

2.9

3.8

0.4

0.5

8.1

2.0

1.4

0.2

0.3

3.9

4.3

4.2

12.5

Total

24.4

24.4

24.8

24.8

[A] Products for which usage does not cause Scope 3, Category 11 emissions: Lubricants, Chemicals, Convenience Retailing, Agriculture & Forestry, Construction & Road.
[B] E-Mobility and Electric Vehicle Charging Services, Low-Carbon Fuels, Renewable Power Generation, Environmental Solutions, Hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy products as 

those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. 

[C] LNG Production & Trading, Gas & Power Trading, and Energy Marketing.
[D] Upstream segment, GTL, Refining & Trading, Marketing fuel and hydrocarbon sales, Shell Ventures, Corporate segment.
* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

95
95

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Key aspects of Shell's financial resilience in the context of climate-
related impacts are assessed and described in more detail in Note 4
to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". This describes how Shell 
has considered climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial 
statements and how this translates into the valuation of assets and 
measurement of liabilities. Shell's financial statements are based on 
reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent management's 
best estimate of the range of economic conditions that may exist in 
the foreseeable future. 

Sensitivity analysis using external, and often normative, climate 
scenarios has been performed for the period covering asset life cycles. 
If these different price outlooks were used, this would impact the 
recoverability of certain assets recognised in the "Consolidated 
Balance Sheet" as at December 31, 2023.

As there is no single scenario that underpins our plans, sensitivity 
analysis has been conducted using a range of key assumptions to 
test the resilience of our asset base. This includes sensitivity analysis 
on asset carrying values using commodity price outlooks from external, 
and often normative, climate change scenarios; shifting trends in our 
portfolio, particularly exploration and evaluation, Upstream production 
and refineries; risks related to stranded assets; resilience of investments 
for transformation of our refining sites into energy and chemicals parks; 
carbon price sensitivities; chemicals and refining margins price 
sensitivities; discount rate sensitivities; demand sensitivities; onerous 
contracts; forecast taxable profits sufficient to recover deferred 
tax assets; dividend resilience; and limited risk on timing of 
decommissioning and restoration activities for Integrated Gas 
and Upstream. 

Commodity price sensitivities
Oil and gas prices are one of the key assumptions that underpin Shell's 
financial statements, with the mid-price outlook informed by Shell's 
scenario planning representing management's best estimate. Price 
outlooks reflect a broad range of factors, including but not limited 
to future supply and demand, and the pace of growth of low-carbon 
solutions. The scenarios have been selected to illustrate the resilience of 
the asset base under a range of possible outcomes, including the price 
implications arising from the IEA Net Zero Emissions scenario which 
provides a potential path for the global energy system to net-zero 
emissions by 2050. Sensitivities of asset carrying amounts to prices 
are under the assumption that all other factors in the models used 
to calculate impacts remain unchanged. 

Sensitivity analysis has been performed using price outlooks from:

1. Average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate 
change scenarios: In view of the broad range of price outlooks 
across the various scenarios, the average of three external price 
outlooks was taken from IHS Markit/ACCS 2023; Woodmac 
WM AET-1.5 degree; and IEA NZE50.

Applying these prices to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion and 
Upstream assets of $84 billion as at December 31, 2023, shows 
recoverable amounts that are $12-16 billion and $3-5 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. 

2. Hybrid Shell Plan and IEA NZE50: for this Shell's mid-price outlook is 
applied for the next 10 years. Because of greater uncertainty, the IEA 
normative Net Zero Emissions scenario is applied for the period after 
10 years. This gives less weight to the price-risk uncertainty in the first 
10 years reflected in the Operating Plan period and applies more risk 
to the more uncertain subsequent periods. 

96
96

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion and 
Upstream assets of $84 billion as at December 31, 2023, shows 
recoverable amounts that are $8-10 billion and $1-3 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023.

3. A 1.5 degree scenario, derived from IEA NZE50: This priceline 
applies the IEA normative Net Zero Emissions scenario over the 
whole period under review and reflects the sensitivity to a pure
net-zero emissions scenario from the IEA. 

Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion and 
Upstream assets of $84 billion as at December 31, 2023, shows 
recoverable amounts that are $15-20 billion and $3-5 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023.

In addition, further sensitivities are provided of -10% or +10% to Shell's 
mid-price outlook, as an average percentage over the full period. 
A change of -10% or +10% to the mid-price outlook, as an average 
percentage over the full period, would result in around $5-8 billion 
impairment or some $2-5 billion impairment reversal, respectively, 
in Integrated Gas and Upstream as at December 31, 2023. Compared 
with the prior year, the higher impact of a 10% decrease in commodity 
prices is mainly driven by lower headroom for certain assets between 
carrying value and recoverable value at December 31, 2023.

Carbon pricing and discount rate sensitivities
The risk of stranded assets may increase in a higher-carbon-price 
scenario. Sensitivities of our asset carrying values to carbon prices have 
been based on an IEA NZE 2050 scenario to illustrate the resilience 
of asset carrying values to higher long-term carbon prices than those 
included in the Shell mid-price outlook.

Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Integrated Gas 
assets of $72 billion and Upstream assets of $84 billion, up to the end 
of life of these assets, shows recoverable amounts that are $2-4 billion 
and $1 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying amounts as at 
December 31, 2023.

Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Chemicals and 
Products assets of $44 billion shows recoverable amounts that are 
$3-4 billion lower than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. 
For Chemicals and Products, increased carbon cost could potentially 
be recovered partially through increased product sale prices.

See "Carbon pricing" on page 88 for more information on our carbon price assumptions.

The discount rate applied for impairment testing is based on a 
nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and 
is determined at 7.5%, except for power generation in the Renewables 
and Energy Solutions segment where 6% is applied. The discount rate 
includes systematic risk for energy transition risk. In addition, cash flow 
projections applied in individual assets include specific asset risks, 
including risk of transition. An increase in systematic climate risk could 
lead to a higher WACC and consequently to a higher discount rate to 
be applied in impairment testing. We have used a 1% shift in discount 
rate for sensitivity analysis purposes as an indicator of the resilience of 
our asset base to incremental increases in our cost of capital.

An increase of the WACC of 1% under the assumption that all other 
factors in the models used to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts 
remain unchanged would lead to a change in the carrying amount of 
$2-4 billion for Integrated Gas and Upstream and up to $1 billion in 
Chemicals and Products, and no significant impairment in other segments.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 259-269 for further 

information on climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Delivering our energy transition strategy 
To ensure the resilience of our Powering Progress strategy, our 
responses to the risks and opportunities identified are: 
￮ delivery through our integrated business model;
￮ decarbonisation of our energy value chains and operations; and
￮ a demand-driven decarbonisation approach – recognising that 

we need to work with our customers to identify low-carbon energy 
solutions for their energy demands in the sectors where we have 
competitive advantages.

Our net-zero target includes emissions from our operations, as well 
as from the end-use of all the energy products we sell. We will seek 
to reduce emissions from our own operations, including the production 
of oil and gas. More than 90% of the total emissions we include within 
our NCI boundary are indirect emissions associated with third-party 
products and end-use emissions of energy products we sell, so we 
are also working with our customers to support them in transitioning 
to low-carbon products and services. Our integrated approach 
allows us to withstand volatility in oil and gas markets. Our financial 
framework is based on continued capital discipline, capital flexibility 
and a strong balance sheet.
￮ In Integrated Gas, we are growing our world-leading liquefied 

natural gas (LNG) business. We see continued strong demand for 
LNG, especially in Asia, and plan to grow our LNG business by 
20-30% by 2030 compared with 2022. LNG provides energy 
security and flexibility because it can be easily transported to places 
where it is needed most. LNG is a critical fuel in the energy transition 
and plays an important role as a lower-carbon alternative to coal for 
industry, and provides grid stability alongside wind and solar power 
in electricity generation.

￮ In Upstream, we continue to focus on more value and less emissions 
and expect that our oil production will remain stable through to 
2030. The oil we are producing will increasingly come from our 
world-class deep-water business. Through innovative designs, our 
deep-water platforms are producing higher-margin and lower-carbon 
barrels. As we work towards net-zero emissions, we will continue to 
approach capital and carbon allocation with discipline and focus. 

￮ In Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions, we are 

making clear choices and changes to enable this business to thrive 
through the energy transition. We are focusing on developing low-
carbon energy and solutions where we have competitive advantages 
and are starting to see increasing demand. We are focusing on 
value over volume across all our businesses in Downstream and 
Renewables and Energy Solutions, while driving both our emissions 
and our customers' emissions lower.

￮ We are repurposing our refining portfolio to focus on four regional 
Energy and Chemicals parks, which we are transforming into the
low-carbon hubs of the future producing biofuels and hydrogen. 
Our energy transition plans for this decade across our Downstream, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions business are focused on: growing 
our electric vehicle charging business; expanding our biofuels 
business; continuing to grow our integrated power positions, and 
developing technologies related to CCS and carbon removals.

Our research and development (R&D) activities are also key to 
achieving our net-zero emissions target. They are an important way 
to address the technology risk as mentioned in the "Transition risk 
and opportunities" section. 

In 2023, our R&D expenditure on projects that contributed to 
decarbonisation was around $628 million, representing about 
49% of our total R&D spend, compared with around 41% in 2022. 
This includes expenditure on reducing GHG emissions:
￮ from our own operations, for example, by improving energy 

efficiency and electrification; 

￮ from the fuels and other products we sell to our customers - for 
example, biofuels, synthetic fuels and products made from low-
carbon electricity, and hydrogen produced using renewable sources;

￮ by carbon capture, utilisation and storage applied to hydrogen 

production from natural gas and other carbon emissions; 
￮ by researching nature-based solutions to offset emissions; and
￮ for our customers through renewable power generation, storage,

e-mobility and other electrification solutions.

Examples of R&D areas other than decarbonisation, include safety, 
performance products such as lubricants and polymers, automation 
and artificial intelligence. 

Decarbonising our value chains and operations
We will seek to base the decarbonisation of our value chains and 
operations on a deep understanding of the decarbonisation strategies 
and plans of our customers and users of our energy products. We are 
focused on decarbonising our own operations by:
￮ making portfolio changes such as acquisitions and investments in 
new, low-carbon projects. We are also decommissioning plants, 
divesting assets, and reducing our production through the natural 
decline of existing oil and gas fields;

￮ improving the energy efficiency of our operations;
￮ transforming our remaining integrated refineries into low-carbon 

energy and chemicals parks, which involves decommissioning plants;

￮ using more renewable electricity to power our operations; and
￮ developing carbon capture and storage (CCS) for our facilities.

If required, we may choose to use high-quality carbon credits to offset 
any remaining emissions from our operations, in line with the mitigation 
hierarchy of avoid, reduce, and compensate.

In October 2021, we set an interim target to achieve a 50% reduction 
in absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions under our operational control by 
2030 on a net basis, when compared with 2016.

We aim to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets 
by 2025 [A] and maintain methane emissions intensity for operated oil 
and gas assets below 0.2% and achieve near-zero methane emissions 
by 2030.
[A] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.

See "Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions" for more information 

See "Outlook" for more information on page 13.

on page 108.

97
97

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Supporting our customers in achieving net-zero emissions
Changes to the supply of energy products and decarbonising the 
energy system require structural changes in the end-use of energy. 
This requires energy users to improve, update or replace equipment 
so that they can use carbon-based energy more efficiently, or switch 
to low- and zero-carbon energy. 

The intended use of the NCI metric is to track progress in reducing 
the overall carbon intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. NCI 
measures emissions associated with each unit of energy we sell, 
compared to a 2016 baseline. It reflects changes in sales of oil and gas 
products, and changes in sales of low- and zero-carbon products -- such 
as biofuels, hydrogen and renewable electricity.

We aim to lead in the energy transition where we have competitive 
strengths, see strong customer demand, and identify clear regulatory 
support from governments. The transport sector is the largest market for 
our oil products. We are building on our customer relationships and 
expertise to help drive the decarbonisation of passenger cars, heavy-
duty trucks, planes and ships. We want to become a world leader 
in charging for electric vehicles, and remain a world leader in biofuels 
as they become sustainable aviation fuels or renewable diesel made 
from waste. By transforming our refineries into four regional energy 
and chemicals parks, we are creating the low-carbon production 
hubs of the future.

For example, in the transport sector, decarbonisation includes replacing 
internal combustion engine vehicles with electric vehicles and converting 
heavy-duty transport to biofuels such as sustainable aviation fuel, 
renewable diesel, renewable gas and, in the future, hydrogen and its 
derivatives. In the industrial sector, LNG plays an important role as a 
lower-carbon alternative to oil- and coal-fired furnaces, and provides grid 
stability alongside wind and solar power in electricity generation. Such 
structural changes will help to trigger transitions along the supply chain 
of individual sectors and across sectors, including the production of 
energy and emissions over time. The IEA estimates that these changes in 
the end-use of energy will require substantial investment. Under the IEA 
Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, for every one US dollar spent 
on fossil fuels, a further $5.7 need to be spent on clean energy and 
a further $5.6 spent on efficiency and end-uses.

We will seek to change the mix of energy products we sell to our 
customers as their needs for energy change. Emissions resulting from 
customer use of our energy products make up the largest percentage 
of Shell's carbon emissions. We believe we can make the greatest 
contribution to the energy transition by helping to enable our customers 
to switch to low-carbon energy products and services. This is reflected 
in Shell's strategy to develop a portfolio that seeks to:
￮ develop low- and zero-carbon alternatives to traditional fuel, 

including biofuels, hydrogen, and other low- and zero-carbon gases;

￮ provide more electricity to customers, while also driving a shift to 

renewable electricity;

￮ work with customers across different sectors to help them 

decarbonise their use of energy, for example by substituting the 
use of coal with LNG; and

￮ address any remaining emissions from conventional fuels with 

solutions such as CCS and carbon credits.

We have set targets to reduce the net carbon intensity (NCI) of the 
energy products we sell by 9-12% by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 15-20% 
by 2030, and 100% by 2050.

Unlike Scope 1 and 2 emissions, reducing the NCI of the products we 
sell requires action by both Shell and our customers, with the support 
of governments and policymakers to create the right conditions 
for change.

Our focus on where we can add the most value has led to a strategic 
shift in our power business. We plan to build our integrated power 
business, including renewable power, in places such as Australia, 
Europe, India and the USA. We have withdrawn from the supply of 
energy directly to homes in Europe because we do not believe that 
is where our strengths lie.

In line with our shift to prioritising value over volume in power, we are 
concentrating on select markets and segments. One example is our 
focus on commercial customers more than retail customers. Given this 
focus on value, we expect growth in total power sales to 2030 will be 
lower than previously planned. This has led to an update to our NCI 
target. We are now targeting a 15-20% reduction by 2030 in the NCI 
of the energy products we sell, compared with 2016, against 
our previous target of a 20% reduction.

Acknowledging uncertainty in the pace of change in the energy 
transition, we have also chosen to retire our 2035 target of a 45% 
reduction in NCI.

We have set a new ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use 
of our oil products by 15-20% by 2030 compared with 2021 (Scope 3, 
Category 11). That is more than 40% compared with 2016 reported 
emissions. [A] This level of ambition is in line with the European Union's 
climate goals in the transport sector, among the most progressive in 
the world.

Achieving this ambition will mean reducing sales of oil products, 
such as petrol and diesel, as we support customers as they move 
to electric mobility and lower-carbon fuels, including natural gas, 
LNG and biofuels.

Our approach to climate change emphasises the need to work 
collaboratively. We aim to make strategic alliances with customers, 
other companies and entire sectors so we and they can make 
profitable progress towards net zero. As a founding member of the 
Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), we are part of a group of 12 
national and international energy companies. The OGCI supports the 
climate goals of the UN Paris Agreement and recognises that collective 
actions can help drive the energy transition. 
[A] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 

517 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2023, 569 million tonnes CO2e 
in 2021 and 819 million tonnes CO2e in 2016. Of the 40% reduction by 2030, around 
8 percentage points are related to volumes associated with additional contracts being 
classified as held for trading purposes, impacting reported volumes from 2020 onwards.

98
98

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Energy transition in action - selection of portfolio changes and actions in 2023: 

Growing sales of low-carbon products and solutions
￮ Shell completed the acquisition of Volta Inc. in the USA. 

We now operate one of the largest electric vehicle charging 
networks in the country, with more than 3,000 charge points 
across 31 states. We also acquired evpass, which 
owns Switzerland's largest network of electric vehicle 
charging stations.
In China, we opened our largest electric vehicle charging station 
globally, which has 258 public fast-charging points partially 
powered by the station's solar photovoltaic panels.

￮

￮ In Germany, we launched Hydrogen Pay-Per-Use, through which 

truck operators can hire hydrogen-fuelled trucks to explore 
transitioning their fleet from diesel to hydrogen and reduce 
their carbon emissions. 

￮ The Hollandse Kust Noord (HKN) wind park, built by 

CrossWind, a joint venture between Shell and Eneco, became 
operational. It will add 759 MW of renewable energy to the 
Dutch electricity grid after final commissioning.

￮ Shell completed the acquisition of Nature Energy, one of the 
largest producers of RNG in Europe. This acquisition supports 
Shell's ambitions to build an integrated RNG value chain at 
global scale and to profitably grow its low-carbon offerings 
to customers across multiple sectors. 

￮ Shell announced a multi-year offtake agreement for sustainable 
aviation fuel with Montana Renewables, one of the largest 
sustainable aviation fuel producers in North America.
￮ Our Northern Lights CCS project (Shell interest 33.3%) in 

Norway signed contracts in 2023 to transport and safely store 
1.2 million tonnes of CO2 a year. The CO2 will be shipped from 
two of Orsted's biomass power plants in Denmark and a Yara 
ammonia and fertiliser plant in the Netherlands. 

￮ Shell and Esso were jointly awarded three carbon storage 

appraisal licences in the UK's first-ever carbon storage licensing 
round. The joint venture (Shell interest 50%) will evaluate three 
sites in the North Sea for the potential storage of CO2 captured 
and transported from industrial facilities in the UK.

￮ Shell continued to build a high-grade portfolio of carbon credits. 
In the USA, we launched Greenline Climate with the Spatial 
Informatics Group to provide development services for projects 
generating forest carbon credits. We also invested in and 
partnered with carbon project developer Kateri to accelerate 
advanced grazing management practices to improve rangeland 
productivity and carbon sequestration. 

￮ We moved forward with our construction of Holland Hydrogen 1 

(HH1), which will be one of Europe's largest renewable 
hydrogen plant once operational in 2025. The renewable 
power for the electrolyser will come from HKN. The renewable 
hydrogen produced will supply the Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park Rotterdam, helping to decarbonise products like petrol, 
diesel and jet fuel. In the future, renewable hydrogen could also 
help cut emissions from commercial road transport.

Reducing emissions from our own operations 
￮ In the US Gulf of Mexico, we are the leading operator and 

have one of the lowest greenhouse gas intensities in the world 
for producing oil, compared with those of other oil and gas 
producing members of the International Association of Oil & 
Gas Producers. Our latest Shell-operated development, Vito 
(Shell interest 63.1%), started production in 2023. Vito is a third 
the size of its original design, which will reduce its emissions by 
around 80% over its operating life. We are using the same 
design concept for our Shell-operated Whale (Shell interest 
60%) and Sparta (Shell interest 51%) projects in the US Gulf of 
Mexico, which are expected to start production in 2024 and 
2028 respectively. Sparta will also feature all-electric topside 
compression equipment, significantly reducing greenhouse 
gas intensity and emissions from our own operations. 

￮ We delivered first gas from the Timi platform in Malaysia, which 
is powered by solar and wind. This unmanned platform is also 
more cost efficient, since it is around 60% lighter in weight than 
a conventional tender-assisted drilling wellhead platform that 
relies on oil and gas for power.

￮ We started to build the Rosmari-Marjoram gas project, which 

will be partially powered by 240 solar panels. 

￮ We are continuing to transform our refining business as part 
of our drive to create more value with less emissions. In early 
2024, we announced our investment decision to convert the 
hydrocracker at our Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in 
Germany into a unit that will produce premium base oils, used 
to make high-quality lubricants, such as engine and transmission 
oils. The hydrocracker at the Wesseling site near Cologne will 
stop processing crude oil into petrol, jet fuel and diesel by 2025. 
The planned changes are expected to reduce Shell's Scope 1 
and 2 carbon emissions by around 620,000 tonnes a year.

￮ The final investment decision was taken to build Porthos, 

Europe's largest CCS facility, at the port of Rotterdam, starting 
in 2024. Shell will be the biggest customer, supplying 1 million 
tonnes of CO2 a year.

99
99

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Climate risk management

Shell's processes for identifying and assessing
climate-related risks
Identifying climate-related risks
Shell considers climate change and the energy transition a material risk 
factor. We monitor the risks related to these across four components:
￮ commercial risks;
￮ regulatory risks;
￮ societal risks (including litigation risk); and 
￮ physical risks.

These components are monitored and assessed on an integrated 
basis, necessitated by the interdependence of the risks and the related 
actions. The different components pose different kinds of exposures 
spanning different time horizons. Similarly, the responses to the 
components of the risk are also planned by taking a holistic view. Our 
integrated approach to risk management and the resulting changes 
in our strategy ensure we manage our aggregate climate change risk 
within our overall risk appetite over different time horizons.

For example, the increasing cost of complying with emission limits
in some regions is a regulatory risk that may require operational 
responses in the near term. The reduction in demand for legacy 
hydrocarbons is a commercial risk that may have a medium- to long-
term impact, demanding changes to our strategic portfolio and 
business models. The risk of physical impacts of climate change may 
occur in the short, medium and long term and may require actions
to mitigate adverse impacts on our assets and supply chain. As an 
example, the transformation of our refineries into energy and chemicals 
parks reduces the level of our operational emissions and medium-
to long-term commercial risks, allowing us to plan for future
adaptation measures. 

Shell's processes for identifying and assessing risks are part of the 
Shell Performance Framework.

Our risk management procedures that help us identify climate-related 
risks and opportunities include:
￮ monitoring external developments, including policy changes and 

new regulations;

￮ evaluating the status of risk indicators, which illustrate how well 
we are managing each component of the risk related to climate 
change and the energy transition; and

￮ learning from incidents and assurance findings.

We use these procedures to identify risks and determine their 
significance, both individually and relative to other risks.

Assessing climate-related risks
For each identified risk, we evaluate its impact, likelihood and the level 
of risk we are willing to accept.

When assessing the likelihood of a risk occurring, we consider factors 
such as our ability to prevent the risk happening and whether the risk 
has materialised in the past.

We consider the financial consequences and how it might affect our 
reputation, our ability to comply with regulations, and possible damage 
to health, safety, our assets and the environment. The impact, and 
hence materiality, of a risk is based on how critical it could be to 
our business model. For example, as we operate in multiple countries, 
societal risks are material to our licence to operate.

The impact and likelihood assessment helps us to prioritise risks and 
determine their relative materiality, based on a comprehensive picture 
of significant risks to any relevant business objectives.

100
100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

To support our risk assessments, we seek to establish the level of 
risk that we are willing to accept in pursuit of Shell's strategy and 
objectives. We consider the amount of resources – such as financial 
resources, people, processes, systems and controls – that we are 
willing and able to allocate to manage each risk in pursuit of our 
objectives and the impact for Shell's overall risk profile.

The impact and likelihood assessment, combined with risk appetite, 
determines the type of risk responses, such as controls and assurance 
activities, that may be required to manage each risk.

Possible responses include:
￮ accepting the risk without any further action;
￮ mitigating or reducing the risk with appropriate controls, supported 

by assurance activities;

￮ transferring the risk, for example to insurance providers where 

appropriate; and 

￮ altogether stopping or forgoing the activity that gives rise to the risk.

In determining our risk responses, we always seek to comply with
our Code of Conduct and other boundaries, such as our financial 
framework, which set the aggregate level of risk appetite that could
be sustained. The Financial Framework considers boundaries such
as our net debt levels and our credit rating.

Classifications of risks
We identify and define risks across the spectrum of strategic, 
operational, and conduct and culture risks. With strategic risks 
we consider current and future portfolio issues, examining 
parameters such as country concentration or exposure to 
higher-risk countries. We also consider long-range 
developments to test key assumptions or beliefs in relation to 
energy markets. When assessing operational risks, we consider 
material operational exposures across Shell's entire value chain 
which provides a more granular assessment of key risks facing 
the organisation. For conduct and culture risks we consider how 
our policies and practices align with our purpose, core values 
and desired mindset and behaviours.

Against the above categories, we assess the four sub-
components of risk related to climate change and the energy 
transition – commercial, regulatory, societal (including 
litigation) and physical risks. This helps us maintain strategic 
resilience, robust operational risk responses and alignment 
of our responses with Shell's purpose and core values.

Shell's processes for managing climate-related risks
On an ongoing basis, our assets leverage broad risk and threat 
management processes to identify and respond to emerging challenges 
to their ongoing safe, compliant and efficient operation, including 
climate-related risk, as required by our HSSE & SP Control Framework. 
Our risk management processes are carried out at the Group, business, 
function and asset level, which includes projects.

We apply the Shell Performance Framework to ensure that we 
effectively manage our climate-related risks at all these levels. 
The Framework includes:
￮ mandatory standards and manuals;
￮ project-level risk management processes;
￮ management and Board reviews;
￮ internal audits; and
￮ annual assurance letter process.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Mandatory standards and manuals
Our climate change risk management approach is supported by 
standards and manuals as part of our HSSE & SP Control Framework. 
They provide guidance on how to monitor, communicate and report 
changes in the risk environment. These documents aim to:
￮ ensure consistent management and assessment of climate risk

across Shell; 

￮ clarify expectations for risk management and reporting, 
including roles and responsibilities of the risk owners;

￮ clarify types of assurance activities that may be applicable; 
￮ strengthen decision-making by ensuring that businesses have better 

awareness and understanding of climate risks (including their 
likelihood and potential impact) and mitigation plans; and 

￮ enable integration of Shell's reporting.

We periodically review and, if necessary, update our standards and 
manuals in light of developments in risks, including those associated 
with climate change. We are in the process of transitioning to new 
Safety, Environment & Asset Management Standards as part of the 
Shell Performance Framework. Our approach continues to evolve as 
we increase our understanding of changing policies and the differing 
pace of energy transition in different regions.

Project-level risk management processes
At a project level, assessing climate-related risks is an important part
of making initial investment decisions. Projects of a certain size or
which carry unusual risks are required to follow Shell's Opportunity 
Realisation Standard, which sets out the rules for managing and 
delivering opportunities in the organisation. Each project is assisted
by experts from our global subject matter groups during its 
development, implementation and operation.

Projects under development that are expected to have a material 
GHG impact must meet our internal carbon performance standards 
or industry benchmarks. An exception process is in place to manage 
specific incidental cases. Performance standards are under 
development for power and hydrogen projects. Our performance 
standards are used for measuring a project's average lifetime GHG 
intensity or energy efficiency per asset type. Projects with a material 
GHG footprint that meet the performance standards or industry 
benchmarks will often set more ambitious emissions targets for 
themselves. GHG abatement plans help determine the nature of these 
targets, and we assess the effects of a project's emissions alongside 
economic and technical design factors. Applying these criteria ensures 
that our projects can compete and prosper in the energy transition.

The performance standards are approved by the Executive Vice 
President accountable for implementation in the relevant businesses, 
and by the Executive Vice President Safety, Environment and 
Asset Management.

We assess the future GHG emissions of projects against performance 
standards and by considering the GHG emissions from the use of the 
products that are to be manufactured. These assessments can lead 
to projects being stopped or designs being changed.

We expect the performance standards to evolve as our portfolio 
changes in the energy transition.

101
101

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Management and Board reviews
Climate change matters and risks resulting from GHG emissions are 
reviewed and managed in line with other significant risks through the 
Board and EC. Management, the Board and Board committees review 
the risk of climate change and the energy transition to understand and 
assess emerging issues that may impact our strategy or our responses 
to this risk at an operational level. For example, as part of the annual 
planning cycle, the EC and the Board assess how climate change and 
GHG emissions may affect the pace of the energy transition, business 
emission reduction plans and the implications for Shell's current portfolio. 

We have established several dedicated internal forums related 
to climate change and the energy transition. These are at different 
levels of the organisation and seek to address, monitor and review 
climate change issues. 

In addition, each business and function regularly reviews its risk profile, 
risk responses and assurance activities throughout the year to ensure 
climate-related risks are managed effectively. These insights are used 
to provide management with updates on the operational management 
of climate change and the energy transition risks. During these updates, 
business and functions management review whether our risk responses 
are effective in addressing the four sub-components of the climate 
change and energy transition risk. These reviews help us to update 
Shell's plans and guide our day-to-day operational decisions such 
as maintenance schedules and our risk response plans.

Internal audit process
Shell's Internal Audit and Investigations (SIAI) team provides independent 
and objective assurance and advises management and the Board on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls. 

For example, SIAI conducted five audits during 2023 that included the 
testing of controls related to GHG emissions measurement, reporting, 
forecasting and abatement projects. 

Annual assurance letter process
Each member of the EC must submit an annual assurance letter to the 
CEO that their business's or function's activities have been conducted 
in accordance with the requirements set out in the HSSE & SP Control 
Framework. This assurance includes the assessment of the effectiveness 
of the internal controls in managing climate- and energy-transition-
related risks. 

Integration of the climate-related risk management
process into Shell's overall risk management
Our climate-related risk management process follows the approach set 
out by the Shell Performance Framework, ensuring that it is integrated 
into the overall risk management processes of the Group.

Climate-related risks are considered from a strategic and operational 
perspective to ensure we maintain a comprehensive view of the 
different types of climate risks we face and the different time horizons 
in which they may affect us. The monitoring and review of risks is a 
key risk management process in Shell. 

The EC, the Board and Board committees review climate-related risks 
and their impact on the Group. This allows management to take a 
holistic view and optimise risk mitigation responses, to ensure that 
climate-related risk responses are properly integrated into the 
relevant activities.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Project-level risk management in action: 
Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland

We are continuing to transform our refining business as part of our 
drive to create more value with less emissions. Shell announced 
plans in January 2024 to convert the hydrocracker at its Energy 
and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany into a unit that will 
produce premium base oils, used to make high-quality lubricants, 
such as engine and transmission oils. 

The Wesseling site near Cologne will stop processing crude oil into 
petrol, diesel and jet fuel by 2025, and the plant will have a high 
degree of electrification. These changes are expected to reduce 
Shell's Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by around 620,000 tonnes 
a year.

The new base oil plant is expected to start operations in the second 
half of this decade. It will have a production capacity of around 
300,000 tonnes a year, equivalent to about 9% of current EU 
demand and 40% of Germany's demand for base oils.

This investment, financed by Shell's Chemicals and Products 
business, meets the minimum acceptable internal rate of return 
set out at our Capital Markets Day in 2023. It is the latest key 
development in the transformation of the Energy and Chemicals 
Park Rheinland. We are already investing in a 10-megawatt 
electrolyser to produce renewable hydrogen and a biomethane 
liquefaction plant.

Photo: Boats sitting at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Cologne-Godorf harbour leading to the Rhine. 

102
102

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Climate-related metrics and targets

Metrics used by Shell to assess climate-related risks
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process
This section describes our performance and progress in respect of our 
climate-related targets, including those reflected in the remuneration 
of senior management and employees. 

Shell's target is to become a net-zero emissions energy business 
by 2050. We have set intensity targets and absolute targets 
and ambitions over the short, medium and long term to track 
our performance over time (as summarised below). The targets are 
forward-looking targets based on management's current expectations 
and certain material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and 
uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to 
differ materially from those expressed or implied herein.

We believe our total net absolute emissions peaked in 2018 at 
1.73 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (GtCO2e). 

In October 2021, in support of our 2050 net-zero emissions target, 
we set a target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions from assets 
and activities under our operational control (including divestments) by 
50% by 2030 compared with the 2016 baseline, on a net basis. We aim 
to maintain methane emissions intensity for operated oil and gas assets 
below 0.2% and achieve near-zero methane emissions by 2030. We aim 
to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets by 2025 [A].
[A] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.

We have set targets to reduce the net carbon intensity (NCI) of the 
energy products we sell by 9-12% by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 15-20% 
by 2030, and 100% by 2050.

The intended use of the NCI metric is to track progress in reducing 
the overall carbon intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. NCI 
measures emissions associated with each unit of energy we sell, 

Climate-related targets and ambitions summary

compared to a 2016 baseline. It reflects changes in sales of oil and gas 
products, and changes in sales of low- and zero-carbon products -- such 
as biofuels, hydrogen and renewable electricity.

Unlike Scope 1 and 2 emissions, reducing the NCI of the products we sell 
requires action by both Shell and our customers, with the support of 
governments and policymakers to create the right conditions for change.

Our focus on where we can add the most value has led to a strategic shift 
in our power business. We plan to build our integrated power business, 
including renewable power, in places such as Australia, Europe, India and 
the USA. We have withdrawn from the supply of energy directly to homes 
in Europe because we do not believe that is where our strengths lie.

In line with our shift to prioritising value over volume in power, we are 
concentrating on select markets and segments. One example is our 
focus on commercial customers more than retail customers. Given this 
focus on value, we expect growth in total power sales to 2030 will be 
lower than previously planned. This has led to an update to our NCI 
target. We are now targeting a 15-20% reduction by 2030 in the NCI 
of the energy products we sell, compared with 2016, against 
our previous target of a 20% reduction. Acknowledging uncertainty in 
the pace of change in the energy transition, we have also chosen to 
retire our 2035 target of a 45% reduction in NCI.

We have set a new ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use 
of our oil products by 15-20% by 2030 compared with 2021 (Scope 3, 
Category 11) [B]. This level of ambition is in line with the European 
Union's climate goals in the transport sector, among the most 
progressive in the world.

Achieving this ambition will mean reducing sales of oil products, such 
as petrol and diesel, as we support customers as they move to electric 
mobility and lower-carbon fuels, including natural gas, LNG and biofuels.
[B] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million 
tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

We monitor our progress against these targets and ambitions using 
the key metrics described.

Net-zero emissions by 2050 [A], [D]
(Scope 1, 2 and 3)

2023 Actual Performance

Metrics, targets and ambitions to 2050

Emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2)

Target

Target

Target

Target

Target

Target

Scope 1 and 2 
emissions [B]
 31%
reduction  
vs 2016

Routine  
flaring
0.1 million 
tonnes hydrocarbons  
flared

Methane  
emissions [C]
0.05%

Halving Scope 1  
and 2 emissions by 
2030 [B]  
under operational control  
(2016 baseline)

Eliminating  
routine flaring
from upstream  
operations  
by 2025 [E]

Maintain methane 
emissions intensity 
below 0.2% and 
achieve near-zero 
methane emissions 
by 2030 [C]

Emissions from the products we sell (Scope 3)

Target

Ambition

Target

Ambition

Net carbon intensity (NCI)
 6.3%
reduction 
(6-8% target)

New ambition [F] 
First performance metric 
to be reported in 2024

Net carbon intensity (NCI)
Introducing a range of 15-20%  
for our target to reduce  
NCI by 2030 (2016 baseline)

Oil products ambition [F]
Reduce customer emissions from the use  
of our oil products by 15-20% by 2030, 
Scope 3, Category 11 (2021 baseline)

New

Updated

New

[A] We believe our total net absolute emissions peaked in 2018 at around 1.73 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (GtCO₂e) per annum.
[B] Operational control boundary. Our 2030 and 2050 targets are on a net basis (i.e. inclusive of any future use of carbon credits). 
[C] Covers all oil and gas assets for which Shell is the operator. Measured separately for assets with marketed gas (gas, LNG and GTL available for sale) and assets without marketed gas 

(oil and gas assets where gas is reinjected). 2023 actual performance relates to assets with marketed gas. 

[D] Our targets for 2050 are based on mitigation activities undertaken by both Shell and our customers.
[E] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.
[F] In our energy transition update in March 2024, we have set an ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) by 15-20% by 2030, compared with 

2021. Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

103
103

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Key metrics we use to track progress against our energy transition 
strategy are the NCI of our portfolio and our absolute emissions. 
Additional metrics associated with the resilience of Shell's strategy to 
climate-related risks and opportunities are included in "Energy transition 
strategy" from page 89. This includes information on capital allocation 
between our business segments and the sensitivity of our assets to 
carbon pricing, discount rate and commodity price assumptions.

Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions and related risks 
In assessing progress against our target to be a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050, we report our performance against our 
Scope 1 and 2, and Scope 3 emissions. 

See "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over the short, medium and 

long term" on pages 90-93.

Shell's absolute emissions in 2023
In 2023, our total combined Scope 1 and 2 absolute GHG emissions 
(from assets and activities under our operational control) were 57 million 
tonnes on a carbon dioxide equivalent basis (CO2e), a 2% reduction 
compared with 2022, and a 31% reduction compared with 2016, the 
base year for our target. Scope 3 emissions associated with our energy 
product sales were 1,147 million tonnes CO2e.

Absolute emissions [D, E, F, G]

million tonnes of CO2e

Scope

Reporting boundary

2023

2022

2021

2016

Scope 1 [A]

operational control

Scope 2 [B]

operational control

50

7

51

7

60

8

72

11

Scope 3 [C]

equity

1,147

1,174

1,299

1,545

[A] Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from assets and activities under our operational 
control. It includes emissions from production of energy and non-energy products.

[B] Total indirect GHG emissions from imported energy (Scope 2) from assets and activities 

under our operational control using the market-based method. It includes imported energy 
used for production of energy and non-energy products.

[C] Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3, Categories 1, 3, 9 and 11) based on the energy product 
sales included in NCI using equity boundary. There was a decrease in reported volumes 
associated with additional contracts being classified as held for trading purposes with 
effect from January 2020. We estimate that netting of oil products sales volumes resulted 
in a reduction in GHG emissions of around 73 million tonnes CO2e in 2021 compared 
with 2016. 

[D] Emissions are reported gross without the inclusion of carbon credits.
[E] Oil and gas industry guidelines from IPIECA indicate that several sources of uncertainty can 
contribute to the overall uncertainty of a corporate emissions inventory. We have estimated 
the overall uncertainty for our direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) to be around 4% and for our 
energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) to be around 8% for the market-based method 
and 7% for the location-based method for 2023. IPIECA also notes that due to the diversity 
of Scope 3 emissions, sources and the fact that these emissions occur outside the company's 
boundaries, the emissions estimates may be less accurate or may have a high uncertainty.

[F] Figures disclosed are rounded. Rounding differences can occur between the total 

combined Scope 1 and 2 absolute GHG emissions disclosed in this Report and the sum 
of its components individually rounded to the nearest million tonnes.

[G] Acquisitions and divestments have been included in the actual performance tracking with 
the target unchanged. Note that acquisitions and divestments could have a material 
impact on meeting the targets.

Drivers of Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Our direct GHG emissions (Scope 1, operational control boundary) 
decreased from 51 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) 
in 2022 to 50 million tonnes CO2e in 2023, driven by several factors 
including: 
￮ divestments in 2022 (e.g. Deer Park and Mobile refinery, Tunisia 
Miskar concession, offshore Baram Delta Operations (BDO) PSC 
and Block SK307 PSC in the Philippines) and handover of operations 
in OML 11 in Nigeria in 2022;

￮ unplanned downtime (e.g. Deer Park Chemicals);
￮ reduced flaring from assets including Shell Nigeria Exploration 

and Production Company (SNEPCo);

￮ reduction activities (see examples in the list of energy efficiency 
projects on page 115) and purchase of renewable electricity. 

These decreases were partly offset by Shell Polymers Monaca having 
more units online in 2023 and higher emissions from Pearl and Prelude 
with increased production.

Total routine flaring [A]

Million tonnes

2023

2022

2021

2016

Total hydrocarbons flared in routine flaring

0.1

0.1

0.2

1.1

[A] Routine flaring of gas occurs during normal oil production if it is not possible to use the gas 

or reinject it into the well.

Total routine flaring from our upstream oil and gas assets remained 
relatively stable in 2023 compared with 2022 at 0.1 million tonnes, 
having reduced from 1.1 million tonnes in 2016.

Around 50% of total routine and non-routine flaring in our Integrated 
Gas and Upstream facilities in 2023 occurred in assets operated by 
the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) 
and SNEPCo. 

On January 16, 2024, Shell reached an agreement to sell SPDC to 
Renaissance, a consortium of five companies, subject to approvals by 
the Federal Government of Nigeria and other conditions. SPDC will 
continue to operate the SPDC joint venture (SPDC JV [A]) on behalf 
of all the joint-venture partners, who together will continue to make 
decisions relating to work programmes for the SPDC JV's assets 
and infrastructure. This includes work programmes to eliminate 
routine flaring.
[A] The SPDC JV comprises SPDC Ltd (30%), the government-owned NNPC (55%), Total 

Exploration and Production Nigeria Ltd (10%) and Nigeria Agip Oil Company Ltd (5%).

104
104

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Methane emissions and methane emissions intensity

Methane emissions intensity - 
assets with marketed gas [A]

Methane emissions intensity - 
assets without marketed gas [B]

%

%

2023

2022

2021

2016

 0.05 %  0.05 %  0.06 %  0.10 %

We believe our methane emissions are quantified according to industry 
best practice. Methane emissions include those from unintentional 
leaks, venting and incomplete combustion, for example in flares 
and turbines.

 0.001 %  0.01 %  0.01 %  0.03 %

Scope 1 & 2 – performance [A, B]
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e)

Methane emissions [C]

thousand 
tonnes

41

40

55

138

[A] Methane emissions intensity from all oil and gas assets for which Shell is the operator that 
market their gas (incl. LNG and GTL assets), defined as the total volume of methane 
emissions in normal cubic metre (Nm3) per total volume of gas available for sale in Nm3.
[B] Methane emissions intensity from all oil and gas assets for which Shell is the operator that 
do not market their gas (e.g. where gas is reinjected) defined as the total mass of methane 
emissions in tonnes per total mass of oil and condensate available for sale in tonnes.
[C] Total methane emissions for all assets under Shell operational control including Integrated 
Gas and Upstream and Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions assets, 
quantified according to industry best practice. 

Our target to keep methane emissions intensity below 0.2% was met in 
2023 with Shell's overall methane emissions intensity at 0.05% for facilities 
with marketed gas and 0.001% for facilities without marketed gas. 

In 2023, Shell's total methane emissions were 41 thousand tonnes 
compared with 40 thousand tonnes in 2022. The increase was due 
to venting (e.g. the maintenance of our Floating LNG Prelude asset 
and operational issues in assets operated by Sarawak Shell Berhad) 
and an increase in reported emissions from integrated gas assets 
in Canada resulting from the adoption of enhanced source-level 
measurements in line with The Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 
(OGMP) reporting requirements.

83

1

16

20

46

d

c

b

a

68

1

17

12

38

58

1

16

9

32

57

1

17

8

32

2016

2021

2022

2023

a

b

Chemicals & Products

Upstream

c

d

Integrated Gas

Other [C]

[A] Total direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from assets and 

activities under the operational control boundary. It includes emissions from production 
of energy and non-energy products. For Scope 2, we used the market-based method.

[B] Figures disclosed are rounded. The split between Scope 1 and 2 may not add up to 

the total due to rounding.

[C] Other covers Renewables and Energy Solutions, Marketing, P&T and Real Estate.

Our indirect GHG emissions associated with imported energy (Scope 
2, operational control boundary) remained flat at 7 million tonnes 
CO2e in 2023 (using the market-based method), compared with 2022.

Drivers of absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions change

Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions changes from 2016 to 2022 and from 2022 to 2023
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e)

5.0

83

b

c

90

85

80

75

70

65

60

55

50

a

(22.9)

d

(11.2)

5.7

e

f

(1.9)

58

0.1

b

a

2022

c

(0.9)

d

(1.1)

1.4

e

f

(0.1)

57

a

2023

2016

a

b

c

  Emissions [A] 
  Acquisitions
  Divestments 

d

e

f

Reduction activities and purchased renewable electricity [B] [C] [D] [E]  

  Change in output [F]
  Other

[A] Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, rounded to the nearest million tonnes. Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market-based method. 
[B] In addition to reductions from GHG abatement and energy efficiency projects, this category also includes reductions from shutdowns and conversion of existing assets. 
[C] Excludes 6.8 million tonnes of CO₂ captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2016-2022. 
[D] Excludes 1.0 million tonnes of CO₂ captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2023. 
[E] Of the 1,081 thousand tonnes of reduction activities and purchased renewable electricity in 2023, around 200 thousand tonnes related to purchased renewable electricity.
[F] Change in output relates to changes in production levels, including those resulting from shutdowns and turnarounds as well as production from new facilities.

Scope 3 and net carbon intensity
NCI performance
In 2023, Shell's NCI was 74 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule of energy (gCO2e/MJ), a 2.6% decrease from the previous 
year and a 6.3% reduction compared with the 2016 baseline. The decrease in Shell's NCI in 2023 was mainly achieved through a reduction 
in the average intensity of power sold and the use of carbon credits. The power intensity reduction was driven mainly by progress in grid 
decarbonisation in key markets such as the USA and Europe and partly by increased sales of renewable power including the retirement 
of Renewable Energy Certificates. 

105
105

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

NCI performance

(equity boundary)

NCI [A] [B]

Estimated total energy delivered by Shell [C]

Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI (net) [D]

Carbon credits

Estimated total GHG emissions (gross) [E]

gCO2e/MJ

trillion (10^12) MJ

million tonnes CO2e

million tonnes CO2e

million tonnes CO2e

2023

74

16.07

1,185

20.0

1,205

2022

76

16.29

1,240

4.1

1,244

2021

77

17.89

1,375

5.1

1,381

2016

79

20.93

1,645

0.0

1,645

[A] All figures disclosed are rounded. In grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule.
[B] Acquisitions and divestments are included in the actual performance tracking with the target and baseline year unchanged. Acquisitions and divestments could have a material impact on 

meeting the targets.

[C] Volume of energy products sold, aggregated on an energy basis, with power represented as fossil equivalent. Energy products consist of energy oil products (gasoline, diesel, kerosene, fuel 

oil and LPG), GTL, biofuels, liquefied natural gas, pipeline gas and power. The NCI calculation uses energy product sales volumes data, disclosed in this Report where relevant. These sales 
volumes exclude certain contracts held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies have been applied to net volumes of oil products, pipeline gas 
and power. Paper trades that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded. Retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements are not 
included in the sales volumes reported by Shell and are therefore excluded from the scope of Shell´s NCI metric.

[D] These numbers include well-to-wheel emissions associated with energy products sold, on an equity boundary basis; they also include the well-to-tank emissions associated with the 

manufacturing of energy products by others that are sold by Shell. Emissions associated with the manufacturing and use of non-energy products are excluded. 

[E] While the NCI is an intensity measure and not an inventory of absolute emissions, a notional estimate of the amount of GHG emissions covered by the scope of the NCI calculation can be derived 

from the final NCI value for any year. Similarly, a fossil-equivalent estimate of the total amount of energy sold included in the calculation can also be determined.

As part of our Powering Progress strategy, we aim to increase the share 
of low-carbon products in our energy product sales, which is the 
biggest driver for reducing our NCI.

Share of estimated total energy delivered per energy 
product type [A]-[B]

e
d
c

b

a

7%
1%

14%

24%

54%

12%
1%

18%

25%

12%
1%

20%

22%

14%
1%

21%

20%

Carbon intensity of energy products

Oil products and gas-to-liquids

Gas

Liquefied natural gas (LNG)

Biofuels

Power [A]

gCO2e/MJ

2023

2022

2021

2016

91

66

70

39

49

91

65

70

39

58

91

66

70

41

66

89

67

71

40

59

[A] In 2021, we changed our approach to the estimation of the emissions intensity of the 
power we sell. This prospective change was the main driver for the intensity increase 
compared with 2016.

45%

44%

44%

Carbon credits

2016

2021

2022

2023

a

b

c

Oil products and gas-to-liquids (GTL)

Gas 

Liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG)

d

e

Biofuels

Power 

[A] Percentage of delivered energy may not add up to 100% because of rounding.
[B] Total volume of energy products sold, aggregated on an energy basis (lower heating 
value) with power represented as fossil equivalents. Emissions included in the carbon 
intensity of power have been calculated using the market-based method. The carbon 
intensity of biofuels reflects the global average for biofuels sold in 2023.

Our ability to change the emissions intensity of each energy product 
varies depending on the product type: 
￮ Hydrocarbon fuels - emissions from end-use by customers are by 

far the biggest contributors to the carbon intensity of the product. 
As a result, the emissions intensity of hydrocarbon fuels is expected 
to stay relatively unchanged over time. This is why we are focused 
on helping our customers decarbonise.

￮ Biofuels - can vary significantly in intensity depending on the 

feedstock and production process used. 

￮ Power - the emissions intensity of power can be highly variable 

depending on how it has been generated. The proportion of our 
renewable power sales and the generation mix in countries where 
we sell power to the market both affect Shell's overall power mix 
and its resulting emissions intensity.

Total carbon credits [B]

Included in Shell's NCI metric [C]

Excluded from Shell's NCI metric [D]

Million carbon credits [A]

2023

2022

2021

2016

20.0

1.8

4.1

1.7

5.1

1.3

0.0

0.0

[A] One carbon credit represents the avoidance or removal of one metric tonne of CO2 

equivalent.

[B] Represents credits relating to transactions occurring in the financial year irrespective of 

the actual retirement date. Retirements from registries may take place after the year-end. 
Excludes carbon credits transactions executed by Shell on behalf of/with third parties 
without a link to Shell activities.

[C] Carbon credits associated with the sale of energy products and carbon credits used to 

compensate for Shell Group emissions including operational emissions and emissions 
associated with the use of sold products.

[D] Carbon credits retired in relation to sales of non-energy products and Shell's internal 

activity like corporate travel.

In 2023, Shell's NCI accounted for 20.0 million carbon credits, of 
which 4.0 million were linked to the sale of energy products. Of the 
carbon credit retirements included in Shell's NCI metric for 2023, 85% 
were certified by Verra, 9% by the American Carbon registry, 6% by 
Gold Standard, and less than 1% via Australian Carbon Credit Units.

106
106

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Drivers of absolute Scope 3 emissions change in 2023 
We sell more energy products than the energy products we produce 
ourselves, therefore, when we calculate our emissions, we include 
emissions from energy products that we produce ourselves as well 
as from the products that we purchase from others for resale. This 
is reflected in the scope for calculation of our emissions shown in 
the chart on page 111. Our strategy is based on working with our 
customers to address the emissions from the use of our products and 
to help them find ways to reduce their emissions to net zero by 2050.

Scope 3 emissions by category

GHG emissions (equity boundary), 
million tonnes CO2e [A]

Scope 3, Category 1: purchased goods 
and services

Scope 3, Category 3: fuel and energy-
related activities

Scope 3, Category 9: downstream 
transport and distribution [B]

Scope 3, Category 11: use of sold 
products [C]

2023

2022

2021

2016

154

144

147

172

112

115

136

3

5

6

89

—

878

910

1,010

1,284

1,147

1,174

1,299

1,545

[A] Categorised using the definitions from the GHG Protocol's Corporate Value Chain 

(Scope 3) Standard. 

[B] An estimate of Scope 3, Category 9 was not performed in 2016.
[C] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 

million tonnes CO2e in 2023, 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021 and 819 million tonnes 
CO2e in 2016.

The reported Scope 3 emissions within the NCI boundary have 
reduced from 2022. The decrease is largely due to a reduction in sales 
of gas and refined oil products. Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions for our 
sales of power were comparable year on year as we sold more power 
but at a lower average intensity in 2023 compared with 2022.

Scope 3 emissions from categories 1, 3 and 11 make up the majority 
of Shell's Scope 3 emissions under the equity boundary. Shell reports 
Scope 3 emissions across all 15 categories annually. 

For further details see shell.com/ghg

We undertake external verification of our GHG emissions annually. 
Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from assets and activities under 
our operational control and emissions associated with the use of our 
energy products (Scope 3) included in our NCI have been verified 
to a level of limited assurance by LRQA Group Limited.

Targets used by Shell to manage climate-related risks 
and opportunities and performance against targets
Shell's material climate-related risks and opportunities are set out in
the "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over 
the short, medium and long term" section. Our response to the energy 
transition risk focuses on decarbonising our value chain. Our climate 
targets are focused on reducing our NCI and our absolute emissions, 
as presented on pages 103-104.

Setting targets for NCI 
Shell's target is to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 
2050. We also have short-, medium- and long-term targets to reduce 
the carbon intensity of the energy products we sell, measured using our 
NCI metric. We believe these targets are aligned with the more 
ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement, which is to limit the rise in 
global average temperature this century to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
levels.

There is no established standard for aligning an energy supplier's 
decarbonisation targets within the 1.5°C temperature goal of the Paris 
Agreement. For this reason, we have defined our NCI target using 
1.5°C scenarios developed for the IPCC's AR6.

We start with the complete set of 1.5°C scenarios and then exclude 
scenarios which are too reliant on carbon removals or use of bioenergy 
before removing outliers. We then calculate an emissions intensity for 
each scenario which is comparable to our own NCI. Finally, we 
produce a 1.5°C pathway based on the reductions in emissions 
intensity over time. We have chosen to use a range instead of any 
individual scenario to better reflect the uncertainty of the 
energy transition. 

We believe that using this pathway to set our targets demonstrates 
that they are aligned with the more ambitious 1.5°C goal of the Paris 
Agreement. This is illustrated in the chart below.

We also believe that the pace of change will vary around the world 
by region and by sector, taking into consideration the time needed 
for energy users to invest in large-scale equipment and the energy 
infrastructure changes needed for Shell to deliver more low- and
zero-carbon energy.

Shell's Paris-aligned targets

120%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

b

e

c

d

a

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

2055

a

d

IPCC AR6
1.5oC range

IEA NZE

b

e

Shell
historical

Shell targets

c

IEA APS

107
107

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Scope 1 and 2 progress towards target
The chart below shows our progress since 2016 in reducing our Scope 
1 and 2 emissions and gives an indication of how we expect to achieve 
our target in 2030. The actions we will take to achieve our target will 
depend on the evolution of our asset portfolio and the continued 
development of technologies which reduce carbon emissions. We 
expect that on a net portfolio basis, new investments across our 
portfolio will increase our Scope 1 and 2 emissions between 2024 and 
2030, but this increase will be outweighed by reductions associated 
with planned divestments and natural decline. Our investments in 
producing low-carbon energy such as biofuels will increase our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions, while reducing the NCI of the products we sell. 
Subsequent reductions in our emissions are reflected in the mechanisms 
outlined below and reflect an expected path to meeting our target in 
2030. To decarbonise our operations, we are focusing on:

Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in million tonnes of CO2e [A],[B]

b

a

83

11

71

68

8

8

58

-31% 

57

72

63

60

7

51

7

50

￮ making portfolio changes such as acquisitions and investments 

in new, low-carbon projects. We are also decommissioning plants, 
divesting assets, and reducing our production through the natural 
decline of existing oil and gas fields;

￮ improving the energy efficiency of our operations;
￮ transforming our remaining integrated refineries into low-carbon 

energy and chemicals parks, which involves decommissioning plants;

￮ using more renewable electricity to power our operations; and
￮ developing carbon capture and storage (CCS) for our facilities.

If required, we may choose to use high-quality carbon credits to offset 
any remaining emissions from our operations, in line with the mitigation 
hierarchy of avoid, reduce, and compensate.

-50%

41

c

2016

2020

2021

2022

2023

a

Scope 1

b

Scope 2

c

Target

Portfolio
changes

Efﬁciency
improvements

Energy and 
chemicals 
park 
transformation

Use of
renewable
power

Carbon
capture
and storage

Carbon
credits [C]

2030

[A] The 2016 baseline was not recalculated in 2023. The 2016 baseline may be recalculated in future years if an acquisition or a divestment has an impact of more than 10% on the total Scope 1 

and 2 emissions. 

[B] Operational control boundary.
[C] Including nature-based solutions.

108
108

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

NCI progress towards target
The biggest driver for reducing our NCI is increasing the sales of and demand for low-carbon energy. The chart below illustrates how changes 
in the volume of products and services we sell could result in NCI reductions to 2030. The change in our sales of these products and services 
will also reflect the development and adoption of new technologies and infrastructure, and the adoption of public policies designed to encourage 
the energy transition.

Working to reduce our NCI
NCI in gCO2e/MJ [A]

79

77

76

-6.3%

74

-15-20%

b

a

■  Grow
   power sales

■  Grow
   biofuels,
   develop
  hydrogen

■  Develop
   Carbon
   capture
   and storage

■  High-quality
   carbon
   credits

2016

2021

2022

2023

a

Actual

b

Target

Hydrocarbon
sales
[B]

Power
sales
[C]

Low-carbon
fuels sales
[D]

Carbon
capture
and storage
[E]

Carbon
credits
[F]

2030

[A] Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule.
[B] Hydrocarbon sales reflect the effect of lower sales of oil products, and higher sales of natural gas. Emissions associated with gas are lower than those of oil products. 
[C] Power sales show the expected growth of our integrated power business and increasing sales of renewable power. 
[D] Sales of low-carbon fuels reflect higher sales of biofuels and hydrogen, which are low- and zero-carbon products. 
[E] CCS reduces carbon emissions by capturing them at source. 
[F] Carbon credits such as nature-based solutions can be used to offset remaining carbon emissions, particularly in hard-to-abate sectors such as aviation and industries including cement 

and steel.

Linking Shell's emissions targets to remuneration 
We have established remuneration structures to support us in reducing 
our operational emissions and to support customers in reducing their 
emissions. Our annual bonus scorecard, Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
and Performance Share Plan (PSP) contain "Shell's journey in the 
energy transition" performance metrics designed to ensure that 
remuneration is clearly aligned with Shell's operating plan and
longer-term strategic ambitions. 

See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 191-193.

Almost all employees participate in the annual bonus scheme which 
is linked to the Group scorecard. Executive Directors and around 130 
senior executives participate in the LTIP and around 17,800 employees 
participate in the PSP, which is designed to retain key employees and 
ensure they have a greater investment in Shell's future. 

The LTIP and the PSP measure performance over a three-year 
performance period. Executive Directors' awards are also subject to 
a further three-year holding period after vesting. Executive Directors 
and senior executives are also subject to ongoing shareholding 
requirements. 

Energy transition performance condition and the vesting 
of the 2021 LTIP and PSP awards
The following performance outcomes for the energy transition 
performance condition were considered in the assessment of the
2021 LTIP and PSP vest, covering the performance cycle 2021-2023:

Net carbon intensity (NCI)

Growing the power business

Growing new lower-carbon product offerings

Develop emissions sinks

Outcome

Performance indicator met

Substantively met

 Partially met

 Not met

In addition to the above, a number of broader indicators of Shell's 
progress in the energy transition were considered. Overall, it was 
determined that the energy transition measure (accounting for 20%
of the LTIP award and 10% of the PSP award) should vest at 120%.

See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on pages 199-202.

109
109

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Energy transition performance condition in the 2023 LTIP 
and PSP awards
For LTIP and PSP awards granted in 2023, the energy transition 
performance condition had a weighting of 12.5% for the PSP and 25% 
for the LTIP. The performance condition for these awards is based on 
NCI reduction and the supporting strategic themes of reducing Scope 1 
and 2 emissions; building a renewable power business; growing new 
low-carbon energy offerings; and developing emission sinks and offsets. 
The vesting outcome is at the discretion of the REMCO who will make 
a holistic assessment of progress when making the vesting decisions. 

The 2023 full-year outcome for selling lower-carbon products was 
below target (but above threshold level) for a range of reasons 
including lower lubricants demand and higher costs for lower-carbon 
Mobility products. 

In 2023, the outcome for operational emissions reductions was 
outstanding, reflecting the cumulative effects of actions across the 
portfolio, which support our target to halve Scope 1 and 2 operational 
emissions by 2030 (when compared to the 2016 baseline). This 
includes abatement projects, use of renewable energy, and permanent 
shutdowns or conversions ("right-sizing") of assets.

We are building an electric vehicle charging business to help 
decarbonise road transport. In 2023 we opened 60 new electric 
vehicle charging hubs in Belgium, China, Germany and the 
Netherlands, including our biggest electric vehicle charging site in 
the world in China, together with our joint-venture partner BYD.

In 2024, the REMCO has adjusted the energy transition measure in 
our annual scorecard in light of the energy transition strategy update, 
continuing to align to Shell's strategic objective of becoming a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050, supporting a balanced energy 
transition by responsibly delivering the oil and gas people need today, 
while helping to build the clean energy system of the future. The metric 
"Shell's journey in the energy transition" in the annual bonus scorecard 
represents: 
￮ LNG volumes – equity liquefaction;
￮ Reducing operational emissions – operational actions to reduce 
emissions in support of our target to achieve a 50% reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 emission by 2030, on a net basis; and

￮ Support customer decarbonisation – electric vehicle charge 

point roll-out.

See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 198.

Metrics and targets in respect of climate-related 
environmental risks
We have set a target to reduce the amount of fresh water consumed 
in our facilities, starting by reducing our consumption of fresh water by 
15% by 2025, compared with 2018 levels, in areas where there is high 
pressure on fresh-water resources. We also monitor the level of waste 
disposed of from our operations and businesses are now setting local 
waste management targets and developing implementation plans 
based on waste and circularity assessments that we have conducted. 
In 2023, we continued to implement our biodiversity commitments in 
our projects and assets, with critical and forest habitats as priorities.

See "Respecting nature" on pages 118-119.

Energy transition performance condition for 2024 LTIP awards 
For the 2024 LTIP and PSP awards, the "Shell's journey in the energy 
transition" performance condition retains the same weightings as for 
2023. The REMCO's determination of the extent to which awards 
will vest will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards 
reducing emissions from our operations and supporting our customers 
to reduce their emissions. This will be based on our journey to net-zero 
climate targets for our own operations of:
￮ Halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 under operational control 

on a net basis (2016 baseline); 

￮ Eliminating routine flaring from upstream operations by 2025 [A]; 

and 

￮ Maintaining methane emissions intensity below 0.2% and achieving 

near-zero methane emissions by 2030. 

The REMCO will also take into account progress in developments 
that support the energy transition to 2030 and beyond, such as the 
development of our Power business (including renewables), lower-
carbon LNG, biofuels, electric vehicle charging, hydrogen and 
carbon capture and storage (CCS).
[A] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.

The REMCO will take into account progress towards achieving a 
15-20% reduction in NCI by 2030 (2016 baseline) and a 15-20% 
reduction in customer emissions from the use of our oil products by 
2030 (2021 baseline) [A] as well as Shell's wider performance in 
accelerating the energy transition, e.g. demonstrating leadership and 
advocacy in standard-setting, alongside any other factors that the 
REMCO considers material.
[A] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 

517 million tonnes CO2e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 209 for more information on the 

proposed performance framework.

Energy transition targets in the annual bonus scorecard 
Delivering on our net-zero emissions target is a part of the annual 
scorecard, which helps determine annual performance bonus outcomes 
for senior management and almost all of Shell's employees. 

The energy transition progress measures are shown in the table below.

2023 Scorecard: Shell's journey in the energy transition

2023 
Target

2023 
Performance

2023
Status

Reducing operational 
emissions 

thousand 
tonnes of CO2

800  

1,081  Outstanding

Selling lower-carbon 
products

Electric vehicle charge 
points

% [A]

60

54

Number 180,000

195,500

Below the 
target

Above the 
target

[A] Based on the percentage of Adjusted Earnings in the Marketing segment from lower-

carbon energy products (on a life-cycle basis), defined as biofuels and EV charging, as well 
as non-energy products, defined as lubricants, bitumen, sulphur (agriculture and forestry), 
and earnings from convenience retail.

110
110

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Basis of preparation – net carbon intensity (NCI)
Shell's NCI is the average intensity, weighted by sales volumes, 
of the energy products sold by Shell. It is tracked, measured and 
reported using the Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) methodology. 

Scope of NCI

We have received third-party limited assurance on our NCI for the 
period 2016 to 2023. 

Production

Processing

Distribution and sales

Use of our energy products

Third-party crude oil

Third-party products

c

Oil
products

a

Reﬁning

Sales

Own oil and
gas production

b

Processing, liquefaction, 
gas-to-liquids (GTL)

Sales

Third-party gas

Third-party products

Third-party power

d

Renewable energy

Gas production

Power plant

Sales

Natural
gas

Liqueﬁed
natural gas 
(LNG)

GTL

Power

Biofuels

Renewable raw materials

Processing

Sales

Third-party biofuels

Scope includes Shell's CO₂ sinks such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) and nature-based solutions (NBS)

a

Emissions from
bringing own
products to market

b

Emissions from
bringing third-party
products to market

c

Emissions from
use of sold products

d

Power
distribution

111
111

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Shell's NCI provides an annual measure of the life-cycle emissions 
intensity of the portfolio of energy products sold. The intended use 
of the NCI metric is to track progress in reducing the overall carbon 
intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. The NCI is calculated 
on a life-cycle basis and as such includes GHG emissions – on an 
equity basis – from several sources, including: 
￮ direct GHG emissions from Shell operations;
￮ indirect GHG emissions from generation of energy consumed 

by Shell; and

￮ indirect GHG emissions from the use of the products we sell.

Emissions from other parts of the product life cycle are also included, 
such as those from the extraction, transport and processing of crude 
oil, gas or other feedstocks and the distribution of products to our 
customers. Also included are emissions from parts of this life cycle not 
owned by Shell, such as the extraction of oil and gas processed by 
Shell but not produced by Shell; or from the production of oil products 
and electricity marketed by Shell that have not been processed or 
generated at a Shell facility.

We also take into account emissions mitigated through various 
measures, such as by creating carbon sinks by working with nature – 
including through protecting forests and wetlands – and by using 
CCS technology.

See "Scope of NCI" on page 111 for details of the supply chains and steps in the product 

life cycles that are included in the Net Carbon Footprint methodology.

The following GHG emissions are not included in the NCI:
￮ emissions from production, processing, use and end-of-life treatment 

of non-energy products, such as chemicals and lubricants;

￮ emissions from third-party processing of sold intermediate products, 
such as the manufacture of plastics from feedstocks sold by Shell;
￮ emissions associated with the construction and decommissioning of 

production and manufacturing facilities;

￮ emissions associated with the production of fuels purchased to 

generate energy on site at a Shell facility;

￮ other indirect emissions from waste generated in operations, business 
travel, employee commuting, transmission and distribution losses 
associated with imported electricity, franchises and investments; and

￮ emissions from capital goods, defined by the GHG Protocol as 

including fixed assets or property, plant and equipment, and other 
goods and services not related to purchased energy feedstocks 
sourced from third parties or energy products manufactured by 
third parties and sold by Shell.

The NCI calculation uses Shell's energy product sales volumes data, 
as disclosed in this Report. This excludes certain sales volumes such as:
￮ certain contracts held for trading purposes reported net rather than 
gross. Business-specific methodologies to net volumes have been 
applied in oil products and pipeline gas and power. Paper trades 
that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded; and 

￮ retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under 

trademark licensing agreements.

The energy products included in the NCI calculation are oil products, 
(gasoline, diesel, kerosene, fuel oil and LPG), GTL, biofuels, liquefied 
natural gas, pipeline gas and power. 

The impact of acquisitions and divestments on emissions and sales 
volumes is included in actual NCI performance tracking with the target 
and baseline unchanged. Acquisitions and divestments could have 
a material impact on meeting the NCI targets.

112
112

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The NCI is not a mathematical derivation of total emissions divided 
by total energy, nor is it an inventory of absolute emissions. It is a 
weighted average of the life-cycle CO2 intensities of different energy 
products, normalising them to the same point relative to their final end-
use. The use of a consistent functional unit, grams of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per megajoule (gCO2e/MJ), allows like-for-like comparisons 
and the aggregation of individual life-cycle intensities for a range of 
energy products including renewables.

See our NCF methodology documentation (shell.com/ghg) for further information.

Basis of preparation – absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions
We follow the GHG Protocol's Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard, which defines three scopes of GHG emissions:
￮ Scope 1: direct GHG emissions from sources under Shell's 

operational control.

￮ Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from generation of purchased 
energy consumed by Shell assets under operational control.
￮ Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions, including emissions 
associated with the use of energy products sold by Shell.

GHG emissions comprise CO2, methane (CH4), nitrous oxide, 
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluoride and 
nitrogen trifluoride, with CO2 and methane being the most significant 
contributors. Our GHG inventory was prepared in line with the 
requirements outlined in the ISO 14064-1:2018 Specification with 
Guidance at the Organisational Level for Quantification and Reporting 
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals and the GHG Protocol's 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 

In line with external standards, Shell aggregates its GHG emissions 
into tonnes of CO2 equivalent by applying global warming potential 
(GWP) factors to non-CO2 GHGs. These factors are taken from the 
IPCC's Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) over a 100-year time period, in 
line with the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting. GHG emissions for 2023 were calculated using AR5 GWPs, 
which were applied prospectively. For comparison our Scope 1 
emissions would have been 49 million tonnes in 2023 if we were to 
have used GWPs from the IPCC's Fourth Assessment Report (AR4).

GHG emissions are aggregated using a bottom-up approach: emission 
source → asset → operating unit → business → Group. GHG emissions 
in this Report include emissions from Integrated Gas and Upstream, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions and Downstream (Chemicals and 
Products and Marketing) and Projects & Technology, plus Shell's 
functions. All operated assets are included in the GHG inventory
in the reporting period.

Basis of preparation – Scope 1 emissions
Sources included in Scope 1 emissions comprised: 
￮ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in stationary equipment

(e.g. boilers, gas turbines) for energy generation; 

￮ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in mobile equipment

(e.g. trucks, vessels, mobile rigs);

￮ flares;
￮ venting and emissions from industrial processes (e.g. hydrogen 

plants, catalytic cracking units); and 

￮ fugitive emissions, including piping and equipment leaks and

non-routine events. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Our Scope 1 emissions follow the GHG Protocol guidance. As a result,
the following were not included in our reported Scope 1 emissions:
￮ CO2 emissions from biogenic sources (for example, biofuels, 
biomass), whereas methane and nitrous oxide emissions from 
biogenic sources were included in our Scope 1 emissions. 

￮ Captured CO2 that was subsequently sold or otherwise transferred 

Scope 3, Category 3: fuel and energy-related activities 
(not included in Scope 1 and 2)
This category includes well-to-wire emissions from purchased third-party 
electricity sold by Shell, calculated using the market-based method. 
Emissions were not adjusted for any potential double-counting of sold 
natural gas that may have been used for generating this electricity.

This category does not include:
￮ indirect emissions from generation of imported energy (steam, 
heat or electricity consumed by our assets). These emissions 
were reported separately as Scope 2 emissions; and

￮ well-to-tank emissions from purchased electricity, steam and heat 
consumed by our assets (i.e. Scope 3 emissions from extraction, 
refining and transport of primary fuels before their use in the 
generation of electricity or steam).

Scope 3, Category 9: downstream transport and distribution
This category includes estimated emissions from transport and 
distribution of energy products produced or refined by Shell. It does not 
include the emissions associated with transporting third-party products, 
which are included in Scope 3, Category 1. In order to avoid double-
counting the emissions from transport, Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 
transport included in our equity emissions were subtracted from the 
total in this category.

Scope 3, Category 11: use of sold products
This category includes estimated emissions from the use of sold 
energy products, such as LNG, GTL, pipeline gas, refined oil products 
and biofuels. The emissions consist of two sub-categories: products 
manufactured and sold by Shell and third-party products sold by Shell.

This category does not include non-energy products that may have 
been combusted during use (for example, lubricants).

Biogenic CO2 emissions from combustion of sold biofuels
Biogenic CO2 emissions from the combustion of sold biofuels were 
estimated and reported separately outside of scopes. Methane 
and nitrous oxide were included in Scope 3, Category 11 in line 
with the ISO 14064-1:2018 and GHG Protocol requirements.

We did not estimate biogenic CO2 emissions in other Scope 3 
categories. It is assumed that the presence of biogenic emissions 
in other categories is negligible at present.

Other Scope 3 categories
As noted above, this Report only covers Scope 3 GHG emissions 
associated with our energy product sales.

See our website: shell.com/ghg for other Scope 3 GHG emissions.

to third parties.

￮ CO2 captured and sequestered using CCS technologies. However, 
the emissions from operating CCS were included in our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions. 

￮ Carbon credits.

All significant sources were included in the Scope 1 inventory. 

Basis of preparation – Scope 2 emissions
Sources included in Scope 2 emissions comprised indirect emissions 
from purchased and consumed electricity, steam and heat. We did not 
identify any assets with imported cooling or compressed air used for 
energy purposes. 

Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market- and location-
based methods separately as defined by the GHG Protocol Scope 2 
Guidance. 

All significant sources were included in our Scope 2 inventory. 

Basis of preparation - Scope 3 emissions
This Report provides Scope 3 emissions associated with our energy 
product sales. They were consolidated using the equity boundary 
approach. Under this approach, we reported the Shell share of 
emissions from energy products sold, including those sourced from 
third parties. The calculation of Scope 3 emissions uses energy product 
sales volumes data, disclosed in this Report where relevant. These sales 
volumes exclude certain contracts held for trading purposes and 
reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies have 
been applied to net volumes of oil products, pipeline gas and power. 
Paper trades that do not result in physical product delivery are 
excluded. Retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates 
under trademark licensing agreements are not included in the sales 
volumes reported by Shell and are therefore excluded from the 
Scope 3 categories described below. 

Scope 3 categories included in this Report consist of the following:

Scope 3, Category 1: purchased goods and services
This category includes well-to-tank emissions from purchased third-party 
unfinished and finished energy products excluding electricity (which 
was reported separately under Category 3: fuel and energy-related 
activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)).

Emissions in this category were estimated using well-to-tank emission 
factors for crude oil, natural gas, refined oil products (such as gasoline, 
and diesel), LNG and biofuels. Because the emission factors include 
transport, we did not estimate emissions from transport of purchased 
third-party products separately. 

Emissions from purchased non-energy products were not included in 
this Report. 

113
113

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Other regulatory disclosures

GHG emissions and energy consumption data - 
information provided in accordance with UK regulations
Data in this section are consolidated using the operational control 
approach. Under this approach, we account for 100% of the GHG 
emissions and energy consumption in respect of activities where
we are the operator, irrespective of our ownership percentage. 

The activity data used to calculate GHG intensity ratios at a portfolio 
level shown in the table above are reported on an operational control 
basis. As a result, they are not directly comparable with the production
data reported elsewhere in this Report, which are reported
on a financial control basis. The table below shows the numbers
used in the calculation of the intensity: 

Inputs used for calculating the GHG emissions intensity 
ratio

Reporting on this operational control basis differs from that applied
for financial reporting purposes in the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements". We acknowledge the strong preference of the UK's 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) for companies to report the
GHG emissions and energy consumption data using the financial 
consolidation boundary and are working on including the data
and information on this boundary in our Annual Report in the future.

See "Basis of preparation – absolute scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions" on page 112.

GHG emissions in million tonnes of CO2 equivalent

Total global direct (Scope 1) [A]

UK including offshore area [B]

Market-based

Total global energy indirect (Scope 2) [C]

UK including offshore area

Location-based

Total global energy indirect (Scope 2) [D]

2023

2022

2021

50

1.7

7

0

8

51

1.7

7

0

8

60

1.7

8

0

9

UK including offshore area

0.04

0.04

0.05

Intensity ratio in tonnes per tonne

Intensity ratio of all facilities [E]

0.27

0.27

0.27

[A] Emissions from the combustion of fuels and the operation of our facilities globally, 

calculated using global warming potentials from the IPCC's Fifth Assessment Report.
[B] Emissions from the combustion of fuels and the operation of our facilities in the UK and
its offshore area, calculated using global warming potentials from the IPCC´s Fifth 
Assessment Report. 

[C] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use 
globally, calculated using a market-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 

[D] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use 

globally, calculated using a location-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.

[E] In tonnes of total direct and energy indirect GHG emissions per tonne of crude oil and 
feedstocks processed and petrochemicals produced in downstream manufacturing, oil
and gas available for sale, LNG and GTL production in Integrated Gas and Upstream.
For an additional breakdown by segment, see the Scope 1 and 2 GHG intensity by 
segment section.

A

B

C=A+B

D

E

F

G

H

8.1 Scope 1 - direct GHG emissions 
[A]

8.2 Scope 2 - energy indirect GHG 
emissions [A]

Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions [A]

6.5 Total oil and gas production 
available for sale [B]

6.6 Refinery crude and feedstock 
processed [B]

6.3 Chemicals total production [B]

6.4 LNG production [B]

6.6 GTL production [B]

2023 2022

2021

50

51

60

7

7

8

57

58

68

111

111

128

62

21

10

6

63

23

9

6

84

25

10

6

I=D+E+F+G+H Total Upstream, Integrated 

Gas and Downstream activity 
[B]

210

212

253

J=C/I

GHG intensity ratio [C]

0.27 0.27 0.27

[A] In million tonnes CO2 equivalent.
[B] In million metric tonnes of production.
[C] In tonnes of CO2 equivalent per tonne of production.

Energy use in our operations 
The energy consumption data provided below comprise own energy, 
generated and consumed by our facilities, and supplied energy 
(electricity, steam and heat) purchased by our facilities for our use. 

Energy consumption data reflect primary (thermal) energy (e.g. the 
energy content of fuels used to generate electricity, steam, heat, 
mechanical energy, etc.). This includes energy from renewable and
non-renewable sources. Own energy generated was calculated by 
multiplying the volumes of fuels consumed for energy purposes by
their respective lower heating values. Own energy generated that was 
exported to third-party assets or to the power grid is excluded. Thermal 
energy for purchased and consumed electricity was calculated using 
actual electricity purchased multiplied by country-specific electricity 
generation efficiency factors (from IEA statistics). Thermal energy for 
purchased and consumed steam and heat was calculated from actual 
steam/heat purchased multiplied by a supplier-specific conversion 
efficiency, or a generic efficiency factor where supplier-specific 
data were not available. 

114
114

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Our journey to net zero continued

Our energy consumption decreased from 209 billion kilowatt-hours 
(kWh) in 2022 to 205 billion kWh in 2023, in line with the decrease 
in our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Around 1% of the energy 
we used in 2023 for our operations came from low-carbon and 
renewable sources.

Energy consumption in billion kilowatt-hours

Own energy generated and consumed

Total energy generated and consumed [A]

UK including offshore area

Purchased and consumed energy

Total purchased and consumed energy [A]

UK including offshore area

Energy consumption

Total energy consumed [A]

UK including offshore area

2023

2022

2021

174

6.1

31

0.2

205

6.3

177

6.1

32

0.2

209

6.3

205

6.2

33

0.2

238

6.4

[A] We have updated 2022 and 2021 figures following the review of data. 

In 2023, we implemented a variety of measures to reduce the energy 
use and increase the energy efficiency of our operations.

Examples of some of the principal measures taken in 2023 to reduce 
energy use and improve efficiency (with estimated total savings of 
around 999 million kWh in 2023) are:
￮ At our Geismar site in the USA: idling the furnace when not required.
￮ At our Rheinland site in Germany: optimising the amount of steam 

required depending on use and load.

￮ At our Sarnia site in Canada: replacing an existing reaction furnace 

with a new high-intensity burner.

￮ At our Scotford complex in Canada: optimisation which enables 

a reduction in electricity and excess H2 vented to flare. 

￮ At our Prelude site in Australia: optimisation of the process and 

operating conditions to reduce flaring.

￮ At our Pearl site in Qatar: reducing steam generation requirements 

via steam balance optimisation.

￮ At our GTL asset in Malaysia: optimising fuel flows to the boiler unit.
￮ At our UK Upstream operations: reducing compression power 
requirements between our Shearwater platform and St Fergus 
gas terminal.

￮ At our Gulf of Mexico operations in the USA: optimising power 
generation between platform and rig and upgrading existing 
equipment.

￮ At our Sarawak Shell Berhad assets in Malaysia: optimising the 

usage of Gas Turbine Generators from four to three units.

Examples of some of the principal measures that were taken in 2022 
are listed below (with estimated total savings of around 1,155 million 
kWh in 2022):
￮ At our GTL asset in Qatar, we completed several projects to 

reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example by making 
improvements to catalyst performance which resulted in reduced 
generation of off-gas leading to lower energy consumption.

￮ At our Gulf of Mexico operations in the USA, we implemented a 

project to reduce energy use and improve efficiency by using waste 
heat to generate steam.

￮ At our Upstream operations in the UK, we completed several 

projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by implementing an online model to optimise fuel gas usage at 
Shearwater (our North Sea oil and gas operated asset).
￮ At our Scotford hydrocarbon processing site in Canada, we 

implemented several projects to reduce energy use and improve 
efficiency, for example by using analysers to optimise fuel usage.
￮ At our Geismar chemical plant in the USA, we implemented several 
projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by improving how some equipment operates.

￮ At our QGC operations in Australia, we implemented several 

projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by introducing a CO2/energy performance dashboard for control 
room operators, which allowed operators to identify potential 
efficiency savings based on real-time operating data.

EU Taxonomy Regulation
The EU Taxonomy Regulation is a classification system for determining 
when an economic activity can be considered environmentally 
sustainable according to European Union (EU) standards. It aims to 
encourage investment in a low-carbon economy by creating common 
definitions of sustainability and mandatory disclosures to help investors 
make informed decisions. As a UK company with its registered office 
and headquarters in London, Shell plc is not currently subject to the 
Taxonomy Regulation. Nevertheless, we elect to report against the 
taxonomy voluntarily because we recognise the importance of 
increasing transparency about how companies are progressing in the 
energy transition, even if the regulation is evolving. We expect to come 
into scope in 2024 via the EU's Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD), which extends the reporting obligations under the 
EU Taxonomy Regulation to third-country issuers that are listed on 
European exchanges.

See "Supplementary information - EU Taxonomy disclosure" on pages 336-349.

115
115

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Respecting 
nature
We seek to protect the 
environment, reducing 
waste and making a 
positive contribution 
to biodiversity.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature

116

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Introduction

Respecting nature is part of our Powering Progress strategy. We 
recognise there is a growing global urgency to protect and enhance 
biodiversity, conserve fresh water and use resources more efficiently. As 
a business, we use natural resources such as land, water and materials 
for our operations. Our activities can have an impact on nature through 
discharges and emissions to the environment, and through changes 
to the use of land and water, including oceans. 

In 2003, we decided not to explore for, or develop, oil and gas 
resources in natural and mixed World Heritage Sites. 

Since launching our Powering Progress strategy in 2021, we have:
￮ worked to embed respecting nature into our activities and business 

processes;

￮ enhanced our internal performance management systems to track 

and report on progress; and

￮ continued to build employees' awareness, knowledge and skills 

to deepen their understanding of respecting nature. 

We are also updating our environmental standards and guidance 
used by our projects and facilities around the world.

In 2023, we reviewed our progress and performance on respecting 
nature. We consolidated our respecting nature ambitions announced 
as part of our Powering Progress strategy in 2021 into the following 
themes: having a positive impact on biodiversity, aiming for zero 
waste and using water, other resources and materials efficiently.

We have already achieved some of the respecting nature commitments 
we set when we launched Powering Progress. Our commitment to 
reduce fresh-water consumption in highly water-stressed areas by 
15% was achieved ahead of the target date of 2025. We have also 
conducted detailed assessments to inform our approach to fresh 
water and waste, which will be tailored to local conditions. We are 
working to help develop a viable circular economy for plastics but 
have concluded that the scale of our ambition to use 1 million tonnes 
of plastic waste a year in our global chemical plants by 2025 is 
unfeasible due to lack of available plastic waste feedstock, slow 
technology development and regulatory uncertainty.

The remaining commitments announced in 2021 have either been 
incorporated into our new Safety, Environment and Asset Management 
(SEAM) Standards, which take effect from mid-2024, or are included 
in the relevant business objectives and processes.

Environmental standards
Shell's global environmental standards are set out in our HSSE & SP 
Control Framework and we seek to apply them wherever we operate. 
Our approach draws on external standards and guidelines, such as 
those developed by the World Bank and the International Finance 
Corporation. Our environmental standards include details of how 
to manage emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG); consume energy 
more efficiently; reduce gas flaring, and monitor and improve air 
quality; prevent spills and leaks of hazardous materials; use less 
fresh water; and conserve biodiversity. 

When planning new major projects, we conduct detailed 
environmental, social and health impact assessments. The Shell HSSE & 
SP Standards require that we certify our major installations against an 
internationally recognised independent environmental management 
system standard if they have significant environmental risks. Major 
installations are crude oil and natural gas terminals; gas plants; 
manned offshore and onshore production platforms or flow stations; 
floating production and storage vessels; refineries; chemicals 
manufacturing facilities; mines; or upgraders. For the purpose of this 
Report, we did not count each major installation in Upstream and 
Integrated Gas separately. They were aggregated into their respective 
operating unit or operating company, such as Shell Upstream UK or 
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij (NAM), in line with the scope 
of their certifications. At the end of 2023, 89% of major installations 
within that scope and operated by Shell were certified against the 
ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System or were in 
compliance with equivalent environmental frameworks required by 
local regulations. We are pursuing certification for the remainder. 
In addition, many installations that are not classified as major, such 
as lubricant plants or supply terminals, are also certified against 
ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System but are not 
included in the data above.

See SP Control Framework on page 139 and "Our journey to net zero" on page 88.

Environmental costs
We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, regulations and 
reporting requirements in the countries where we operate. Infringing 
any of these laws, regulations and requirements could harm our 
reputation and ability to do business, and result in significant costs, 
including clean-up costs, fines, sanctions and third-party claims. 
Ongoing operating expenses include the costs of preventing 
unauthorised discharges into the air and water, and the safe 
disposal and handling of waste.

See "Living by our values" on page 139 and our 2023 Sustainability Report. 

See Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 301-302.

Governance

Respecting the environment and local communities has been integral to 
the way we do business for many years, as set out in the Shell General 
Business Principles and the Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, 
Security, Safety, the Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP). 

Our Executive Committee is accountable for the delivery of respecting 
nature, progress towards which is reviewed by our Board's 
Sustainability Committee (SUSCO).

See "Sustainability Committee" on pages 177-178 and "Living by our values" on page 137.

We place a premium on developing effective technologies that are 
also safe for the environment. But when operating at the forefront 
of technology, there is always the possibility that a new technology 
has environmental impacts that were not assessed or foreseen to be 
harmful when originally implemented. We develop new technology 
using a robust technology maturation process. This enables us to 
systematically de-risk technical and commercial risks, while ensuring 
portfolio alignment with Shell's strategic ambitions and deployment 
commitments. While we believe we take reasonable precautions 
to limit these risks, we could be subject to additional remedial, 
environmental and litigation costs as a result of unknown and 
unforeseen impacts of operations on the environment.

See "Risk management and controls" on page 223.

117
117

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Resource use and circular economy

As part of our overall respecting nature ambition, we aim to use 
water, other resources and materials efficiently, and to increase reuse 
and recycling. We have conducted detailed assessments across our 
businesses to better understand our waste streams and define our 
approach. Our businesses are developing local waste management 
implementation plans. We are exploring ways to improve the 
application of circular economy principles by developing 
circularity strategies.

Water
We are implementing water stewardship principles across our 
businesses and developing local improvement plans. This includes 
focusing on the sustainable management of fresh water, including 
in water-stressed areas. 

Our Powering Progress strategy launched in 2021 contained the 
following water-related statements:
￮ Our ambition is to conserve fresh water by reducing consumption 

and increasing reuse and recycling.

￮ We will reduce the amount of fresh water consumed in our facilities, 
starting by reducing our consumption of fresh water by 15% by 
2025, compared with 2018 levels, in areas where there is high 
pressure on fresh-water resources.

In 2023, we continued to make progress in reducing our consumption 
of fresh water in highly water-stressed areas.

At the end of 2023, four of our major facilities were located in areas 
where there is a high level of water stress based on analysis using 
water stress tools. These tools include the World Resources Institute's 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and local assessments. The facilities are: 
￮ Pearl GTL (gas-to-liquids) plant in Qatar; 
￮ Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore; 
￮ Shell Jurong Island chemical plant in Singapore; and 
￮ Tabangao Import Terminal in the Philippines.

In 2023, these facilities consumed 17 million cubic metres of fresh 
water, compared with 18 million cubic metres in 2022. With this 
reduction we achieved our commitment to reduce fresh-water 
consumption by our facilities in areas of high water stress by 15% 
compared with our 2018 levels with a baseline of 25 million cubic 
metres. The reduction was mainly the result of decreased water use 
at the Pearl GTL gas-to-liquids facility in Qatar, and at the Shell Energy 
and Chemicals Park Singapore following the decommissioning of some 
processing units.

In 2023, for all sites, our overall intake of fresh water increased 
to 162 million cubic metres, compared with 148 million cubic metres 
in 2022 (restated from 156 million cubic metres, following a review of 
the performance data). This increase was mainly the result of increased 
production at Shell's Monaca Polymers facility in the USA and 
consequences of a fire incident at our Deer Park Chemicals site, USA.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Positive impact on biodiversity 
and ecosystems

Our priorities for biodiversity are critical and forest habitats.
￮ Forest habitats: We will replant forests, achieving net-zero 

deforestation from new activities, while maintaining biodiversity 
and conservation value, commenced in 2022.

￮ Critical habitats: Our new projects in areas rich in biodiversity – 
critical habitats – will have a net positive impact on biodiversity, 
commenced in 2021. We apply the same definition for measuring 
our net positive impact (NPI) for projects as the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC, 2019). The IFC states: NPI on biodiversity is a 
target for project outcomes in which the impacts on biodiversity (for 
example, the variety of ecosystems and living things) caused by the 
project are outweighed by the actions taken to avoid and reduce 
such impacts, rehabilitate affected species and / or landscapes 
and offset any residual impacts.

When planning a new project on land or offshore in the marine 
environment, we apply the mitigation hierarchy, a decision-making 
framework that involves a sequence of four key actions: avoid, 
minimise, restore and offset. We assess the potential impact of 
projects on biodiversity and local communities as part of our 
impact assessment process.

In 2023, we embedded our biodiversity commitments into our new 
Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards, which 
take effect in mid-2024. We are developing guidance and sharing 
good practice across the organisation to support implementation.

See "Living by our values" on page 139 for more information on the SEAM Standards.

Forest habitats
Deforestation occurs when forests are converted to non-forest uses. 
We use the definition of forest used by the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations.

Our aim is to avoid deforestation, in line with the mitigation hierarchy. 
Where avoidance cannot be achieved, we require our projects and 
assets to develop and implement reforestation plans that include 
measures to achieve net-zero deforestation, while maintaining 
biodiversity and conservation value. We work with partners and 
stakeholders to develop robust and credible plans unique to each 
reforestation project.

Between January 2022 and the end of 2023, around 292 hectares 
had been deforested as a result of our activities. This occurred largely 
in Australia, Canada and Nigeria where reforestation plans have 
been finalised.

Critical habitats
Potential new projects are screened to determine if they are located 
in a critical habitat. If we decide to proceed with a project that is in 
a critical habitat, we develop a biodiversity action plan. This sets out 
actions needed to follow the mitigation hierarchy and, where there 
is impact, the actions designed to achieve a net positive impact.

At the end of 2023, 43 of our new projects, which started after we 
launched Powering Progress in February 2021, were wholly or partly 
located in critical habitats. Of these, 20 already have a biodiversity 
action plan in place to work towards a net positive impact, compared 
with four in 2022.

118
118

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Around 33% of our fresh-water intake in 2023 was from public 
utilities, such as municipal water supplies. The rest was taken from 
surface water, such as rivers and lakes (around 51%) and groundwater 
(around 16%). Around 94% of our fresh-water intake in 2023 
was used for manufacturing oil products and chemicals, with
the rest mainly used for oil and gas production.

Waste water and produced water
We track low-level concentrations of oil, grease and other 
hydrocarbons in water returned to the environment from the day-to-day 
running of our facilities (referred to as "discharges to surface water"). 
We work to minimise these discharges according to local regulatory 
requirements and our own standards.

In 2023, the combined total of hydrocarbons discharged (oil in 
effluents) to surface water across all our facilities increased to 
1.0 thousand tonnes compared with 0.9 thousand tonnes in 2022. 
The increase was partially due to discharges from the Shell Energy 
and Chemicals Park Singapore.

In 2023, we disposed of 58 million cubic metres of produced water, 
unchanged compared with 2022.

Waste
In 2023, we started to embed the findings from the 24 waste and 
circularity assessments we conducted in 2021 and 2022 into local 
performance management systems. Our businesses are developing 
local waste management implementation plans. We are investigating 
options to reduce some of the more significant of our waste streams, 
such as biosludge, potentially contaminated soils and drilling fluids.

We are exploring ways to improve the application of circular economy 
principles and to identify and integrate the risks and opportunities 
associated with a "rethink, refuse, reduce, reuse, repair, recycle" 
hierarchy. We also work with our supply chain to help our businesses 
progress towards our aim of zero waste.

Assessing further water use reduction goals

In addition to our Powering Progress commitment to reduce 
water consumption in water-scarce areas, we also aimed to 
assess options for further reduction goals. In 2021 and 2022, 
we conducted detailed water use assessments at six major 
Shell facilities: 
￮ QGC upstream and QGC midstream, Australia; 
￮ Shell MDS, Malaysia; 
￮ Shell Hazira LNG Terminal, India; 
￮ Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Germany; and 
￮ Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk, the Netherlands. 

The results of these assessments, along with discussions with 
stakeholders, have moved us towards a more sustainable and 
holistic stewardship approach. This goes beyond focusing on 
water use and includes aspects of governance and water 
quality, involvement of stakeholders and consideration of 
catchments. We are now implementing water stewardship 
principles across our businesses and developing local 
improvement plans. By the end of 2023, we had completed 
detailed assessments against these principles at eight of our 
downstream and upstream facilities to identify opportunities 
for improvement. We plan to roll out this programme across 
other facilities and projects in 2024.

Photo: Water testing being carried out at QGC, Australia.

119
119

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Mitigation hierarchy

In 2023, we disposed of 631 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste, 
compared with 878 thousand tonnes in 2022 (restated from 868 
thousand tonnes, following a review of the performance data). The 
decrease was partially because of lower volumes of sour water for 
disposal from processing activities at the Shell Scotford Refinery in 
Canada. In 2023, we disposed of 1,619 thousand tonnes of non-
hazardous waste, compared with 1,135 thousand tonnes in 2022. 
The increase was primarily caused by higher volumes of water from 
production and maintenance activities that required disposal at the 
Shell-operated Scotford Upgrader (Shell interest 10%), Canada, 
and the ramp up of low-carbon solutions and other project work. 

In total, we disposed of 2,251 thousand tonnes of waste, compared 
with 2,012 thousand tonnes in 2022 (restated from 1,982 thousand 
tonnes, following a review of the performance data). We also sent 
654 thousand tonnes of residual materials for reuse, recycling or use 
as a raw material in another process. For example, waste that might 
otherwise go to landfill can be incinerated to generate energy.

Air quality

Air quality continues to be embedded in our environmental standards. 
We follow our own standards and those of local regulators to manage 
airborne pollutants in our oil and gas production and processing, 
including emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and volatile 
organic compounds.
￮ Our sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions in 2023 decreased to 31 

thousand tonnes, compared with 37 thousand tonnes in 2022 
(restated from 36 thousand tonnes, following a review of the 
performance data). The decrease was mainly because of less 
flaring at the Shell-operated Scotford Upgrader in Canada and 
the divestment of Shell-operated Upstream assets in Tunisia.
￮ Our nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions in 2023 decreased to 88 

thousand tonnes from 93 thousand tonnes in 2022. The decrease 
was partially because of divestments of Shell-operated Upstream 
assets in Tunisia and the Philippines, and downtime of generators 
at Shell-operated assets in Trinidad and Tobago.

￮ Our emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in 2023 

decreased to 36 thousand tonnes from 37 thousand tonnes in 2022 
(restated from 38 thousand tonnes, following a review of the 
performance data). The decrease was partially because of planned 
and unplanned downtime of operations at Shell MDS, our GTL (gas-
to-liquids) plant in Bintulu, Malaysia.

See shell.com for more information about our approach to biodiversity, circular economy 

and plastic waste and water.

120
120

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Circular economyResource inﬂowOur Business Materials Goods and equipment Integrated Gas and Upstream Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Projects & Technology Facility and product lifecycle Circular design Retain value Maximise use Resource efﬁciencyResource outﬂow Products Byproducts and waste Decommissioningand restorationRethinkRefuseReduceReuseRepairRecycleBarriers1 Technological e.g. limited separation of waste2 Regulatory e.g. inconsistencies of policies between countries  3 Cultural e.g. high up-front investment costs and low virgin material prices 4 Economical e.g. lack of consumer awareness and weak cooperation throughout the supply-chainShell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Spills

Large spills of crude oil, oil products and chemicals associated with 
our operations can harm the environment, and result in major clean-up 
costs, fines and other damages. They can also affect our licence to 
operate and harm our reputation. 

Working to prevent spills

We have requirements and procedures designed to prevent 
spills. We design, operate and maintain our facilities with the 
intention of avoiding spills. To minimise the risk of spills, Shell 
has routine programmes to reduce failures and maintain the 
reliability of facilities and pipelines.

Our business units are responsible for organising and executing 
spill responses in line with Shell guidelines and relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements. Our offshore installations have spill 
response plans for when an incident occurs. These plans set out 
response strategies and techniques, available equipment, and 
trained personnel and contracts. We can engage specialist 
contracted services for oil spill response, including vessels, 
aircraft or other equipment and resources, if required, for large 
spills. We conduct regular exercises that seek to ensure these 
plans remain effective and fit for purpose.

We have further developed our ability to respond to spills to 
surface water. We have a worldwide network of trained staff 
to help with this. We also have a global oil spill expertise centre 
which tests local capability and maintains our ability to respond 
to a significant spill into a marine environment. 

Photo: Spill response deployment exercise using the AFEDO™ Nozzles, 
at offshore Malaysia. 

Spills still occur for reasons such as operational failure, accidents, 
unusual corrosion or sabotage and theft. In 2023, there were 70 
operational spills of more than 100 kilograms each compared with 
55 in 2022 (restated from 54 operational spills, following a review 
of the performance data). The weight of operational spills of oil and 
oil products in 2023 was 0.37 thousand tonnes, compared with 
0.06 thousand tonnes in 2022. In 2023, 140 spills were caused by 
sabotage. Of those, 139 were in Nigeria and one in Australia. The 
number of these spills increased to 140 in 2023 from 75 in 2022, with 
the volume also increasing to 1.4 thousand tonnes from 0.6 thousand 
tonnes in 2022.

See "Safety" section on page 134 for more information on emergency response.

121
121

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Spills in Nigeria
In the Niger Delta, over the last 13 years, the total number of 
operational hydrocarbon spills and the volume of oil spilled from
them into the environment have been significantly reduced.

Most oil spills in the Niger Delta region continue to be caused by crude 
oil theft, the sabotage of oil and gas production facilities, and illegal 
oil refining, including the distribution of illegally refined products.

In 2023, the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited 
(SPDC) [A], as operator of the SPDC joint venture (Shell interest 30%), 
reported nine operational spill incidents of more than 100 kilograms of 
crude oil, compared with 10 reported in 2022. The volume of around 
0.005 thousand tonnes was less than the 0.01 thousand tonnes 
reported in 2022.
[A] Unless otherwise stated, all activities reported for or as relating to The Shell Petroleum 

Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) in this section should be understood as 
SPDC acting as the operator of the SPDC joint venture (SPDC JV). SPDC, as the corporate
entity, owns 30% of the JV.

SPDC has an ongoing work programme to appraise, maintain 
and replace key sections of pipelines and flow lines to reduce 
the number of operational spills. In 2023, around 54 kilometres
of pipelines and flow lines were replaced. This work is organised 
through a proactive pipeline and flow line integrity management 
system. The system installs barriers where necessary, and 
recommends when and where pipeline sections should 
be replaced to prevent failures.

In January 2024, Shell announced the sale of its Nigerian onshore 
subsidiary, SPDC. Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory 
approvals and other conditions. 

See the "Upstream" section on page 48.

Spills caused by sabotage in 2023
In 2023, about 94% of the oil spills of more than 100 kilograms each 
from the SPDC-operated facilities were caused by the illegal activities 
of third parties. In 2023, the volume of crude oil spills of more than 
100 kilograms caused by sabotage was around 1.4 thousand 
tonnes (139 incidents), compared with around 0.6 thousand tonnes 
(75 incidents) in 2022. The increased number of incidents in 2023 can 
be directly attributed to an increase in third-party illegal connections 
on pipelines, with 119 incidents reported in 2023 compared with 56 in 
2022. SPDC continues to work with the government security agencies 
to maintain surveillance and address illegal activities of third parties, 
primarily along the SPDC JV pipeline and its operational areas.

Prevention
In 2023, SPDC continued on-ground surveillance of its areas of 
operation, including its pipeline network, to mitigate third-party 
interference and ensure that spills are detected and responded
to as quickly as possible.

There are daily surveillance flights covering the most vulnerable 
segments of the pipeline network to identify any new spills or illegal 
activity. SPDC has introduced anti-theft protection mechanisms for 
key infrastructure such as wellheads and manifolds. The programme 
to protect wellheads with steel cages continues to help deter theft, 
and drones have been introduced to inspect pipelines and monitor 
security of operations.

In 2023, 60 steel cages were installed, bringing the total number 
to 374. This includes 52 cages that have been upgraded with CCTV 
and 28 with satellite communications. In 2023, out of 508 registered 
attempts to compromise these cages, 38 were successful.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

Response and remediation
Regardless of the cause of a spill, SPDC cleans up and remediates 
areas affected by spills originating from its facilities. In 2023, the time 
that SPDC needed to complete the recovery of free-phase oil – oil that 
forms a separate layer and is not mixed with water or soil – remained 
at around one week. This is the average time it takes to safely access
a damaged site, initiate containment to prevent further spread of the 
spill, and start joint investigation visits with regulators, affected 
communities and, in some cases, with NGOs.

Clean-up activities include bio-remediation which stimulates micro-
organisms that naturally break down and use carbon-rich oil as a 
source of food and energy, effectively removing it. Once clean-up 
and remediation operations are completed, the work is inspected 
and, if satisfactory, approved and certified by the Nigerian regulators. 
With operational spills, SPDC also pays compensation to affected 
people and communities.

SPDC has been working with the International Union for Conservation 
of Nature (IUCN) since 2012 to enhance remediation techniques and 
protect biodiversity at sites affected by oil spills in its areas of operation 
in the Niger Delta. Based on this collaboration, SPDC has launched 
further initiatives to help strengthen its remediation and restoration 
efforts. In 2021, SPDC, IUCN, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, 
and Wetlands International began working together as the Niger 
Delta Biodiversity Technical Advisory Group (BTAG), which continues 
to monitor biodiversity recovery at remediated sites.

SPDC also works with a range of stakeholders in the Niger Delta
to build greater trust in spill response and clean-up processes. For 
example, local communities participate in remediation work for 
operational spills. Various NGOs have sometimes gone on joint 
investigation visits with SPDC, government regulators and members
of affected communities to establish the cause and volume of oil spills. 

SPDC has continued to raise awareness of and counter the negative 
effects of crude oil theft and illegal oil refining, both causing oil spills. 
Examples include awareness and education programmes, community-
based pipeline surveillance and promoting alternative livelihoods 
through Shell's flagship youth entrepreneurship programme, 
Shell LiveWIRE.

Ogoniland: Commitment to the United Nations 
Environment Programme
SPDC remains committed to the implementation of the 2011 
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Report on 
Ogoniland which assessed contamination from oil operations 
in the region and recommended actions to clean it up. Over the 
last 12 years, SPDC has acted on all and completed most of the 
UNEP recommendations that were specifically addressed to it 
as the operator of the joint venture. 

The clean-up efforts are led by the Hydrocarbon Pollution and 
Remediation Project (HYPREP), which was established by the 
Nigerian government. The UNEP report had recorded 67 sites, 
of which two were classified as waste sites without hydrocarbon 
pollution. Also, for 13 sites, the National Oil Spill Detection and 
Response Agency (NOSDRA) certified that - in contrast to the 
original report - remediation was not needed. 

This left 52 sites to be remediated, with all completed sites to 
be certified by NOSDRA. In 2021 and 2022, remediation was 
completed for 18 sites, and certification issued for 13 of those. 
In 2023, remediation of one site and certification of three sites 
was completed, and work on the remaining sites continues. 
Field work commenced on 17 sites and remediation plans 
are being developed for the remaining 15 sites.

The UNEP report recommended creating an Ogoni Trust Fund 
(OTF) with $1 billion capital, to be co-funded by the Nigerian 
government, SPDC JV, SPDC (30% interest in SPDC JV) and 
other operators in the area. The SPDC JV is responsible for 
contributing $900 million to the OTF, the Nigerian government 
and other operators for contributing $100 million. By the 
end of 2023, SPDC had fully paid its share of the SPDC JV's 
commitments to the clean-up process which brought the 
total contribution to the OTF to $751 million. 

Although remediation works continue to make progress, 
challenges remain. These include re-pollution, land disputes, 
environmental issues such as flooding caused by excessive 
rainfall, and security issues in Ogoniland.

UNEP continues to monitor the progress of the clean-up through 
its observer status at HYPREP´s Governing Council and the 
Ogoni Trust Fund. UN agencies, such as the United Nations 
Development Programme and the United Nations Institute for 
Training and Research, provide services to HYPREP in the areas 
of livelihood programmes, training and project services.

122
122

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Respecting nature continued

In 2015, SPDC and the Bodo community in Ogoniland signed 
a memorandum of understanding (MOU), granting SPDC access 
to begin cleaning up areas affected by two operational spills that 
occurred in 2008. The MOU also provided for the selection of 
two international contractors to conduct the clean-up under the 
oversight of an independent project director. Engagement with the 
Bodo community and other stakeholders began in 2015, and was 
managed by the Bodo Mediation Initiative. The clean-up project 
was delayed in 2016 and for most of 2017 because access to 
the sites was challenged by the local community. 

In September 2017, a three-phase clean-up and remediation 
programme started: 
￮ Phase 1: Removal of oil from shoreline surfaces and mud 

flat beds was completed in 2018.

￮ Phase 2: Remediation activities related to soil and sediments 

started in late 2019 on the around 1,000 hectares designated 
for clean-up. By the end of 2023, work on around 88% of that 
area had been completed. In late 2022, the work had to be 
suspended because of safety concerns and community unrest. 
Work resumed at the end of 2023, following a dispute 
resolution process and continues into 2024. 

￮ Phase 3: The replanting of mangrove seedlings started in 2021. 
Around two million seedlings need to be planted and survive to 
2025 to fulfil the project's goal. By the end of 2023, the number 
of seedlings planted remained at 340,000, the level reached 
at the end of 2022, because of community unrest.

Bodo clean-up 
process

Photo: A shoreline clean-up and assessment technique (SCAT) team at work.

123
123

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Powering 
lives
We power lives 
through our products 
and activities, and 
by supporting an 
inclusive society.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives

124

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023We aim to become one of the world's most diverse and inclusive 
organisations, a place where everyone feels valued and respected. 

Our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people underpin 
our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion. Shell is committed to 
respecting human rights as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.

The importance of respecting people also extends to our suppliers. 
Shell's Supplier Principles outline our expectations for business integrity, 
including safety, security, labour and human rights, and environmental 
and social performance. We expect all suppliers to understand and 
implement the principles in their supply chains when working with Shell.

Governance

Respecting people has been integral to the way we do business for 
many years. Shell's HSSE & SP Control Framework sets out how we 
identify, assess and manage our impacts on communities where we 
operate, including any impact on human rights. The Framework also 
defines how we should share the benefits arising from our presence, 
such as by providing local employment and contractual opportunities.

We are transitioning from the HSSE & SP Control Framework to our 
new Safety, Environment and Asset Management Standards (SEAM) 
as part of the Shell Performance Framework. The SEAM Standards 
will come into effect from mid-2024.

See "Living by our values" on page 139.

As part of our aim to become one of the most diverse and inclusive 
organisations in the world, our CEO and Executive Committee are 
accountable for our progress against our diversity, equity and 
inclusion goals.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Introduction

Shell is dedicated to making a positive impact on people around the 
world — by providing the vital energy people need, championing 
inclusion, respecting human rights and contributing to local 
communities and economies.

Around 760 million people [A] in the world have no electricity and 
over half the world population has insufficient energy to lead a good 
life [B]. We deliver energy commercially, by investing in businesses that 
supply energy access in emerging markets; and socially, by investing 
funds, expertise and resources in access to energy programmes.
[A] International Energy Agency, SDG7: Data and Projections, 2023.
[B] UN Human Development Index. Approximately 75 GJ final energy per capita is the 

threshold where populations reach 0.8 on UN Human Development Index which can 
be considered a good life.

We also want to help communities benefit from having us as their 
neighbour. We generate jobs, pay billions in tax each year and 
support start-ups, local businesses and education programmes. And we 
promote human rights in the communities, companies and organisations 
we work with. This includes activities such as advancing worker welfare 
and shaping an inclusive world so that everyone can be themselves.

125
125

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Shell aims to work with suppliers, including individual contractors, that 
behave in an economically, environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, as set out in our Shell General Business Principles and Shell 
Supplier Principles. In 2023, we worked with around 25,000 
suppliers globally.

e
10%

d
11%

a
35%

Social investment
Our activities contribute to economies through taxes, jobs and business 
opportunities. We also make social investments in areas determined by 
local community needs and priorities. These investments are sometimes 
voluntary, sometimes required by governments, or part of a 
contractual agreement. Through voluntary initiatives, we work with 
partner organisations to help individuals and communities access 
reliable electricity. In 2023, we continued to develop programmes to 
improve access to energy in Nigeria, Pakistan, India and South Africa.

In 2023, we spent almost $198 million on social investment, of 
which 35% was required by government regulations or contractual 
agreements. We spent the remaining $128.3 million (65%) on 
voluntary social programmes.

2023 Social investment spend by theme

h
2%

i
1%

j
1%

g
6%

f
6%

a

b

c

d

e

f

g

h

i

j

  Required social investment
Community development

Education

Energy access

Community skills and
enterprise development [A]

Other

Disaster relief

Biodiversity

Health

Road safety

c
13%

b
15%

[A] CSED – Community Skills & Enterprise Development.

Around $84.8 million of our total social investment spend in 2023 
was in countries that, according to the UN Development Programme's 
Human Development Index 2021, have a gross national income 
of less than $15,000 a year per person.

2023 Social investment spend by region

g
2%

f
9%

e
12%

d
12%

c
13%

b
14%

a
38%

a

b

c

d

e

f

g

  Sub-Saharan Africa
USA and Canada

Europe and CIS

Global

Middle East and North Africa

Asia Paciﬁc

Latin America

See our website shell.com for more information about our social investment.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Contribution to society

Shell's businesses are part of society and contribute to it by buying and 
selling goods and services in many countries. Our employees, suppliers 
and contractors are part of the local communities where we operate. 
Our activities generate revenues for governments through the taxes 
and royalties we pay and the taxes we collect on their behalf. This 
helps governments fund health care, education, transport and other 
essential services.

Payments to governments
In 2023, Shell paid and collected $67 billion in taxes* to 
governments. We paid $14 billion in corporate income taxes and 
$6 billion in government royalties, and collected $47 billion in excise 
duties, sales taxes and similar levies on our fuel and other products 
on behalf of governments.

Supply chain engagement
We continue to explore how we can source responsibly in our supply 
chain. In 2023, our operated and non-operated ventures spent around 
$48.6 billion on goods and services from suppliers around the world*.

Our standard contract terms require adherence to these or equivalent 
principles, and require contractors and suppliers to:
￮ protect the environment in compliance with all applicable 

environmental laws and regulations;

￮ use energy and natural resources efficiently; and
￮ continually look for ways to minimise waste, emissions and 
discharge from their operations, products and services.

Helping our suppliers decarbonise
We continually work with our suppliers to find ways to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions across our supply chains. We seek 
to understand their energy needs and jointly identify potential
low-carbon solutions that are economically sustainable. This 
involves using digital technology to establish transparency in 
energy consumption and emissions throughout our supply chain.

See our website shell.com for more information about how we engage with 

contractors and suppliers.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

126
126

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Engaging with communities
We engage with communities as part of our approach to managing 
human rights and providing access to remedy. Shell's HSSE & SP 
Control Framework helps us to operate responsibly and avoid or 
minimise potentially negative social impacts of our operations. When 
we divest assets or exit areas, we apply well-established processes to 
guide our risk assessment with the aim of leaving a positive legacy.

The requirements are supplemented by guidance that helps 
practitioners on the ground to engage with communities around our 
operations. Major projects and facilities operated by Shell have a 
social performance plan for managing potentially negative impacts, 
such as noise pollution, and maximising benefits, such as using 
local suppliers. These plans typically begin with defining the social 
environment, focusing in particular on people who may be especially 
vulnerable to the potential impacts of our operations. In the larger 
of these major projects and facilities, we implement a community 
feedback mechanism for listening and responding to questions 
and resolving complaints in a timely manner. 

We have specific requirements to avoid, minimise or mitigate potential 
impacts on the traditional lifestyles and cultural heritage of Indigenous 
Peoples. We also have specific requirements to avoid, minimise or 
mitigate their involuntary resettlement.

Since 2020, we have used our online community feedback tool 
to track and respond to questions, complaints and feedback that 
we receive. It allows our network of 148 community engagement 
practitioners to document feedback and outcomes. They are the 
face of Shell in the communities and act as a bridge between 
communities and our activities.

Human rights focus areas

In 2023, we increased the number of sites with a community feedback 
mechanism aligned with the effectiveness criteria of the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights from 16 to 20. Several more 
sites have other procedures in place for gathering feedback. In 2023, 
we received feedback at 80 sites in 26 countries.

See our website shell.com for more information about our work with communities.

Human rights
Human rights are fundamental to Shell's core values of honesty, 
integrity and respect for people. Respect for human rights is embedded 
in the Shell General Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. Our 
approach is informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. We work closely with various organisations to improve 
how we apply these UN guiding principles.

Salient human rights
In 2023, we continued to work on salient human rights issues (salient 
human rights are those that are most at risk from our operations). 
We prioritise four focus areas where respect for human rights is 
critical to how we operate: the workplace including labour rights, 
supply chain, communities and security.

Shell employees working in these focus areas need to complete 
mandatory human rights training. About 1,750 employees had 
completed the training between its launch in 2021 and the end 
of 2023, 94% of those assigned the training. We encourage 
all employees to complete the course, regardless of their role, 
to build greater understanding of human rights across Shell.

See the table below for examples of our salient human rights 
issues in each focus area.

At the 
workplace

In supply
chains

In
communities

In
security

Salient 
issues

Health and safety

Discrimination

Decent living 
conditions in worker 
accommodation

Access to adequate 
and readily available 
channels to voice 
concerns

Labour rights in our 
supply chains, e.g. 
prevention of forced 
labour, access to remedy

Safe and healthy 
working conditions

Decent living conditions 
in worker 
accommodation

Social impact
management

Vulnerable persons/
communities

Land access, livelihoods 
and cultural heritage

Engagement and access
to remedy

Human rights impact on 
communities by private 
security and/or 
government security
forces we rely on

Security of employees
and contract staff in 
high-risk environments 
where we work

For each of these areas, we have systems to identify potential impacts 
and to avoid and mitigate them. 

We also continue to track emerging human rights and environmental 
due diligence legislation, and advance our efforts to strengthen human-
rights-related controls in our supply chain.

For example, Shell's HSSE & SP Control Framework contains 
requirements that set out how we identify, assess and manage our 
impacts on communities where we operate, including any impact 
on human rights.

Our Shell Supplier Principles state that we expect our contractors 
and suppliers to respect the human rights of their workforce and 
to manage the social impacts of their activities on Shell's 
neighbouring communities.

Critical habitats and people 
We assess the potential impacts of our activities to manage and 
reduce any adverse effects they may have on the environment and 
on communities. We apply stringent standards across all our projects 
and facilities, particularly when we operate in critical habitats that 
are rich in biodiversity and in areas of cultural significance or close 
to local communities, including Indigenous Peoples.

See our website shell.com for more information about our approach to human rights.

127
127

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Our people

Our people are essential to the development of energy solutions 
for today and tomorrow. They are key to delivering Shell's Powering 
Progress strategy and we believe in helping them to develop their 
skills. We aim to become one of the world's most diverse and inclusive 
organisations, a place where everyone feels valued and respected. 

All metrics throughout this section exclude the employees in portfolio 
companies, except for the metrics reflecting total employee number 
by gender and region, percentage of women employees, and 
certain mandatory training courses.

Employee overview
We employed 103,000 people on a full- or part-time basis at the end of 
2023. This compares with 93,000 at the end of 2022 and 83,000 at the 
end of 2021. The data include people working in Shell subsidiaries, Shell-
operated joint ventures and those seconded to non-Shell-operated joint 
operations, or ventures and associates. The employee numbers for 2021 
reflect headcount in the Shell HR system and full-time equivalent numbers 
for portfolio companies, which maintain their own HR systems. 
Additionally, Shell businesses utilise contractors on certain projects during 
the year. For example, in 2023 contractors worked alongside Shell 
employees in divisions such as Information and Digital Technology.

In 2023

Employees
103,000
employees at December 31, 2023

Countries and territories
>70
countries in which we operate

Directors
42%
women on the Board of Directors

Executive Committee
43%
women on the Executive Committee

Senior leaders
32%
women in senior leadership positions

Women employees
35%
women employees

Training
295,000
Training days for employees and joint-venture partners

Changes in headcount
In Shell companies, excluding portfolio companies, headcount rose 
to 84,000 at the end of 2023 from 79,000 at the end of 2022 due 
to growth in Information and Digital Technology, and Downstream, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions. 

As we continue to implement our Powering Progress strategy, in Shell's 
portfolio companies which maintain their own HR systems, headcount 
rose to 19,000 at the end of 2023 from 14,000 at the end of 2022. 
This was partly driven by acquisitions and growth in Downstream, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions. 

See Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 315 for the average 

number of employees by business segment.

The table below presents the total employee number by gender 
and region.

Number of employees by gender and region

2023

Men Women

Number of employees 

67

36

Breakdown by region

Africa

Asia

Europe

North America

Oceania

South America

2.6

22.9

20.0

17.8

2.5

1.4

1.0

15.1

11.1

6.4

1.2

0.8

Total

103

4

38

31

24

4

2

Thousand

2022

2021

Total

Total

93

4

32

30

23

3

1

83

4

30

27

18

2

2

The table below presents the number of employees by age group.

Number of employees by age group [A]

Under 30 years old

Between 30 and 50 years old

Above 50 years old

[A] Excludes employees in portfolio companies.

2023

2022

2021

Thousand

12

54

18

11

51

17

10

50

17

The table below presents the distribution of employee contract type, 
by gender and region. 

Employee contract type by gender and region [A]

Permanent Contract/
Employment at-will [B] 

Fixed-Term Contract 

Men Women

Men Women

Number of employees

54,074

28,502

941

432

Breakdown by region

Experienced hires
9,209
people joined Shell (38% women, 62% men)

Graduate hires
460
people joined Shell (40% women, 60% men)

Africa

Asia

Europe

North America

Oceania

South America

 4 %

 37 %

 32 %

 22 %

 3 %

 2 %

 3 %

 43 %

 35 %

 15 %

 2 %

 2 %

 9 %

 33 %

 51 %

 2 %

 5 %

 — 

 18 %

 37 %

 41 %

 1 %

 3 %

 — 

[A] Excludes employees in portfolio companies.
[B] Employment at-will is used in the USA to describe employment contracts.

128
128

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Shell aims to be an attractive employer to its existing and prospective 
employees. We offer employees the opportunity to develop their 
careers within Shell, including rotations across different parts of 
the business to grow their skills and progress. 

In 2023, 11.2% of Shell employees were promoted compared with 
14.3% in 2022. 

Shell's turnover in 2023 was 5.7%; 4,685 employees left Shell of which 
2,669 resigned voluntarily. This compares with 8.5% in 2022, during 
which 6,630 employees left Shell of which 3,942 voluntarily.

Employee engagement 
Insight into employee needs and perspectives enables Shell to 
continually learn and improve our policies, processes, and practices. 

Management regularly engages with employees through elected 
employee representatives and a range of local formal and informal 
channels. These channels include webcasts and all-employee messages 
from our CEO and other senior leaders, as well as town halls, team 
meetings and site visits by the Board and EC. 

In 2023, members of the Board and EC visited certain Shell sites in 
Canada where they engaged with employees on our strategy and the 
energy transition. Shell plc's Chair, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, also met with 
Shell employees on his site visits to the Netherlands, China and Germany.

See "Workforce engagement" on pages 170-171.

We seek to comply with applicable local laws and regulations, 
including on working hours. We aim to eliminate discrimination in 
employment, forced labour and child labour. We respect the right to 
collective bargaining and freedom of association. Where appropriate, 
engagements take place with union representatives at asset and 
country level, as well as with the Shell European Works Council.

Employees have access to senior leaders, local employee forums 
and employee resource groups. These engagements enable Shell to 
maintain a constructive employee and industrial relations environment. 

Team leadership plays a key role in driving employee engagement. 
We seek to develop leaders through learning programmes, domestic 
and international assignments, and project opportunities. In 2023, 22% 
of team leaders in Shell received access to Shell's leadership learning 
programme, LEAD. Our mindset and behaviours, which emphasise 
psychological safety, are at the heart of our leadership programmes. 

The Shell People Survey

The Shell People Survey is one of the key tools we use to 
measure employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and 
commitment to Shell. We believe that increased employee 
engagement can result in better business performance and 
improve safety. In 2023, the response rate to the survey was 
88% (from 87% in 2022). The average employee engagement 
score remain unchanged at 79% from the 2022 level, which is 
top quartile in comparison with external benchmarks. This score 
suggests that, overall, our people are engaged, enjoy their work 
and are loyal to Shell. This number excludes scores from our 
joint-venture partners who participated voluntarily in the Shell 
People Survey.

Employee well-being 
Shell provides competitive remuneration with a range of benefits, 
such as global minimum maternity leave of 16 weeks and at least 
eight weeks' paid parental leave for non-birthing parents.

Financial well-being
Shell's remuneration is designed to be market competitive and free 
from bias. We aim to ensure equal pay for equal work. Through 
regular benchmarking, Shell's compensation is typically higher than 
the minimum wage level observed locally, including in countries without 
legislation on minimum wage. Pay adjustment at Shell is directly linked 
to performance management. The system is shared transparently with 
all employees to help them understand how their pay adjustments are 
made annually. We continue to engage employees transparently and 
openly about our pay policies to help build understanding, trust, and 
confidence in our approach.

We aspire to equip our employees with skills and experience through 
the digital and energy transition. People development is a priority at 
Shell. Learning and development is part of our organisational culture 
and budget planning. Training courses are accessible to all employees, 
either online or in person. In 2023, 295,000 formal training days were 
delivered to employees and joint-venture partners. This compares with 
266,000 training days in 2022. 

Flexible work 
We seek to build a sense of community and collaboration within 
Shell's sites where we want employees to feel welcome and valued. 
By enabling people to balance their work and personal lives, we can 
help them perform at their best. Our Future of Work guide advises 
employees and team leaders on hybrid working options. Shell offers 
to meet both business and personal needs. 

We aim to equip our employees with the skills they will need for 
digitalisation and the energy transition, and we have increased the 
learning offerings available for new skills. In 2023, around 6,900 Shell 
employees completed courses on topics such as hydrogen production, 
carbon capture and storage, and energy management. This is an 
increase from 4,000 in 2022. Where appropriate, we recruit talent 
externally to add to the skills and experiences of our workforce. 

Physical, social, and mental well-being 
Our goal is to empower our employees to feel their best and perform 
at their best. We do this by promoting mindsets and behaviours 
that support good health, by protecting our people from illness by 
mitigating known risk factors. We do this by using evidence-based 
tools, and by providing access to timely support and care for those 
who are injured, ill or struggling.

129
129

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Interventions to promote mental, physical, and social well-being are 
delivered via a mix of measures. For example, through the design of our 
workspaces, through benefits offerings such as gyms and health checks, 
and through our country-based employee networks, group activities 
and events. Our global campaigns, such as Care for Self and I'm Not 
OK, develop individual and team well-being skill sets, to create healthy 
and psychologically safe working environments, and to nurture a 
culture of care. 

Mental well-being 
At Shell we strive to reduce the stigma related to mental ill health 
through open conversations, global and country-level campaigns, 
senior leader communications, engagements with elected employee 
representatives and through our experience-sharing portal for 
employees. This commitment is underscored by the CEO's signing 
of the Global Business Collaboration for Better Workplace Mental 
Health Pledge in January 2023.

Global Mental Well-being Programme
In November 2023, Shell launched its Global Mental Well-
being Programme following a successful pilot in 2022. The 
programme's interventions have a strong focus on developing 
a workplace culture that supports good mental health, and the 
voluntary survey enables employees to voice their experience 
of well-being in Shell. The data are anonymous and provide KPIs 
to report on progress and to identify opportunities to continually 
improve employee well-being.

Diversity, equity and inclusion
We have set clear goals for diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) and 
monitor these on a regular basis. Our CEO and EC are accountable for 
progress. We also continually assess our culture and staff engagement 
through tools such as the annual Shell People Survey. Detailed 
information on progress against our DE&I aspirations can be found 
on shell.com/DEI. 

Shell employees and contractors are required to complete two 
mandatory training courses on DE&I: Conscious Inclusion and Respect 
in the Workplace. These reinforce expected behaviours for a respectful, 
inclusive workplace, and build our stance against discrimination and 
harassment, including bullying and sexual harassment. Employees and 
contractors are required to take these two courses every two years.

In 2023, our Shell People Survey showed a result of 83 points out of 
100 for all questions relating to DE&I. This was unchanged from 2022 
and suggests that overall our people feel that Shell is a workplace in 
which they belong and have equal opportunities to progress and grow. 
The result indicates that our people believe they are provided with a 
safe and inclusive work environment. We will continue to focus on 
improving our DE&I efforts as we strive to improve our result further.

As of December 31, 2023, 89% of Shell employees now have the 
option to voluntarily declare their gender identity, sexual orientation, 
race and ethnicity, and disability where relevant and legal, via Shell's 
HR system. Data from this self-identification initiative (self-ID) allow us 
to monitor progress against our DE&I aspirations.

130
130

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Gender
We strive for gender equality and we have signed the World Economic 
Forum declaration on closing the gender gap in the oil and gas sector. 
We have also endorsed the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change 
initiative for the advancement of women, especially those from ethnic 
minorities, into senior leadership and board positions.

In line with the UK Listing Rules, the Board of Shell plc aims for gender 
balance on the Board, with at least one senior board position [A] held 
by a woman. To provide flexibility for periods of change, we aim to 
maintain the representation of both men and of women at, or above, 
a minimum of 40%. As of December 31, 2023, women made up 42% 
of the Board with one senior board position, the CFO role, held by 
a woman. 
[A] Senior board position means Chair, CEO, Senior Independent Director, or CFO.

Over the years, Shell has progressively improved the representation 
of women on the Executive Committee and in senior leadership roles. 
The table below shows the representation of women at December 31, 
2023. As of January 1, 2024, we have more women than men on our 
Executive Committee, at 57%.

Level

Women on Board

Women on Executive Committee 

Women in Senior Leadership roles [A]

2023

 42 %

 43 %

 32 %

2022

 55 %

 22 %

 30 %

[A] Senior Leadership is a Shell measure based on compensation grade levels. Shell is working 
towards achieving 35% representation of women in our senior leadership positions by 
2025, and 40% by 2030. This measure is distinct from "senior manager" as per statutory 
disclosure requirements set out in the table below.

Gender diversity data (at December 31, 2023)

Gender diversity data

Directors of the Company

Senior managers [A]

Employees (thousand)

Men

 58 %  

 66 %  

 65 %  

Women

 42 %

 34 %

 35 %

5 

410 

36 

7 

806 

67 

[A] Senior manager is defined in section 414C(9) of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
accordingly, the number disclosed comprises the Executive Committee members 
who were not Directors of the Company, and other directors of Shell subsidiaries. 

Shell seeks to increase the overall representation of women in the 
organisation. As of December 31, 2023, 35% of Shell employees were 
women. Of the experienced hires who joined Shell in 2023, 38% were 
women compared with 40% in 2022. Of the graduate hires who joined 
Shell in 2023, 40% were women compared with 49% in 2022.

A crucial element of improving gender balance is addressing any 
gender pay gap and we continue to work towards improvements in this 
area. We conduct an annual global gender pay equity review using a 
robust statistical approach. In 2023, countries in this review included 
Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Malaysia, 
the Netherlands, Nigeria, the Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Singapore, 
South Africa, Thailand, Turkey and the UK.

For example, in the UK, we continue to make progress to close the gap. 
In 2023, the mean gender pay gap of all men and women across all
in-scope [A] Shell companies in the UK is -3.7% to 18.7%, compared 
with 11.7% to 20.7% in 2022. 
[A] Shell companies in the UK with 250 or more employees in line with UK government 

requirements on gender pay gap reporting. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

In parallel, the mean gender bonus gap ranged from -11.3% to 57% 
in 2023. This gap exists for several reasons, including fewer women in 
senior leadership positions and fewer women in higher-paid specialist 
roles. More information about the UK gender pay gap at Shell can 
be found on our website. 

Race and ethnicity
We are working to address racial inequity and create an inclusive 
work environment where everyone feels valued. In 2020, we 
created the Shell Global Council for Race supported by a 20-member 
Employee Advisory Board composed of members from a diverse mix 
of racial and ethnic backgrounds. The council, which is sponsored by 
the CEO, aims to advance diversity in our workforce so that it better 
reflects communities where we work and from which we draw talent. 
The council focuses on the USA, the UK and the Netherlands.

Shell aims to maintain or exceed having at least one Board member 
from an ethnic minority background, acknowledging that in periods of 
Board change this balance may not be achieved. As of December 31, 
2023, the Board had three members from an ethnic minority group. In 
addition, one of Shell's EC members identifies as being from an ethnic 
minority group. In support of the 2023 Parker Review 
recommendations, Shell aims to achieve 15% ethnic minority group 
representation in its Senior Management by 2027 [A].

[A] As per the 2023 Parker Review, "Senior Management" refers to EC and senior managers 
who report directly to them and "ethnic minority" refers to an individual who self-identifies 
as Asian, Black, Mixed/multiple, or other ethnic minority group, in line with the UK ONS 
classifications.

Due to local restrictions with ethnicity data collection and reporting, 
Shell offers employees the option to voluntarily declare their ethnicity 
via the Self-Identification (Self-ID) initiative [A].
[A] Ethnicity declaration is voluntary and collection of relevant data that is aligned to the UK 

ONS classifications is not available in all countries.

Improving the employee declaration rate via Self-ID continues to be 
a priority as it contributes to building and developing a diverse talent 
pipeline at Shell. 

Employee ethnic diversity – UK

e
3.1%

a
15.4%

b
3.9%

c

2.4%

a

b

c

d

e

  Asian
Black

Mixed

White

Other ethnic 
minority background

d
75.2%

The graphic chart above shows the ethnic diversity of Shell employees 
in the UK based on self-identification data provided by employees. 
As ethnicity declaration is voluntary, our ethnicity declaration rate is 
not 100% and all calculations are based on a declaration rate of 83.1% 
in the UK. The 16.9% of our workforce who have not provided data 
or have chosen not to declare their ethnicity were not included in 
our calculations 

In addition, Shell in the UK voluntarily publishes its ethnicity pay gap 
data and the steps it is taking to close the gap annually. This includes 
a recruitment ambition of 8% Black representation in graduate and 
experienced hires by 2025, in line with UK society.

See the Shell UK Diversity Pay Gap Report 2023 on shell.co.uk.

In the Netherlands, we are implementing our Ethnic Inclusion Plan 
which includes initiatives to raise awareness and to promote voluntary 
disclosure of Self-ID data. In 2023, we also recruited 34 new hires 
via Shell's Learning Programme for refugee talent in the Netherlands.

Shell also works with key suppliers to ensure they understand our 
DE&I expectations. 

See "Nomination and Succession Committee" on pages 172-176 for our current talent 

management and succession process. 

See our website shell.com for more information on our DE&I progress in the UK, the 

USA and the Netherlands.

Shell has reported on its race and ethnicity ambitions in the USA, 
the UK and the Netherlands. The graphic below shows the ethnic 
distribution of Shell employees in the USA as reported to the 
US Department of Labor.

Employee ethnic diversity – USA

e
2.2%

a
14.2%

d
62.4%

b
9%

c
12.3%

a

b

c

d

e

  Asian

Black or 
African American

Hispanic 
or Latino

White

Other racial 
and ethnic groups

LGBT+
We are working to advance lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
plus (LGBT+) inclusion within Shell and the communities where we 
work. We promote equal opportunity and aim to create an 
environment where people feel included, regardless of sexual 
orientation or gender identity. Our approach reinforces respect for 
people and provides psychological safety for our LGBT+ employees. 
Most of our work around LGBT+ inclusion happens at a country level 
in line with local policies, laws and regulations. Our Global LGBT+ 
Inclusion Guidelines, published in 2022, are designed to help country 
teams develop their own plans. Of the 15 countries with an LGBT+ 
employee resource group, 13 are adopting these guidelines in their 
multi-year plans.

131
131

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Powering lives continued

Benchmarking our LGBT+ initiatives

We benchmark our initiatives externally. In 2023, Shell was 
recognised as an "Advocate" in the 2023 Workplace Pride 
Global benchmark, which is the highest level awarded to 
companies that stand out as clear leaders in LGBTIQ+ workplace 
inclusion. In the USA, we have received a 100% score from the 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality 2023 
Index and have achieved a top score every year since 2016.

Disability inclusion and accessibility 
We aim to create an inclusive, psychologically safe and accessible 
environment where people with disabilities can excel. We provide 
support and adjustments for people with disabilities during the 
recruitment process and throughout their careers with Shell, including 
access to educational resources, training programmes, and personal 
and professional development. In May 2023, we launched a Disability, 
Accessibility and Inclusion Portal providing comprehensive guidance 
and tools for line managers, leaders, people with disabilities and 
employees to be active allies. Shell's enABLE employee resource 
groups provide expertise and advice to Shell leaders and our 
businesses on accessibility and disability inclusion. We also offer 
a workplace accessibility service which covers 79 locations in 
37 countries. The team is supported by functions such as Shell 
Health, Human Resources, Real Estate and IT.

Shell is part of the Valuable500, which connects 500 of the world's 
most influential global businesses to help progress large-scale disability 
inclusion. We are also an active members of the Business Disability 
Forum and Purple Space.

Employee share plans
We have several share plans designed to align employees' interests 
with our performance through share ownership.

See the "Directors' Remuneration Report", pages 191-193 for information about the 

share-based compensation plans for Executive Directors.

Performance Share Plan, Long-term Incentive Plan 
and exchanged awards under the BG Long-term 
Incentive Plan 
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
are designed to ensure that remuneration is clearly aligned with Shell's 
operating plan and longer-term strategic ambitions. The same measures 
apply to Executive Directors and Senior Management and to a 
significantly broader employee base. 

PSPs are long-term incentives, measured over a three-year performance 
period, designed to retain key employees and ensure they have a 
greater investment in Shell's future. The LTIP, also measured over a 

132
132

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

three-year performance period, is used to make long-term share 
incentive awards to Executive Directors, Executive Committee members 
and Senior Executives.

Under the PSP, 50% of the award is linked to certain indicators 
described in "Performance indicators" on pages 29-30, averaged over 
the performance period. For 2020, 11.25% of the award is linked to the 
free cash flow (FCF) measure and 5% is linked to an energy transition 
measure. The remaining 33.75% is linked to the comparative 
performance condition. For 2021 and 2022, 10% of the award is linked 
to the FCF measure and 10% is linked to an energy transition measure. 
The remaining 30% is linked to the comparative performance condition. 
From 2023, 12.5% of the award is linked to an organic FCF measure 
and 12.5% is linked to an energy transition measure. The remaining 
25% is linked to the comparative performance condition, which is 
based on two performance measures. 

Under the LTIP award made in 2020, 22.5% of the award is linked 
to the FCF measure and 10% is linked to an energy transition measure. 
The remaining 67.5% is linked to the comparative performance 
condition mentioned above. For 2021 and 2022, 20% of the award 
is linked to the FCF measure and 20% is linked to an energy transition 
measure. The remaining 60% is linked to the comparative performance 
condition. From 2023, 25% of the award is linked to an organic FCF 
measure and 25% is linked to an energy transition measure. The 
remaining 50% is linked to the comparative performance condition, 
which is based on two performance measures.

Separately, following the BG acquisition, certain employee share 
awards made in 2015 under BG's Long-term Incentive Plan were 
automatically exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the 
Company. The outstanding awards take the form of nil-cost options. 

Under all plans, all shares that vest are increased by an amount equal 
to the notional dividends accrued on those shares during the period 
from the award date to the vesting date. In certain circumstances, 
awards may be adjusted before delivery or be subject to clawback 
after delivery. None of the awards results in beneficial ownership 
until the shares vest.

See Note 27 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 309. 

Restricted share awards
Restricted Share Awards (awarded under the Shell Share Plan 2014 
and Shell Share Plan 2023) are free share awards made on a highly 
selective basis to senior staff. All shares that vest are increased by 
an amount equal to the notional dividends accrued on those shares 
during the period from the award date to the vesting date. In certain 
circumstances, awards may be adjusted before delivery or be subject 
to clawback after delivery.

Global Employee Share Purchase Plan
Eligible employees in participating countries may participate in the 
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan. This plan enables them to make 
contributions from net pay towards the purchase of the Company's 
shares at a 15% discount to the market price, either at the start or at the 
end of an annual cycle, whichever date offers the lower market price.

UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan
Eligible employees of participating Shell companies in the UK may 
participate in the Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan, under 
which monthly contributions from gross pay are made towards the 
purchase of the Company's shares. For every six shares purchased 
by the employee, one matching share is provided at no cost to 
the employee. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year

Safety

Safety
Safety, along with our core values, underpins our Powering Progress 
strategy. We aim to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across 
our operations. We call this our Goal Zero ambition.

We seek to improve safety by focusing on the three areas where the 
safety risks associated with our activities are highest: personal, process 
and transport. We strive to reduce risks and to minimise the potential 
impact of any incident, with a particular emphasis on the risks with 
the most serious consequences if something goes wrong.

Our multi-year process of refreshing our approach to safety for all 
employees and contractors started in 2020. This approach is rooted 
in a consistent focus on human performance. We ask people at Shell 
to apply a learner mindset, by which we mean the belief that we can 
always improve, enhance individual capabilities, learn from mistakes 
and successes, and speak up freely without repercussions. 

In practice, our refreshed approach to safety is about enhancing 
how we prepare for and conduct high-risk activities by, for example:
￮ executing frontline work: build an environment of trust and learning, 

strengthen team leaders' coaching and engagement skills, and 
embed pre-start work preparations such as those developed by 
the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP);

￮ applying acknowledged industry safety tools: in 2022, we moved 

from the Shell Life-Saving Rules to industry-wide Life-Saving Rules so 
that Shell employees and contractors are working on the same basis 
to manage risks; and

￮ using technology and digital tools to reduce exposure, identify 
conditions that may lead to serious incidents and fatalities, and 
enhance learning.

It is also about capturing more insights from performance analysis by, 
for example:
￮ using metrics focused on serious injuries and fatalities (SIF) and the 
lessons that we can derive from high-potential incidents and events 
that could have led to SIF incidents;

￮ seeking to capture underlying causes and systemic patterns through 

incident investigations; and

￮ aiming to embed lessons learned from the above points in training 

and instructions for work preparation and execution.

In 2023, we integrated this safety approach into the plans of our 
facilities, projects and functions. Many of our non-operated ventures 
and companies that are operated by Shell, but not integrated into 
our systems, have also chosen to implement elements of our 
refreshed approach.

133
133

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Technology and safety
We are establishing connected ecosystems for data gathering, analysis 
and reporting through the digital transformation of our equipment. 
Digitalisation helps to automate processes so that they can be 
supported remotely, for example, by quickly taking action in the 
event of unsafe situations.

For example, T-Pulse, an AI-automated safety monitoring solution 
developed by the Indian company Detect Technologies, uses CCTV 
feeds to detect unsafe situations, such as fall and fire hazards. It 
identifies and reports real-time safety issues and unsafe behaviours to 
enable urgent conversations, followed by coaching for improvement. 

Shell started to deploy T-Pulse in 2020, and had installed it at 13 sites 
by the end of 2023. By then, it had created alerts for more than 
10,000 situations with potential safety issues. Analysis showed that 
in more than 500 of those situations, an intervention helped to avoid 
potential significant harm to people or leaks to the environment.

Personal safety
We continue to strengthen the safety culture and leadership among 
our employees and contract staff. This aligns with our focus on caring 
for people.

When our employees and contractors perform tasks, we expect them 
to consider the hazards that could potentially cause serious harm and 
the effectiveness of the barriers in place to avoid serious harm. We run 
safety awareness programmes, and hold an annual global Safety 
Day to give employees and contractors time to discuss safety culture 
on the frontline, reflect on how to prevent incidents, and how to 
improve performance.

In 2023, the focus was on "failing safely", which means we recognise 
that people make mistakes and that our barriers need to be capable 
of managing the impact of those mistakes to prevent harm.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Safety continued

In 2023, we achieved safe construction, commissioning and start-up of 
a floating production unit (FPU) for the Shell-operated Vito field (Shell 
interest 63.1%) in the US Gulf of Mexico. The fabrication of another 
FPU, Seatrium, for the Shell-operated Whale field (Shell interest 60%) 
in the Gulf of Mexico, was completed in 2023 after 12 million hours 
without fatality or serious injury.

Transport safety
Transporting large numbers of people, products and equipment by 
road, rail, sea and air poses safety risks. We seek to reduce these risks 
by developing best-practice standards within Shell. We also work with 
specialist contractors, industry bodies, non-governmental organisations 
and governments to find ways of reducing transport safety risks.

Process safety
Process safety management is about keeping hazardous substances 
inside pipes, tanks and vessels, and ensuring that well fluids are 
contained during construction, interventions (such as maintenance) 
and incidents. Our Asset Integrity and Process Safety Management 
Principles guide our actions from project design and construction 
throughout the life cycle of facilities to keep sites, employees and 
contractors safe.

Our global standards define our requirements for the identification 
of process safety hazards and the design of controls to prevent the 
release of the identified hazards. For example, offshore wells must be 
designed with at least two independent barriers in the direction of flow 
to reduce the risk of an uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons. In the 
event of a spill or a leak, our standards require the use of independent 
recovery measures to reduce the likelihood of a release becoming 
catastrophic. We regularly inspect, test and maintain these barriers 
so that they meet our standards.

Collaboration with industry stakeholders, customers and suppliers is 
critically important to achieve our process safety ambitions. We focus 
on disciplined delivery of our work processes. At the same time, we 
seek to make these work processes more effective through active 
learning, a continuous improvement mindset and striving to create 
a working environment where everyone feels safe to speak up.

The three core pillars to help improve our process safety 
performance are: 
￮ to simplify our risk management by standardising our risk 
assessment tools and make more use of digitalisation;
￮ to embed human performance factors in frontline work 

execution; and

￮ to shift the process safety indicators from lagging to leading 

indicators with a greater focus on the risk potential.

Preparing for emergencies
We prepare and practise our emergency response to incidents, such 
as a spill or a fire. This involves working closely with local emergency 
services and regulatory agencies to jointly test our plans and 
procedures. Shell requires key operating facilities to test their 
emergency response preparedness every three years. In 2023, we 
held four large-scale emergency response exercises at certain assets 
we operate in Trinidad and Tobago, Singapore, the UK and the USA. 
We also supported one large-scale emergency response exercise 
at an asset in Argentina, owned and operated by Raízen, one of 
our joint ventures (Shell interest 44%).

We have set up three regional Emergency Response Leadership 
Councils for the Americas; Asia-Pacific; and Europe, the Middle 
East, and Africa. The councils bring together experts from different 
teams that need to be able to work together seamlessly in case of 
emergencies. In 2023, the councils' annual conferences covered 
a variety of topics such as business continuity, cyber security, 
performance under stress, battery storage emergencies, use 
of drones and competence development. 

134
134

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Road safety
In 2023, Shell employees and contractors drove around 464 million 
kilometres on company business. Commercial road transport accounts 
for most of this but only two of this year's 18 severe motor vehicle 
incidents (SMVIs) occurred during commercial road transport. An SMVI 
is defined as a motor vehicle incident resulting in a fatality, serious 
injury or a rollover of a vehicle. Nine SMVIs occurred during business 
travel, two during commercial transport activities and the remaining 
seven during on-site operations. There were no road transport-related 
fatalities in 2023.

In 2023, about 30,600 Shell employees and individual contractor 
colleagues were identified as driving on work-related business, 
and therefore required defensive driver training (DDT). In 2023, 
we launched an internal virtual DDT course to align better with 
industry partners' approaches. 

Addressing driver fatigue

Falling asleep behind the wheel or being distracted while driving 
are amongst the leading causes of road accidents worldwide. 
We worked with four universities to identify suitable devices and 
started deployment in 2020, at the Shell-operated QGC facility 
in Australia.

By the end of 2023, we had installed active fatigue and 
distraction detection (AFDD) devices in around 3,380 vehicles 
operated by Shell or our contractors in countries where road 
transport risks are highest. In 2024, we will continue to install 
AFDD devices in vehicles operated by Shell, including both 
contractor and Shell-owned vehicles. The AFDD devices have 
recorded and intervened in at least 130 high-risk fatigue events, 
preventing what could have resulted in motor vehicle incidents 
if the devices had not alerted the drivers.

Photo: Transportation is intrinsic to our business activities.

Safety at sea
At the end of 2023, we managed and operated a global fleet of 
25 tankers, liquefied natural gas carriers and the world's first liquefied 
hydrogen carrier, the Suiso Frontier.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Safety continued

Air safety
In 2023, for Shell-operated ventures, our owned and contracted 
aircraft flew more than 38,000 hours and safely carried more than 
281,000 Shell employees and contractors to destinations across the 
world. In addition, remotely piloted aircraft safely completed almost 
3,400 flight hours on surveys, inspections, emissions surveillance, and 
security and incident response.

See our website shell.com for more information on transport safety.

In 2023, senior executives from Shell's 23 major global contractors 
joined Shell executives in Norway for our annual Contractor Safety 
Leadership workshop. Focus areas of discussion were worker welfare 
and human rights, mental health and technology solutions for safer 
work at the frontline.

Also in 2023, leadership teams from 25 Shell joint ventures and 
companies newly acquired by Shell met in the Netherlands to discuss 
topics such as worker welfare and related industry standards, and 
the importance of alignment on safety.

Working with others
We work with contractors and suppliers to help them understand 
our safety requirements. We strive to improve the energy industry's 
safety performance by sharing safety standards and experience 
with other operators, joint-venture partners, contractors and 
professional organisations. 

Contractor safety
Executives from Shell and our major contractor companies have 
collaborated on Shell's contractor safety leadership (CSL) programme 
since 2014. The programme seeks to identify strategies and practical 
ways to improve a shared safety culture and achieve our Goal Zero 
ambition of no harm and no leaks.

Importance of contractor safety for Shell

135
135

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell’sstrategyPowering ProgressUnderpinned by our core valuesof honesty, integrity and respectfor people, and our focus on safety.Goal ZeroNo harm. No leaks.Contractorsafetymanagementin ShellWe want everycontractor that worksfor us to go homesafely every day58%share of contractorexposure hours inShell-operated venturesMajority of thehigh-risk workis performed byour contractorsShellsupply chainmanagementIn partnershipwith our keycontractors~25,000global supplier/contractorcompanies in 2023$48.6 billionspent on goodsand services in2023 globallyShell-contractorsafety leadership(CSL)23contractorcompanies inCSL programme80m+exposurehoursannually550,000+direct employees(total for all CSLmembers)Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Security
Our operations expose us to criminality, civil unrest, activism, terrorism, 
cyber disruption and acts of war that could have a material adverse 
effect on our business (see "Risk factors" on page 20). We seek to 
obtain the best possible information to enable us to assess threats 
and risks. 

We conduct detailed threat and risk assessments for our Shell-operated 
venture assets, facilities, business, projects and activities so that security 
risk mitigations achieve the principles of deter, detect, delay and 
respond. Further mitigations include strengthening the security of 
assets, reducing our exposure as appropriate and using journey 
management plans. We also invest in information risk management 
capabilities and crisis management and business continuity measures. 
We learn from incidents, in order to continually improve our security 
risk management in Shell.

To help us understand the threats, we build strong and open 
relationships with government, law enforcement, military forces, 
industry peers and specialist security information providers. On 
the basis of these threat assessments, we identify security risks to 
employees, assets, including information technology equipment, and 
operations. We then seek to manage the risks so they are as low as 
reasonably practicable. Risk mitigation includes strengthening the 
security of sites, reducing our exposure to threats as appropriate, 
journey management, information risk management and cyber defence 
operations, crisis management and business continuity measures. 

We conduct training and awareness campaigns for employees, and 
provide them with travel advice and access to 24/7 assistance while 
travelling. We consistently verify the identity of our employees and 
contract staff, we control physical access to our sites and activities, 
and we document access with digital tools. We take steps to have 
clear and planned responses to security incidents, so that we are 
able to react quickly and effectively if they occur.

Shell is a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights initiative. This is a multi-stakeholder initiative of governments, 
extractive sector industries and NGOs that gives guidance on how to 
respect human rights, while providing security for business operations. 
Shell implements this guidance across its companies, concentrating 
on countries where the risks of working with state and private security 
forces are greatest.

In the EC, accountability for security matters sits with the Chief Human 
Resources and Corporate Officer.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Safety continued

Safety performance
We are deeply saddened to report that four of our contractor 
colleagues in Shell-operated ventures lost their lives in 2023 during the 
course of their work for Shell. An additional contractor colleague who 
was injured in 2023, succumbed to their injuries in February 2024. 
One contractor colleague in Malaysia died during scaffolding work, 
and one in the Philippines died after a fall from height. Two contractor 
colleagues in Nigeria died in a security incident, along with four 
government security agents. In Nigeria, another contractor 
colleague injured in a tugboat fire incident later passed away.

These losses have a deep and far-reaching impact on families, friends 
and colleagues. We are determined to learn from these incidents 
and take steps to prevent something similar from happening again. 
We continue to work closely with our contractors to help build a 
strong safety culture at the frontline.

Several industry safety leadership groups confirm that serious and high-
potential incidents often have different root causes than most lower-
consequence events. The serious injury, illness and fatality frequency 
(SIF-F) enables us to focus our investigations on the most serious 
incidents. The aim is to collect and analyse relevant, high-quality 
data that can help us improve our efforts to prevent serious injuries 
and fatalities.

In 2023, the SIF-F was 2.6 injuries and illnesses per 100 million 
working hours compared with 2.0 in 2022. The SIF-F for 2022 was 
adjusted from 1.7 to 2.0 due to a classification change for one injury 
after publication in March 2023. The number of serious injuries and 
fatalities increased to 12 in 2023 (five fatalities and seven serious injury 
cases) from nine in 2022. Fatalities in 2023 include one contractor 
colleague who was injured in a 2023 incident and unfortunately 
died from their injuries in February 2024.

The number of Tier 1 and 2 operational process safety events in 2023 
decreased compared with 2022. There were 63 incidents reported 
during the year compared with 66 in 2022.

For reporting on process safety, in this Report, we combine Tier 1 and 2 
events. A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled 
release of any material from a process, including non-toxic and non-
flammable materials, with the greatest actual consequence resulting 
in harm to employees, contract staff or a neighbouring community, 
damage to equipment, or exceeding a defined threshold quantity. 
A Tier 2 process safety event is a release of lesser consequence.

In 2023, there were zero Level 1 or Level 2 well control incidents in 
Shell-operated ventures. A well control incident is defined as a well 
set up with less than two barriers in place to protect it against a 
release through any potential path.

As part of Shell's learner mindset approach, we investigate serious 
incidents so we can understand the underlying causes, including 
technical, behavioural, organisational and human factors. We share 
what we learn, including with contractors. We implement mitigations 
at the site and in the country and business where the incident occurred. 
We seek to turn incident findings into improved standards or better 
ways of working that can be applied widely across similar facilities.

See our 2023 Shell Sustainability Report for more information about our 

safety performance.

136
136

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year

Living by 
our values

Our core values of honesty, integrity, and 
respect for people, as well as our focus 
on safety and sustainability are critical to 
our strategy. We are committed to doing 
business in an ethical and transparent way.

Ethics and transparency
Our core values underpin our work with employees, customers, 
investors, contractors, suppliers, NGOs, the communities where we 
operate and others. The Shell General Business Principles, Code of 
Conduct and Ethics and Compliance Manual help everyone at Shell 
act in line with our values.

Shell General Business Principles 
The Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) set out our responsibilities 
to shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and society. 
They set the standards for how we conduct business with integrity, 
care and respect for people. As part of these principles, we commit to 
contribute to sustainable development, balancing short- and long-term 
interests and integrating economic, environmental and social 
considerations into our decision-making. All Shell employees and 
contractors, and those at joint ventures we operate, are expected to 
behave in line with these business principles. The company undertakes 
a range of activities to help embed the SGBP within the organisation. 
These include training and encouraging people to discuss the dilemmas 
they face in their work.

Code of Conduct 
The Shell Code of Conduct explains how employees, contractors and 
anyone else acting on behalf of Shell must behave to live up to our 
business principles. It covers safety, anti-bribery and corruption, fair 
competition, human rights and other important areas. Shell employees, 
contractors and third parties can report any potential breaches of the 
Code of Conduct confidentially through several channels, including 
anonymously through a global helpline operated by an independent 
provider. We maintain a stringent no retaliation policy to protect any 
person making an allegation in good faith.

In 2023, there were 2,134 reports to the Shell Global Helpline. Of 
those, 254 cases were confirmed breaches of the Code of Conduct, 
278 employees or contractor staff were subject to disciplinary action, 
and 66 people were dismissed. 

Data protection
Over the last decade, the Shell Group has continued to invest in and 
develop a mature and robust privacy compliance programme based 
on our Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs). These rules are perceived as 

a positive mechanism by data privacy regulators for enabling lawful 
data sharing and demonstrating accountability within large corporate 
groups. The BCRs allow intra-group transfers of personal data without 
needing to enter into additional complex intra-group agreements. The 
overall objective of the programme is to enable the Shell Group of 
companies to collect, handle and manage personal data in a 
professional, ethical and lawful manner.

Shell's Chief Privacy Officer serves as the Data Protection Officer (DPO) 
under the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other 
applicable data privacy laws, except where there is a requirement to 
have a locally based DPO, such as in China and the Philippines. 

Our staff receive guidance on the requirements in Shell's Ethics and 
Compliance Manual, on an internal website focusing on data privacy, 
training modules where completion is monitored and regular messages 
from Shell leaders on the importance of managing data privacy risks. 

We monitor new and imminent data privacy legislation and seek to 
ensure we have a robust impact assessment process in place for the 
relevant businesses. We design our operations and processes based 
on relevant data privacy requirements and we build controls into our 
processes and practices which cover the handling of personal data. 

We maintain a Group-wide incident management process designed to 
immediately identify and remediate data privacy breaches. The process 
also helps us to comply with country-level requirements for reporting 
breaches. Some of our acquired companies are not yet in full compliance 
with our BCRs. Following assessments for each of those companies, 
specific actions are planned and put in place to achieve compliance, 
with regular updates made on their progress to management.

Anti-bribery and corruption 
Shell has rules on anti-bribery and corruption in its Code of Conduct 
and Ethics and Compliance Manual. 

We maintain an anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion and anti-money 
laundering (ABC/AML) programme, with adequate resources, a 
comprehensive governance structure and established reporting lines. 
Staff receive guidance on the requirements listed in Shell's Ethics and 
Compliance Manual, an ABC/AML-specific website, training modules 
where completion is monitored and regular messages from Shell 
leaders on the importance of managing ABC/AML risks. 

Shell has around 25,000 suppliers worldwide. We offer free training 
in anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices to selected suppliers and 
contractors. This training is available in 14 languages. In 2023, we 
offered training to 131 third-party organisations in 16 countries.

137
137

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Our approach to sustainability
Our commitment to contribute to sustainable development has 
been part of the Shell General Business Principles since 1997. These 
principles, together with our Code of Conduct, apply to the way we do 
business and to our conduct with the communities where we operate. 
We have embedded this sustainability commitment in our Powering 
Progress strategy, and our business and decision-making processes.

Sustainability reporting boundary and guidelines
Data in the Respecting nature, Powering lives, Safety and Living by our 
values sections are reported on a 100% basis in respect of activities 
where a Shell company is the operator (unless noted otherwise). 
Reporting on an operational control basis differs from that applied for 
financial reporting purposes in the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 
on pages 244-316. Find additional information on our environmental 
and social performance in our 2023 Shell Sustainability Report 
expected to be published in March 2024.

Our reporting on sustainability follows certain guidelines. For example:
￮ As a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable 

Development, we support its updated criteria for membership from 
2022, which include requirements for corporate transparency.
￮ Our reporting is informed by guidelines developed by Ipieca, the 
global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and 
social performance across the energy transition.

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Governments are responsible for prioritising and implementing 
approaches that meet the UN's 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). We strive to play our part in helping governments and 
societies achieve the SDGs and these were one of the considerations 
in the development of our Powering Progress strategy. We believe the 
actions we take as part of our strategy can help directly contribute 
to 13 of the SDGs, while indirectly contributing to others. 

Board oversight for sustainability
We describe Shell's overall governance framework on pages 160-161 
and provide information on the roles of the Board, its committees, and 
the Executive Committee. The Sustainability Committee (SUSCO) is one 
of the four standing committees of the Board of Directors of Shell plc. 
The SUSCO's responsibilities are to review the progress of Shell with 
respect to sustainability and the non-financial elements of our Powering 
Progress strategy.

See pages 177-178 for information about SUSCO and its activities.

The Annual Report on Remuneration (see pages 194-210) provides 
details of how the Shell scorecard captures key performance indicators 
for safety, environment and climate.

Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Living by our values continued

Antitrust and competition laws
We maintain an antitrust compliance programme with adequate 
resources, a comprehensive governance structure and established 
reporting lines. Staff receive guidance on the requirements listed in 
Shell's Ethics and Compliance Manual, an internal antitrust-specific 
website, training modules where completion is monitored and 
messages from Shell leaders on the importance of managing antitrust 
risks. Staff must understand and comply with the Protect Shell Policy, 
which explains Shell's position on managing antitrust risks in 
engagements with parties external to Shell. In response to fast-
moving external antitrust developments and trends, internal guidance 
is continually being monitored to ensure that it remains relevant.

Compliance in our Trading and Supply business
We maintain a Trading Compliance function managed by a Chief 
Compliance Officer, as regulated by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), the US Commodities Futures Trading Commission 
(CFTC) and the Securities Commission of the Bahamas (SCB) 
with adequate resources, including employees and budget; a 
comprehensive governance structure, including mitigating control 
measures; and established reporting lines. Employees in Shell's 
Trading organisation receive clear guidance through the Shell 
Code of Conduct; the organisation's Trading Compliance Manual 
supplemented with specific policies; a specific internal compliance 
website; mandatory training modules where completion is monitored 
and additional training sessions. Shell leaders reinforce the importance 
of managing compliance and conduct risk in the trading organisation. 
Shell's Trading Compliance function has a dedicated monitoring and 
surveillance team, which has systems for trade surveillance and 
monitoring communications.

Trade compliance and sanctions
We continue to develop and maintain a trade compliance programme 
with adequate resources, robust screening protocols, a comprehensive 
governance structure and established reporting lines. Staff receive 
guidance on the requirements listed in Shell's Ethics and Compliance 
Manual, a specific website for trade compliance, training modules 
where completion is monitored and messages from Shell leaders on 
the importance of managing trade compliance risks. The effectiveness 
of the programme is assessed annually (more frequently if necessary) 
and we are continually seeking ways to improve it.

Reputation and brand
We continually assess and monitor the external environment for 
potential risks to our reputation. We engage in dialogue with our key 
stakeholders, such as investors, industry and trade groups, academics, 
governments and non-governmental organisations to gain greater 
insights into societal expectations of the Shell Group of companies. 
We also take proactive steps when warranted, through legal means 
to protect our reputation from unwarranted accusations. We have 
mitigation plans for identified individual risks at the Group, country 
and line of business level. Our country chairs are responsible for 
implementing country plans which are updated annually. We 
continually develop and defend our brand in line with Shell's 
purpose and target our efforts to drive brand differentiation, 
relevance and preference.

138
138

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Living by our values continued

HSSE & SP Control Framework
In Shell, health, safety, security, environment, and social performance 
(HSSE & SP) are vitally important to generating value. They are 
indispensable elements of our organisation. We have internal 
standards and a clear governance structure to help manage HSSE & 
SP risks and avoid potential adverse effects. These also help us to 
develop mitigation strategies aimed at ensuring that if an HSSE & SP 
risk materialises, we avoid the worst possible consequences and have 
ways to remediate any environmental damage. The Shell HSSE & SP 
Control Framework (CF) consists of mandatory manuals, which align 
with the Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP. Guidance 
documents, assurance protocols, and training materials support the 
implementation of the manuals. Our standards describe how key 
control processes need to be implemented, for example, to help make 
production safer and manage the care of equipment. The HSSE & SP 
CF applies to every Shell entity and Shell-operated venture. It defines 
requirements and accountabilities at each organisational level, setting 
expectations for the management of HSSE & SP risks. We aim to 
ensure that significant HSSE & SP risks associated with our business 
activities are assessed and managed to minimise them as far as 
reasonably practicable. Our subject matter experts provide advice 
and support businesses to improve HSSE & SP performance. The 
applicability of specific HSSE & SP CF requirements to contractors 
depends on the defined HSSE & SP risks of the material or services 
procured as determined by the contracting Shell entity in the context 
of the HSSE & SP CF. Contractors are required, through appropriate 
contract provisions, to adhere to either Shell requirements and 
standards, or applicable industry standards.

When planning new major projects, we conduct detailed 
environmental, social and health impact assessments. We routinely 
practice implementing our emergency response plans to potential 
events such as spills or fire, which pose a significant risk. The Shell 
Internal Audit & Investigation team provides assurance on the 
HSSE & SP controls to the Audit and Risk Committee.

Safety, Environment & Asset Management 
(SEAM) Standards
Our health, safety, security, environment, and social 
performance standards and governance structure are currently 
defined in our Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework and supporting 
guidance documents. 

We will begin transitioning to our new Safety, Environment & 
Asset Management (SEAM) Standards, which come into effect 
from July 1, 2024. This is part of the Shell Performance 
Framework, which is the overarching framework adopted by 
Shell to deliver on its strategy. Implementation of migration to 
the SEAM Standards, pursuant to guidance on expectations 
and process, will continue throughout 2024 into 2025.

Health, Safety, Security, Environment & Social Performance Control Framework

The HSSE & SP Control Framework defines mandatory standards, requirements and accountabilities. 
The framework applies to Shell entities and Shell-operated ventures, including employees and contractors.

Mandatory manuals describe:  

Purpose of the manual
 Accountabilities and responsibilities

Scope
 Requirements to be met

HSSE & SP
Management System

Health

Personal Safety

Process Safety

Environment

Social Performance

Security

Product Stewardship

Transport

Contractor HSSE
Management

Projects

Resources

Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, Security,
Safety, the Environment and Social Performance

139
139

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Performance in the year
Living by our values continued

Assurance
The Shell Internal Audit & Investigations (SIAI) team is the single 
independent assurance organisation within Shell. Within SIAI, 
the HSSE & SP and Asset Management Assurance team provides 
assurance to the Board's Audit and Risk Committee on the 
effectiveness of the HSSE & SP CF through an audit programme. 

We take care to invest responsibly in the energy transition and screen 
investments against multiple criteria. We expect joint ventures not 
operated by Shell to apply standards and principles substantially 
equivalent to our own and support them in doing so. We offer to help 
them review the effectiveness of their implementation. Even if a review 
is not conducted, we periodically evaluate HSSE & SP risks faced by 
the ventures that we do not operate. If a venture does not meet our 
HSSE & SP expectations, we seek to improve performance by working 
with our partners to develop and implement remedial action plans. 

Divestments
When considering divestments, we collaborate with in-house and 
external experts, where appropriate, to conduct checks and examine 
key attributes of potential buyers. These attributes may include their 
financial strength, operating culture, HSSE policies and approach to 
ethics and compliance. We also consider risk management and people 
management processes and standards, community liaison practices, 
and social performance programmes.

Applicable attributes are assessed against Shell's policies and relevant 
local regulations. Divestments are often subject to the approval of 
regulators, which may in part depend on potential buyers' HSSE 
capacity, compliance record and asset stewardship capabilities.

See the section "Risk management and controls" on page 223 for more information.

Decommissioning and restoration
Decommissioning is part of the normal life cycle of every oil and gas 
structure. We work hard to close and dispose of installations in a safe, 
efficient, cost-effective and environmentally responsible manner. This 
includes restoring the surroundings of platforms and facilities in line with 
relevant legislation, while taking our own standards into account. We 
have decommissioning and restoration activities under way in Brazil, 
Brunei, India, the Netherlands, the UK and the USA. We seek to reuse, 
repurpose and recycle materials in decommissioning. At the end of 
2023, we reported $19 billion on our balance sheet for current and 
non-current decommissioning and other provisions. 

See Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 301-302.

Shell invests in innovative decommissioning and restoration 
technologies both in-house and by funding third parties. For example, 
in the Netherlands, we have developed technology to deep-clean 
hazardous contaminants from unused pipelines. This allows us to sell 
the pipelines for reuse, such as piping hydrogen, or recycle them as 
part of our ambitions on circularity.

See the business sections on pages 41-81 for more information.

140
140

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023S172(1) (b) "The interests of the Company's employees"
Shell employees are fundamental and core to our business model and 
the safe delivery of our strategic ambitions. The success of our business 
depends on attracting, retaining, developing and motivating talented 
employees. The Directors consider and assess the implications of 
relevant decisions on employees and the wider workforce. The 
Directors seek to ensure that Shell remains a responsible employer, 
including with respect to pay and benefits, fairness (including gender 
pay gap reporting, see pages 130-131), diversity (information on Shell's 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is detailed on page 130), health and 
safety issues, and the workplace environment. The Directors regularly 
engage with employees and the wider workforce (a summary of 
engagements is provided on pages 170-171) as well as consider the 
annual employee survey (the most recent is detailed on page 129).

The Directors recognise that our pensioners also remain important 
stakeholders. 

See "Workforce engagement" on pages 170-171. 

S172(1) (c) "The need to foster the Company's business 
relationships with suppliers, customers and others" 
To deliver our strategy we require strong mutually beneficial 
relationships with suppliers, customers, governments, national oil 
companies and joint-venture partners. Shell seeks to promote and 
apply certain general principles in such relationships. The Board 
continues to review Shell's approach to suppliers, which is set out in 
the Shell Supplier Principles. In 2023, the Board reviewed steps taken 
with suppliers and supply chains to combat modern slavery and human 
trafficking. More detail on Shell's Modern Slavery Act statement is set 
out on page 220. The businesses continually assess the priorities 
related to customers and those with whom we do business, with the 
Board engaging with the businesses on these topics, for example, 
within the context of business strategy updates and investment 
proposals.

The Directors also receive updates on a variety of topics that indicate 
how these stakeholders have been engaged. These updates include 
information provided by the Projects & Technology function on 
suppliers and joint-venture partners, with respect to items such as 
project updates and supplier contract management. Businesses also 
provide information, as relevant, on customers and joint-venture 
partners in relation to business strategies, projects and investment 
or divestment proposals.

The CEO provides a comprehensive update to the Board on material 
business and external developments at each main Board meeting. This 
includes: i) a report on safety performance; ii) significant operational 
updates relating to each of the business segments, e.g. partnerships, 
investments, divestments, flagship projects, commercial highlights and 
achievements; iii) the development of new technologies and innovation 
via collaboration with partners, suppliers and others; and iv) political or 
regulatory developments. The CEO also summarises his own external 
and internal engagements and any changes of senior executive staff. 

Strategic Report
Principal decisions and stakeholders 

Section 172(1) statement

The Board of Directors, having considered the matters set out in 
section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 (S172), confirms, 
in good faith, that the Directors have acted in a way that they 
consider would most likely promote the success of the Company 
for the benefit of its members as a whole.

This S172 statement discloses how the Directors took into account the 
interests of Shell's wider stakeholders in the Board's decision-making 
process. The level of information disclosed is consistent with the size 
and the complexity of Shell's businesses and focuses on matters of 
strategic importance to Shell.

General confirmation of directors' duties 
Shell's Board has a clear and robust corporate governance framework, 
which sets out certain financial and strategic thresholds which need to 
be triggered for matters to be considered and approved by the Board. 
The corporate governance framework sets out matters reserved for the 
Board, delegations to its committees and delegations to the Executive 
Directors. The Manual of Authority sets out the delegation and 
approval process across the broader business. 

All Directors upon joining Shell have participated in induction 
training and are provided with ongoing guidance covering regulatory 
requirements of their role, including, but not limited to, S172.

When making decisions, each Director ensures that (s)he acts in the 
way (s)he considers, in good faith, would most likely promote Shell's 
success for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so has 
regard (among other matters) to the issues set out below. 

S172(1) (a) "The likely consequences of any decision
in the long term" 
The Directors understand the business and both the evolving and 
challenging environment in which we operate, including the challenges 
of the global energy transition. The Board made decisions with regard 
to acquisitions, investments and divestments with consideration given 
to key stakeholders and the likely long-term impact of any decision. 
During the year, the Board reiterated its commitment to Shell's energy 
transition strategy and reflected on the challenges to be faced by Shell 
in the next phase of this strategy, given the shifting macroeconomic and 
geopolitical context. Based on Shell's established purpose to power 
progress together by providing more and cleaner energy solutions, the 
ongoing strategy set by the Board is intended to transition Shell to a 
net-zero emissions energy business, purposefully and profitably. We 
continue to have a strong, resilient business with a focus on energy 
security. We put customers at the centre of our strategy, innovating 
the products customers need as they seek to decarbonise.

In 2023, the Board continued with its oversight of Shell's Powering 
Progress strategy, with four pillars: generating shareholder value, 
working to achieve net-zero emissions, powering lives and respecting 
nature. The Board focused on financial strength and discipline with a 
dynamic approach to our portfolio of assets and products, details of 
which were set out at the Capital Markets Day in June 2023 (CMD23). 
See pages 6-13 for more on our Powering Progress strategy.

The Directors recognise there are significant complexities in relation
to Board decision-making, given differing societal and stakeholder 
views about our operations and the intricacies associated with the 
evolving energy transition. Accordingly, the Directors have considered 
S172 and made their decisions in good faith relating to Shell's strategy 
having regard for the long-term sustainable success of the Company.

141
141

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued

S172(1) (d) "The impact of the Company's operations 
on the community and the environment" 
It continues to be integral to our strategic ambitions to reflect on our 
impact on the community and the environment. The Board receives 
information on various topics to help it make decisions. The topics can 
include, for example, the net carbon intensity target, proposals to invest 
or divest, and business strategy reviews. The information also goes into 
Group-level overviews, such as updates on safety and environment 
performance, reports from the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, 
and reports from the Chief Internal Auditor. In 2023, the Board held 
meetings with Shell's in-country stakeholders, which included a staff 
engagement during the Board's Strategy Days in Canada, as well as 
with the Haisla Nation in, and the Mayor of, Kitimat. This enabled the 
Board to maintain and strengthen its connection with Shell's businesses, 
staff and other local stakeholders and provided the opportunity to gain 
a deeper understanding of Shell's reputation, role and contributions 
within the communities where we operate.

See "Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders" on pages 167-169, and in the 

reports of each Board committee.

S172(1) (e) "The desirability of the Company maintaining
a reputation for high standards of business conduct" 
Shell aims to meet the world's growing need for more and cleaner 
energy solutions in economically, environmentally and socially 
responsible ways. The Board periodically reviews and approves clear 
frameworks -- such as the Shell General Business Principles, Shell's 
Code of Conduct, specific Ethics and Compliance manuals, the Ethical 
Decision-Making Framework and the Modern Slavery Act Statement -- 
to ensure that high standards are maintained in Shell businesses and in 
Shell's business relationships. Complemented by the ways the Board is 
informed and monitors ethics and compliance with relevant governance 
standards, this helps to ensure that Board decisions and the actions 
of Shell companies both promote and maintain high standards of 
business conduct. 

S172(1) (f) "The need to act fairly as between members
of the Company" 
After weighing up all relevant factors, the Directors consider which 
course of action best enables delivery of our strategy in the long-term 
interests of the Company, taking into consideration the effect on 
stakeholders. In doing so, our Directors act fairly as between the 
Company's members but are not required to balance the Company's 
interests with those of other stakeholders. This can sometimes mean 
that certain stakeholder interests may not be fully aligned. 

Culture 
The Board plays an important role in establishing, assessing and 
monitoring our desired culture and how it is embedded in our values, 
attitudes and behaviours, including in our activities and stakeholder 
relationships. The Board has established honesty, integrity and respect 
for people as Shell's core values. The General Business Principles and 
Code of Conduct help everyone at Shell to act in line with these values 
and comply with relevant laws and regulations. The Shell Commitment 
and Policy on Health, Safety, Security, Environment & Social 
Performance applies across Shell and is designed to help protect 
people and the environment. Under the industry Life-Saving Rules, we 
have a simplified and standardised approach which adopts a broader 
risk scope focusing on potential for harm to people, creating a greater 
sense of individual and team responsibility to avoid fatalities and life-
changing injuries. In 2023, the focus was on failing safely, which 
means we recognise that people make mistakes and that our barriers 
need to be capable of managing the impact of those mistakes without 
undesirable consequences. The result is a strengthened foundation with 
an increased and deliberate focus on human performance, the way 
people, work, culture, equipment, work systems and processes interact. 

142
142

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Our ambition remains unchanged: achieve Goal Zero, no harm and 
no leaks across all our operations.

To achieve our strategic goals, we need to adapt our mindset and 
behaviours as we navigate the increasing complexity in the world 
around us. At Shell we seek to have a culture that encourages 
the attitudes and behaviour that we believe will help us succeed. 
We seek to encourage:
￮ Applying a learner mindset: everyone has the ability to grow, 

learn from mistakes and successes, and speak up openly in a safe 
environment. We encourage curiosity, humility, openness, helping 
each other to make better decisions and create more value;

￮ Maximising our performance: we collaborate across boundaries 

and speak up when we see things that can be improved. We enable 
people to deliver, and we work in an integrated way with discipline, 
clear focus on priorities, and tangible outcomes in order to reach 
our full potential;

￮ Increasing trust in Shell: we aim to be a valued member of 

the communities in which we operate, and to make a positive 
contribution to society. We seek to listen carefully and with humility 
and we have a strong desire to understand, and, where possible, 
adapt to the changing needs and expectations of society, especially 
as they relate to the environment. We build strong and trusted 
relationships with customers and partners which are fundamental 
to our collective success;

￮ Living by our values and Goal Zero: we live by our values and do 
the right things with respect to ethics, safety, and the environment; 
and

￮ Inspiring and engaging: we aspire to a situation where everyone 

feels connected to what we stand for. We build trusting and effective 
teams where everyone feels ownership and has a voice in how work 
gets done. We strive to maintain a diverse and inclusive culture. 

The Board considers the Shell People Survey to be an important tool 
for measuring employee engagement, motivation, affiliation, and 
commitment to Shell. With consistently high response rates, it provides 
valuable insights into employee views. It also helps the Board 
understand how the survey's outcomes are being used to strengthen 
Shell culture and values. 

Stakeholder engagement (including employee 
engagement) 
The Board recognises the important role Shell has in many societies 
and is deeply committed to public collaboration and stakeholder 
engagement. The Board strongly believes that Shell will only succeed 
by working together with customers, governments, business partners, 
investors, and other stakeholders. 

Continuing to work together with stakeholders is critical, particularly
at a time when we and society, including businesses, governments, 
and consumers, face issues as complex and challenging as climate
change, energy security and affordability.

We continue to build on our long track record of working with others, 
such as investors, industry and trade groups, universities, governments, 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and, in some appropriate 
instances, our competitors through our joint-venture operations or 
industry bodies. We believe that working together and sharing 
knowledge and experience with others offers us greater insight into
our business. We also appreciate our long-term relationships with
our investors and acknowledge the positive impact of ongoing 
engagement and dialogue. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued

The guidance on preparing information, proposals or discussion items 
for the Board asks for these materials to include considerations of the 
views, interests, and concerns of stakeholders and how management 
addressed them. This helps to strengthen the Board's knowledge of 
how the broader business undertakes significant levels of stakeholder 
engagement. Board minutes have also reflected key points on 
stakeholder considerations, where appropriate. The Terms of Reference 
for our Sustainability Committee (SUSCO) include, within the 
committee's remit: review and consider external stakeholder 
perspectives on sustainability issues of relevance to the Group's 
business, and review selected sustainability topics and matters 
of public concern, such as biodiversity and plastic waste.

The Board also engaged with certain stakeholders directly, to 
understand their views. The Board draws upon Shell's substantial in-
house expertise by periodically receiving input from economics and 
policy experts on key political and economic themes, with some 
updates being presented to the Board each quarter.

See "Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders" on pages 167-169.

Information on how the Directors have engaged with employees can 
be found on pages 170-171 and in the "Powering lives" section on 
page 129. The tables below include examples of how Directors have 
considered the interests of Shell employees and the resulting outcomes. 

Principal decisions
In the table below, we outline some of the principal decisions made by 
the Board over the year. We explain how the Directors have engaged 
with or in relation to key stakeholder groups and how stakeholder 
interests were considered in decision-making. 

To remain concise, we have categorised our key stakeholders into 
seven groups. Where appropriate, each group is considered to include 
both current and potential stakeholders. The groups are: 
￮ investor community; 
￮ employees/workforce/pensioners;
￮ our customers;
￮ regulators/governments; 
￮ NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think tanks;
￮ communities; and
￮ suppliers/strategic partners.

Board decisions 
We define principal decisions taken by the Board as decisions taken
in 2023 that are of a strategic nature and significant to any of our key 
stakeholder groups. As outlined in the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) Guidance on the Strategic Report, we include decisions related 
to capital allocation and dividend policy. 

How were stakeholders considered 
We describe how regard was given to the likely long-term 
consequences of the decision, including how stakeholders were 
considered during the decision-making process. 

What was the outcome 
We describe which accommodations or mitigations were made, if any, 
and how Directors have considered different interests, and what factors 
they took into account. 

Strategic updates 

Powering Progress strategy
Shell's Powering Progress strategy was launched in 2021, and is outlined within this 
Annual Report. As part of the Board's continuing oversight of strategy, the Directors 
receive and discuss regular strategy updates including feedback from stakeholder 
engagements by management, investors, the media, climate activists and internal staff.

How stakeholders were considered
Energy Transition Progress and Strategy
In 2021, Shell also produced a report (the Shell Energy Transition Strategy (ETS)) 
with the aim of helping investors and society obtain a better understanding of how 
Shell is addressing the risks and opportunities of the energy transition. The ETS was 
put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM), 
and shareholders also voted on progress against this strategy at the AGMs in 2022 
and 2023. In March 2024, the Board approved ETS24. ETS24 will be put to 
shareholders for an advisory vote at the 2024 AGM, as part of the continued dialogue 
on this topic. Information on our ETS is included throughout this Annual Report and the 
ETS24, which can be found on our website.

At the 2023 AGM, 80.1% of shareholders that voted supported our progress in this 
strategy. Both before and after the 2023 AGM, the Chair, CEO and some members 
of the Executive Committee engaged with key stakeholders to understand their 
views and opinions on Shell's progress on its ETS. They engaged with our largest 
shareholders and offered further opportunities to discuss Shell's progress on its ETS 
and to understand the reasons behind various voting decisions. The Chair also had 
an opportunity to engage directly with our large institutional shareholders during 
his roadshow in September 2023.

What was the outcome
Energy Transition Progress and Strategy
There are differing views about Shell's ambitions, targets and 
strategy to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 
2050. Shell continued its dialogue with its stakeholders on the 
progress of its ETS, and the Board recognises the different views 
of each Shell stakeholder group. The Board continues to listen, 
learn and adapt as Shell delivers against its strategy, with 
consideration given to the long-term success of the organisation, 
as well as the interests of Shell's customers, shareholders and 
wider society. More information on the outcome of discussions 
following the 2023 shareholder advisory vote can be found 
on page 167.

Discussions with stakeholders and feedback from those 
engagements were integral to the preparation of ETS24, and 
the Board's approval of this strategy. In this Annual Report and 
ETS24, we strive to provide information on Shell's progress on its 
ETS, along with our ambitions, targets and the clarifications our 
stakeholders are seeking.

143
143

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued

Strategic updates

Insights into Shell's Canadian operations
In June 2023, the Board held in-person strategy meetings over the course of three days in 
Canada, providing for a number of engaging and interactive events with both internal and 
external stakeholders. A summary of the event is provided on page 162. The key areas of 
focus related to accelerating the energy transition.

Staff engagements
As part of the Strategy Days, the Board and Executive Committee had the opportunity 
to engage and speak directly with staff about their experience within the Shell Canada 
businesses. For further information on the engagement with our workforce see "Board 
activities" and "Workforce engagement" on page 163 and pages 170-171. 

Board Strategy Days
Through multiple engagements with stakeholders, the Board:
￮ gained valuable insight into the operations of Shell's Canadian 

businesses;

￮ built awareness of the local context and risks;
￮ considered geopolitical contexts in connection with the energy 
transition and engaged with Shell staff and leaders in Canada;
￮ considered feedback from a cross-section of Shell's staff on the 

energy transition;

￮ considered key external perspectives connected to Shell's 
energy transition ambitions, targets and strategy; and

￮ discussed core elements of the Powering Progress strategy with 
key customers, government officials and other stakeholders in 
the region.

Financial strength, cash allocation including shareholder distributions

The Board considered cash flow, the macro environment and business performance in 2023 
against 2022. The Board also considered management's view of the outlook for the Group's 
performance, and reviewed the financial framework with specific focus on shareholder 
distributions. Directors approved several proposals with the aim of delivering value to 
shareholders and increasing shareholder distributions through a combination of progressive 
dividends and share buybacks. 

How stakeholders were considered
A number of considerations underpinned each proposal, with proposals discussed and 
reviewed at certain points throughout the year. These considerations took account of the 
macro environment, robust business performance and outlook, the strength of the balance 
sheet, capital discipline, feedback from advisers and feedback from other stakeholders. 

What was the outcome
In relation to the decisions to increase distributions to 
shareholders, the Board and management considered the views 
of stakeholders, the strength of the Company's balance sheet 
and the need to continue to invest for the future of energy. 
The form and timing for distributions to shareholders were 
announced throughout 2023, alongside the publication 
of the quarterly results. 

The Board approved updates to the financial framework, which 
were announced at Capital Markets Day on June 14, 2023, 
including to target distributions to shareholders at 30-40% of cash 
flow from operations through the cycle through a combination of 
dividends and share buybacks. During 2023, the Board approved 
share buybacks of $14.5 billion, and a further $3.5 billion was 
announced on February 1, 2024.

Approval of Shell's detailed Operating Plan 2024-2026 (OP23)

The approval of OP23 followed an in-depth review by the Board of proposals on capital 
allocation, capital investment outlook, competitive outlook, operating expenses, return on 
average capital employed, shareholder distributions and alignment with Net Carbon 
Intensity targets. In the December 2023 Board meeting, OP23 was approved.

How stakeholders were considered
OP23 discussions included a full review against Shell's Powering Progress strategy, and 
the credibility of meeting and risks to delivery of the near- and long-term targets which 
were set out at CMD23. Meeting commitments made to investors is critical to building 
trust and confidence with our external stakeholders. The Directors also considered the 
financial strength of the organisation, the macroeconomic environment, and the continued 
heightened geopolitical risks as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war, and conflict in the 
Middle East. The Directors and Executive Committee balanced the priorities in the financial 
framework, including capital and operating expenditure commitments towards the energy 
transition alongside increased shareholder distributions, maintaining balance sheet strength, 
aspired credit ratings and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) target tracking. The plan was discussed 
extensively and reviewed thoroughly. Responses from investors and discussions with equity 
and debt market analysts were also presented to the Board for consideration. The Board 
asked questions to the management on the flexibility of OP23 in the event of various 
energy transition scenarios.

What was the outcome
Following extensive review and discussion, the overall 
outcome of this decision was an Operating Plan that the 
Board believes is robust against various scenarios and features 
strong optionality if needed. In particular, the Board assured 
itself that, as these decisions were taken, OP23 flexibly 
demonstrated pathways to enable delivery of Shell's 
near and long term targets.

We recognise that stakeholder opinions differ on the approach 
towards the energy transition. OP23 is based on society's 
demand for products and services. OP23 also supports Shell in 
maintaining a reputation for high standards on business conduct 
and health, safety, security, and environment issues. It maintains 
the approach to employee remuneration and benefits to 
pensioners. OP23 also seeks to reward our investors with returns, 
a strong balance sheet, capital discipline and maintain the long-
term financial strength of the Company to invest in more and 
cleaner forms of energy and meet the current and future needs 
of society.

144
144

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued

Investing in new business, acquisitions and divestments, and closures 

What was the outcome
Agreed sale of SPDC 
The Board approved the implementation of the strategic intent to 
exit onshore Nigerian oil exposure by agreeing to the divestment 
of Shell Petroleum Company Limited's 100% equity interest in 
SPDC to Renaissance, a consortium of five companies comprising 
four exploration and production companies based in Nigeria and 
an international energy group. During Board discussions, the 
impact for staff was considered and it was noted that SPDC's 
staff will continue to be employed by the company as it transitions 
to new ownership. Board discussions also covered how the 
divestment aligned with Group strategy, the value of the 
divestment, and impact for a number of stakeholders including 
shareholders. Furthermore, the Board considered how the 
divestment would contribute to reducing Shell's Scope 1 and 2 
emissions and recognised the importance of this step in achieving 
no routine flaring, a commitment made at the CMD23. 

Investment in deep-water Sparta Project
The Board approved the development of Sparta, a deep-water 
development in the US Gulf of Mexico, owned by Shell Offshore 
Inc. (51% operator) and Equinor (49%) The Board considered the 
investment in the deep-water project would support sustained 
liquids production, capital returns and free cash flow delivery 
through to 2030 at low GHG intensity. Additionally, the Board 
reviewed the assessment that the development opportunity 
aligned with CMD23 commitments, alongside consideration for 
the project-specific stakeholders and Shell's wider stakeholders. 

Over the course of the year, the Board considered and approved new opportunities and 
projects and proposed divestments or closures. The Board continued to review Shell's 
withdrawal from Russian activities.

How stakeholders were considered
The Board considered the impact of decisions related to new business opportunities and 
divesting from existing opportunities in the context of sustainability, supply, regulations 
and carbon intensity. Critically, the Board reviewed the various proposals' alignment with 
Shell's strategy. Particular focus was given to potential benefits of certain divestments, 
including their potential to: create returns for shareholders; further strengthen the balance 
sheet; de-risk future cash flow; and avoid significant additional capital investment. As part 
of the discussions, the Board considered the strategic drivers for the intended divestments, 
including the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of each asset, anticipated regulatory changes 
expected to lead to value erosion, and any value opportunities afforded by the 
macro environment. 

As part of each proposal, the respective business unit will undertake effective due 
diligence on prospective purchasers from a financial, reputational, as well as operating 
philosophy standpoint to ensure future obligations are met, or suitable mitigating 
measures are in place, to protect Shell and its people.

Within each divestment proposal, the Board considered if the Company was being a 
responsible seller of its assets and if the purchasers have the capability to manage our 
assets/people appropriately. Staff matters are explicitly considered during negotiations 
and the due diligence process for acquisitions and divestments. Comprehensive 
engagement plans are developed as appropriate in parallel to the negotiations.

As part of Shell's intercompany approval process, the following investments/
divestments were discussed and supported by the Board.

Agreed sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria 
Limited (SPDC)
The sale of the 100% equity interest in SPDC to Renaissance Africa Energy Company 
Limited (Renaissance). Completion of the transaction is subject to approvals by the 
Federal Government of Nigeria and other conditions. 

Investment in deep-water Sparta project in the Gulf of Mexico
Development of Sparta, a development opportunity, with Equinor Gulf of Mexico 
LLC (Equinor).

Strategic Report signed on behalf of the Board 

/s/ Caroline J. M. Omloo

Caroline J. M. Omloo
Company Secretary 
March 13, 2024 

145
145

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance

Directors' Report

147

155

157

159

160

162

166

167

170

172

177

179

191

194

211

219

The Board of Shell plc

Executive Committee

Introduction from the Chair

Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code

Governance framework

Board activities 

Board evaluation

Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders 

Workforce engagement

Nomination and Succession Committee

Sustainability Committee

Audit and Risk Committee Report

Directors' Remuneration Report

Annual Report on Remuneration

Directors' Remuneration Policy

Other regulatory and statutory information

146

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Career
Prior to joining Shell, Sir Andrew Mackenzie was CEO of BHP from 2013 to 2019 after joining BHP 
in 2008. As BHP CEO, he simplified and strengthened the business, and made it the first miner to 
pledge to tackle emissions caused when customers use its products.

From 2004 to 2007 at Rio Tinto, Sir Andrew was Head of Industrial Minerals, then Head of Industrial 
Minerals and Diamonds. Prior to this, Sir Andrew spent 22 years with BP, joining in 1982 in research 
and development, followed by international operations and technology roles across most business 
streams and functions – principally in exploration and production, and petrochemicals, including as 
Chief Reservoir Engineer and Chief Technology Officer. Sir Andrew was also Vice President for 
Chemicals in the Americas, then Olefins and Polymers globally.

From 2005 to 2013, Sir Andrew served as a Non-executive Director of Centrica. He has also served 
on many not-for-profit boards, including public policy think tanks in the UK and Australia. He was 
knighted in 2020 for services to business, science, technology and UK-Australia relations.

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Andrew has led international FTSE 100 businesses, and has more than 30 years' experience 
in the mining and energy industries. Following early academic distinction, Sir Andrew made 
important contributions to geochemistry, including groundbreaking methods for oil exploration 
and recovery. He was recognised as "one of the world's most influential earth scientists" and 
made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2014.

Sir Andrew has applied his deep understanding of the energy business and geopolitical outlook to 
create public-private partnerships and advise governments around the world. He has consistently 
pursued sustainable action on climate change in the interests of access to affordable energy and 
global development. His expertise is helping Shell navigate the energy transition. Sir Andrew also 
champions gender balance, the rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the power of large companies 
to make a positive contribution to society – all of which align closely with Shell's purpose, strategy 
and values.

Career
Dick Boer was President and CEO of Ahold Delhaize from 2016 to 2018. Prior to the merger between 
Ahold and Delhaize, he served as President and CEO of Royal Ahold from 2011 to 2016. From 2006 
to 2011 he was a member of the Executive Board of Ahold and served as Chief Operating Officer of 
Ahold Europe. Dick joined Ahold in 1998 as CEO of Ahold Czech Republic and was appointed 
President and CEO of Albert Heijn in 2000. In 2003, he also became President and CEO of Ahold's 
Dutch businesses. Before joining Ahold, Dick spent more than 17 years in various retail positions, for 
SHV Holdings N.V. in the Netherlands and abroad, and for Unigro N.V.

Relevant skills and experience 
Dick has a deep understanding of brands and consumers, and extensive knowledge of the US 
and European markets, from his time leading one of the world's largest food retail groups. He has 
considerable experience at the forefront of retailing and customer service, which extended in more 
recent years to e-commerce and the digital arena. This experience is most timely as Shell focuses 
on the growth of our marketing activities and increasing consumer choices in energy products. 

Dick brings sound business judgement and a proven track record in strategic delivery to Shell, 
evidenced by the combination of Ahold and Delhaize. He is also passionate about sustainability 
and is well informed on the importance of the various stakeholder interests in this area. 

Governance
The Board of Shell plc

Sir Andrew Mackenzie
Chair

Tenure
Chair - Two years and nine months
(appointed May 18, 2021) 

On Board - Three years and five months
(appointed October 1, 2020)

Board committee membership
Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies 
Chair of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)

Age 
67 

Nationality
British

Dick Boer
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director

Tenure
Three years and nine months
(appointed May 20, 2020)

Dick was appointed Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director on May 23, 2023.

Board committee membership
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, member 
of the Nomination and Succession Committee, 
and a member of the Remuneration Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies 
Non-executive Director of Nestlé and SHV 
Holdings; and Chair of the Supervisory Board 
of Just Eat Takeaway.com

Age 
66 

Nationality
Dutch

147
147

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career
Wael began his career at Shell in 1997 as an engineer with Petroleum Development Oman. By the 
mid-2000s, Wael was Managing Director and Chairman of Shell Qatar, where he oversaw Shell's 
business in Qatar, including its liquefied natural gas (LNG) and gas-to-liquids (GTL) divisions. Wael 
then became Executive Vice President of Deep Water, where he was responsible for driving its 
transformation into a leading business for Shell. 

Prior to being appointed CEO at the start of 2023, Wael joined the Executive Committee in 2019 as 
Upstream Director, and then, in 2021, he became Shell's Director of Integrated Gas, and Renewables 
and Energy Solutions. Wael was a trustee of Shell Foundation from 2019 to the end of 2022.

Relevant skills and experience
Wael holds an MEng from McGill University in Montreal, Canada, and an MBA from Harvard 
Business School. During his Shell career, spanning more than 25 years, he has worked in Europe, 
Africa, Asia and the Americas, and has held roles across all of Shell's businesses. He has led 
several major commercial transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestments, as 
well as new business development projects.

Wael is an exceptional leader, with all the qualities needed to drive Shell safely and profitably 
through its next phase of transition and growth. His track record of commercial, operational and 
transformational success reflects not only his broad, deep experience and understanding of Shell 
and the energy sector, but also his strategic clarity. He combines these qualities with a passion 
for people, which enables him to get the best from those around him. 

Career
Sinead Gorman joined Shell in 1999 and has held key leadership roles in Finance. She started her 
Shell career in the Shell International Trading and Shipping Company (STASCO) based in London, 
UK, and then moved to the Coral Energy joint venture, in Houston, Texas, USA. Sinead worked in 
Mergers and Acquisitions and Treasury, based in the Netherlands, before moving back to Houston 
as Vice President Finance for Shales.

Prior to her appointment as CFO, Sinead held the positions of Executive Vice President (EVP) 
Finance for Upstream; Projects & Technology, as well as Integrated Gas and New Energies.

Relevant skills and experience
Sinead has an MEng from the University of Oxford, and an MSc in Finance from London 
Business School. 

Sinead has more than two decades' experience of working for Shell. She has built a deep 
understanding of finance across the industry, spanning a wide range of businesses, and possesses 
a breadth of experience in trading, new business development and capital projects. 

Sinead has held regional and global finance leadership roles across Europe and the USA, and 
latterly, in Shell's Upstream, Integrated Gas and Renewables and Energy Solutions businesses, 
and in Projects & Technology and Corporate. 

Highly regarded for her commercial abilities and external focus, Sinead has a strong track record 
in cost leadership, principle-based decision-making and detailed capital stewardship.

Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer

Tenure
One year and two months
(appointed January 1, 2023) 

Board committee membership
N/A

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
No external appointments

Age 
49 

Nationality
Lebanese and Canadian 

Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer

Tenure
One year and 11 months
(appointed April 1, 2022)

Board committee membership
N/A

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
No external appointments

Age 
46 

Nationality
British

148
148

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career
Neil Carson is a former FTSE 100 CEO. He joined Johnson Matthey in 1980 where he held several 
senior management positions in the UK and the USA, before being appointed CEO in 2004. Since 
retiring from Johnson Matthey in 2014, Neil has focused on his non-executive roles. He was Chair 
of TT Electronics plc from 2015 until May 2020. 

Relevant skills and experience 
Neil has an engineering degree, considerable operational experience and a strong understanding of 
capital-intensive businesses. He has a broad industrial outlook and a thorough commercial approach 
combined with a practical perspective on businesses. He brings a first-class international perspective 
on driving value in complex environments. Neil was awarded an OBE for services to the chemical 
industry in 2016. 

Neil uses his experience to bring fresh insight and industry understanding to Board discussions. 

Career
Ann Godbehere started her career with Sun Life of Canada in 1976 in Montreal, Canada. She joined 
M&G Group in 1981, where she served as Senior Vice President and Controller for both life and 
health, and property and casualty businesses throughout North America. She joined Swiss Re in 1996, 
after it acquired the M&G Group, and served as Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to 2007. From 
2008 to 2009, she was interim CFO and an Executive Director of Northern Rock bank in the initial 
period following its nationalisation. 

Ann has also held several non-executive director positions at Prudential plc, British American 
Tobacco plc, UBS AG, and UBS Group AG. Ann served as a Non-executive Director of Rio Tinto 
plc and Rio Tinto Limited until May 2019, and she was also Senior Independent Director of Rio 
Tinto plc. In January 2021, Ann joined the Board of Stellantis N.V., and she chairs its Audit 
Committee. In September 2023, Ann joined the Board of HSBC Holdings plc.

Relevant skills and experience
Ann is a former CFO and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Professional Accountants and a Fellow 
of the Certified General Accountants Association of Canada, and she has more than 25 years of 
experience in the financial services sector. Her extensive international business experience, including 
serving on boards in nine countries, enables Ann to make significant and valuable contributions and 
bring a global perspective to Board discussions. 

Ann's long and varied international business career powered by her financial acumen is reflected in 
the insights and constructive challenges she brings to the boardroom. As Audit and Risk Committee 
Chair, Ann leverages her background to ensure robust discussions are consistently held as the Audit 
and Risk Committee delivers its remit.

Neil Carson OBE 
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure 
Four years and nine months
(appointed June 1, 2019)

Board committee membership 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
and member of the Sustainability Committee 

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Chair of Oxford Instruments plc

Age 
66 

Nationality
British

Ann Godbehere
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
Five years and nine months
(appointed May 23, 2018)

Board committee membership
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, and member 
of the Nomination and Succession Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chair 
of Stellantis N.V.; and Non-executive Director of 
HSBC Holdings plc

Age 
68 

Nationality
Canadian and British 

149
149

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career
Jane Holl Lute was President and Chief Executive Officer of the North American operations of Sicpa 
Securelink Corporation from 2017 to 2021, when she assumed the role of Non-executive Strategic 
Director. From 2018 to 2021, Jane was a Non-executive Director of Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. 
In 2013, she established and led the Council on CyberSecurity, an independent not-for-profit 
organisation with a global scope, committed to the security of an open internet. From 2015 to 2016, 
Jane held the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Center for Internet Security, an independent not-
for-profit organisation that works to improve cyber security worldwide.

Before this, from 2009 to 2013 Jane served as Deputy Secretary of the US Department of Homeland 
Security, functioning as the Chief Operating Officer for the third-largest US Federal department. From 
2003 to 2009 she held various roles at the United Nations, including Acting Under-Secretary and 
Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping, Field Support and Peacebuilding. She also served as 
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the United Nations Foundation and Better 
World Fund. Jane has since returned to working with the United Nations, serving as a Special Adviser 
to the Secretary-General. 

Jane started her career in the US Army in 1978, serving in Berlin during the Cold War, on the US 
Central Command Staff during Operation Desert Storm, and on the National Security Council Staff 
under Presidents George H.W. Bush and William J. Clinton. After retiring from the military in 1994, 
she joined the Carnegie Corporation as an Executive Director of its Commission on Preventing 
Deadly Conflict. 

Relevant skills and experience
Jane is a proven and effective leader, who has held significant leadership roles in public service, 
the military and the private sector. She brings a wealth of expertise in matters of public policy, 
cyber security and risk management to our Board. She has also made significant contributions to 
strategic discussions and overseeing the day-to-day business and management of a significant 
public security department. 

Jane is an experienced board director, having served on the boards of large companies since 2016. 
These appointments have given her business perspectives across different sectors and geographical 
regions. She has also served on various committees including committees which focus on audit, 
environmental and sustainability, nomination and governance issues. 

Career
Catherine Hughes was Executive Vice President International at Nexen Inc. from January 2012 
until her retirement in April 2013, where she was responsible for all oil and gas activities including 
exploration, production, development and project activities outside Canada. She joined Nexen 
in 2009 as Vice President Operational Services, Technology and Human Resources. 

Prior to joining Nexen Inc., she was Vice President Oil Sands at Husky Oil from 2007 to 2009 and 
Vice President Exploration & Production Services, from 2005 to 2007. She started her career with 
Schlumberger in 1986 and held key positions in various countries, including France, Italy, Nigeria, 
the UK and the USA, and was President of Schlumberger Canada Ltd for five years. Catherine has 
also held non-executive director positions at SNC-Lavalin Group Inc, Statoil ASA and Precision 
Drilling Inc.

Relevant skills and experience
Catherine contributes through her knowledge of industry and the ease with which she engages with 
other Directors and managers in the boardroom. With over 30 years of oil and gas sector experience, 
she brings a geopolitical outlook and deep understanding of the industry. An engineer by training, 
she has also spent a significant part of her career working in senior human resources roles. The Board 
highly regards her perspectives on our industry and our most important asset, our people. 

Catherine has a strong track record of executing operational discipline with a focus on performance 
metrics and a continual drive for excellence. Her knowledge of the technology underpinning oil and 
gas operations, logistics, procurement and supply chains benefits the Board greatly as it considers 
various projects and investment or divestment proposals. 

She also uses her industry knowledge – combined with her commitment to the highest standards 
of corporate governance and safety, ethics and compliance – in her role as Chair of our 
Sustainability Committee.

Jane Holl Lute
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
Two years and nine months
(appointed May 19, 2021)

Board committee membership
Member of the Sustainability Committee, and 
member of the Remuneration Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Director of Marsh & McLennen; 
and Non-executive Director of Union Pacific 
Corporation; Strategic Director of Sicpa Securink 
Corp.

Age 
67 

Nationality
American

Catherine J. Hughes
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
Six years and nine months
(appointed June 1, 2017)

Board committee membership
Chair of the Sustainability Committee, and member 
of the Audit and Risk Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Director of Valaris Limited 

Age 
61 

Nationality
Canadian and French

150
150

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career
Sir Charles held the position of Second Permanent Secretary, one of the most senior positions 
within the UK's Treasury, from July 2016 to June 2022. As Second Permanent Secretary at HMT 
he was responsible for policy and oversight across a range of functions within HMT including 
financial services, financial stability, infrastructure, energy, science/R&D, business investment, 
venture and growth capital, transport, and culture/creative industries. He was also Chair of 
the HMT Operating Committee.

Sir Charles was Director General, Financial Services at HMT from 2013 to 2016 and led the 
legislative process for the biggest reforms in the UK banking sector in a generation before being 
appointed Second Permanent Secretary. 

Prior to his career at HMT, Sir Charles spent over 25 years at McKinsey & Company, and obtained 
an MBA from Harvard Business School. While at McKinsey, he held positions including Director 
of the McKinsey Global Institute, Head of the UK Financial Institutions Group and Co-Head of 
McKinsey's Global Investment Banking Practice. Sir Charles has worked for large banks, insurance 
companies, hedge funds and private-equity investors in strategy, risk management, and organisation 
roles. Sir Charles also led major research efforts at McKinsey and authored a number of articles on 
strategy and scenario planning.

Relevant skills and experience
Sir Charles' succession of roles placed him at the nexus between industry and government, and 
they have included his active involvement in forging and delivering energy policies. He was an 
influential figure within HMT in pioneering energy policy, including for COP26, and providing 
funding for innovative organisations to support the energy transition. 

A former executive board member for one of the world's pre-eminent consultancies, Sir Charles 
helped drive innovation while navigating the intricate stakeholder landscape of UK government.

Career
Abraham ("Bram") Schot has been on the Board of Volkswagen AG, responsible for the Premium 
Car Group, CEO of Audi AG, Chair of Lamborghini and Ducati, responsible for the VW group 
Commercial Operations and Vice-Chair of Porsche Holding Salzburg. 

From 2011 to 2016, he was a member of the Board of Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and 
Executive Vice President responsible for Global Marketing, Sales & Services, New Business Models. 
In 2017, he became a member of the Board of Audi AG. From 2006 to 2011, Bram was President & 
CEO of Daimler/Mercedes-Benz Italia & Holding S.p.A. From 2003 to 2006, he was President & 
CEO of DaimlerChrysler in the Netherlands. 

Prior to this, Bram held a number of director and senior leadership roles within Mercedes-Benz in 
the Netherlands, having joined the business in 1987 on an executive management programme. 

Relevant skills and experience
Bram has over 30 years' experience working in the automotive industry at all levels of the business. 
He gained a wealth of knowledge on extensive business-wide cost optimisation programmes at 
Audi AG. These helped transform the car company into a provider of electric vehicles that could 
offer sustainable mobility and position itself to succeed in the energy transition. He is well placed 
to leverage this knowledge in the Shell boardroom as Shell navigates its own transformation and 
pathway through the energy transition. 

Bram brings his high regard for integrity and compliance to board meetings. His studies have 
encompassed innovation and organisational effectiveness, geopolitical environments, shareholder 
value, corporate social responsibility and risk management, which are all highly valued management 
tools and are evident in the questions he raises in the boardroom.

Sir Charles Roxburgh
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
One year (appointed March 13, 2023)

Board committee membership
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies 
Non-executive Chair of Legal and General America 
(a US subsidiary of Legal and General Group 
plc focussing on life insurance and retirement 
operations); Non-executive member of Global 
Council, Herbert Smith Freehills

Age 
64 

Nationality
British

Abraham Schot
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
Three years and five months
(appointed October 1, 2020)

Board committee membership
Member of the Sustainability Committee, 
and member of the Remuneration Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Director of Signify N.V.; Cognizant 
Technology Solutions Corporation; and Compagnie 
Financière Richemont SA

Age 
62 

Nationality
Dutch

151
151

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career
Leena has devoted a significant part of her career to research and policy matters in sustainability and 
has held positions on several boards of scale. She is currently a member of the UN Technical Advisory 
Group on SDG 7S, a Scientific Advisory Board Member of the European Forum for Alpbach, and an 
advisory Board Member of NAMTECH a Gujarat technology institute.

Leena was the Deputy Director General for Science at the International Institute for Applied Systems 
Analysis (IIASA). Prior to this, she was an Executive Director, then the Vice Chancellor of the School 
of Advanced Studies at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), a not-for-profit policy research 
organisation working in energy, environment and sustainable development. Leena previously served 
on the sustainability advisory boards of various multinational companies, such as The Coca-Cola 
Company, Caterpillar Inc and Suez Environment. She has also been a non-executive director of 
companies, including companies involved in manufacturing and infrastructure.

Leena has served various committees and organisations both at the international and national levels, 
with prior roles including energy and climate advisor for the United Nations and the Co-Chair of the 
Advisory Committee at Future Earth.

Relevant skills and experience
Leena recognises the challenges large organisations face in managing different stakeholder priorities 
and, in particular, the challenges companies face in balancing business, government and societal 
needs, while pursuing a sustainability agenda.

Leena was a research associate at TERI when serious discussions on climate change were emerging. 
Later, as a member of the Cement Sustainability Initiative of the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development, she provided a pragmatic perspective on how to support the sector 
through its decarbonisation journey. She has a strong network of relationships in multiple global 
institutions focused on sustainability and an understanding of the issues the energy sector faces in 
pursuing decarbonisation. Leena is well positioned to make a valuable contribution to Shell during 
this period of transformation.

Leena Srivastava
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
One year (appointed March 13, 2023)

Board committee membership
Member of the Sustainability Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies 
Member of the Independent Council of Climate 
Experts of Edelman

Age 
63 

Nationality
Indian

Career
Cyrus Taraporevala was President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors 
from 2017 to 2022. Prior to joining State Street, Cyrus held numerous leadership roles in asset 
management including at Fidelity, BNY Mellon, Legg Mason, and Citigroup. Earlier in his career 
Cyrus was a partner at McKinsey & Company, based in New York and Copenhagen.

Cyrus was a founding member of the New York Stock Exchange Board Advisory Council, which 
proactively addresses the critical need for inclusive leadership on corporate boards by connecting 
diverse candidates with companies seeking new directors. He serves as a Board member of two 
non profit organisations: The Trustees of Reservations, a Massachusetts-based conservation 
organisation, and GBH, a public media producer, distributor, broadcaster and content creator.

Relevant skills and experience 
Cyrus brings a unique mix of strategic perspectives and business skills. He has significant 
experience in driving organic and inorganic growth, and company transformations. He is one 
of the most senior professionals in the asset management industry and has successfully led and 
grown global businesses of scale. He played a critical role in affirming State Street's reputation 
as both a stalwart and a pioneer within the sector. At times, Cyrus was helping to implement 
change amid market uncertainty caused by geopolitical tensions and an evolving 
regulatory environment. 

Cyrus also possesses a unique vantage point on core board-related issues impacting public 
companies including sustainability. He has spoken about and published multiple articles on climate 
risk and other aspects of sustainability. He is credited with strengthening the sustainability credentials 
of State Street Global Advisors and is highly credible in providing perspectives on these topics.

Cyrus Taraporevala
Independent Non-executive Director

Tenure
One year (appointed March 2, 2023)

Board committee membership
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee

Outside commitments on listed 
and large private companies
Non-executive Director of Bridgepoint Group plc

Age 
57 

Nationality
American

152
152

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Career 
Caroline Omloo worked in private practice with law firm Nauta Dutilh before joining Shell in 
1999. She has held various positions in Shell, including Secretary to the Audit Committee, Associate 
General Counsel Corporate Finance NL, Chief Privacy Officer and Head of Legal, and management 
team member of the Downstream Operating Company in the Netherlands. She has also been a 
member of the board of Stichting Shell Pensioenfonds, one of Shell's Dutch pension funds. 

Prior to being appointed as Company Secretary, Caroline was Head of Legal and Compliance 
of Shell Asset Management Company from 2017 and was a board member of this company 
from 2018 to 2022. From 2009 to 2019, Caroline was on the board of Stichting Beroepsopleiding 
Bedrijfsjuristen, the foundation providing education for in-house lawyers in the Netherlands. She 
also served as a board member of Missie Verkeersmiddelen Actie, a Dutch charitable organisation, 
from 2007 to 2017.

Relevant skills and experience
Caroline plays an important role at Shell in overseeing the Corporate Secretariat and the Group 
Disclosures and Securities Team in the UK, USA and the Netherlands.

She has a strong understanding of Shell's global operations and people. Her experience of engaging 
with the Board in previous roles, coupled with her broad understanding and engagement across 
Shell's businesses, functions and her legal background, helps to ensure that the right matters come 
to the Board at the right time.

Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary

Tenure
One year and seven months
(appointed August 1, 2022)

Age 
54 

Nationality
Dutch

Retirements in 2023

Euleen Goh (Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director) 
Retired: May 23, 2023. In line with best practice, Euleen chose 
not to seek re-election at the 2023 AGM after serving almost 
nine years on the Board.

Martina Hund-Mejean (Independent
Non-executive Director)
Retired: May 23, 2023. Martina chose not to seek re-election at 
the 2023 AGM. 

153
153

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued

Board diversity

Gender diversity

Non-executive Director sector experience

Female

Male

42%

58%

Regulatory, Government 
affairs, Public policy
Oil & gas, Extractives, Energy

Strategy development

Engineering, Industrial

Consumer, Marketing

100%

100%

60%

60%

60%

Non-executive Director tenure (years)

Accounting and Finance

80%

0-3

4-6

7-9

11%

Ethnicity

White British or other White
(including minority white groups)
Asian / Asian British
Other ethnic groups,
including Arab

17%

8%

44%

44%

75%

Director nationality

British

Dutch

American

Canadian

Indian

Lebanese

8%

8%

8%

33%

17%

25%

The graphs above capture board diversity data as at the date of this report, March 13, 2024. For further information in relation to Listing 
Rule 9.8.6R(9 to 11) please see "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 222.

Attendance
The Board met nine times during 2023. Six of the nine 
meetings were held physically, one meeting in Vancouver, 
Canada, and five in London, United Kingdom. Three 
meetings were held virtually. Attendance during 2023 
for all Board meetings is given in the table [A].
[A] For attendance at Committee meetings during the year, please refer to 

individual Committee Reports. 

[B] Dick Boer was absent from the May 2023 Board meeting due to personal 

circumstances.

[C] Euleen Goh stepped down from her role as Deputy Chair and Senior 

Independent Director with effect from May 23, 2023.

[D] Jane Holl Lute was absent from the June 2023 Board meeting due to a 

scheduled business commitment.

[E] Martina Hund-Mejean stepped down from her role as Independent Non-

executive Director with effect from May 23, 2023.

[F] Sir Charles Roxburgh was appointed as Independent Non-executive Director 

with effect from March 13, 2023.

[G] Wael Sawan was appointed as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) with effect 

from January 1, 2023.

[H] Bram Schot was absent from the June 2023 Board meeting due to personal 

[I]

circumstances.
Leena Srivastava was appointed as Independent Non-executive Director 
with effect from March 13, 2023.

[J] Cyrus Taraporevala was appointed as Independent Non-executive Director 

with effect from March 2, 2023.

Board member

Dick Boer [B]

Neil Carson

Ann Godbehere

Euleen Goh [C]

Sinead Gorman 

Jane Holl Lute [D]

Catherine J. Hughes

Martina Hund-Mejean [E]

Sir Andrew Mackenzie 

Sir Charles Roxburgh [F]

Wael Sawan [G]

Bram Schot [H]

Leena Srivastava [I]

Cyrus Taraporevala [J]

Meetings attended

8/9

9/9

9/9

3/3

9/9

8/9

9/9

3/3

9/9

7/7

9/9

8/9

7/7

8/8

Director independence
All Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. The Chair is not subject to the 
Code's independence test other than on appointment. 

Ethnic diversity
The Board is satisfied that it currently exceeds the Parker Review recommendation on board diversity in the UK.

154
154

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Executive Committee 

The Executive Committee of the Company comprises the Executive Directors, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman, 
and those listed below (see "Governance Framework" on page 160).

Philippa Bounds
Legal Director

Robin Mooldijk
Projects & Technology Director

Tenure 
Eight months
(appointed July 2023)

Age
53

Nationality
British

Career 
Philippa was previously General Counsel for Trading and Supply, based in London. 
She joined Shell in 2005 after a decade of working at English and American law firms, 
specialising in structured finance.

She has held legal roles across Shell's businesses, including Senior Legal Counsel in Gas 
and Power and in Corporate. She has also held several advisory roles, including special 
advisor to the EU Commission's Director General Internal Markets on securities laws. 
She has represented Shell on a committee that worked with the UK government on 
the introduction of the Companies Act 2006. 

Tenure 
Eight months
(appointed July 2023)

Age
57

Nationality
Dutch

Career 
Robin was previously Executive Vice President of Shell Chemicals and Products. He was 
appointed to that role in August 2021, following the integration of Shell's chemicals and 
manufacturing businesses.

Robin began his career at Shell in 1991 at its Research Laboratory in Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands, and since then he has held critical roles, including General Manager of 
Shell Chemicals Europe, Managing Director South African Petroleum and Vice President 
of Manufacturing Americas. In 2018, he was appointed Shell's Executive Vice President 
for Manufacturing.

Tenure 
Two months
(appointed January 2024)

Age
50

Nationality
British

Career 
Rachel joined Shell in 1995 in Upstream in Aberdeen, Scotland. She has since held HR 
roles in manufacturing, LPG, lubricants and chemicals. In 2016, Rachel was appointed 
Executive Vice President HR Integrated Gas. She became the Executive Vice President 
HR Upstream in 2020 before being appointed interim Executive Vice President HR 
Organisation Development & Learning in May 2023.

Rachel Solway
Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer

Executive Committee diversity

Gender diversity

Ethnicity

Female

Male

40%

60%

White British or other White
(including minority-white groups)

100%

155
155

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Executive Committee continued

Tenure 
Four years and two months
(appointed January 2020) 

Age
54

Nationality
Dutch

Career
Huibert was previously Executive Vice President Global Commercial. He joined Shell 
in 1995 as a business analyst and led Downstream businesses across Shell in Europe, 
Africa, North and South America as well as Asia. In 2009, Huibert was appointed Vice 
President Supply & Distribution, Europe and Africa. In 2012, he became Executive Chair 
of Shell in China, and in 2016 led the integration of BG Group.

Tenure 
Two years and five months
(appointed October 2021) 

Age
48

Nationality
Australian

Career
Zoë has held various management positions in Downstream, Integrated Gas and 
Upstream. She served as Executive Vice President Conventional Oil & Gas and was 
previously Chair and Executive Vice President Shell Australia Pty Ltd. She joined Shell 
from Rio Tinto in 2014 to lead Shell's Oil Sands business in Canada. 

Changes to the Executive Committee (Senior Management) in 2023
As announced on January 30, 2023, Shell reduced the size of its Executive 
Committee (EC) from nine to seven members in a move designed to simplify the 
organisation further and improve performance as we continue to deliver our 
Powering Progress strategy.

Under the changes, which took effect on July 1, 2023, Shell's Integrated Gas and 
Upstream businesses were combined to form a new Integrated Gas and Upstream 
Directorate, led by Zoe Yujnovich. The Downstream business was combined with 
Renewables and Energy Solutions to form a new Downstream, Renewables and 
Energy Solutions Directorate, led by Huibert Vigeveno.

Separately, the Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate Relations Directorate was 
discontinued and its Director, Ed Daniels, stepped down from the EC and left 
Group service. Strategy was brought together with New Business Development 
and, alongside Sustainability, now reports directly to CFO Sinead Gorman, 
enabling more streamlined planning and better capital allocation decisions. 

Harry Brekelmans, previously Projects & Technology Director, and Donny Ching, 
previously Legal Director, stepped down from their roles and left Group service. 
Robin Mooldijk succeeded Harry as Projects & Technology Director, and Philippa 
Bounds became Legal Director.

Ronan Cassidy stepped down as Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer 
and left Group service. Ronan was succeeded by Rachel Solway.

Huibert Vigeveno
Downstream, Renewables and Energy 
Solutions Director 

Zoë Yujnovich
Integrated Gas and Upstream Director 

Leavers
￮ Harry Brekelmans (Projects & Technology 

Director) on June 30, 2023. 

￮ Donny Ching (Legal Director) on June 30, 

2023.

￮ Ed Daniels (Strategy, Sustainability and 
Corporate Relations Director) on July 1, 
2023.

￮ Ronan Cassidy (Chief Human Resources 
and Corporate Officer) on December 31, 
2023.

Joiners
￮ Robin Mooldijk (Projects & Technology 

Director) on July 1, 2023.

￮ Philippa Bounds (Legal Director) on July 1, 

2023. 

￮ Rachel Solway (Chief Human Resources 
and Corporate Officer) on January 1, 
2024.

156
156

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance

Introduction
from the Chair

In 1834, Marcus Samuel Sr began importing seashells 
to the UK, laying foundations for a global import-export 
business. By the 1880s, the energy industry offered 
great opportunities. The "Shell" Transport and Trading 
Company seized these opportunities, with Marcus 
Samuel Jr commissioning the construction of safer and 
more efficient steam tankers for oil transportation. His 
tankers were the first permitted to navigate the Suez 
Canal in 1892, opening global oil markets to greater 
competition. Joining forces with the Royal Dutch 
Petroleum Company in 1907, what is now Shell, one of 
the world's leading energy companies, was established.

Since those early beginnings, Shell has pioneered ways of providing 
energy to people. In addition, the use of the oil and gas has 
revolutionised other industries, from fertilisers to preservatives, textiles 
to beauty products, and medical supplies to road materials. Now, Shell 
is at another turning point in its history. We are working to profitably 
transform our portfolio to meet our target of becoming a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050. 

Shell has a vision and a strategy to transform, and the implementation 
of this strategy, although under way, will take time. This transformation 
is not just about the use of oil and gas, but goes to the root of how 
people live -- the products we use and the foods that we eat. This 
journey of transformation is also not the same for everyone, there are 
still many in the world without access to affordable energy. The energy 
transition must be balanced and consider all parts of society.

At our 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM), Shell's updated energy 
transition strategy will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote. This 
vote will indicate if our shareholders believe we are on the right track 
and that Shell is transforming fast enough.

The Board engaged in discussions with the Executive Committee 
throughout 2023 and into 2024 as the Shell energy transition strategy 
was reviewed, refined and aligned with the commitments made to 
stakeholders at Capital Markets Day in June 2023. Specific time was 
allocated to the topic at the Board's annual strategy days in June, and 
the Board discussed the energy transition at each of its Board meetings 
throughout 2023. In addition, when considering the appointments 
for new Non-executive directors, each appointment was considered 
alongside Shell's Principles for the Strategic Composition of the Board, 
which includes, amongst other criteria, specific consideration of the 
skills and strengths needed for the energy transition.

157

Board leadership and Shell's purpose
Shell's purpose is set out in the early pages of this Annual Report. 
Throughout this Governance report we focus on how Shell's 
governance operates in practice, and why we believe this is the 
best approach for us. 

The Governance report is structured around the key themes of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Our narrative seeks to explain 
how governance supports and protects Shell and our stakeholders. 

Shell applies the principles and the spirit of the Code. There is one 
instance where we adopt an approach slightly different from that 
suggested by one of the Code's provisions, namely Provision 5 which 
concerns workforce engagement. We explain this on page 159. We 
consider our governance processes are appropriate, given the specific 
circumstances and range of factors particular to Shell, such as its global 
nature, size, complexity and history. 

Our AGM continues to reach a wider audience through its hybrid 
format, allowing our global shareholder base to easily participate in 
proceedings. However, disruptive and unsafe behaviour from some 
attendees requires us to assess how we conduct this meeting in a way 
that provides a safe environment and meaningful engagement with 
those in attendance.

Information on how the Board discharges its duty in relation to key 
stakeholder interests, including those of our workforce, and an 
explanation of how it considered these when making principal 
decisions are set out on pages 141-145. On pages 162-165 we provide 
information about our Board activities and highlight which stakeholders 
we considered.

Our workforce engagement methods can be found on pages 170-171. 
We continue to believe that constructive relationships built on mutual 
respect and transparency help Shell attract and retain employees, 
while supporting greater productivity and operational safety and 
efficiency. Ensuring that the employee voice is heard on relevant 
matters in the boardroom in practical ways is key to understanding 
the broader impact of business decisions, including with respect to 
organisational culture. 

The Board recognises the importance of culture in delivering Shell's 
purpose and strategy. In December 2023 and January 2024, the 
Board received updates on the annual employee survey and the 
conduct and culture within the organisation, along with the associated 
risk areas (see pages 25-27 for more information on this risk), and how 
the management team is seeking to evolve the Shell culture, placing 
people at the heart of transforming Shell's performance. Shell's culture 
reflects the long-held values of the organisation – honesty, integrity 
and respect for people. These underpin all the work we do and are 
embedded in our strategy and purpose. The Board will continue to 
increase its focus on Shell's culture to make sure it continues to align 
with the business strategy. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Introduction from the Chair continued

Division of responsibilities
More information on how the Board and its Committees support 
business operations is provided on pages 160-161. In 2023, in line with 
the outcome of the 2022 Board evaluation, the Terms of Reference for 
the Board committees were reviewed and updated. Further detail on 
this is contained on page 166 and the full Terms of Reference for each 
committee, and the Matters Reserved for the Board are provided 
on our website. 

Composition, succession and evaluation
In 2023, the following changes to the Board were implemented: 

The appointment of Wael Sawan as CEO was effective January 1, 2023.

Cyrus Taraporevala joined the Board as a Non-executive Director 
of the Company, effective March 2, 2023, and Sir Charles Roxburgh 
and Leena Srivastava were appointed as Non-executive Directors 
of the Company, with effect from March 13, 2023.

Euleen Goh stood down from her role as Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director at the 2023 AGM after nearly nine years' 
service. Following the departure of Euleen, Dick Boer became Deputy 
Chair and Senior Independent Director with effect from the conclusion 
of the 2023 AGM.

Martina Hund-Mejean stood down from her role as Non-executive 
Director from the conclusion of the 2023 AGM. 

Changes were made to the membership of our Board 
committees. These changes are reflected in the biographies
of the respective Directors. 

Audit, Risk management and Internal control
Throughout the year the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) assisted 
the Board to implement sound systems of risk management and 
internal control, oversight over Shell's financial reporting and 
consideration of ethics and compliance matters. A variety 
of standing matters and more specific topics are discussed
by the ARC throughout the year, more on this can be found
on pages 179-190.

Looking ahead
Shell is an evolving business and the vote on our energy transition 
strategy at the 2024 AGM, our performance against the commitments 
from Capital Markets Day 2023, and our acquisitions and divestments 
or investment in new business operations are some of the more visible 
steps that we have taken. Less visible steps, like internal organisational 
changes or policy change are also being implemented. 

158

We are cognisant, yet accept, that not all of our stakeholders will be 
fully supportive of the decisions that we take, and some stakeholders 
will choose different methods of communicating their views and their 
concerns. We will continue to engage with stakeholders, and we will 
continue to have the humility to listen, learn and adapt as we focus 
and frame our strategy on the long-term success of the Company. 

Like Marcus Samuel Jr did close to 150 years ago, I, and my fellow 
Directors on the Board, and our colleagues across the business, are 
working to transform Shell to meet the needs of society today and 
for the future while delivering strong financial returns. Your Board 
remain confident that Shell is up to the task ahead.

Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair

March 13, 2024

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Statement of compliance with the UK
Corporate Governance Code

The Board confirms that, throughout the year, the Company has 
applied the principles, both in spirit and in form, and complied with the 
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in July 2018 (the "Code"), with the 
exception of Provision 5 noted below. A copy of the Code can be 
found on the FRC's website: frc.org.uk. 

Shell's governance arrangements have been considered alongside 
the Code. The information set out in the Directors' Report, including 
the Board committee reports on (pages 172-210), is intended to 
provide an explanation of how the Code's principles were applied 
practically throughout the year. We also provide clear and meaningful 
explanation below where we believe stakeholders may benefit from 
more specific information on a particular Code provision.

Workforce engagement (Provision 5)
The size and diversity of our employee base and wider workforce have 
complicated the feasibility of implementing any of the three specific 
workforce engagement methods recommended in the Code. The Board 
believes that its current approach to workforce engagement continues 
to be pragmatic and effective, particularly when considered against 
the required coverage needed for a global organisation, such as 
Shell. Elsewhere in this Annual Report, we explain how our people are 
essential to the successful delivery of the Shell strategy, and how the 
Board recognises the importance of understanding their views through 
engagement. During the year, the Board, committees and individual 
Directors were able to visit our sites across the world, which helped 
the Board engage with parts of the workforce and gain insight into 
the work, culture and impact of Shell in communities. While some 
engagements could be held physically, others were held virtually, and 
there were opportunities for the Board to speak with our stakeholders 
and obtain feedback. The Board also intends to keep the effectiveness 
of the engagements under review. Stakeholder engagement also 
continues to be enhanced in management reporting.

More information on the current approach and a description of the channels used by 

the Board, its Committees, and the Executive Committee are outlined in "Workforce 

engagement" on pages 170-171. 

AGM voting (Provision 4)
At the 2023 AGM, 20% of shareholders supported a resolution which 
the Board had recommended voting against. Shareholders also voted 
20% against a resolution proposed by the Board. Both resolutions 
related to the approach Shell was taking with regard to its energy 
transition strategy. Provision 4 of the Code requires certain actions to 
be undertaken if 20% or more of shareholders vote in a way which is 
different to what the Board recommended. There are three stages to 
these actions. First, explain when announcing the voting results what 
actions the Company intends to take to consult shareholders to 
understand the reasons behind the voting result. Shell included this 
explanation with its voting results, published on May 23, 2023. 
Second, an update on the engagement with shareholders should 
be published no later than six months after the shareholder meeting. 
This statement was added to the Shell website on October 30, 2023. 
Third, a final summary of the engagement and the actions taken should 
be included within the Annual Report. This information is provided 
on page 167.

Corporate governance requirements outside the UK
In addition to complying with applicable corporate governance 
requirements in the UK, the Company complies with the rules of 
Euronext Amsterdam and Dutch securities laws because of its listing 
on that exchange. The Company, likewise, adheres to US securities 
laws and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules and regulations 
because its securities are registered in the USA and listed on the NYSE.

159
159

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Governance framework

Board of Directors

The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, with executive management led by the Chief Executive Officer. 
The names of the Directors who held office during the year can be found on pages 147-154. Information on the Directors who are 
seeking appointment or reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.

There is no fixed number of times that the Board may meet in one year. During 2023, the Board met nine times (eight times during 
2022) and, as detailed throughout our Strategic Report, including the Section 172 statement and activities undertaken throughout 
the year, worked hard to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and 
contributing to wider society. Board members also engaged in several deep dive sessions as part of their energy transition strategy 
update work. Further information on the Board's work and assessments in relation to strategy, culture, engagement with stakeholders, 
and its workforce can be found in this section. 

The Board's responsibilities are governed by a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and include:
￮ Approval of overall strategy and oversight of management;
￮ Changes to the corporate and capital structure;
￮ Approval of financial reporting and controls (including approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, approval of the Annual 

Report on Form 20-F, and interim dividends);

￮ Oversight of risk management and internal control;
￮ Approval of significant contracts;
￮ Determining succession planning and new Board appointments;
￮ Remuneration for the Chair and Executive Directors; and
￮ Corporate governance matters.

Board Committees

Audit and Risk Committee ("ARC"), with the 
purpose to:
￮ Review and monitor the effectiveness of the Shell Group 

of Companies' (the "Group") risk management and 
internal controls;

Sustainability Committee ("SUSCO"), with the 
purpose to:
￮ Review the progress of Shell with respect to 

sustainability; and

￮ Review the non-financial elements of the Powering 

￮ Review and make recommendations to the Board on the 

Progress strategy.

integrity of the Company's financial reporting; 

￮ Oversee the internal audit and external audit functions 

and make recommendations to the Board; and
￮ Carry out other oversight activities on behalf of the 

Board.

Nomination and Succession Committee 
("NOMCO"), with the purpose to:
￮ Lead the process for appointments to the Board and to 

Senior Management positions;

￮ Make recommendations to the Board on all Board and 

Senior Management appointments and re- 
appointments;

￮ Review and make recommendations to the Board on 

succession planning for the Board and Senior 
Management, ensuring plans are in place for an orderly 
succession and overseeing the development of a diverse 
succession pipeline;

￮ Review and make recommendations to the Board on 

corporate governance guidelines; and

￮ Review the Company's policy, targets and strategies on 

diversity, equity and inclusion, and monitor their 
effectiveness.

Remuneration Committee ("REMCO"), with the 
purpose to:
￮ Determine and agree with the Board on the 

remuneration policy for the Company Chair, Executive 
Directors and the Executive Committee of the Company;

￮ Within the terms of such agreed policy, and any other 
relevant policy, determine the individual remuneration 
packages for the Company Chair, Executive Directors 
and Senior Management; and 

￮ Monitor the structures and levels of remuneration for 

other senior executives and make recommendations if 
appropriate. 

More information on the composition of each of the Board committees, their roles and activities during the year is provided on the 
following pages:

Audit and Risk Committee

179-190

Sustainability Committee 

Nomination and Succession Committee

172-176

Remuneration Committee

177-178

191-193

160
160

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Governance framework continued

Board of Directors continued

Division of responsibilities
The roles of the Chair, a non-executive role, and the CEO are separate and clearly defined. The Board has agreed on their respective 
responsibilities and set these out in writing. These documents are available on request from the Company Secretary.

Chair
￮ Responsible for ensuring that the Board and its committees function effectively. One way in which this is achieved is by ensuring 

Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information; and

￮ Responsible for making sure that there is an adequate induction and training programme followed by all Directors (see page 165), 

with assistance from the Company Secretary.

Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director
￮ Sounding board for the Chair;
￮ Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders; and
￮ Leads the annual appraisal of the Chair's performance.

Non-executive Directors
￮ Appointed by the Board or by shareholders at general meetings and, in accordance with the Code, seek re-election by 

shareholders on an annual basis;

￮ Letters of appointment refer to a specific term of office in accordance with the provisions of the Code and the Company's Articles 

of Association;

￮ Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors confirm they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the 

role. Appointments are subject to a minimum of three months' notice of termination, and there is no compensation provision for 
early termination;

￮ The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range and balance of skills and international business experience. Through their 
contribution to the Board and Board committee meetings, respectively, they are expected to challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy and bring independent judgement on issues of performance and risk; and

￮ At every Board meeting, time is set aside for the Chair and Non-executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-executive Directors discuss, among other matters, the performance of individual Executive Directors. A number of 
Non-executive Directors also meet major shareholders over the course of the year.

Executive Management

Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
￮ Has overall responsibility for the implementation of the 

strategy approved by the Board, the operational 
management of the Company and the business enterprise 
connected with it; and

￮ Is supported in this by the EC that he chairs.

Executive Committee (EC)
￮ Operates under the direction of the CEO in support of his 

responsibility for the overall management of Shell's 
business. The CEO has final authority in all matters of 
management that are not within the duties and authorities 
of the Board or of the shareholders' general meeting; 

￮ EC members are listed in the Executive Committee 

biographies on pages 155-156.

Governance documents available on shell.com/investor:

￮ Articles of Association
￮ Matters Reserved for the Board
￮ Board Committee Terms of Reference
￮ Modern Slavery Act Statement
￮ Shell General Business Principles
￮ Shell Code of Conduct
￮ Code of Ethics for Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers

161
161

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Board activities

Board activities
The Board works to a yearly meeting plan with corresponding agendas 
and reading materials, provided digitally in advance of meetings, 
to support the Board in its oversight of the Group's operations and 
management. Standing agenda items include reports from the CEO, 
the CFO and the Chair of each Board committee. Other updates 
throughout the year come from various businesses and key functions, 
including Investor Relations; Health and Safety, Security and 
Environment; Information Technology; Human Resources; and Legal, 
as well as the Company Secretary. The Board also considers and 
approves the quarterly, half-year and full-year financial results, 
shareholder distributions and the associated announcements, and, 
at most meetings, considers investment, divestment and/or financing 
proposals. It also conducts post-investment reviews and performance 
tracking, as and when required. Additionally, the Board reviews 
the Group's annual operating plan, including activities undertaken 
designed to meet the Group's carbon reduction targets. To enable 
purposeful debates and focus on particular aspects of agenda 
topics, including the impact on key stakeholders, Directors have 
an opportunity to specify information they require to be provided 
in advance of Board meetings.

During the year, where possible, certain Non-executive Directors 
conduct site visits. The visits are designed to provide them with a 
deeper insight into certain business operations.

More detail on these can be found in the table below and on pages 162-165.

Some of the activities and areas of Board focus over the year are 
summarised in the table below. The information below is not 
exhaustive. Information on other topics discussed by the Board and 
details of the resulting decisions are covered elsewhere, primarily in 
the Section 172 statement provided earlier in this report on pages 
141-145. In some cases, a brief outline has been provided below, 
and page references are provided for additional and more 
comprehensive information.

Board Strategy Days
The Board held its Strategy Days during June 2023. These were held in 
person in Canada over three days. The programme for the event aimed 
at having engaging and interactive sessions with both internal and 
external stakeholders. These included employees, customers, suppliers, 
regional country chairs and other key stakeholders.

The event focused on Shell's energy transition strategy in Canada. 
The Board and EC members conducted a deep dive on the strategic 
elements that would inform Shell's Energy Transition Strategy 2024 
(ETS24). Around this theme, the event provided for the following 
key discussion and engagement opportunities:
￮ An in-depth discussion on strategy and business implementation, 

with an emphasis on the growth potential and dilemmas of Shell's 
businesses in Canada;

￮ Engagements with experts shaping the energy and climate policy 

in Canada;

￮ Discussions of the opportunities and challenges inherent in ETS24; 
￮ Discussions on Canada's perspective on the energy transition and its 
geopolitical context, including engagement with Shell leaders from 
across the country;

￮ A review of growing our sustainable future safely and competitively 
where presenters included a cross section of business and site staff;
￮ A site visit to LNG Canada (under construction on the west coast of 

Canada), which included engagements with the leaders of the 
Haisla Nation in their community of Kitimat and Mayor Phil Germuth 
of Kitimat; 

￮ Engagements with a cross section of Shell's workforce in Canada 

who work across a range of key businesses and functions;

￮ Discussions with key customers and stakeholders in the region; and 
￮ Discussion of core elements of the Powering Progress strategy.

Topic

Discussion/activity/updates included

Examples of outcome/progress

Board leadership and company purpose

External 
business 
environment 

￮ Received updates on and discussed regional geopolitical 

issues and market outlook.

￮ Considered feedback from investor community on quarterly 
financial performance, including business segment results.

Stakeholders 
considered

A, B, C, D, E, F, G 

Strategy 

￮ Reviewed and discussed progress of strategy including 

management recommendations.

￮ Alignment on outcomes from Board Strategy Days.
￮ Received an overview of the business, divestments, projected 

A, B, C, D, E, F, G 

￮ Reviewed and discussed the materials and proposed 

investments and opportunities.

communication for Capital Markets Day 2023 (CMD23).

￮ Received an assessment on how OP23 credibly meets all 

￮ Directors participated in Board Strategy Days.
￮ Reviewed and discussed the Group's Annual Operating 

CMD23 targets.

Plan for 2023 (OP23).

A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners

162
162

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Board activities continued

Topic

Discussion/activity/updates included

Examples of outcome/progress

Board leadership and company purpose continued

Climate

￮ Reviewed the Group's Powering Progress strategy and 

targets for achieving net-zero emissions by 2050.
￮ Considered key parameters in delivering carbon 

reduction targets.

Country exits

￮ Considered exits from certain countries, based on 
an examination of proposals from management 
and businesses.

￮ Considered the continued impact of Shell's withdrawal 

from Russian activities.

Culture

Shell People 
Survey (2023 
results)

￮ In December 2023, the Board reviewed the results of 

the 2023 Shell People Survey. 

Staff updates

￮ Received updates from management and Board 
Committees on senior executive staff movements.

￮ Engagement through various sources such as Shell People 
Survey results, talent information, conduct and culture risk 
dashboard, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Report, 
cultural information embedded in investment proposals. 

Board staff 
engagements 

￮ Directors participated in in-person staff engagements on 

site visits.

￮ Received updates from management on staff 

achievements and outstanding contributions made by 
our people supporting communities, promoting social 
justice or intervening in challenging circumstances to 
uphold ethics and compliance standards.

￮ Discussed and engaged with various stakeholders on the 
development of ETS24 and approved for ETS24 to be 
presented to shareholders for an advisory vote at the 
2024 AGM.

￮ Recommendation to shareholders to approve the Board 
appointment of Leena Srivastava, who has a strong 
background in sustainability.

￮ Received the carbon briefing ahead of the deeper conversation 

on the topic at the Strategy Days in June 2023.

￮ Reviewed the strategy to deliver more and cleaner energy 
solutions, and continued implementation of the strategy, 
across Shell's businesses.

￮ Considered how divestment and potential investment 
opportunities contributed to meeting Shell's carbon 
reduction targets.

￮ Considered the nature and extent of the broader climate 
change and energy transition risk across Board proposals 
and further considered the potential influence on the delivery 
of Shell's carbon reduction targets.

￮ Approved proposals, after a review of the following in each 

relevant country: business situation; legal risks; reputation and 
investor considerations; country, regional and geopolitical 
landscape; and security situation.

￮ Received updates on the divestments in Russia, alongside the 

impact for Shell staff in the region.

￮ Having recognised that the 2023 Shell People Survey results 
were an indicator of the organisation's health, in its January 
2024 meeting, the Board reflected further on the pace at which 
Shell's strong organisational culture could evolve to increase 
accountability for delivery of business outcomes, supported by 
the Shell Performance Framework. 

￮ The Board was provided with regular updates on topics 

such as health, safety and the environment.

￮ The Board received updates on the Senior Management 

changes during the year.

￮ Gained first-hand insight into the development and culture 
of operations and maintenance teams, as well as staff 
perspectives on other matters of interest to our people. 

￮ Received practical examples of ways in which staff members 
were exhibiting Shell's core values and contributing to society.
￮ Some Board members visited Shell's businesses in Qatar and 

Oman at the beginning of 2024. They engaged with members 
of staff and got to observe the Powering Progress strategy 
in action. 

￮ Members of the ARC visited a number of operations in the USA 

(more information provided on page 182). 

A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners

Stakeholders 
considered

A, B, C, D, E, F, G

A, B, C, D, E, F, G

B

B

B

163
163

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Board activities continued

Topic

Discussion/activity/updates included

Examples of outcome/progress

Audit, risk and internal control

Stakeholders 
considered

Safety and 
Environment

￮ Received regular updates from management on safety 

￮ Provided with commentary and examples of how safety 

B, D, E, F, G

and environment performance. 

continues to be upheld as important by staff. 

￮ Throughout the year, Directors shared reflections and 
insights on topics related to core values and safety.

￮ Received regular updates from the SUSCO, including site 

visit reports and engagement with stakeholders.

￮ Gained perspective and brought diversity of thought to 
Board discussions by using learnings and insight gained 
outside Shell.

￮ Provided with insights into the views and priorities of 

NGOs, communities and other stakeholders. 

￮ Two members of the SUSCO visited the Olympus offshore 
platform in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2023. The visit 
included a review of safety performance, production 
operations, the offshore business, and Shell's approach 
to sustainability.

￮ Reviewed reports on Shell's top risks, external and 

￮ Considered the effectiveness of the risk management 

A, E, F

internal trends and emerging risks.

and internal control system. 

Risk 
management 
and internal 
control

￮ Received update from the ARC relating to site visits.
￮ Received the proposal to adopt the Shell Performance 

Framework.

￮ Received recommendation on reappointment of 

external auditors.

￮ Received a deep dive on Shell's top risks and continued 

discussions on the risk appetite for these risks.

￮ Provided input into the formalisation of emerging risks 

around artificial intelligence and discussed the increasing 
geopolitical risks in the Middle East.

￮ Received reports on the performance and benchmarking 

of the Group's cyber defences.

￮ Approved the adoption of the Shell Performance 

Framework and retired the Shell Control Framework.
￮ Reflected on progress regarding risk management and 

controls, pace and inherent risks to the digital 
transformation strategy, and enhancements to 
management of climate risk and disclosures. 
￮ Reappointment of external auditors submitted 

to shareholders for approval.

￮ Kept regularly informed about succession planning 

A, B, D, E

arrangements. 

￮ Received a recommendation from NOMCO that each 
Non-executive Director continues to be considered 
independent. 

￮ Please see the "Nomination and Succession Committee" 

section for further details.

Composition, succession and evaluation

Succession 
planning

￮ Received recommendations from the NOMCO regarding 
succession plans and Board and committee composition.

Board and 
committee 
effectiveness 
reviews

￮ In January 2024, examined the Evaluation Report following 
a survey based on the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code facilitated digitally by the Company 
Secretary, on the effectiveness and performance of the 
Board, its Committees and the Chair.

￮ Concluded that throughout the year, the Board, its 

committees and the Chair continued to operate effectively.

￮ In December 2023, conducted the annual Board 

effectiveness review. 

￮ Please refer to "Board evaluation" section for further 

A, B, D, E, F, G

Board 
membership, 
other 
appointments

￮ Reviewed Directors' tenure, external commitments, conflicts 
of interests, composition/membership of Board committees 
and appointments.

details.

￮ Approved committee membership changes, approach 
to conflicts of interest and appointments to the Board, 
following recommendations made by the NOMCO. 
￮ Approved a renewal of the Directors' terms and tenure, 

where relevant.

￮ Please see "Nomination and Succession Committee" 

section for further details. 

A, B, D, E

Talent overview 
and senior 
succession 
review

￮ Received updates on senior succession strategy.

￮ Enhanced insight into Shell talent and future leaders, 

assurance of robust succession and contingency plans.

B

A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners

164
164

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Board activities continued

Topic

Discussion/activity/updates included

Examples of outcome/progress

Stakeholders 
considered

Remuneration

Remuneration 
and reward 
matters

￮ Oversight of matters reviewed and considered by the 

￮ Received regulatory, political and investor insights 

A, B, C

REMCO.

and updates relating to reward matters.

Governance matters

Governance

￮ Provided with emerging corporate governance developments 

￮ Provided with insight on Shell's participation in the 

A, B, C, D, E, F

and updates relating to ethics and compliance matters. 

￮ Reviewed the Modern Slavery Act Statement and assurance, 

and considered other regulatory and legislative 
requirements.

consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
as well as the outcome of the consultation. 

￮ The Board was informed on projects relating to Shell's 

legislative requirements.

￮ Reviewed Matters Reserved for the Board, Board Committee 

￮ Approved a single Group Modern Slavery Act Statement 

Terms of Reference and the renaming of the Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee.

for the Group.

￮ Approved the reallocation of duties outlined within certain 
Committee Terms of Reference and agreed the renaming 
of what is now known as the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the Sustainability Committee. 

Ethics & 
Compliance

￮ Reviewed the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer's 

￮ Received insight and observations that Shell's ethical 

A, B, C, D, E, F

annual report. 

processes were robust. Also received confirmation that 
interaction with Shell staff was positive and reflective of 
Shell's values.

A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners

Director induction and training
After being appointed to the Board, Directors receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual needs. This normally includes site visits and meetings 
with Senior Management to enable them to build up a detailed understanding of Shell's business and strategy, and the key risks and issues that Shell faces. 
Existing Directors are also able to join these visits to keep abreast of business developments and progress. In 2023, we continued with a hybrid format, making 
the best use of the Directors' time through digital and physical engagements. Onboarding will continue to be phased and prioritised based on forthcoming 
Board agenda items to ensure new Non-executive Directors hit the ground running. 

A digital onboarding book is provided to each new Non-executive Director. These onboarding books complement the existing digital Directors' Handbook 
and feature: 
￮ Overviews of scheduled briefing meetings customised to the Non-executive Directors' needs and linked to upcoming Board agenda items;
￮ Hyperlinks to key Shell publications (external and internal);
￮
￮ Key current materials on:

Lists of common Shell acronyms;

– Shell's safety and core values; 
– Board governance;
– Group strategy and portfolio; 
– Key businesses and functions; and
– Climate change and energy transition.

￮ Biographies of key executives;
￮ Other elements of the onboarding programme for Non-executive Directors include:

– Briefing meetings with key executives (both business and functional) customised to Non-executive Directors' needs and phased based on forthcoming 

Board agenda items;

– Pairing up new Non-executive Directors in onboarding briefings to optimise learning while also providing opportunities for collegial relationship-building 

and increasing efficiencies for the executives; and

– Virtual and physical site visits (either specifically for onboarding or by inviting the new Directors to committees' site visits). 

165
165

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Board evaluation

The 2023 Board evaluation was facilitated internally, led by 
the NOMCO and managed by the Company Secretary.

NOMCO reviewed 
questionnaires for in-house 
Board and committee
performance evaluation.

Questionnaires made
available for Directors and 
Executive Committee (EC) 
members to complete via
a secure digital platform.

[A] Separate reports were provided for the responses from the Board and the Executive 
Committee. The reports in relation to the ARC, NOMCO, SUSCO and REMCO were 
sent to the respective committee chairs.

Board review process
For 2023, it was recommended that the NOMCO conduct an 
internally facilitated questionnaire-based Board and committee 
evaluation. This was because of several Board effectiveness initiatives 
under way and an in-depth Board dynamics exercise, to be conducted 
in 2024.

Board members responded to questionnaires shared at the end of 
2023, with the results being discussed at the January 2024 Board and 
committee meetings. Separate questionnaires were produced for the 
evaluation of the Chair, and the Board committees. In addition, the 
Chair held separate one-to-one discussions with each of the Directors 
to assess their individual performance during the year. To broaden the 
inputs into the evaluation process, members of the EC participated in 
the evaluation process, also completing questionnaires relating to their 
attendance at Board meetings.

The Company Secretary produced a feedback summary providing 
recommendations to the Directors. This report was shared with the 
Chair and committee Chairs and subsequently all Board members.

Insight
The feedback from the Board Directors was positive throughout their 
responses to the evaluation. Views were provided on: composition and 
dynamics; skills, capabilities and competencies; support and challenge; 
atmosphere in the room; the support the Board and Board committees 
receive; strategic focus; risk management and oversight; stakeholder 
engagement; and any priorities for change.

Board dynamics
In 2024, the Board plans to undertake a Board dynamics review. The 
review will be structured to identify the current state of Board practices, 
focusing on what works well and any factors which could be improved 
to accelerate effectiveness. Our Chief Human Resources and 
Corporate Officer and the Company Secretary will lead the review. 
The approach will be structured to provide ongoing maintenance and 
improvement of Board dynamics with continued support and input 
from the Directors.

Management and focus of meetings
The output from the 2023 Board evaluation highlighted the need for 
the Board's collective continued focus on the implementation of ETS24, 
and the continued delivery of plans outlined at Capital Markets Day 
(CMD) in June 2023. The continued optimisation and integration of the 
work of both the Board and the ARC on risk-related matters were also 
noted as continued areas of focus for 2024.

Overall, the Board was found to be functioning well, with a high level 
of commitment from both the Non-executive and Executive Directors. 
Improvements identified were to fine-tune an already effective Board. 
There are good personal relationships, amid a collegial spirit, with a 

166
166

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Board reviewed evaluation 
reports of Board and
each committee [A].

A separate report was also
produced in relation to the evaluation 
of the Chair and made available
to the Deputy Chair only.

Action plan 
agreed

high degree of mutual respect. Directors are able to share opinions and 
guidance and feel that they are heard. The agenda has been broad 
and the committees have complemented the Board agenda to ensure 
that the Board has covered the areas viewed to be key.

Feedback themes for the committees 
The committees were considered to be well-chaired and well-operated 
and received excellent input from Senior Management. All committee 
reviews provided focus on the meeting management and effectiveness, 
oversight, and performance improvement. Each individual committee 
analysed topics specific to the forum. The committees also provided 
feedback on the implementation of recommendations from the 2022 
evaluation process. 

Chair evaluation
The Chair was considered to have built and maintained strong 
relationships with the CEO, CFO and the Non-executive Directors. 
He was also thought to be very good at drawing out individual views 
in the room and keen to listen to views from all Directors. References 
to his knowledge, accessibility and support were made and these 
are valued across the Board.

Delivery against the 2023 ambitions
Several Board effectiveness initiatives were implemented and undertaken 
in 2023. The Board continued to focus on being a well-functioning Board 
and spent additional time on strategic matters. It placed an even greater 
focus on Shell's key stakeholders around the world. In line with this, the 
Board refreshed its agendas. It also implemented an initiative to enhance 
the quality of Board pre-reading materials to better support its priorities 
on strategy and enable it to use its time as effectively as possible.

Leadership changes to both the composition and structure of the EC 
were implemented, which has simplified the organisation structure.

The Board undertook a more strategic review of the committees' 
agendas and remit to ensure alignment with the Board's priorities and 
longer-term aspirations. The composition and the terms of reference of 
each committee were updated as a result of this work with the Audit 
Committee being redesignated the Audit and Risk Committee, and the 
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee being redesignated 
the Sustainability Committee. In addition, the Board reviewed the 
general information provided to Directors during their onboarding 
and throughout the year to ensure that all Directors achieve sufficient 
knowledge and understanding of the organisation, while balancing 
this against the volume of the materials provided. 

Further, the NOMCO reviewed its Principles for the Strategic 
Composition of the Board to ensure these continue to reflect 
the strategic and diversity requirements of the Board.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders

The Board continues to value and recognise the importance 
of engagement and cooperation with our stakeholders. Time 
is dedicated to listening to different stakeholder views and 
our commitment to stakeholder engagement is built upon 
the understanding that knowledge-sharing, widening of 
experiences and adopting a learner mindset will help us
achieve our commercial, environmental and social objectives.

The Board remains grateful for the engagement opportunities
it has had, including the 2023 AGM. 

The Shell website also provides contact details for our Registrar, 
Equiniti, shareholder queries, our media team, requests for copies
of the Annual Report, and general customer enquiries. 

The Company's Registrar operates an internet access facility for 
registered shareholders, providing details of their shareholdings. 
Facilities are also provided for shareholders to lodge proxy 
appointments electronically. The Corporate Nominee service, 
facilitated by Equiniti, provides a facility for investors to hold their 
shares in the Company in paperless form.

The Directors have continued to consider stakeholders' views in 
Board discussions and decision-making, as described on pages 
141-145. 

Engagement with our stakeholders also goes beyond the Board
and is continuous. Our broader businesses regularly engage with 
stakeholders throughout the year, and in the build-up to or during 
many Shell projects, activities, acquisitions and divestments. This 
engagement is often governed by formulated policies, control 
frameworks, regulation and legislation. It may differ by region.

Site visits
The Chair, certain Board committees and Non-executive Directors 
traditionally visit several Shell operations and overseas offices in 
a given calendar year. The objective of these visits is to provide the 
Directors with local context and deepen their understanding in the 
following ways, where relevant:
￮ provide insights into asset operations and portfolio positions; 
￮ opportunity to engage directly with stakeholders, including staff, 

business partners, communities;

￮ improve the Board's oversight of top risks; and
￮ assess the Company's culture first-hand.

Visits provide a good opportunity for Board members to engage with 
each other and, in 2023 in particular, with three new Board members, 
the visits formed an important part of their induction. 

Shareholders
The Chair, the Deputy Chair, the CEO, the CFO and the Executive 
Vice President Investor Relations each meet regularly with major 
shareholders and report the views of such shareholders to the 
Board. Committee chairs also seek engagement with shareholders 
on significant matters related to their areas of responsibility. During 
the year, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, in his capacity as Chair, met with 
more than 50 major shareholders, including during four days of 
roadshows. A variety of topics were discussed with the Chair, including 
performance, capital discipline and simplification of Shell; governance 
and Board priorities; and the Company's role in the energy transition. 
In the early part of the year, the REMCO Chair met with over 25 
shareholders and discussed 2022 pay outcomes and remuneration 
policy changes ahead of the 2023 AGM.

Shareholders can contact Shell directly via the "Contact us" section of 
the Shell website. This allows investors' questions to be directed to the 
appropriate Shell team that can assist. Shareholders are also able to 
make use of our automated question response tool. Investors can also 
access information via the frequently asked questions section of the 
Shell website.

Shareholder engagement on AGM resolutions
At the 2023 AGM, shareholders voted on two climate-related 
resolutions: (i) Resolution 25, which was an advisory vote on Shell's 
Energy Transition Progress – shareholders showed strong endorsement, 
with 80% of shareholders who voted casting votes in favour of our 
progress; and (ii) Resolution 26, a shareholder resolution, submitted 
by an organisation called Follow This on behalf of a small group of 
shareholders. The resolution from Follow This was broadly unchanged 
from their 2022 submission, which was also rejected by shareholders, 
as its variations have been every year since first being submitted in 
2016. The resolution urged Shell to align its medium-term carbon 
emissions reduction targets with the Paris Climate Agreement, including 
emissions from fuels burnt by consumers, known as Scope 3 emissions. 
We remain committed to constructive engagement with our 
shareholders, and we believe our climate targets are aligned with the 
more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement. The Board believed the 
proposal from Follow This was not in the best interest of the Company 
and its shareholders as a whole. Resolution 26 received support from 
20% of shareholders who voted. Shell is aware that some shareholders 
voted in support of both Resolutions 25 and 26, despite their 
conflicting content.

In 2023, the Chair, CEO and CFO hosted meetings with some of 
our large shareholders. These meetings covered many topics. We 
recognise and value the importance of stakeholder engagement when 
considering our energy transition progress. The Board is grateful for the 
time and contribution of all those stakeholders who provided feedback, 
and for the overall indications of support for Shell's strategy. 

Following the AGM, we engaged with our largest shareholders offering 
further opportunities to discuss the progress made against Shell's 
energy transition strategy and to understand the reasons behind 
various voting decisions. The Chair subsequently had an opportunity 
to engage directly with our large institutional shareholders during his 
roadshow in September 2023.

These discussions showed that our large shareholders that did not
vote in line with the Board recommendation on Resolution 25 and 
Resolution 26 were predominantly focused on Shell's energy transition 
strategy and not the 2022 progress, to which Resolution 25 related. 
Some shareholders continue to outline societal pressure influencing 
media coverage and expectations from beneficial owners as reasons 
for not aligning with the Board recommendation. Others raised 
questions related to medium-term targets, including a desire for 
a Scope 3 absolute emissions target.

This feedback was added to the ongoing internal considerations of the 
Company's climate targets, along with the outcome of the Dutch court 
case, the Powering Progress strategy, Capital Markets Day, and the 
commitments that Shell had made within its energy transition strategy. 

167
167

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders continued

Engagements in 2023
Information on engagements the Board has held during the year is summarised below. Information on engagement with other stakeholders 
including the workforce is provided on pages 170-171. The way in which stakeholder interests were considered in principal decision-making 
by the Board in 2023 (Section 172 statement) can be found on pages 141-145. Further insight into our engagement with stakeholders can 
be found within our Sustainability Report, scheduled for publication in March 2024. 

Engagement before event

Event/activity

Director attendance Outcome/insight

Remuneration Roadshow – Q1 2023 Engagement

Engagement was 
undertaken before the 
meetings so that the 
Directors were provided 
with understanding and 
insight on particular topics 
of interest.

In March 2023, Neil Carson, Chair of the REMCO, presented the 2022 
remuneration outcome and 2023 remuneration plans to investors. The 
presentation included summaries on:
￮

reflections on the Company's financial performance, portfolio and 
launch of the Powering Progress strategy;

￮ 2023 Remuneration Policy changes;
￮ changes of Directors and appointment terms of the new CEO;
￮
￮

remuneration for 2023; and
forward-looking agenda. 

Annual ESG Update 2023

REMCO Chair 

Shareholders were provided with 
context and an explanation of the 
REMCO deliberations in arriving at 
the 2022 pay outcomes and setting 
the pay framework for 2023 and had 
the opportunity to ask questions and 
provide feedback. 

Discussion with the Chair 
of the Board to ensure that 
key topics would be 
covered. 

This annual engagement took place in March 2023 in London with 
investors. It included an update on ESG matters of significance, including 
Shell's 2022 Energy Transition Progress Report outlining the progress 
towards Shell's targets to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 
2050. 

CEO and CFO

Any questions requiring follow-up 
were addressed outside the 
presentations. In some cases, 
follow-up meetings were held 
with stakeholders and the Chair 
of the Board.

Sustainability Committee visit to Energy & Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany

Discussion with the Chair 
of the SUSCO on key 
topics for inclusion in the 
visit agenda.

The SUSCO and the Chair of the Board visited the Rheinland Energy 
and Chemicals Park in Germany in November 2023. The visit included 
a review of energy transition projects that are part of the site 
transformation, a review of operational safety and process safety 
performance, a tour of the facility, meetings with site staff, and 
an engagement with the Director General at the Ministry for 
Economic Affairs, Innovation, Digitalization and Energy of the 
state of North Rhine-Westphalia. 

SUSCO and Chair

Greater insights into the ongoing 
operations and transformation under 
way at the Rheinland Energy and 
Chemicals Park.

2023 AGM

Directors engaged with 
investors ahead of the event 
on a number of matters, 
including those being voted 
on at the AGM.

Chair Roadshow

The Chair of the Board 
engaged with over 50 large 
institutional investors during 
roadshows in April and 
September 2023. 

As well as the Company giving a balanced report of results and progress 
at the AGM, shareholders had an opportunity to ask questions in person, 
via the digital AGM platform, telephone, or submit questions via the Q&A 
desk outside of the auditorium.

Board

A number of additional engagements 
including follow-up meetings and 
answering of queries.

The Chair of the Board provided an update on the governance 
of Shell and gave key investors opportunities to ask questions. 
Key topics included governance, remuneration, energy transition 
and business outlook. 

Chair

Provided the Chair with an 
opportunity to listen to key 
institutional shareholders and to 
provide Board perspective on 
topics such as governance, 
energy transition, business and 
management performance.

168
168

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders continued

Engagement before event

Event/activity

Audit and Risk Committee visits

Director attendance Outcome/insight

These site visits deepen the 
ARC's understanding of the 
risks and opportunities arising 
as well as its understanding of 
how the Company's Powering 
Progress strategy is 
implemented. 

The Board gained an insight into 
the development and culture of the 
operations and maintenance teams. 
The use and impact of digitalisation 
tools were highlighted, and the 
future environmental capabilities 
of the site were discussed.

Engagement prior to the 
visits helped to formulate 
the agenda and refine the 
areas of focus for the 
respective visits.

Director visits

Discussions were held with 
the respective Directors 
ahead of the visit to 
formulate the agenda and 
encourage a natural, open 
dialogue in the group 
sessions.

During 2023, the ARC conducted a site visit to the USA where it visited a 
number of operations, including Shell Polymers Monaca, the Shell Norco 
facility, the Shell-operated Vito floating production facility in the Gulf of 
Mexico (virtual visit from New Orleans) and the Houston trading floor. 

ARC

In February 2023, the Chair of the Board visited the Shell Business 
Operations offices in Bangalore, to deepen his understanding of 
operations and meet staff. 

Directors

In March 2023, one Director visited Nature Energy and met with 
operators of the plant, and also visited the office in Odesund meeting 
with the Nature Energy's CEO and CFO for an overview of 
the company. 

In June 2023, the Chair of the Board visited NAM, Shell Energy and 
Chemicals Park Rotterdam and Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk. The visit 
entailed staff engagement sessions in all three locations, and with the 
NL leadership team in The Hague. Additionally in June 2023, the 
Directors held their Strategy Days off site in Vancouver and visited LNG 
Canada, in Kitimat, where they saw the asset under construction, met 
with staff and engaged with local communities and authorities. 

In October 2023, the Chair of the Board visited China and attended the 
Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management Advisory 
Board, the Shell Eco-marathon in Beijing, meetings with external 
stakeholders including a senior Chinese government delegation, 
and a staff engagement session. 

At the start of January 2024, several Directors visited Oman and Qatar.

169
169

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Workforce engagement

As with all the Code's provisions, boards must consider the size and 
structure of their business, including its international scope, and select 
an approach to engaging with the workforce that most practically 
delivers the underlying spirit and ambition of the Code. 

The Code states that its use of the term "workforce" is not meant to 
align with legal definitions of workforce, employee, worker or similar 
terms. But for a global organisation bound by the laws of more than 
70 countries, blurring the clearly prescribed legal definitions that affect 
complex issues (such as local health, safety, security and environment 
(HSSE) requirements, work contract terms, legal accountability, 
employment rights) or merging two definitions of the same term 
could have a notable impact on the business, its operations and its 
stakeholder relationships (including with suppliers). As a result, Shell 
considers its workforce to be employees of companies in the Shell 
Group. The Board also engages with others outside this group (for 
example, on site visits), and some of this engagement is shared 
on page 167.

Although our reporting and formal engagement focuses predominantly 
on our employees, all individuals working on Shell sites (including Shell 
offices) are required to undertake certain Shell training (for example, 
on matters relating to HSSE and the Code of Conduct). Adhering to the 
Life-Saving Rules and the Code of Conduct compliance obligations is 
included within our contracts with suppliers. The Shell Global Helpline 
is available for all workers to report matters of concern.

For many years, Shell has recognised the importance of engaging with 
its workforce. Engagement is especially important in maintaining strong 
business delivery in volatile times of change. We strive to maintain a 
dialogue between management and our workforce – both directly 
and, where appropriate, through employee representative bodies. 
Management regularly engages with the workforce through a range 
of formal and informal channels, including via webcasts and emails 
from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other senior executives, 
webcasts, town halls, team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, 
interviews with Senior Management, internal social platforms 
and online publications via our intranet.

The Board considers effective engagement a key element of its 
understanding of the Company's ability to create value, because it 
recognises that our people are our greatest asset. Workforce views 
can help inform the Board on matters such as operational effectiveness, 
Shell culture, diversity, equity and inclusion, identifying risk and 
opportunity, and developing and delivering strategy.

The Board considers the current workforce engagement approach 
effective, and feedback from employees indicates that they too 
find the interactions valuable and worthwhile. The information 
provided in the following table gives examples of various methods 
of Board engagement.

Board's direct engagements with the workforce

Informal engagement – Board

NOMCO members met with various senior leaders and high-potential 
individuals throughout the year. 

Off-site visits

Workforce engagements during Board and/or meetings off site.

Meeting talent/leadership teams.

The Chair undertaking staff engagement sessions.

Through these more formal engagements, the Chair and other Non-executive 
Directors (either individually or in groups) have deepened their understanding 
of how the Company's purpose, strategy and values are embedded in particular 
businesses, sites and countries. This continues to give insight into progress made, 
risks and opportunities. The benefits are mutual. The Board obtains direct insight 
into local business operations and projects, and local strengths and challenges. 
Our people have a chance to better understand the Board and to provide direct 
feedback on topics of importance to them, their business or function and their 
location.

Shell Netherlands

In June 2023, the Chair met with a cross section of employees representing 
different businesses, locations, tenture, and job groups at Shell sites in the 
Netherlands (NAM, Pernis, and Moerdijk). The purpose of the meetings 
was to see and hear about operations and their perspectives, including 
the implementation of Powering Progress in the Netherlands. 

The two-way dialogue offered participants the opportunity to ask questions and 
provide feedback. The Chair also had dinner with approximately 20 members 
of the leadership of Shell Netherlands to hear their views on the longer-term 
opportunities for the Company strategy in the country.

Shell Canada

The Board and Executive Committee (EC) visited Canada in June for their annual 
off-site visit and Board meeting. The visit provided significant opportunities for 
workforce engagement over three days.

On the first day, the Board and EC met several Shell Canada leaders and staff 
during business-focused discussions covering each of the core businesses in Shell 
Canada. On the second day, the Board and EC visited LNG Canada in Kitimat 
BC where they met with a cross section of 50 Shell staff during a site tour and a 
lunch. The site tour provided opportunity to engage frontline employees in the 
field. Feedback received after the event suggested that employees enjoyed the 
opportunity to engage informally with the Board and EC members. On the third 
day, over lunch, the Board and EC met a cross section of 50 Shell Canada 
leaders representing different businesses, locations, tenure, and job groups. 

Shell China

In September 2023, the Chair undertook his first visit to China in his capacity as 
Chair of the Board of Shell. This presented an opportunity for employees to meet 
him, and he took part in a panel-style staff engagement session with 100 Shell 
China staff. 

On the same day, he presented the awards to the finalists of the Shell Eco-
marathon in Beijing, and attended a dinner with Shell employees involved 
in the Shell Eco-marathon. 

Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Germany 

In November 2023, the Chair and members of the SUSCO visited Shell Energy 
and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany. They reviewed progress against the 
sustainability and non-financial aspects of the Company's strategy and engaged 
with employees.

170
170

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Workforce engagement continued

Formal reports and information updates to the Board

Risks

Shell People Survey (anonymous survey facilitated externally)

Through the results of the Shell People Survey, the Board was provided with 
an update on employee engagement levels, and the quality and resilience 
of leadership across Shell's workforce. The Board was informed of a broad 
range of subjects, including principal metrics, with particular focus on rewards, 
working conditions/workload and reputation.

The Board considers the Shell People Survey to be one of its principal tools for 
measuring employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment to 
Shell. It provides insights into employee views and has a consistently high 
response rate. In 2023, the response rate reached an all-time high of 88%, 
(up 1% from 2022). The Board also considers this engagement to understand, 
for example, how Shell is using the survey outcomes in: i) data analytics, for 
example, to identify potential correlative relationships between employee 
engagement and safety or ethics and compliance incidents; and ii) 
strengthening Company culture and values.

Senior Succession and Resourcing Review

The annual Senior Succession and Resourcing Review focused on the strength 
of senior leadership and plans for its development and succession, while 
highlighting the breadth, depth and diversity of its pipeline, the developing 
profile of the leadership cadre, and recruitment and attrition levels.

The Senior Succession and Resourcing Review also highlighted the effectiveness 
of succession planning, the impact of its associated execution, and the data-
driven, integrated approach to leadership and leadership development. The 
review continues to focus on proactive management of Shell's talent pipeline, 
and on advancing Shell's diversity agenda with increased attention on gender, 
race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disabilities.

Assessment of key trends and material incidents

Presented by Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. This is based on the 
established channels for staff and others to file complaints or report on 
suspected breaches in relation to the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP), 
the Code of Conduct or any breaches of laws or regulations, including 
accounting control and auditing concerns.

The update covers Shell employees and our wider stakeholder base. The Board 
(also via the ARC and the SUSCO) obtains insight into incidents and reporting 
levels and remediation. These provide indicators of conduct risks and, together 
with the related Board reports noted below, suggest the strength of embedding 
and awareness of the Code of Conduct and SGBP obligations and employees' 
comfort levels in raising incidents.

The Board reviewed reports on Shell's top risks, external and internal trends and 
emerging risks.

Organisational culture

The Board has continued its discussion on the Powering Progress strategy, 
including powering lives. The Board also focused on diversity, equity and 
inclusion commitments.

Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Report

Data and insights include information from the Global Helpline, the Shell 
Ethics and Compliance organisation and the Shell People Survey. The SUSCO 
continues to strongly support the work of the Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer, including the efforts to ensure a safe working environment where staff 
feel confident to raise any concerns in good faith.

The ARC is kept updated when matters highlighted through the Global Helpline 
are investigated. The ARC is also informed about the associated remediation. 
For more information see "Audit and Risk Committee Report".

Assurance activities

Assurance activities, including items raised by businesses and functions (through 
the Group Assurance Letters process) and assurance (from Internal Audit, HSSE, 
Ethics and Compliance, Reserves Assurance and Reporting), provide additional 
evidence to the Board of the commitment to high standards of risk management 
and internal control. The assurance activities ensure that work can be done 
safely, within regulatory frameworks.

The information provided within these reports further supports the Board's 
annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of risk management 
and internal control, and feeds into the Group scorecard, against which staff 
bonuses are calculated.

The Shell Performance Framework

In 2023, the Shell Performance Framework replaced the Shell Control 
Framework. More information on this can be found on pages 223-224. 

Significant HSSE, Ethics and Compliance, and more broadly, business control 
incidents are brought to the attention of Senior Management and the Board 
through regular reporting.

During these discussions, the Board seeks to learn more from incidents and 
ensure that the business continues to drive safety performance. 

171
171

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee

Focus areas for 2023

Committee membership and attendance for 2023

￮ Support the changes proposed from the 2022 Board/

NOMCO evaluation;

￮ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee 

succession; and

￮ Support an increased level of disclosure with regard to Shell's 
diversity targets and maintain proactive oversight over Shell's 
ambition to become one of the most diverse and inclusive 
organisations in the world.

Priorities for 2024

￮ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee succession;
￮ Undertake an in-depth assessment in respect of Board 

dynamics to continue to enhance Board performance; and
￮ Continued talent engagements with key staff and succession 

candidates.

Sir Andrew Mackenzie
Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee

172

Sir Andrew 
Mackenzie

Dick Boer

Ann 
Godbehere

Committee member

Member since

Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
(Chair of the Committee) October 1, 2020

Dick Boer

May 19, 2021

Ann Godbehere

October 27, 2021

Euleen Goh

July 1, 2019
Retired May 23, 2023

Meetings 
attended

% of 
meetings 
attended

4/4

4/4

4/4

100%

100%

100%

2/2

100%

Purpose
The Nomination and Succession Committee (the "NOMCO") leads the 
process for appointments to the Board and Senior Management [A] 
positions, ensures plans are in place for orderly, well-planned 
succession, and oversees the development of a diverse succession 
pipeline of candidates. It also reviews the Company's policy, targets 
and strategy on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), and monitors 
the effectiveness of these initiatives. It makes recommendations to 
the Board on corporate governance guidelines, as referred to in 
the Chair's introduction.
[A] In this section of the report, "Senior Management" refers to the Executive Committee 
and the Company Secretary, as defined by the UK Corporate Governance Code.

Talent management and succession
The NOMCO is fully engaged with the end-to-end talent management 
and senior succession planning approach that is deployed within Shell. 
It plays a key role in senior succession and resourcing. Retaining in-
depth knowledge of the individuals within the talent pipeline is a 
NOMCO priority. The NOMCO makes time to personally meet and 
engage with numerous individuals within the pipeline. The NOMCO's 
oversight and input extend from recruitment to leadership identification 
and from leadership development to leadership appointment, all of 
which are underpinned by clearly articulated talent priorities and a 
commitment to advancing DE&I across Shell.

The NOMCO manages Board and supports Senior Management 
succession under a structured, proactive methodology. The processes 
have clear and agreed selection principles for short-, medium- and long-
term succession and are aligned with Shell's strategic priorities.

For Non-executive Director succession, the NOMCO continues to 
follow its Principles for the Strategic Composition of the Board, adding 
factors as they evolve. These principles include both quantitative and 
qualitative principles, considering:
￮ the overall aspired Board composition and diversity of age; gender; 
race; ethnicity; educational, social, geographical and professional 
backgrounds; skills; knowledge; and experience that align with the 
Company's strategy including amongst other criteria consideration 
of the skills and strengths needed for the energy transition; and

￮ the values, attitudes, and behaviours expected of Directors.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued

During the year, the Principles for the Strategic Composition of the 
Board were reviewed and updated. The NOMCO also focused on the 
future needs for the Board's composition, including size and tenure, 
skills and experience, and the DE&I requirements of the UK Listing 
Rules, FTSE Women Leaders and the Parker Review. The current size of 
the Board was considered to be appropriate, also taking account of 
Committee memberships. Greater flexibility around Non-Executive 
tenure was also discussed. Although Shell does not publish its Principles 
for the Strategic Composition of the Board, it has published its updated 
Board and Senior Management Diversity Policy on the Company's 
website. This Policy highlights that Shell aims for a gender balance on 
the Board, with at least one senior Board position (Chair, CEO or CFO) 
held by a woman. In addition, Shell's target is to maintain the 
representation of both men and women at, or above, a minimum of 
40%. We believe that this allows Shell to be truly representative of all 
genders and gender identities and provides flexibility during periods of 
change. Further, Shell aims to maintain or exceed having at least one 
Board member from an ethnic minority background.

See "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 222.

For Senior Management succession, the selection principles include 
process-specific elements, such as a clear and proactive approach to 
identifying and developing succession candidates. The principles also 
outline the long-term structured nature of the succession planning 

process. There is also strong focus on ensuring that the principles reflect 
the leadership qualities required for future business success and that 
they advance the progress of diversity in all its forms.

Senior Management principles feature in the NOMCO's review of the 
succession plans which occurs in every Committee meeting. Using the 
principles, the NOMCO implements any changes through a well-
defined and diligent process with overall Board engagement. The 
NOMCO agrees on candidate profiles and meets prospective 
candidates well ahead of any selection decision being necessary. 
It also engages the Board early in the process to ensure all Directors 
have an opportunity to meet and assess prospective candidates. 
Consequently, some of the leaders whom the NOMCO and Board 
engaged with extensively in the past became members of the Board 
(Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman) or the Executive Committee 
(Philippa Bounds and Robin Mooldijk, and with Rachel Solway's 
appointment effective January 1, 2024, announced during the year).

During 2023, the NOMCO's annual in-depth look at the status and 
succession plans for Senior Management within Shell, along with the 
review of the talent pipeline in line with the business, was undertaken 
by the full Board. The Board reflected on the simplification of the senior 
leadership structure with clear accountabilities achieved in 2023 with a 
view to the further evolvement of the composition of the total workforce 
and of the organisation's culture as an enabler for performance.

Senior Succession and Resourcing Review

Executive Summary
  Organisational health

Powering Lives

  Senior Executive leadership
  Senior Executive outlook

Future focus

Senior Executive Outlook
  Roles with a succession risk

Projected changes 
Planned promotions, leavers

Senior Executive Leadership
  Senior Executive jobs & pipeline
Footprint & business outlook
Population & demographics

  Senior Executive dynamics
  2022/2023 joiners & leavers
  Country Chairs

Performance, reward, recognition

  Our mindset & behaviours

Organisational Health
  Evolution of total workforce mix
  Shell direct FTE development & employee cost

FTE growth R&ES, T&S and ITD

  Expatriation
  Shell Business Operations (SBO) development
  Contingent
  Spans and layers

Performance and reward

  Resourcing incl. graduate recruitment
  Voluntary resignations
  Organisational employee engagement

Powering Lives
Powering Lives

  Enablement and disability

LGBT+

  Gender diversity 
  Nationality diversity
  US People of Color (POC) representation
  UK Ethnicity and Race representation
  US talent pipeline
  Asian talent pipeline

Diversity of leadership
The NOMCO recognises that continuing to improve all types of 
diversity at each level of the Shell Group is crucial. Shell aims to be an 
inclusive workplace where everyone feels valued and respected and 
has a strong sense of belonging. The NOMCO's review of diversity 
objectives and strategies for the Shell Group as a whole also monitors 
the impact of diversity and inclusion initiatives. 

representation has steadily improved in recent years, with a two 
percentage point increase over the last year. Among experienced 
recruitment in 2023, Shell companies recruited 38% women, and 
among graduates 40%. Women representation in the top 1,200 roles 
("Senior Leadership" positions) has strengthened by 2% during 2023 to 
32%, and we continue to progress towards our aim of achieving 35% 
women senior leadership representation by 2025. 

In February 2021, Shell published its aspirations for diversity, equity 
and inclusion (DE&I) under the powering lives goal, with a focus on four 
areas of gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability inclusion. 
When looking at our progress against our ambitions, women 

"Senior Leadership" is a Shell-specific measure and different from 
that which we are required to report under the Code, being female 
representation in Senior Management and their direct reports, 
where the percentage is 27%.

173
173

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued

To this end, the NOMCO is responsible for engaging an independent 
executive search consultant, who assists in preparing shortlists 
of candidates, coordinating interviews and seeking references. 
In accordance with the Board DE&I policy, the NOMCO only 
engages with external search firms who are able to align with 
Shell's approach to DE&I in identifying suitable individuals from 
diverse pools of candidates.

Under the DE&I policy, the Board commits to: 
￮ Ensuring an inclusive environment: Through inclusive behaviours and 
practices, we aim to create a board environment where every Board 
member feels valued, respected, and empowered to contribute fully;
￮ Ensuring support for External Best Practices: The Board endorses and 
supports external best practices, such as the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review, Parker Review, and others, to maintain and enhance 
diversity within the Board;

￮ Ensuring that Board appointments are managed with rigour and 
transparency: Candidates are evaluated based on merit, skills, 
experience, qualifications, performance, and business 
considerations, with due regard for diversity factors;

￮ Ensuring regular Board composition reviews: The Board regularly 

assesses the composition of the Board, including age, gender, race, 
ethnicity, educational, social, geographical, and professional 
backgrounds, skills, knowledge, and experience, making 
recommendations for necessary adjustments.

Shell has an inclusive Board environment, comprising individuals that 
are suitably qualified. They have the required skills, industry expertise, 
breadth of perspective and high-quality decision-making capabilities 
to support the strategy and overall direction of Shell. 

See "The Board of Shell plc" on pages 147-154 for details about the skills and backgrounds 

of individual members. 

From a gender perspective, the Board is comprised of five female 
directors and seven male directors, representing 42% female 
representation (2022: 55%, 2021: 50%). Two of the four main 
Board committees are chaired by a female director.

While the Board aspires to achieve gender parity, progress against 
diversity targets is sensitive to the size of the Board. In respect of other 
forms of diversity, three members of the Board self-identify as being 
from an ethnic minority background. In accordance with the Board's 
DE&I policy, the Board firmly believes that diversity fosters a broader 
range of perspectives, resulting in improved Board effectiveness, 
decision-making, and outcomes.

Nationality diversity, such as Asian and American talent, continues to 
be managed in accordance with the business outlook and we have a 
strong focus on progressing race and ethnic minority representation, 
beginning in the UK and the USA and followed by the Netherlands. 
The representation of people of colour among Shell's senior leaders in 
the USA has been actively tracked for many years. It stood at 26.9% 
at the end of 2023, compared with 17.3% in 2016. In the UK, race and 
ethnic minority representation among senior leaders was 18.3% [A].
[A] UK specific: the ethnicity declaration is voluntary, our ethnicity declaration rate is not 100% 

and all calculations are based on declaration rate of 76.6%. The 23.4% of our workforce 
who have not provided data or chosen not to declare their ethnicity were not included in 
our calculations.

In line with the recommendations from the 2023 Parker Review, Shell 
has reviewed its ambitions for ethnic minority representation at the 
senior management level and aims for 15% senior management 
positions [B] to be occupied by ethnic minority executives by 
December 2027.
[B] The 2023 Parker review defines Senior Management as the Executive Committee and the 

senior managers who report directly to them.

Although the NOMCO monitors Shell's organisational DE&I strategies 
and initiatives, it also holds itself accountable for the Board's own 
diversity and inclusion. Back in 2020, the Board's diverse composition 
met the Hampton Alexander requirements (now FTSE Women Leaders) 
and, in 2023, it met the Parker Reviews' objectives by reflecting 42% 
women representation with one ethnic minority director. Shell's Board 
diversity is aligned with the targets set by UK Listing Rules. The position 
of CFO is held by a woman and three Directors are from an ethnic 
minority group.

More information on DE&I in Shell is provided in the "Powering lives" section on page 130.

The People Strategy and diversity, equity and inclusion
Diversity continued to be a key area of focus during the year and is 
encompassed in the powering lives pillar of our Powering Progress 
strategy. The Board has developed and approved a new board DE&I 
policy further to a recommendation by the NOMCO. The policy is 
aligned to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and includes our targets for Board diversity, as well as complementing 
Shell's wider diversity policies and embracing Shell's values, code of 
conduct and sustainability goals. Currently, this policy is not applied 
to the individual Committees, although we strive to apply diverse 
representation across the Committees. DE&I across Committee 
membership remains an ongoing consideration. A copy of the 
DE&I policy is available on our website, shell.com/investors/
environmental-social-and-governance/board-of-directors.

In relation to Board director appointments and diversity, the NOMCO 
oversees the development of a diverse pipeline for succession to 
the Board and monitors that all board appointments are subject 
to a formal, rigorous, and transparent procedure and that such 
appointments are based on merit and objective criteria taking into 
account (among other things) factors such as diversity of gender, 
age, educational and professional background, social, ethnic and 
geographical background and cognitive and personal strengths. 

174
174

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued

Committee activity

In addition to its considerations regarding succession (some 
of which were in the early part of 2023), the NOMCO made 
recommendations on corporate governance guidelines, monitored 
compliance with corporate governance requirements and made 
recommendations on corporate-governance-related disclosures. 

The NOMCO continues to monitor and review this area, considering 
whether and how current Company governance matters should be 
strengthened. Further insight on some of the NOMCO's areas of 
consideration in 2023 is provided below.

Succession [A]

Recommendation

Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity

Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity

￮ Appointment of Cyrus Taraporevala (NED), 
Sir Charles Roxburgh (NED) and Leena 
Srivastava (NED).

￮ Appointment of Dick Boer as Deputy Chair/Senior 

Independent Director.

￮ Changes to the composition of the Board 

Committees.

Governance

Governing the Board 
and its committees

Reviewed the future Board schedule, including the 
dates and format (physical or virtual) for future Board 
and Committee meetings. Reviewed and updated the 
Principles for the Strategic Composition of the Board.

Regulation, legislation 
and other governance-
related guidance

￮ Reviewed its Terms of Reference, and the Terms 
of Reference for other Board committees and 
the Matters Reserved for the Board.

Shell plc matters

￮ Reviewed a number of Board delegations 

and policies. 

￮ Received an update on the implementation of the 

Shell Performance Framework.

￮ Considered any potential conflicts of interest and 
the independence of the Non-executive Directors.

￮ Reviewed additional external appointments 

requested by Directors, with specific focus on the 
time allocated to all commitments. 

￮ Determined the process for the 2023 internal Board 
Evaluation (see page 166 for an overview of the 
process and the outcome of the evaluation).

￮ Reviewed the proposed changes to Shell's Articles 

of Association (subsequently approved by 
shareholders at the 2023 AGM).

Review and oversight

￮ Supported the appointment of Philippa Bounds, 

Robin Mooldijk and Rachel Solway to the 
Executive Committee to succeed Ed Daniels, Harry 
Brekelmans, Donny Ching and Ronan Cassidy, 
who have left Shell service.

Oversight

￮ Shell diversity, equity and inclusion and the Board 

Diversity Policy. 

Engagement

￮ Talent engagements.

Talent overview and senior succession review

Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity

￮ Enhanced insight on Shell talent and 

future leaders.

￮ Assurance of robust succession and 

contingency plans.

Shell Senior Succession 
and Resourcing Review 
covering Executive 
Director and EC 
succession, EC direct 
reports, the senior 
executive group and the 
overall talent pipeline

Board membership and other appointments

Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity

Directors' tenure, external 
commitments, conflicts of 
interests and succession 
planning

￮ Non-executive Director appointments and changes 

to Committee membership.

[A] The NOMCO was assisted during the year by Russell Reynolds Associates ("Russell Reynolds"), an external global search company whose main role was to propose suitable candidates. 

Russell Reynolds does not have any connection with the Company other than that of search consultants. The Chair does not participate in discussions regarding his own succession. Russell 
Reynolds is a signatory to The Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which aims to improve board diversity.

175
175

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued

Executive Committee succession
During the year, robust and effective succession planning supported the appointment of a number of new members to the Executive 
Committee. Some of the NOMCO activities in supporting these appointments are outlined below.

The NOMCO undertakes comprehensive engagement to understand who the candidates are for senior roles, what personally 
drives them and how they will ensure Shell achieves its strategic ambitions. 

Succession for senior roles is planned well in advance and reviewed regularly. Succession planning is a crucial, ongoing 
consideration and not just an area of focus when an Executive Committee (EC) member is nearing the end of their tenure. The Board 
oversees Shell's succession planning process in which selection is the final step of a rigorous, sophisticated and well-planned process.

For Executive Director and EC appointments, the NOMCO has set a structured process:
￮ Before any potential decision on resourcing, it explicitly describes the requirements of the role and the candidate profile.
￮ By working in a planned, consistent manner, last-minute surprises are avoided and well-considered decisions are made in line with 

evolving business requirements.

￮ It also plans for the unexpected and maintains a list of candidates capable of stepping into senior roles to provide cover if necessary.

The NOMCO spends time getting to know the candidates to ensure that the pipeline is robust, diverse and adaptive. The NOMCO 
ensures it has visibility of today's and tomorrow's leaders. Over the last few years, the NOMCO has met many leaders and had extensive 
engagements with each of them. Some of these leaders now sit on the EC, others were appointed to the Board (Wael Sawan and Sinead 
Gorman).

The NOMCO engages across the Executive talent pipeline to ensure it interacts with and becomes familiar with talent at different 
levels of the organisation; for example, on a regular basis informal engagements are held with employees from a range of businesses, 
functions and backgrounds prior to a Board meeting. Not only does this engagement support senior succession, it also provides a helpful 
element of the NOMCO's workforce engagement.

The Board is proud that candidates for the most senior leadership roles have primarily come from within the business, proving that the 
leadership development and succession process remains effective.

176
176

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Sustainability Committee

Focus areas for 2023

Committee membership and attendance for 2023

￮ Shell's sustainability performance;
￮ Strategic sustainability themes;
￮ Selected sustainability topics; and
￮ Non-financial elements of Shell's strategy. 

Priorities for 2024

￮ Shell's sustainability performance;
￮ Respecting nature;
￮ Powering lives; and
￮ Emerging non-financial risks.

“The SUSCO focused on Shell's 
sustainability performance in 2023, 
with particular attention given to the 
sustainability elements of Shell's strategy.“

Catherine 
J. Hughes

Neil Carson 
OBE

Bram Schot

Jane Holl Lute

Leena 
Srivastava

Committee member

Member since

Catherine J. Hughes (Chair) November 1, 2017

Neil Carson OBE

June 1, 2019

Bram Schot

Jane Holl Lute

October 1, 2020

May 24, 2022

Leena Srivastava

March 13, 2023

Meetings 
attended

% of 
meetings 
attended

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

2/2

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

Purpose
The Sustainability Committee [A] ("SUSCO") assists the Board of 
Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing the progress of 
Shell with respect to sustainability and reviewing the non-financial 
elements of Shell's Powering Progress strategy.
[A] The Sustainability Committee was previously the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 

Committee.

Overview
The SUSCO meets regularly to review and discuss a wide range of 
topics, which include progress on Shell's Powering Progress strategic 
themes of net zero emissions, respecting nature and powering lives.

The SUSCO also reviews selected sustainability topics and matters 
of public concern, such as biodiversity and plastic waste. 

As directed by the Board, the SUSCO provides input to Shell's annual 
reporting and disclosures on energy transition and sustainability. 

Catherine J. Hughes
Chair of the Sustainability Committee

177

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance
Sustainability Committee continued

The SUSCO also reviews and considers external stakeholder 
perspectives on sustainability issues of relevance to the 
Group's businesses. 

The sustainability topics and matters of public concern discussed 
in particular depth by the committee included biodiversity, plastic 
waste and methane emissions.

In line with the strategic importance of the SUSCO's agenda, 
the Chair of the Board and the CFO attend committee meetings. 

Shell's CEO and the EC hold overall accountability for sustainability 
within Shell. In February 2023, Shell announced the new role of 
Executive Vice President of Carbon and Sustainability, reporting 
to the CFO.

Activities
During 2023, the SUSCO refocused its agenda on the areas of 
greatest strategic importance to Shell, in line with its updated terms 
of reference. This allowed the SUSCO to more effectively oversee 
Shell's progress with respect to sustainability.

The SUSCO reviewed the progress made against the non-financial 
elements of Shell’s Powering Progress strategy, including progress 
against the ambitions and targets under the goals of achieving
net-zero emissions, respecting nature and powering lives.

The SUSCO provided input to Shell's annual reporting and disclosures 
on energy transition and sustainability. The SUSCO Chair held 
meetings during the year with senior leaders to discuss specific topics.

See our website shell.com for details on SUSCO and how Shell manages sustainability.

Site visits
The SUSCO visited the Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in 
Germany, in November 2023. The visit included a review of energy 
transition projects that are part of the site's transformation, a review 
of operational safety and process safety performance, a tour of the 
facility, meetings with site staff, and an engagement with the Director 
General at the Ministry for Economic Affairs, Innovation, Digitalization 
and Energy of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Two members of the SUSCO visited the Olympus offshore platform in 
the Gulf of Mexico in April 2023. The visit included a review of safety 
performance, production operations, the offshore business and Shell's 
approach to sustainability.

1.

2.

3.

1. The SUSCO visit to the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Germany, in 
November 2023. From left to right: Sir Andrew Mackenzie, Catherine J. Hughes, 
Jane Holl Lute and Bram Schot.

2. The Refhyne 1 hydrogen electrolyser at the Shell Energy and Chemicals 

Park Rheinland. 

3. The SUSCO visit to Rheinland, Germany in November 2023.

178
178

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report

Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present our Audit and Risk Committee (the "ARC") 
Report for 2023. 

I was delighted to welcome new ARC members, Cyrus Taraporevala, 
Sir Charles Roxburgh and Catherine Hughes. They joined the ARC 
on March 2, 2023, March 13, 2023 and May 23, 2023 respectively 
and bring valuable insight and experience. I would also like to thank 
Martina Hund-Mejean for her contribution as a committee member 
since May, 2020. 

The ARC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in 
areas such as the integrity of financial reporting, the effectiveness of 
risk management and internal controls, as well as the consideration 
of ethics and compliance matters. We are responsible for assessing 
the quality of the audit performed by, and the independence 
and objectivity of, the external auditor. The ARC also makes a 
recommendation to the Board on the appointment or reappointment 
of the external auditor. In addition, we oversee the work and quality 
of the internal audit function. During the year, the ARC's core duties 
remained largely unchanged and our usual cadence of activities 
remained in place. However, in recognition of the ARC's increased 
focus on risk management, we refreshed our Terms of Reference, 
formalising our role in assisting the Board in this area and revised our 
committee name to include "Risk". Detail on our oversight activities 
in relation to risk management can be found on page 183.

Our work programme over the course of a year focuses on a variety of 
matters that involve a high degree of judgement and/or are significant 
to Shell's consolidated financial statements. We review with 
management the sources of estimation uncertainty and other key 
assumptions against the backdrop of economic and market uncertainty 
and volatility, climate risk and the energy transition and evolving 
stakeholder expectations. In addition, we consider the robustness 
of the risk and internal control framework, results of internal control 
testing performed throughout the year, and remediation activities. 

Topics addressed in 2023 included: updates on Shell's announced 
withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities; deferred taxes and tax 
exposures; the impact on tax balances and disclosures as a result of 
windfall and minimum taxes around the world; significant portfolio 
developments; litigation; impairment trigger assessments; impairment 
charges and reversals; accounting for complex contracts; dividend 
distribution capacity; and mark-to-market derivatives accounting, 
including the impact of volatile gas and power markets. 

We received briefings from the Chief Internal Auditor on the 
effectiveness of Shell's risk management and internal control system 
and on the outcomes of significant audits and notable control matters. 

The impacts of climate change and the energy transition continue 
to touch on many aspects of the ARC's work, including the financial 
statement impacts as well as data assurance challenges of meeting 
expanded climate-related disclosures. In order to obtain feedback 
to continuously improve carbon-related disclosures, management 
engaged with Sarasin & Partners and Carbon Tracker during 2023.

The ARC, recognising the evolving nature of climate change risks and 
responses, concluded that climate change has been appropriately 
considered by management in key judgements and estimates and 
agreed with the disclosure made by management.

“The primary role of the ARC is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in areas such as the integrity 
of financial reporting, the effectiveness 
of risk management and internal controls, 
as well as the consideration of ethics 
and compliance matters.“

Ann Godbehere
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee

179

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

During 2023, the ARC was briefed on the implementation of the 
Shell Performance Framework which replaced the former Shell Control 
Framework with effect from July 1, 2023. Other focus topics for 2023 
included Trading and Supply; regulatory developments, for example 
audit reform and corporate governance proposals and new 
sustainability reporting regulations; and new business ventures 
and controls.

As part of its oversight of compliance with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance 
risks, the ARC discussed with the Group Chief Privacy Officer activities 
undertaken in the ethics and compliance programme related to 
compliance with data privacy laws and regulations, and steps 
taken to manage those risks. 

In 2023, the ARC conducted a site visit to the USA where it visited 
a number of operations and more recently, some members of the 
ARC visited Oman and Qatar. These site visits deepen the ARC's 
understanding of risks and opportunities, as well as its understanding of 
how the Company's Powering Progress strategy is being implemented.

The external audit tender process also commenced in 2023 and will 
continue in 2024 as set out later in this report. 

On a final note, the ARC recognises the strong commitment and 
dedication of the financial reporting team and would like to thank 
them for all their efforts during 2023.

Ann Godbehere 
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
March 13, 2024

Focus areas for 2023
￮ Trading and Supply;
￮ Shell Performance Framework; 
￮ Regulatory developments, including audit reform and 

corporate governance proposals, and new sustainability 
reporting regulations;

￮ New business ventures and controls; and
￮ External audit tender.

Priorities for 2024
￮ Information risk management, including cyber security; 
￮ Regulatory developments, mainly those in relation to climate 

change and energy transition, including non-financial 
reporting requirements and preparation for reporting under 
the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive ("CSRD") 
and International Sustainability Standards Board ("ISSB") 
disclosure requirements;

￮ Trading and Supply;
￮ Shell Performance Framework; and
￮ External audit tender.

Committee membership and attendance for 2023

Ann 
Godbehere

Dick Boer

Cyrus 
Taraporevala

Sir Charles 
Roxburgh

Catherine 
J. Hughes

During 2023, the members and meeting attendance of the ARC 
were as follows: 

Committee member

Member since

Ann Godbehere (Chair) May 23, 2018

Dick Boer

May 20, 2020

Martina Hund-Mejean [B] May 20, 2020

Cyrus Taraporevala [C] March 2, 2023

Sir Charles Roxburgh [D] March 13, 2023

Catherine Hughes [E]

May 23, 2023

Meetings 
attended

% of 
meetings 
attended

6/6

6/6

3/3

5/5

4/4

3/3

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

[A] In addition to the six meetings, as part of its activities in 2023, the ARC 

conducted a site visit to the USA.

[B] Martina Hund-Mejean retired from the Board and the ARC with effect from May 

23, 2023.

[C] Cyrus Taraporevala was appointed to the Board and the ARC with effect from 

March 2, 2023.

[D] Sir Charles Roxburgh was appointed to the Board and the ARC with effect 
from March 13, 2023. He attended an additional ARC meeting in an 
observer capacity.

[E] Catherine Hughes was appointed to the ARC with effect from May 23, 2023. 

She attended two additional ARC meetings prior to becoming an ARC member.

180

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

All ARC members are financially literate, independent Non-executive 
Directors. In respect of the year ended December 31, 2023, for the 
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Ann Godbehere 
qualifies as: a person with "recent and relevant financial experience" 
and competence in accounting, and, for the purposes of US securities 
laws, an "audit committee financial expert".

The experience of the ARC members outlined on pages 147-154 
demonstrates that the ARC as a whole has competence relevant to 
the sector in which Shell operates, and the necessary commercial, 
regulatory, financial and audit expertise required to fulfil its 
responsibilities. The ARC members have gained further knowledge 
and experience of the sector as a result of their Board membership 
and through various in-person and virtual site visits since their 
respective appointments. 

The ARC invites the CFO, the Legal Director, the Chief Internal Auditor, 
the Executive Vice President (EVP) Controller, the Vice President Group 
Appraisal and Reporting and Deputy Controller and the external 
auditor to attend each meeting. The CEO, the Chair of the Board 
and the Company Secretary may also attend ARC meetings. Other 
members of management attend when requested on specific topics or 
to provide input on more detailed technical matters that may arise. The 
ARC regularly holds private sessions separately with the Chief Internal 
Auditor and the external auditor without members of management, 
except for the Legal Director, being present. Outside of the formal 
ARC meetings, the Chair of the ARC meets regularly with each of the 
following: the CFO, EVP Tax, EVP Controller, the Chief Internal Auditor, 
the external auditor, and the Chief Information Officer.

Committee remit
The roles and responsibilities of the ARC, as set out in its Terms of 
Reference, are reviewed annually (last reviewed in July 2023 and 
a copy of which can be found at shell.com) taking into account 
relevant regulatory changes and recommended best practice. 
The key responsibilities of the ARC include, but are not limited to:

Risk Management and Internal Control
￮ assisting the Board in reviewing the emerging, principal, and other 

significant risks facing the Group;

￮ monitoring the effectiveness of the system of risk management 

and internal control;

Financial Reporting
￮ reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, including annual 

reports, half-year reports, and quarterly financial statements; 
￮ reviewing the potential impacts on the consolidated financial 
statements of the implementation of the Company's strategy, 
climate change and the energy transition;

￮ advising the Board whether, in the ARC's view, the Annual Report 

taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's 
position and performance, business model and strategy;

￮ reviewing and discussing with management the appropriateness 
of judgements involving the application of accounting principles 
and disclosure rules; 

Compliance and Governance
￮ reviewing the functioning of the Shell Global Helpline and reports 

arising from its operation; 

￮ overseeing compliance with applicable legal and regulatory 

requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance risks; 

Internal Audit
￮ monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence 

of the internal audit function; 

181

￮ approving the internal audit function's charter and the annual 
internal audit plan to ensure alignment with the key risks of 
the business;

￮ reviewing any significant matters arising from internal audits with 
the Chief Internal Auditor, and the Company's management and 
assessing management's response to internal audit findings and 
control weaknesses as appropriate, including potential 
improvements and agreed actions;

￮ assessing internal audit's performance and effectiveness each year; 

External Audit
￮ reviewing and monitoring the independence and objectivity of the 

external auditor; 

￮ considering the annual external audit plan and approving related 
remuneration, including fees for audit and non-audit services; 

￮ assessing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor 
and the audit process, including an assessment of the quality of the 
audit; and 

￮ recommending to the Board for it to put to the Company's 

shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting ("AGM") 
a resolution to appoint, reappoint, or remove the external auditor.

These responsibilities form the basis of the ARC's annual work plan, 
which is adjusted as necessary throughout the year. In addition, the 
ARC annually identifies certain business and function areas to focus on 
during that year. The focus areas generally encompass aspects of risk 
management and internal control, financial reporting and compliance. 
The ARC is authorised to seek any information it requires from 
management and external parties and to investigate issues or 
concerns as it deems appropriate. The ARC may also obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
No such independent advice was requested in 2023. 

The ARC keeps the Board informed of its activities and 
recommendations, and the Chair of the ARC provides an update to the 
Board after every ARC meeting. The ARC discusses with the Board if it 
is not satisfied with or believes that action or improvement is required 
concerning any aspect of financial reporting, risk management and 
internal control, compliance or audit-related activities. 

ARC topic coverage in 2023
The pie chart below shows the percentage of time the ARC spent on 
various activities during 2023.

  A u d i t

r n a l

e

t

x

E

2023 Focus A

r

e

a

s

al Audit

rn
te
In

11%

14%

11%

8%

d
n
a
e
c
n
a

i

l

p
m
o

e
c
n
a
n
r
e
v
o
G

C

29%

Fin

a

ncial Reporting

27%

s

l

o

r

t

n
o
C

l

a
n
r
e
t
n
I
d
n
a
t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a

Risk M

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Site visits
During the year, the ARC conducted a site visit to the USA where 
ARC members visited a number of operations including Shell Polymers 
Monaca, the Shell Norco facility, the Shell-operated Vito floating 
production facility in the Gulf of Mexico (virtual visit from New 
Orleans) and the Houston trading floor. Recently, some members 
of the ARC also visited Oman and Qatar. 

Site visits are an important part of the ARC's annual work plan, as they 
provide the opportunity for the ARC to gain a deeper understanding of 
the various businesses and functions at each location, the local external 
and risk environment within which those activities take place and how 
they contribute to Shell achieving its strategic ambitions. In addition to 
in-depth examinations of specific business areas, site visits enable the 
ARC members to interact with a diverse group of employees and learn 
about their experiences, challenges they face and their opportunities 
for career development. The ARC is also briefed on the impact of the 
energy transition at a local level, how risks associated with climate 
change are managed, and the results of the Shell People Survey.

Focus areas for 2023

14%

of ARC time and activities

The ARC met with senior leaders from various business and function 
areas to discuss the adequacy, design and operational effectiveness 
of risk management and controls related to the critical activities carried 
out by their respective business or function. The discussions included 
information on any enhancements to strengthen controls and how 
areas identified for improvement had been addressed; the monitoring 
of activities around key risks; and the steps being taken to identify 
new or emerging areas of risk. 

In addition to the significant accounting and reporting considerations 
discussed on pages 185-186, the business and function areas reviewed 
by the ARC in 2023 included the following:
￮ Trading and Supply – the ARC was provided with updates on 
Trading and Supply activities, particularly in the light of market 
volatility. Topics included transformation programmes, and 
management of credit and market risk. The ARC also visited the 
trading floor in Houston where ARC members received various 
briefings, including in relation to the trading and IT platforms used 
by the Shell Energy Americas Gas & Power Trading team. 

￮ Shell Performance Framework – the ARC reviewed the introduction 
of the Shell Performance Framework which replaced the existing 
Shell Control Framework with effect from July 1, 2023. The new 
framework retains the core strengths of the previous Shell Control 
Framework, while placing greater focus on achieving the right 
commercial outcomes by emphasising the value of using a "whole 
systems" approach to business activities including the role that 
performance culture plays in achieving Shell's objectives. The ARC 
discussed with management how the framework is being applied 
in practice.

￮ Regulatory developments – the ARC was regularly updated with 

respect to regulatory developments and their potential implications 
for Shell, including in relation to the draft Audit Regulation (which 
was subsequently withdrawn) and the Corporate Governance Code 
consultation. The ARC was briefed in relation to UK, US and EU 
sustainability reporting developments, including the CSRD, and their 
implications for Shell, in particular potential assurance requirements.

￮ New business ventures and controls – the ARC met with the 

management of Sprng Energy (which Shell acquired in August 2022) 
and discussed the integration process.

182
182

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Risk Management
and Internal Control

27%

of ARC time and activities

The ARC assists the Board in reviewing the emerging, principal, and 
other significant risks facing the Group and in fulfilling its responsibilities 
in relation to risk management and internal control. In order to monitor 
the effectiveness of the procedures for internal control over financial 
reporting, compliance and operational matters, the ARC reviews 
reports on risks, controls and assurance, including the annual 
assessment of the system of risk management and internal control. 
The ARC also reviews the Company's evaluation of the internal control 
over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (SOX 404). The ARC updated the Board on compliance 
with internal controls across the Shell Group and on any major 
matters for which action or improvement was recommended.

The ARC regularly reviews the status of management's SOX 404 
testing of controls and remediation actions to address any identified 
weaknesses. For 2023, these reviews included consideration of how 
the volatile external environment affected the controls and assurance 
landscape, including the financial reporting process. The ARC and 
management discussed the steps taken to maintain an effective 
control environment and to demonstrate "management in control" 
during the year. 

It is important that the ARC monitors and learns about evolving 
external developments in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the ARC 
is regularly briefed on developments in the legal, regulatory and 
financial reporting landscape that could affect the Company. 

Activities performed

Frequency

Risk Management and Internal Control

Review the emerging, principal, and other significant risks facing the 
Group

Review the policies and practices and monitor the effectiveness 
relating to Shell's risk management and internal control system.

Receive briefings on regulatory developments.

Review management's SOX 404 assessment.

Discuss significant matters arising from completed internal audits 
with the Chief Internal Auditor, management and the external 
auditors.

Assess management's responses to significant audit findings, 
recommendations and notable control weaknesses, including 
potential improvements and agreed actions.

Review significant legal matters with Shell's Legal Director.

Review the oil and gas reserves control framework.

Review Shell's information risk management.

Review Shell's tax function, key tax risks and Shell's approach to the 
evolving area of tax transparency.

A = Annually Q = Quarterly P = Periodically 

P

P

P

A

Q

P

P

A

P

P

Throughout the year, the ARC and management discuss Shell's 
overall approach to risk management and internal control, including 
compliance, tax, and information risk management matters and the 
adequacy of disclosure controls and procedures. The ARC receives 
regular reports from the EVP Controller on the status of actions to 
address control weaknesses identified via business control incidents 
and the trends in other measures used to monitor the robustness of 
the risk management framework and internal control systems.

The ARC is also briefed on litigation and other matters (see Note 31 to the "Consolidated 

Financial Statements" on pages 312-314 and "Other regulatory and statutory information" 

on page 226).

In 2023, the ARC dedicated time to the following topics:
￮ Tax risks – In addition to the regular review of Shell's tax provisions, 
management also briefed the ARC regarding developments in the 
external tax landscape, including windfall and minimum taxes and 
how different jurisdictions are seeking to incentivise investment when 
entering new markets and businesses. Management outlined for the 
ARC the steps being taken to manage tax risks and exposures 
arising from differing viewpoints on complex tax laws. 

￮ Information risk management, including cyber security – The ARC 
was briefed in relation to Shell's Information and Risk management 
framework, particularly in the light of the deterioration of the 
external threat environment and evolving global regulatory 
landscape (including SEC cybersecurity disclosure rules). 

￮ Oil and gas reserves control framework – The ARC annually reviews 
the framework that supports Shell's internal reporting and external 
disclosures of oil and gas reserves. The ARC also reviews the 
processes and controls that prevent and/or mitigate the risks of
non-compliance with regulatory reporting requirements. This annual 
review of Shell's oil and gas reserves control framework supports 
the ARC's review of Shell's reported proved oil and gas reserves 
discussed later in this report.

In addition to the above, the ARC also had quarterly discussions with 
the Chief Internal Auditor regarding the Company's risk management 
and internal control system, significant matters arising from the internal 
audit assurance programme and management's response to internal 
audit findings and control weaknesses, including potential 
improvements and agreed actions.

The ARC similarly holds discussions with EY, the external auditor, on a 
quarterly basis regarding how risks to audit quality are addressed, key 
accounting and audit judgements, results from audit procedures and 
management's response to any significant audit findings and any 
material communications between EY and management.

183
183

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Financial Reporting

29%

of ARC time and activities

The ARC receives comprehensive reports from management and the 
external auditor on quarterly financial reporting, accounting policies 
and significant judgements and reporting matters.

Activities performed

Financial Reporting

Frequency

Review Shell's accounting policies and practices, including 
compliance with accounting and reporting standards.

Assess the appropriateness of key judgements and the 
interpretation and application of accounting principles.

Review the potential impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the implementation of the Company's strategy, 
climate change and the energy transition.

Consider the integrity of the year-end financial statements and 
recommend to the Board whether the audited financial statements 
should be included in the annual and statutory reports.

Consider the integrity of the half-year report and quarterly 
financial statements.

Review management's assessment of going concern and longer-
term viability.

Review Shell's policies with respect to earnings releases; financial 
and non-financial performance information and earnings guidance; 
and significant financial reporting matters.

Review Shell's policies with respect to oil and gas reserves 
accounting and reporting including the outcome of the oil and gas 
reserves booking/debooking process.

Review the internal controls for financial reporting.

Advise the Board of the ARC's view on whether, taken as a whole, 
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
Shell's position and performance, business model and strategy.

A = Annually Q = Quarterly P = Periodically 

Q

Q

P

A

Q

Q

Q

A

P

A

Shell's Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 
2022 was selected by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) for review 
[A] in accordance with Part 2 of the FRC's Corporate Reporting Review 
Operating Procedures. The FRC raised some queries in relation to 
determination of discount rates used in impairment testing and 
provided some observations to take into account when considering 
whether any improvements can be made to future financial reporting. 
Following correspondence, the review was closed on January 19, 
2024 and some disclosure enhancements have been made to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 
2023. The ARC reviewed Shell's correspondence with the FRC and 
discussed with management the disclosures incorporated in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in response to the FRC review.
[A] The FRC noted that their review is based solely on the annual report and accounts and 
does not benefit from detailed knowledge of Shell's business or an understanding of the 
underlying transactions entered into, but that it is, however, conducted by staff of the 
FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework. The FRC 
correspondence provides no assurance that Shell's annual report and accounts for the year 
ended December 31, 2022 are correct in all material respects; the FRC's role is not to 
verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.

The ARC reviewed the Company's 2023 quarterly unaudited interim 
financial statements, half-year report, Annual Report and Form 20-F 
with management and the external auditor. 

Shell uses alternative performance measures (APMs) to provide greater 
insights into its financial and operating results. The ARC regularly 
considers the APMs used in Shell's reporting, the reconciliations to IFRS 
financial statements and explanations for changes from the previous 
quarter and year. The ARC reviews the overall presentation of APMs 
with management to ensure they are not given undue prominence. 
The ARC discusses adjusting items with management including any 
changes to methodology. 

The APMs disclosed by Shell are subject to the same internal control 
process as applied for other financial reporting. 

Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The ARC advised the Board that in its view the 2023 Annual Report 
including the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2023, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Shell's 
position and performance, business model and strategy (see "Other 
regulatory and statutory information" on page 227). To arrive at this 
conclusion, the ARC critically assessed drafts of the 2023 Annual 
Report including the financial statements and discussed with 
management the process undertaken to ensure that the relevant 
requirements were met. This process included: verifying that the 
contents of the 2023 Annual Report are consistent with the information 
shared with the Board during the year to support their assessment of 
Shell's position and performance; ensuring that consistent materiality 
thresholds are applied for favourable and unfavourable items; 
considering observations from the external auditor; and receiving 
assurance from the Executive Committee (EC).

Going concern and viability statement
The ARC reviewed the Directors' half-year and full-year statements 
with respect to the going concern basis of accounting. As noted in the 
viability statement, the Board reviews the strategic plan which takes 
account of longer-term forecasts and a wide range of outlooks. Key 
assumptions included: the impact of commodity prices; exchange rates; 
future carbon costs; agreements such as liquid natural gas contract 
renewals; production levels, product demand and schedules of growth 
programmes; the financial framework; Shell's business portfolio 
developments including consideration of the impacts of various possible 
energy pathways and scenarios for changes in societal expectations 
in relation to climate change and Shell's commitment to the Paris 
Agreement goals; the project funnel to support future growth; and using 
severe but possible scenarios to run models of the financial impact if 
certain of Shell's principal risks materialised. The ARC considered the 
mitigating measures and sensitivities that management had applied 
to the modelling of scenarios when evaluating the viability statement. 
The ARC also considered the merits of extending the viability statement 
beyond a period of three years and concluded that the three-year 
period selected by the Board for the review of Shell's prospects, in line 
with the operating plan, remained appropriate. Particularly noting that 
assumptions do go well beyond the three-year period and do take into 
account climate change and energy transition, the ARC supported the 
going concern basis of accounting and the inclusion of Shell's viability 
statement in "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 220 
and considered such statement to be in line with best practice guidance 
issued by the FRC.

184
184

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Financial Reporting
continued

Significant accounting and reporting considerations
The ARC assessed the following significant accounting and reporting areas, including those related to Shell's 2023 Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The ARC was satisfied with how each of the areas below was addressed. As part of this assessment, the ARC received reports, 
requested and received clarifications from management, and sought assurance and received input from the internal and external auditors. 

Issue

Committee activity and outcome

Climate change and energy transition

Risks related to climate change and the energy 
transition are continually monitored to ensure impacts 
are reflected within Shell's financial statements.

The external landscape related to non-financial 
disclosures continues to evolve. In the absence of one 
global standard for climate-related reporting there 
are growing demands from various regulatory and 
voluntary bodies all with their own expectations 
for disclosures.

Impairment and impairment reversals

The carrying amount of an asset should be tested 
for impairment or impairment reversal whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the recoverable amount for that asset may have 
changed, for example if there is a change in the 
outlook for commodity prices or refining margin 
assumptions, or in the event of revisions to future 
activity plans and developments. On classification 
as held for sale, the carrying amounts of property, 
plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets 
must also be reviewed.

The ARC discussed with management key regulatory requirements including (but not limited to) the FRC, 
ISSB, SEC and EU disclosure requirements and their implications for Shell's external disclosures. The ARC 
also received an update on the outcome of management's engagement with Sarasin & Partners and 
Carbon Tracker.

The ARC reviewed Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" summarising the key climate risk 
impacts on the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the impairment sensitivity disclosures using 
price outlooks based on different climate change scenarios, including external scenarios.

See Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 259-269.

The ARC was briefed on the non-financial reporting external landscape developments and regulatory 
requirements. In this connection, the ARC considered the potential implications required for Shell's external 
disclosures going forward. The ARC reviewed the TCFD disclosure in the "Our journey to net zero" section, 
including covering aspects of ETS24, and other non-financial disclosures as part of the Annual Report review 
and was briefed on the EU Taxonomy voluntary disclosures included as supplementary information to the 
Annual Report.

Updates regarding climate change and energy transition have been included in the risk factors section on 
page 15.

The ARC reviewed the impairment assessments that were performed each quarter, and the methodology 
applied in conducting impairment assessments.

The ARC considered increases in global risk-free interest rates, alongside other input assumptions, in 
assessing market expectations of the expected rate of return on various assets. As a result, weighted 
average cost of capital ("WACC") assumptions have been updated with effect from June 2023, reflecting 
management's conclusion that a structural increase in expected rates of return could be observed. This 
resulted in an increase in the discount rate applied for impairment testing purposes and a trigger for 
impairment assessment. The ARC reviewed the outcome of this assessment and the resulting impairment 
which has been recognised in the 2023 Consolidated Financial Statements. The ARC also reviewed 
the outcomes of periodic reassessments of the WACC during the remainder of the year, including 
management's conclusion on the reasonability of the discount rate applied as at December 31, 2023. 

The ARC considered the updated oil and gas price outlooks against market developments and benchmarks. 
The 2023 commodity price outlook was reassessed to determine whether revised price premises would 
result in a trigger for impairment or impairment reversal. Based on the analysis performed, no triggers 
were identified.

The ARC also reviewed other circumstances that may indicate that the recoverable amount of assets have 
changed, such as those related to revision of future plans and developments, exploration and evaluation 
assets, held-for-sale classification for asset disposals and margin assumptions. The ARC also reviewed the 
outcomes of goodwill testing, including for new acquisitions. 

See Notes 2, 10, 11 and 12 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 249-259, 278, 279-280 
and 281-283.

Gas & Power markets and derivatives accounting

External events during the year, such as the Russia-
Ukraine war and uncertainties over Russian gas 
supplies, affected trading activities. The impacts on 
financial outcomes of Integrated Gas and Renewable 
and Energy Solutions included, for example, 
significant derivatives movements.

The ARC reviewed Trading and Supply activities and developments, including detailed analysis of the 
trading strategies employed, their impact on financial metrics, and the associated accounting treatment 
applied.

The ARC reviewed the impacts of volatile gas and power markets including the impact on mark-to-
market valuation of derivatives, income for the period and adjusted earnings, as well as the resulting 
cash flow movements.

The ARC received updates on the enhancement of reporting processes within Trading and Supply, with 
a focus on the accuracy and efficacy of these processes.

See Note 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 302-308.

185
185

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Financial Reporting
continued

Issue

Taxation

Committee activity and outcome

The determination of tax assets and liabilities requires 
the application of judgement as to the ultimate 
outcome, which can change over time. In particular, 
uncertain tax treatments require management to assess 
the more-likely-than- not outcome, and the recognition 
of deferred tax assets requires management to make 
assumptions regarding future profitability. As a result, 
they are inherently uncertain.

The ARC considered the uncertain tax positions and discussed management's assumptions of future 
taxable profits. The ARC also evaluated the appropriateness of the recognition of deferred tax assets 
and tax liabilities. The ARC recognises that assumptions regarding future taxable profits are inherently 
uncertain because they involve assessing factors such as the potential impacts of climate change and 
the energy transition. The ARC deemed the assessments of uncertain tax exposures and the recognition 
of deferred tax assets and tax liabilities to be reasonable.

The ARC also reviewed the impact of IAS 12 amendments that required a change to the Group's deferred 
tax treatment of decommissioning and restoration (D&R) obligations.

See Notes 2 and 22 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 249-259 and 292-294.

Portfolio activities 

In implementing the Powering Progress strategy, several 
portfolio developments occurred in 2023. 

Provisions

Provisions, including decommissioning and restoration 
provisions, are one of the main components of the 
balance sheet liabilities. The quantification of these 
provisions requires judgements on input parameters 
which include, but are not limited to, discount rates and 
estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs.

The ARC discussed the accounting implications of these developments and the recognition of: (i) 
decommissioning and restoration provisions; (ii) deferred tax balances; (iii) impairment; and (iv) assets 
held for sale. The ARC also considered complex accounting treatments arising from acquisitions and 
divestments, including the acquisition of Nature Energy Biogas. 

See Notes 2 and 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 249-259 and 301-302.

The ARC reviewed provisions, including onerous contracts and litigation. The ARC also reviewed 
the input parameter assumptions and judgements used in arriving at the decommissioning and 
restoration provisions. 

The discount rate is reviewed regularly and the ARC considered the change in discount rate to be applied 
prospectively from the fourth quarter 2023, following an observable increase in US Treasury yields. The 
impact of the change in discount rate on non-current decommissioning and other provisions was disclosed 
in the fourth quarter 2023 quarterly results announcement.

The ARC has continued to receive updates on the withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities 
throughout 2023 including implications for the financial statements.

Retirement benefit obligations

Retirement benefits are an important component 
of both assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. 
The quantification of these assets and liabilities requires 
judgements on input parameters which include, but are 
not limited to, actuarial assumptions and discount rates.

The ARC reviewed the management of risks in relation to retirement benefits in 2023, including financial, 
operational, and regulatory developments. The ARC reviewed the key assumptions (including discount 
rates and inflation) and sensitivities as part of the Annual Report review and the enhanced disclosures 
made in this Report.

See Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 294-300.

Other matters
The ARC reviewed: the year-end reported proved oil and gas reserves, including management judgements and adjustments made to reflect 
changes in geological, technical, contractual and economic information (including yearly average price assumptions) and the effectiveness of 
financial controls. An explanation of the Group's accounting policies is provided on pages 249-259.

186
186

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Compliance and 
Governance

Activities performed

Compliance and Governance

8%

of ARC time and activities

Frequency

Monitor the receipt, retention, investigation and follow-up actions of 
complaints received, including those from the Shell Global Helpline.

Review with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer the 
implementation and effectiveness of the ethics and compliance 
programme and function.

Consider compliance with applicable external legal and regulatory 
requirements.

Perform an evaluation of the ARC's performance and effectiveness 
and report the results to the Board.

Review and, if required, update the ARC's Terms of Reference.

Review the Chief Financial Officer's significant business and 
investment transactions for potential conflicts or related party 
transactions.

Assess the Chief Financial Officer's performance.

A = Annually Q = Quarterly P = Periodically 

P

A

P

A

A

A

A

Ethics and compliance 
In 2023, the ARC received an update from the Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer on how a range of macro factors and external 
trends and developments were affecting conduct risk at Shell. The Chief 
Ethics and Compliance Officer summarised the specific emerging ethics 
and compliance risks, with a particular focus on trade compliance and 
data privacy, and management's actions to manage and mitigate 
them. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer briefed the ARC 
on communications to staff from both senior leaders and mid-level 
management reinforcing the importance of adherence to and affirming 
Shell's commitment to the Ethics and Compliance framework and 
Code of Conduct throughout the year.

As part of the annual assessment of the system of risk management 
and internal control, the ARC discussed with the Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer their annual report on compliance matters. The 
report included an overview of the effectiveness of the Shell ethics and 
compliance programme in managing ethics and compliance risk in 
Shell's business activities, regulatory developments and compliance 
activities. The ARC also reviewed investigations of cases involving 
ethics and compliance concerns. The ARC discussed management's 
findings in such cases to satisfy itself that a rigorous process had been 
followed, with appropriate disciplinary action being taken where 
necessary, and that management had embedded learnings into 
Shell's systems and controls. 

Whistleblowing investigations
The ARC is responsible for establishing and monitoring the 
implementation of procedures for the receipt, retention, investigation 
and follow-up actions of complaints received, including those from the 
Shell Global Helpline. The ARC reviewed whistleblowing reports and 
internal audit reports and considered management's responses to the 
findings in these reports. In 2023, 2,134 allegations and inquiries were 

187
187

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

made through the Shell Global Helpline (2022: 1,790), of which 
approximately 41% were submitted anonymously (2022: 41%). In 
2023, a total of 470 investigations were closed (2022: 412), of which 
54% were found to have some level of substantiation (2022: 44%) and 
were primarily in the areas involving harassment, conflicts of interest 
and protection of assets. 

Regulatory developments
The ARC was briefed on regulatory developments in areas including:
(i) sustainability and climate-related disclosures (in particular 
management's responses to proposals from the International 
Sustainability Standards Board and FRC/EU disclosure requirements); 
(ii) the Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard 
and the proposed new Audit Regulation (which was subsequently 
withdrawn); (iii) accounting and reporting developments; (iv) 
environmental liabilities; and (v) treasury activities. In May 2023, 
the FRC launched a consultation in relation to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and subsequently issued a revised version in 
January 2024. The ARC and management discussed the consultation 
proposals, including potential implications for the Company, the Board 
and the ARC. The ARC reviewed management's proposed response to 
the consultation and supported the response.

ARC annual evaluation 
The ARC undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and 
effectiveness. This year the ARC's performance evaluation was 
facilitated by the Company Secretary. Each ARC member responded to 
a confidential anonymised questionnaire about the ARC's performance 
covering questions on: the management of the ARC in areas such as 
the annual cycle of work and the agenda for meetings; the quality of 
the information provided to the ARC; the effectiveness of the ARC's 
oversight in areas such as financial reporting, risk management policies 
and practices and internal controls, and the work of internal and 
external audit; rating the ARC's performance in reviewing and 
assessing significant accounting/reporting issues; and how to improve 
the ARC's performance. Progress against the ambitions identified 
during the 2022 evaluation is provided in the Board evaluation section 
on page 166. Three themes from the 2023 evaluation process were 
identified as areas of focus for 2024, including risk management 
and presentation; structure of internal audit updates and further 
enhancement of pre-read for ARC meetings. The ARC concluded that 
its performance in 2023 had been effective and that it had fulfilled 
its role in accordance with its Terms of Reference. 

In preparing its work plan for 2024, the ARC has included the 
following focus areas in addition to the standing items: information 
risk management, including cyber security; regulatory developments, 
mainly those in relation to climate change and the energy transition, 
including non-financial reporting requirements and preparation for 
reporting under the CSRD and ISSB disclosure requirements; Trading 
and Supply; Shell Performance Framework; and external audit tender.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

Internal Audit

Activities performed

Internal Audit

11%

of ARC time and activities

Frequency

Evaluate the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the internal 
audit function including the competence, qualifications, expertise, 
compensation and budget.

Review and approve the internal audit function's remit, charter 
and audit plan.

Assess the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor.

A

A

A

A = Annually Q = Quarterly P = Periodically 

Each quarter, the ARC discusses with the Chief Internal Auditor 
the Company's risk management and internal control system, any 
significant matters arising from the internal audit assurance programme 
and management's response to significant audit findings and notable 
control weaknesses, including planned improvements and agreed 
actions. The ARC also holds private sessions separately with the Chief 
Internal Auditor without members of management, except for the Legal 
Director, being present. The ARC's time for these activities is included in 
Risk Management and Internal Control described earlier in this report. 
Outside of the formal ARC meetings, the Chair of the ARC meets 
regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor.

Internal audit remit
The internal audit function is an independent assurance function 
which supports Shell's continuous efforts to improve its overall control 
framework. The internal audit function contributes to the maintenance 
of a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the 
design and effectiveness of Shell's risk management, and control and 
governance processes. The primary role of the internal audit function's 
assurance and investigation activities is to safeguard value by 
protecting Shell's assets, reputation and sustainability in relation 
to the organisation's defined goals and objectives. 

The ARC defines the responsibility and scope of the internal audit 
function and approves its annual plan. The Chief Internal Auditor 
reports functionally to the Chair of the ARC and administratively 
to the Chief Financial Officer. The Chair of the ARC approves, in 
consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, all decisions regarding 
the performance evaluation, appointment or removal of the Chief 
Internal Auditor. A new Chief Internal Auditor was appointed 
with effect from August 2023.

Annual internal audit plan and assessment of internal 
audit's effectiveness
The ARC considered and approved the internal audit function's annual 
audit plan, including focus areas for 2023 consisting of:
￮ talent and capability (professional audit development and technical 

capabilities); 

￮ quality (developing first-line staff competence and clarity on self-

verification and supervisory controls); 

￮ alignment (improved integration of risk management and alignment 

of assurance processes across Shell); and 

￮ engagement (mainly in the area of keeping staff and Shell 

stakeholders engaged and informed on effective risk management 
and internal control). 

The Chief Internal Auditor updated the ARC quarterly on the approved 
2023 internal audit plan and discussed whether the plan remained 
fit for purpose in addressing the most critical areas of risk. The ARC 
assessed the performance of the internal audit function as effective. 
The ARC also assessed the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor 
as effective.

The Chief Internal Auditor periodically assesses whether the purpose, 
authority and responsibilities of the internal audit function continue 
to enable it to accomplish its objectives. The results of this periodic 
assessment are communicated to the EC and the ARC. The Chief 
Internal Auditor also confirms to the ARC the continued validity of 
the charter of the internal audit function or puts forward proposals 
for updates to it. The Chief Internal Auditor maintains an internal 
quality assurance and improvement programme, including an annual 
assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal audit 
function's activities and evaluations of conformance with the standards 
of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA). The Chief Internal 
Auditor discusses the results of this annual assessment with the EC and 
the ARC. At least every five years, the effectiveness and quality of the 
internal audit function are independently assessed externally, and the 
Chief Internal Auditor reviews the report with the EC and the ARC. 
An independent assessment of the internal audit was conducted at the 
end of 2022, following up on the previous review in 2018. The 2022 
assessment confirmed that the internal audit conformed with the CIIA 
standards and the 2020 Internal Audit code of practice and identified 
some opportunities for further improvement. The next external 
assessment is planned to take place in 2027.

188
188

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

External Auditor

11%

of ARC time and activities

Activities performed

External Audit

Frequency

present in order to encourage open and transparent feedback from 
both parties. In addition, the Chair of the ARC meets separately with 
the external auditor on a regular basis. 

Review and approve the engagement letter for the external 
auditor's annual audit of the Company's consolidated and parent 
company financial statements.

Approve the remuneration for audit and non-audit services, 
including pre-approval of permissible non-audit services.

Consider the annual external audit plan and monitor the execution 
and results of the audit.

Monitor the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence 
of the external auditor.

Review the Company's representation letter prior to signing 
by management.

Assess the performance, objectivity and effectiveness of the 
external auditor, the audit process, the quality of the audit, the 
external auditor's handling of key judgements and the external 
auditor's response to questions from the ARC.

Recommend to the Board that the reappointment of the external auditor 
be put to the Company's shareholders for approval at the AGM.

A = Annually Q = Quarterly P = Periodically 

A

Q

P

A

P

P

A

Annual external audit plan and assessment of external 
audit's effectiveness
EY reviewed with the ARC its audit strategy, scope and plan for 
the 2023 audit, highlighting areas which would receive special 
consideration. In particular, the ARC and EY discussed how the 
audit would take into consideration risks associated with: 
￮ Trading and Supply deal complexity; 
￮ Revenue recognition fraud risk (unauthorised trading and 

management override);

￮ Climate change and the energy transition; 
￮ Oil and gas reserves;
￮ Impairment assessments; 
￮ Decommissioning and restoration obligations;
￮ Exploration assets;
￮ Goodwill recoverability;
￮ Pensions; and
￮ Taxation, specifically deferred tax assets and uncertain 

tax treatments. 

EY defines significant audit risks as those areas where there is a higher 
likelihood of a material error and which therefore require special audit 
attention. In EY's view, the significant audit risks are Trading and Supply 
deal complexity and the risk of unauthorised trading or 
management override.

The ARC considered the annual audit plan, which included assessing 
whether the planned materiality levels and proposed resources to 
execute the audit plan were consistent with the scope of the audit.

EY regularly updated the ARC on the status of its procedures and 
preliminary findings, providing an opportunity for the ARC to monitor the 
execution and results of the audit. The ARC and EY discussed how risks 
to audit quality were addressed, key accounting and audit judgements, 
material communications between EY and management and any issues 
arising from them. At least quarterly, the ARC met privately with EY 
representatives without management (except for the Legal Director) being 

189
189

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

As part of its oversight of the external auditor, the ARC annually 
assesses the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and 
the audit process. This includes assessing the quality of the audit, how 
the auditor handled key judgements, and the auditor's response to the 
ARC's questions. The assessment also involves the ARC evaluating the 
objectivity and independence of EY and the quality and effectiveness 
of the external audit process. 

The ARC's evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the 
external auditor and the audit process includes the following key 
criteria:
￮ professionalism, competence, integrity and objectivity during the 

audit, including handling of areas involving judgement and 
estimates; 

￮ EY's quality assurance procedures and internal quality control 

procedures; 

￮ audit quality priorities and actions taken as part of maintaining 

a sustainable audit quality programme;

￮ constructive challenge of management and key judgements; 
￮ efficiency, covering aspects such as service level and innovation 

in the audit process, use of data analytical and digital audit tools, 
and opportunities for improvement; 
￮ quality of the audit team's leadership;
￮ the most recent EY Transparency Report; 
￮ thought leadership and actions, especially in the areas of climate 

change; and 

￮ compliance with relevant legislative, regulatory and professional 

requirements.

In addition to reflecting on its own experiences, including interactions 
with the external auditor throughout the year, the ARC considered 
and discussed the results of management's internal survey relating 
to EY's performance over the financial year 2023, which reflected 
a broadly comparable performance to 2022 and the views and 
recommendations from management and the Chief Internal Auditor. 
The ARC also considered the FRC Audit Quality Review ("AQR") team's 
inspection of EY's audit of the financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2022.

As part of the current assessment of effectiveness, the ARC has taken 
into consideration the guidance issued by the FRC, including the 
guidance on oversight of the external audit set out in "Audit 
Committees and the External Auditor: Minimum Standard".

Taking into account the above, the ARC is satisfied that EY continued to 
provide a high-quality and effective audit in its eighth year as auditor and 
maintained its objectivity, integrity and impartiality. As required under UK 
and US auditing standards, the ARC received a letter on independence-
related matters from EY. EY also informed the ARC in writing of any 
significant relationships and matters that may reasonably be thought to 
affect its objectivity and independence. The ARC and EY discussed such 
relationships and matters and determined that they did not impair EY's 
objectivity, integrity and impartiality. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Audit and Risk Committee Report continued

External Auditor
continued

During 2023, EY's audit of Shell's Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the financial year ended December 31, 2022 was selected for 
inspection by the AQR team of the FRC. Following the AQR team's 
inspection of EY's audit of the financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2022, the FRC wrote to the Chair of the ARC setting out 
the scope of its inspection, its audit quality assessment, good practice, 
and other findings. The inspection report was shared with all ARC 
members and discussed at an ARC meeting in December 2023. 
The ARC noted the inspection did not raise any key findings 
and highlighted five audit areas of good practice. 

Audit Committees and the External Audit: 
Minimum Standard
In May 2023, the FRC published the Audit Committees and the 
External Audit: Minimum Standard. This Audit and Risk Committee 
Report describes how the ARC has complied, to the extent applicable, 
with the provisions of the Minimum Standard during the year (in 
particular the "External Auditor" section of this report).

Reappointment and external audit tender 
The ARC is responsible for considering whether there should be a 
rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm in order 
to ensure continuing auditor quality and/or independence, including 
consideration of the advisability and potential impact of conducting 
a tender process for the appointment of a different independent 
public accounting firm. The ARC is also responsible for making 
a recommendation to the Board, for it to put to the Company's 
shareholders for approval in the General Meeting, on the 
appointment, reappointment, or removal of the external auditor.

At the AGM in May 2023, the shareholders approved a resolution to 
reappoint EY as external auditor until the conclusion of the next AGM. EY 
was first appointed at the AGM in May 2016 after a competitive tender 
process. The lead audit partner, Gary Donald, has been in post since the 
start of the 2021 audit. Under UK legal requirements, the Company may 
retain EY as its external auditor for 20 years. For the 2023 financial year, 
the Company has complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. 

In its oversight of the external audit, the ARC considered whether it would 
be appropriate to conduct an audit tender in respect of the 2024 audit.

The ARC reflected on: 
￮ its continued satisfaction with the quality and independence

of EY's audit; 

￮ any new external auditor would need a transition period to develop 

sufficient understanding of the business given Shell's size and complexity; 
￮ frequent changes of external auditor would be inefficient and could 

lead to increased risk and the loss of cumulative knowledge; 

￮ a change in auditor would be expected to have a significant impact 

on Shell, including on the Finance function; and 

￮ any change in auditor should be scheduled to limit operational 

disruption. 

The ARC also considered EY's leadership and activities in the area 
of climate change. 

After due consideration the ARC determined that it would not be 
appropriate to re-tender for the external audit at this time. The ARC has 
recommended to the Board that at the 2024 AGM the Board should 
propose that EY be reappointed as the external auditor of the Company for 
the year ending December 31, 2024. The ARC's recommendation is free 
from third-party influence and there are no contractual obligations that 
restrict the ARC's ability to make such a recommendation. 

190
190

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

The ARC acknowledges the UK legal requirements relating to mandatory 
audit rotation (maximum 20-year engagement) and audit tendering (with 
a requirement to undertake a formal process after ten years). As EY was 
appointed in 2016 after a competitive tender process, the Company 
is required to tender for the audit no later than the financial year 
commencing January 1, 2026. During 2023, the ARC considered the 
proposed approach to the Group audit tender and the tender process 
was commenced, with a view to reaching a conclusion before the end 
of 2024. The ARC believes that this timeline for the re-tender is in the 
best interests of shareholders in order to prepare for orderly transition 
in the event that a new audit firm is selected. In conducting the tender 
process, the ARC will consider insofar as practical the guidance on 
tendering set out in the FRC's "Audit Committees and the External 
Auditor: Minimum Standard".

Non-audit services
The ARC maintains an auditor independence policy (AIP) in respect 
of the provision of services by the external auditor. Under the AIP, 
the ARC will only approve services to be carried out by the external 
auditor or its affiliates where such services do not present a conflict 
of interest risk in fact or in appearance. The ARC regularly reviews 
this policy for necessary changes in response to changes in related 
standards and regulatory requirements. 

This policy is designed to safeguard auditor objectivity and 
independence. It addresses the provision of audit services, audit-related 
services and other non-audit services and stipulates which services 
require specific prior approval by the ARC. 

The policy also defines prohibited services in line with applicable rules 
and regulations. Our external auditors are not allowed to provide 
prohibited services due to independence concerns. For certain non-
prohibited services, because of the knowledge and experience of the 
external auditor and/or for reasons of confidentiality, it may be more 
efficient or prudent for the external auditor to provide such services.

The ARC reviews quarterly reports from management on the audit and 
non-audit services reported in accordance with the policy or for which 
specific prior approval from the ARC is being sought. Under the AIP, no 
prior approval by the ARC is required for any additional audit service 
contract not individually exceeding $500,000. All non-audit services 
where the fee for an individual contract exceeds $100,000, including 
audit-related services, require individual prior approval by the ARC. 
For audit or non-audit service contracts that do not exceed the relevant 
threshold, the matter is approved by management by delegated 
authority from the ARC and is subsequently presented for approval by 
the ARC. The ARC is mindful of the overall proportion of fees for audit 
and non-audit services in determining whether to approve such services.

The scope of the non-audit services contracted with the external 
auditor in 2023 consisted mainly of interim reviews and other audit-
related assurance services. The associated compensation for these 
audit-related services and other non-audit services amounted to 
5% and 3%, respectively, of the external auditor's audit and audit-
related remuneration.

Fees
After due consideration, the ARC approved the auditor's remuneration, 
satisfying itself that the level of fees payable in respect of the audit and 
non-audit services provided was appropriate and that an effective, 
high-quality audit could be conducted for such fees.

see Note 34 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 316 provides details of the 

auditor's remuneration.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Dear Shareholders, 
As always, the remuneration decisions by the Remuneration Committee 
(REMCO) for 2023 have been framed by the Group's broader 
performance context.

Wael Sawan became Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on January 1, 
2023. Very soon after, he streamlined the EC to further simplify the 
organisation as we seek to create more value with less emissions, 
and deliver increased shareholder returns through a balanced 
energy transition.

Shell delivered another set of strong financial results in 2023, despite 
lower commodity prices, with income of $19.6 billion, cash flow 
from operations (CFFO) of $54.2 billion, and free cash flow* of 
$36.5 billion. We delivered our second-highest Adjusted Earnings 
in a decade, after a record last year. This shows strong management 
performance, improved operational delivery and the resilience of our 
portfolio, despite external uncertainty and volatility. We were guided 
by our principles of performance, discipline and simplification as we 
reduced our net debt* to $43.5 billion, around half of what it was in 
2019, and as we continued to demonstrate prudence in our capital 
expenditure and reduction in structural costs.

Our financial results in 2023 were underpinned by strong operational 
performance across our portfolio. In the Gulf of Mexico, turnaround 
operations at Appomattox, Perdido and Olympus were safely 
completed ahead of schedule and below budget. In the second 
quarter, Prelude delivered its highest quarterly production since its
start-up in 2018. In December 2023, Shell and Eneco's CrossWind 
joint venture completed construction of the Hollandse Kust (Noord) 
wind farm. Capacity is anticipated to increase in the coming months 
to eventually reach 3.3 TWh a year, which is around 3% of the 
Netherlands' total demand for electricity. In Shenzhen, China, together 
with BYD, we have opened Shell's largest global charging site for 
electric vehicles, serving more than 3,300 customers a day. We are 
also making good progress across the targets outlined at Capital 
Markets Day (CMD) in June. Our strong performance in 2023 has 
allowed us to deliver shareholder distributions*of $23 billion for the 
year, exceeding the 30-40% of CFFO range set out at CMD 2023.

During the year, we reviewed our approach to considering fatalities, 
in order to support consistent and fair judgment of safety performance 
over time. I am saddened that we experienced three tragic incidents 
in 2023 at Shell-operated ventures, which resulted in four recordable 
fatalities that year. We reflected on these and Shell's broader safety 
performance, as we always do, when we determined the final pay 
outcomes for 2023, and we applied downward discretion to the 
annual bonus outcome. A fourth incident in late 2023 resulted in a 
further fatality in 2024. This will be assessed as part of the REMCO's 
considerations of safety performance outcomes for 2024. Further 
information is on page 197.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report

“2023 was again a year
of strong leadership, with a 
renewed focus on performance, 
discipline, and simplification.”

This Report
The Directors' Remuneration Report for 2023 has been prepared 
in accordance with relevant UK corporate governance and legal 
requirements, in particular Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended). The Board has approved this report.

As in previous years, this report is split into three sections: this 
Chair's letter, the Annual Report on Remuneration, and the Directors' 
Remuneration Policy (Policy). The Policy was last approved by 
shareholders at the 2023 AGM with 94.6% support. No changes are 
being proposed to the Policy this year, though it is reproduced in full 
on pages 211-218 for ease of reference and in order to provide context 
to the decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee (REMCO) 
during the year.

Neil Carson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

191

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report continued

2023 remuneration outcomes
2023 annual bonus
The overall mathematical outcome of the annual bonus scorecard 
was above target at 1.58. The REMCO carefully considered the tragic 
incidents which resulted in fatalities in 2023. One contractor colleague 
in Malaysia died during scaffolding work and one in the Philippines 
died after a fall from height. In Nigeria, an armed ambush resulted in 
the death of two contractor colleagues, as well as four government 
agents. After careful consideration of the factors leading to the events 
and reflection on Shell's overall performance in 2023, including overall 
safety performance and the record performance in process safety, the 
REMCO used downward discretion to determine a final bonus outcome 
for Executive Directors of 1.55.

See page 198 for the complete scorecard with all targets, ranges and weightings, and a 

detailed discussion of performance against targets.

Vesting of the 2021 LTIP awards
Overall, the mathematical outcome of the Long-term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) was 94% of target. The REMCO was satisfied that no windfall 
gain had arisen. The REMCO also believes the vesting outcome to 
be representative of Shell's performance over the period.

See page 199 for full details of LTIP targets and weightings, and a discussion of performance 

against targets. 

Finalising the 2023 pay outcomes 
In finalising pay outcomes, the REMCO considered Shell's wider 
performance and context during 2023 and over the LTIP performance 
period, paying particular attention to:
￮ The strong financial performance in 2023, with CFFO of 

$54.2 billion and free cash flow* (FCF) of $36.5 billion, which has 
enabled Shell to invest in our businesses, reduce debt and enhance 
shareholder distributions;

￮ The shareholder experience, including total shareholder 

distributions* of $23 billion in 2023 and $58 billion over the LTIP 
performance period, and absolute and relative total shareholder 
return (TSR) performance over the same periods;

￮ Shell's performance beyond the formulaic outcomes of the variable 

pay structures, including safety (and fatalities), reputation, ethics and 
compliance, and feedback from the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) 
and the Sustainability Committee (SUSCO);

￮ Shareholders' views on remuneration matters, as shared with the 

REMCO during engagements in March 2023; 

￮ The employee experience, where the REMCO noted the above-

target vesting outcome for 2023 under the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP), used to make discretionary share awards below Senior 
Executive level, and the average employee salary increases; 

￮ Comparisons between the 2023 outcomes and historical 

remuneration levels; and

￮ The alignment of the 10-year average outcomes of the annual 

bonus scorecard (1.11) and LTIP (91% of target) to the target level, 
demonstrating the effective design of the structures and the integrity 
of the target-setting process.

This resulted in a single figure outcome of £7.9 million for the CEO and 
£3.9 million for the CFO, noting that both individuals' 2021 LTIP awards 
were made prior to their appointment to the Board. The REMCO was 
satisfied that the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy had operated 
as intended, and these outcomes were appropriate in the context of 
Company performance and the target pay opportunity.

2023 pay outcomes summary

2023 pay compared with Policy [A]

a

 Fixed pay  

b

Bonus

c

LTIP

d

LTIP: accrued dividends and share price change

e

Other [B]

Wael Sawan (£ million)

c

d

e

Sinead Gorman (£ million)

c

d

2023 realised pay 

2023 Policy target 

2023 Policy maximum

2023 realised pay 

2023 Policy target 

2023 Policy maximum

a

0

b

4

8

12

16

a

0

b

2

4

6

8

10

10-year LTIP vesting

10-year CEO single ﬁgure outcomes

200%

150%

100%

50%

0%

d

c

b

a

e

'12-'14

'13-'15

'14-'16

'15-'17

'16-'18

'17-'19

'18-'20

'19-'21

'20-'22

'21-'23

a
b
c

  TSR
  EPS/FCF
  CFFO 

d
e

Production/ROACE
Energy transition

Target

10-year average:
91% of target award

)
d
n
a
s
u
o
h
t

£
(

a
b
c

25,000

20,000

15,000

d

10,000

5,000

0

c
b
a

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

  Base salary and beneﬁts 
  Bonus 
  LTIP 

d
e

Pension and tax equalisation
Other [B]
CEO target pay [A]

e

[A] Policy target and maximum based on the shareholder-approved 2023 Remuneration Policy in respect of the annual bonus and the LTIP. Salary, pension and benefits are based on 2023 data.
[B] Incremental remuneration in respect of 2022 for services as CEO Designate, in anticipation of becoming CEO in 2023.
* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

192
192

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report continued

2024 remuneration
The 2023 Remuneration Policy was submitted to shareholders at 
the 2023 AGM, and received strong support. I would like to thank 
shareholders for their valued input and engagement prior to the AGM. 
The REMCO has appreciated the diverse range of views from our 
shareholders and they were invaluable in shaping our Remuneration 
Policy and design.

2024 salaries
Effective January 1, 2024, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received 
a salary increase of 3.9% and their salaries for 2024 are £1,455,000 
and £961,000, respectively. In reviewing their salaries, the REMCO 
considered carefully the external environment, including the increases 
provided to the Shell workforce in the key markets of the UK (4.5%), 
the USA (3.1%), and the Netherlands (4.3%). The Executive Directors' 
increases for 2024 were positioned below the average UK increase 
and in line with the average increases across the key markets. The 
REMCO also recognised the multiplier effect on total remuneration.

2024 annual bonus
The REMCO is satisfied that the current mix of financial and non-
financial measures remains well-aligned with our strategic and 
operational priorities. The "Shell's journey in the energy transition" 
measure has been updated for Energy Transition Strategy 2024 
(ETS24). See section below for further details.

In the interest of simplification and alignment of the two Executive 
Directors in delivering the operating plan (which is the primary focus 
of the annual bonus), the CFO's target bonus will be aligned to that 
of the CEO from 2024, at 125% of salary. This is within the confines 
of the existing shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy.

2024 LTIP performance conditions 
The performance conditions and weightings will be unchanged for the 
2024 LTIP awards. The measures will be cash generation, TSR, organic 
free cash flow*(OFCF) and "Shell's journey in the energy transition", 
and they will be weighted equally. Cash generation and TSR 
performance will be measured against the energy majors as before, 
and OFCF will be measured on an absolute basis against annual 
operating plans. The "Shell's journey in the energy transition" 
performance condition has been updated for ETS24. See section 
below for further details.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

"Shell's journey in the energy transition" in variable 
remuneration
The achievement of Shell's plans for the energy transition has been 
linked to the annual bonus and LTIP for a number of years with "Shell's 
journey in the energy transition" currently forming 15% of the annual 
bonus scorecard and 25% of the LTIP. These weightings will continue 
in 2024 and the REMCO has adjusted the performance metrics in light 
of ETS24, continuing to align to Shell's strategic objective of becoming 
a net-zero emissions business by 2050, supporting a balanced energy 
transition by responsibly delivering the oil and gas people need today, 
while helping to build the clean energy system of the future.

Shell's strategy sets out its objectives for reducing operational emissions 
while supporting our customers to reduce their emissions. Shell's plans 
cover all its businesses: growing its world-leading LNG business; 
reducing emissions from oil and gas production; and growing sales of 
low-carbon products. These objectives are reflected in the scorecard, 
where a measure of LNG volumes, focussing on the operational 
performance of the LNG business, will be introduced for 2024. LNG is 
a critical fuel for the energy transition. It provides energy security and 
flexibility, and is the lowest-carbon fossil fuel, producing around 50% 
less carbon emissions than coal when used to generate electricity. 
Shell's intent is to grow LNG and the REMCO will reflect this by 
measuring LNG liquefaction volumes. The existing GHG abatement 
metric, targeting the operational actions Shell can take to reduce 
emissions in support of our target to halve Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
under our operational control by 2030 on a net basis (compared with 
2016 baseline), is retained. Our ambitions to develop new lower-
carbon offerings for our customers is represented by the existing 
electric vehicle charge point rollout measure, aligning to Shell's plan to 
become a global leader in public charging for electric vehicles.

In the LTIP, the REMCO's determination of the extent to which awards 
will vest will be based on the REMCO's holistic assessment of progress 
towards reducing Shell's operational emissions and supporting our 
customers to reduce their emissions. This will be based on our journey to 
net-zero climate targets for our own operations, progress in 
developments that support the energy transition to 2030 and beyond, 
such as the development of our Power business (including renewables), 
lower-carbon LNG, biofuels, advanced biofuels, electric vehicle charging, 
hydrogen, and carbon, capture and storage (CCS). We will also take 
into account progress towards achieving a 15-20% reduction in net 
carbon intensity (NCI) by 2030 (compared with 2016 baseline) and a 
15-20% reduction in customer emissions from the use of our oil products 
by 2030 (compared with 2021 baseline), as well as any other factors the 
REMCO may consider relevant.

Looking ahead
I hope that you find this report presents a clear account of the 
REMCO's decisions for the year. I look forward to continuing 
to engage with our shareholders in the coming months.

Neil Carson
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
March 13, 2024

193
193

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration

Remuneration at a glance

2023

Fixed pay and shareholding

Annual bonus

Long-term Incentive Plan

Base salary

2023 annual bonus

2021 – 2023 LTIP vesting outcome

Wael Sawan (CEO) 
£1,400,000

Sinead Gorman (CFO)
£925,000

Wael Sawan 
£2,710,000

Sinead Gorman
£1,720,000

Wael Sawan
£2,600,667

Sinead Gorman
£834,061

Pension
The Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate in the defined contribution 
UK Shell Pension Plan with an employer 
contribution rate of 20% of salary or take 
this as a pension cash alternative, consistent 
with other new employees.

Benefits
Typically include car allowance, home-to-office 
transport, and medical insurance. Following 
their relocation to the UK, the Executive 
Directors received relocation support for their 
families' move to the UK and a temporary 
housing allowance that ended in 2023. 

Shareholding

Target levels, 
% of base salary
700%
500%

CEO
CFO

Actual levels,  
% of base salary at 
December 31, 2023
330%
182%

2023 bonus scorecard outcome

Vesting outcome

Mathematical outcome
1.58

Given the fatalities in 2023, this was reduced to:
1.55

No individual performance factor used in bonus 
calculation

Bonus delivery

Performance 
condition

CFFO

TSR

ROACE

FCF

Energy 
transition

50% delivered  
in cash

50% delivered  
in shares

Outcome

Vesting

 1    2    3    4    5

 1    2    3    4    5

 1    2    3    4    5

0%

30%

0%

40%

24%

94% 
(out of a 200% maximum)

Shares are subject to a three-year holding 
period which extends beyond an Executive 
Director's tenure.

Shares are subject to a three-year holding 
period which extends beyond an Executive 
Director's tenure.

Malus and clawback provisions apply.

Malus and clawback provisions apply.

2024

Fixed pay and shareholding

Annual bonus

Long-term Incentive Plan

Base salary

Target % of base salary

Target awards % of base salary

Wael Sawan (CEO)
£1,455,000 
 3.9%

Sinead Gorman (CFO)
£961,000 
 3.9%

Target
Maximum

Wael Sawan 
125% 
250%

Sinead Gorman 
125% 
250%

Target
Maximum

Wael Sawan 
300% 
600%

Sinead Gorman 
270% 
540%

Pension
No change for 2024.

Benefits
No change for 2024.

Shareholding

Target levels, 
% of base salary
700% 
500%

CEO 
CFO

Actual levels, 
% of base salary at 
March 8, 2024
445% 
261%

Scorecard architecture
d
15%

c
15%

a
35%

b
35%

a 

b 

c 

   Cash flow from operations 
(weighted 35%)

   Operational excellence 
(Asset management excellence 15%, 
project delivery excellence 10%, 
customer excellence 10%)

   Shell's journey in the energy transition 
(LNG volumes [A] 5%, 
Reducing operational emissions 5%, 
Supporting customer decarbonisation 5%)

d 

   Safety (SIF-F 7.5%, 
Tier 1 and 2 process safety 7.5%)

[A] Equity liquefaction

Performance conditions

d
25%

c
25%

a
25%

b
25%

a 

b 

c 

d 

   Relative cash generation (CFFO/average 
capital employed) (weighted 25%)

   Relative TSR (25%)

   Absolute OFCF (25%)

   Shell's journey in the energy 
transition (25%)

Performance against the relative performance 
conditions is assessed against other energy majors 
(BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies).

194

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out:

￮ remuneration at a glance, page 194;
￮ the REMCO's responsibilities and activities, page 195; 
￮ Directors' remuneration for 2023, pages 196 and 203; and
￮ the statement of the planned implementation of Policy in 

2024, page 208.

The REMCO is not proposing any changes to the Policy this year. 
It is reproduced in full [A] over pages 211-218 for ease of reference 
and to provide context to the decisions taken by the REMCO.
[A] The Non-executive Directors' letters of appointment table has been updated.

The base currency in the Directors' Remuneration Report is British 
pound sterling (GBP), which is the base salary currency for the Executive 
Directors. Where amounts are shown in other currencies, an average 
exchange rate for the relevant year is used, unless a specific date is 
stated, in which case the exchange rate for the specific date is used.

REMCO membership and attendance for 2023

Neil Carson 
OBE

Jane Holl Lute

The REMCO is also responsible for determining the Chair of the 
Board's remuneration. The REMCO monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior executives below Senior Management. 
When setting the Policy for Executive Director remuneration, the 
REMCO reviews and considers workforce remuneration and related 
policies, and how pay and benefits align with culture. In exercising 
its responsibilities, the REMCO takes into account a variety of 
stakeholder considerations.

The REMCO operates within its Terms of Reference, which are 
reviewed annually (last reviewed in July 2023), and are available 
on shell.com.

Advice from within Shell was provided by:
￮ Chief Executive Officer (CEO);
￮ Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer and Secretary

to the REMCO; and 

￮ Executive Vice President Performance and Reward.

The Chair of the Board was consulted on remuneration proposals 
affecting the CEO. The CEO was consulted on proposals relating
to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Senior Management.

The REMCO met four times in 2023 and its activities included:
￮ determining vesting of the 2020 LTIP award for Senior Management;
￮ determining 2023 target bonus opportunities and 2023 LTIP awards 

for Senior Management;

￮ setting 2023 annual bonus and LTIP performance measures and 

targets;

￮ approving the 2022 Directors' Remuneration Report, including the 

Dick Boer

Bram Schot

2023 Remuneration Policy;

Biographies are given on pages 147-154; and the REMCO 
meeting attendance is set out below:

￮ reviewing its approach to considering fatalities to support consistent 

and fair judgment of safety performance over time;

￮ reviewing 2024 bonus and LTIP performance measures and targets; 
￮ engaging with major shareholders and proxy bodies on 

remuneration matters;

REMCO
member

Member since

Neil Carson (Chair)

June 1, 2019

Dick Boer

Euleen Goh [A]

Jane Holl Lute

May 23, 2023

May 20, 2020

May 23, 2023

Catherine Hughes [B]

July 26, 2017

Bram Schot [C]

May 24, 2022

Meetings 
attended

% of 
meetings 
attended

￮ formalising the Executive Director and Executive Committee malus 

and clawback policy in compliance with new US SEC rules;

￮ setting exit and appointment remuneration in relation to changes in 

4/4

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

3/4

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 100 %

 75 %

the Executive Committee; and

￮ monitoring external developments and assessing the impact on 

remuneration decisions.

The REMCO did not seek advice in 2023 from external remuneration 
advisers. The REMCO reviewed market benchmarking data and 
analysis prepared by Shell's internal HR function on market 
developments in executive pay.

[A] Euleen Goh stepped down from the REMCO and from the Board with effect from 

May 23, 2023.

[B] Catherine Hughes stepped down from the REMCO with effect from May 23, 

2023.

[C] Bram Schot was unable to attend the December 2023 meeting due to another 

scheduled business commitment.

The REMCO's key responsibilities include determining:

Performance framework

Remuneration Policy

Actual remuneration and benefits

Executive 
Directors
P
P
P

Annual bonus and long-term 
incentive measures and targets

P

Senior Management [A]

Executive 
Committee
r

Company Secretary
and EVP Controller
r

P
P

P

r

P

P

[A] In the Directors' Remuneration Report, Senior Management is defined as Executive 

Directors, other EC members, Company Secretary, and EVP Controller.

195
195

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Directors' Remuneration for 2023

Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)

Salaries [C]

Taxable benefits [D]

Pension [E]

Total fixed remuneration

Annual bonus [F]

LTIP [G]

Total variable remuneration

Other [H]

Total remuneration

in US Dollars

in Euros 

Wael Sawan [A]

Sinead Gorman

£ thousand

2023

1,400 

378 

280 

2,058 

2,710 

2,601 

5,311 

571 

7,940 

9,873 

9,128 

2022

2023

2022 [B]

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

925 

197 

185 

1,307 

1,720 

834 

2,554 

— 

3,861 

4,801 

4,439 

675 

327 

135 

1,137 

1,180 

552 

1,732 

— 

2,869 

3,549 

3,366 

[A] Wael Sawan was appointed CEO and a Board Director effective January 1, 2023.
[B] Sinead Gorman was appointed CFO and a Board Director effective April 1, 2022. Accordingly, her remuneration for 2022 relates to the period April 1 to December 31, 2022. See 2022 

Directors' Remuneration Report for further details.

[C] Base salary: Wael Sawan's base salary was set at £1,400,000 on his appointment to the Board. Sinead Gorman's base salary for 2023 was set at £925,000 (+2.8% from 2022).
[D] Benefits: in respect of 2023, Wael Sawan's benefits included time-limited relocation-related costs (£334,778), car allowance (£29,890), and gross-up costs (£9,829). Sinead Gorman's 

benefits included time-limited relocation-related costs (£128,319), car allowance (£29,890), and gross-up costs (£36,082).
[E] Pension: Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received cash in lieu of pension contributions equal to 20% of base salary in 2023.
[F] Annual bonus: the full value of the bonus in respect of performance in 2023, comprising both the 50% delivered in cash and 50% bonus delivered in shares. For 2024, the market price of 

shares on February 26, 2024 for London-listed shares (£24.94) was used to determine the number of shares delivered, resulting in 28,796 ordinary shares for Wael Sawan and 18,276 
ordinary shares for Sinead Gorman, net of tax.

[G] LTIP: the amounts reported for 2023 relate to the 2021 LTIP award, which vested on March 7, 2024, at the market price of €29.27 and £24.75 for Amsterdam-listed and London-listed 

ordinary shares, respectively. The value in respect of the LTIP is calculated as the product of: (i) the number of shares of the original award multiplied by the vesting percentage, plus accrued 
dividend shares, and (ii) the market price of ordinary shares at the vesting date. The market price of the Amsterdam-listed shares is converted into GBP using the exchange rate on the vesting 
date. Share price appreciation accounted for €1,026,217 for Wael Sawan and £324,230 for Sinead Gorman. The amounts shown for Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman both relate to 
awards made prior to their appointment to the Board, and are shown here for transparency. The performance measures are the same as those applying to LTIP awards made to Executive 
Directors.

[H] Incremental remuneration in respect of 2022 for services as CEO Designate, in anticipation of becoming CEO in 2023. Wael Sawan did not perform the role of CEO during the CEO 

Designate time period. Amount includes pro rata salary and performance bonus, plus time-limited relocation-related costs.

Operational excellence (35%): a key underpin of our performance, 
operational excellence ensures we deliver for our customers and drive 
financial performance:
￮ Asset management excellence: Upstream controllable availability 
was outstanding with excellent performance in Gulf of Mexico 
(GOM), Kashagan, Petroleum Development Oman (PDO) and 
Bonga. Midstream availability was below target. Chemicals and 
Refining availability was also below target as a result of challenges 
at Shell Polymers Monaca (USA) as well as the recovery after a fire 
in Deer Park (USA) earlier in the year. 

￮ Project delivery excellence: project delivery was above target. 

Highlights for the year include the successful start-ups of Vito (USA) 
and Oman Gas (Block 10) Phase 1 in the first quarter, with Timi 
(Malaysia) coming on stream in the second half of the year. The year 
ended on a high note with Mero-2 (Brazil) coming on stream in late 
December.

￮ Customer excellence: Customer Satisfaction Index was above target. 
This was driven by continued improvements in our customer platform 
and coordinated efforts to proactively communicate with our 
customers and manage demand during supply chain challenges, as 
well as dynamic pricing changes. Our Brand Share Preference was 
also above target.

Overall the outcome for operational excellence was above target.

Notes to the table: Single figure of total remuneration
for Executive Directors (audited) 
Pension
During the year, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman were eligible 
to participate in the defined contribution UK Shell Pension Plan with 
an employer contribution rate of up to 20% of salary, or take this as 
a pension cash alternative. The UK Shell Pension Plan or associated 
pension cash alternative is available to new Shell employees in the 
UK at the same contribution levels and currently around half of UK 
employees participate in these arrangements. The majority of the 
remainder participate in a legacy defined benefit plan, which closed 
to new members in March 2013.

Annual bonus
The annual bonus is intended to reward the delivery of short-term 
targets derived from the operating plan. The REMCO reviews the 
bonus measures, weightings and targets annually to evolve with Shell's 
strategy and circumstances, and to ensure that the targets remain 
stretching but realistic. For 2023, the mathematical bonus outcome 
was 1.58. The REMCO reviewed performance against the scorecard, 
as below.

Financial delivery (35% weighting): we delivered $54.2 billion of 
CFFO against our target of $44 billion, helped by a robust macro 
and operational performance as well as working capital inflows. 
This exceeded our outstanding performance threshold of $54 billion, 
leading to a maximum outcome on this measure. As a reminder, the 
REMCO has a long-standing policy of not adjusting remuneration 
measures to take account of changes in energy prices and currency 
fluctuations, which supports alignment between pay outcomes and 
the shareholder experience. 

196
196

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

"Shell's journey in the energy transition" (15%): 
￮ Selling lower-carbon products: performance is measured based on 
the proportion of earnings in the Marketing segment coming from 
lower-carbon energy products, as well as non-energy products (see 
page 198 for the list of products included in this metric). We are 
below target for a range of reasons including lower lubricants 
demand and higher costs for lower-carbon Mobility products.

￮ Reducing operational emissions: performance is assessed based on 

GHG abatement projects that result in ongoing Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
reductions such as flare reduction and energy efficiency projects, site 
closures, decommissioning and transformations, and increasing the 
use of renewable electricity in our operations. This metric does not 
include the impact of divestments and acquisitions. The 2023 
outcome was outstanding, reflecting the cumulative effects of actions 
across the portfolio, which support our target to halve Scope 1 and 2 
operational emissions by 2030 on a net basis (2016 baseline). 
This includes abatement projects, use of renewable energy, and 
permanent shutdowns or conversions ("right-sizing") of assets.

￮ Partnering to decarbonise: we are building an electric vehicle charging 
business to help decarbonise road transport. In 2023 we opened 60 
new electric vehicle hubs in China, Belgium, the Netherlands, and 
Germany, including our biggest electric vehicle site in the world in 
China, together with our joint-venture partner BYD.

Overall the score on the "Shell's journey in the energy transition" 
measure was above target.

Safety (15%): it remains our priority to run our day-to-day operations 
safely and ensure the well-being of all our people.
￮ Process safety continues to be measured through the number of

Tier 1 and 2 operational safety incidents and was above maximum, 
with 63 events recorded compared with 66 in 2022, setting a new 
record for Shell, confirming our top-tier performance in the industry.
￮ Personal safety SIF-F performance is assessed based on the number of 
serious incidents which might occur in Shell's businesses based on the 
work plan for the year and our knowledge of industry incident rates. 
Our ultimate goal is zero harm to people working for Shell. Overall, 
2023 SIF-F performance was of a similar magnitude to 2022 (which 
was itself a marked improvement from prior years), which is testament 
to the ongoing focus of our employees in keeping colleagues safe.

Overall, the score on the safety measure was at maximum. While 
underlying safety performance was strong, we tragically lost contractor 
colleagues during 2023. The REMCO reflected carefully on these 
events and Shell's broader safety performance and determined 
that the bonus outcome should be adjusted downwards to 1.55 
(see "The REMCO's reflections on safety" below).

The REMCO's reflections on safety
Safety is Shell's first priority and our Powering Progress strategy is 
underpinned by this. It is critical that our operations run safely every 
day and that we strive to ensure the well-being of all of our people.

Shell uses Serious Injury and Fatality Frequency (SIF-F) as our 
scorecard measure for personal safety performance. SIF-F tracks 
the frequency at which injuries with life-changing consequences 
occur under Shell operational control. This allows us to focus 
management and organisation attention on the most serious 
incidents. We assess process safety using the number of Tier 1 and 
2 events. This tracks the frequency of unplanned or uncontrolled 
releases of materials from Shell's operations.

Some shareholders have asked how we approach target-setting 
for the SIF-F metric. To be clear, our ultimate target is zero harm to 
people. We have made good progress in reducing the number of 
personal safety events over a long period of time, with reductions 
in the number of fatalities and injuries (see chart below).

Personal safety performance 2000-2023

Fatalities

60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2000

a

b

2005

2010

2015

2020

TRCF

10.0

5.0

0.0

a

Fatalities

b

Total Recordable Case Frequency

SIF-F is an important tool to drive further improvement in safety 
and take us closer to our goal of zero harm. The metric focuses 
management and organisational attention on those incidents with 
the potential to cause most damage. To assess performance, the 
REMCO sets clear performance ranges based on historical 
outcomes, industry benchmarks, and taking account of our 
planned activities for the year.

197
197

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Following discussions with shareholders in 2023, the REMCO 
reviewed its approach to considering fatalities. It determined to 
retain SIF-F and to avoid formulaic mechanisms. The REMCO 
chose to adopt a discretionary framework which takes account 
of multiple reflection points, including the circumstances of the 
fatalities, consideration of systemic issues, the wider safety 
context, and any safety events outside of the reporting framework. 
This framework supports holistic and detailed consideration of 
the circumstances arising, and consistent and fair judgement 
of safety performance over time.

In 2023, four contractors under Shell operational control lost their 
lives in tragic incidents. Four government security agents also died 
in one of those incidents. With two of the incidents, the root causes 
have been identified as design and human factors during the 
operation of physical assets: one contractor colleague in Malaysia 
tragically died during scaffolding work and one contractor 
colleague in the Philippines died after a fall from height. The other 
incident in Nigeria, where a contractor convoy which included the 
government agents was ambushed by unknown gunmen in late 
December 2023, remains under investigation.

In 2023, aside from fatalities, the outstanding personal and 
process safety performance achieved in 2022 was sustained. The 
portion of incidents where barriers and controls were effective in 
avoiding tragic outcomes (i.e. "failed safe") was higher than in the 
prior year. Process safety performance as measured by API Tier 1 
& 2 events was the lowest on record and at top quartile of the 
industry benchmark.

After careful consideration of Shell's holistic safety performance 
in 2023 including the outcome of the formal metrics, the four 
recordable fatalities that occurred during 2023, and Shell's long-
term progress on safety using the discretionary framework, the 
REMCO has determined that the scorecard outcome for Executive 
Directors should be adjusted downwards from 1.58 to 1.55. The 
reduction in the bonus outcome as a result of the adjustment is 
equal to c.4% of salary for both Executive Directors.

In February 2024, a contractor injured in a December 2023 
tugboat fire incident in Nigeria sadly died. While this is reflected 
in the 2023 SIF-F outcome, it will be assessed as part of the 
REMCO's considerations of safety performance outcomes for 2024.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

The table below summarises the 2023 annual bonus scorecard measures including their weightings, targets and outcomes.

2023 annual bonus scorecard measures and weightings

Performance 
Measures

Financial delivery 
(35%)

Operational 
excellence 
(35%)

'Shell's journey 
in the energy 
transition'

(15%)

Safety

(15%)

Cash flow from operations

35% $bn

Weighting Unit

Asset management excellence [A]

15% %

Project delivery excellence [B]

10% %

Customer excellence [C]

10% Index

Selling lower-carbon products [D]

5% %

Reducing operational emissions

5% Thousand tonnes CO2

Threshold
(score of 0 
out of 2)

Target
(score of 1 
out of 2)

Outstanding
(score of 2 
out of 2)

Outcome

Score
(out of 2)

34

44

54

54.2

2.00

See note A

See note B

See note C

50%

600

60%

800

70%

1,000

54%

1,081

0.78

1.12

1.55

0.40

2.00

Partnering to decarbonise

5% Number of EV charge points

144,000

180,000

216,000

195,500

1.43

Personal safety

7.5% SIF-F cases per 

100 million working hours

Process safety

7.5% Number of events

6.8

120

5.4

96

4.1

72

2.6

63

Mathematical performance outcome

Adjusted outcome

2.00

2.00

1.58

1.55

[A] Upstream controllable availability: 87.3% (Threshold 82.2%, Target 84.2%, Outstanding 86.2%); Midstream availability: 89.1% (Threshold 88.4%, Target 90.4%, Outstanding 92.4%); 

Chemicals and Refinery availability: 91.2% (Threshold 93.1%, Target 94.1%, Outstanding 95.1%). Performance assessment is equally weighted between Upstream, Midstream, and Chemicals 
and Refining.

[B] Projects delivered on schedule: 82% (Threshold 30%, Target 65%, Outstanding 100%); project delivery on budget: 104.8% (Threshold 110%, Target 103%, Outstanding 96%). Performance 

assessment is equally weighted between projects delivered on schedule and on budget.

[C] Customer Satisfaction Index: 8.4 (Threshold 7.6, Target 8.1, Outstanding 8.6); Brand Share Preference: 14.2% (Threshold 13.0%, Target 13.7-13.8%, Outstanding 14.5%). Performance 

assessment is equally weighted between Customer Satisfaction Index and Brand Share Preference.

[D] Based on the percentage of Adjusted Earnings in the Marketing segment from lower-carbon energy products (on a life-cycle basis), defined as biofuels and electric vehicle charging, as well as 

non-energy products, defined as lubricants, bitumen, sulphur (agriculture and forestry), and earnings from convenience retail.

Accordingly, the REMCO decided the final bonus outcome should be 155% of target and 77.5% of maximum. This results in a bonus of 
£2,710,000 for Wael Sawan and £1,720,000 for Sinead Gorman.

2023 bonus outcome calculation

Wael Sawan

Target bonus:
£1,400,000 (base salary)
x 125% = £1,750,000

Sinead Gorman

Target bonus:
£925,000 (base salary)
x 120% = £1,110,000

2023 scorecard
result 1.55

£2,710,000 [A]

2023 scorecard
result 1.55

£1,720,000 [A]

[A] Rounded down to the nearest £5,000. Half was delivered in shares subject to a three-year holding period which extends beyond the Executive Director's tenure.

198
198

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Long-term Incentive Plan vesting: 2021 LTIP
In 2021, Ben van Beurden and Jessica Uhl, at the time Executive 
Directors, were granted conditional share awards under the LTIP. The 
vesting of these awards is discussed in the "Payments to past Directors" 
section on page 205.

Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman's 2021 LTIP awards are also 
disclosed for transparency, although they were not Executive Directors 
at the time of the award.

In determining the vesting outcome, the REMCO considered Shell's 
performance over the three-year period January 1, 2021 to December 
31, 2023:
￮ Relative CFFO: on a relative basis as compared against the 2020 

base year, Shell ranked fifth, resulting in 0% vesting for this 
performance condition. 

￮ Relative TSR: over the performance period, Shell returned around 
$58 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share 
buybacks, whilst TSR was 92%. Relative to the other energy majors, 
Shell's TSR ranked second, resulting in 150% vesting for this 
performance condition.

2021 LTIP vesting outcomes – performance measures

￮ Relative ROACE: Shell's absolute 2023 ROACE for LTIP purposes 
was 7.2% (note that ROACE for the LTIP calculation is based on 
disclosed net income and is not adjusted for the after-tax interest 
expense and therefore differs from ROACE as calculated for 
purposes other than remuneration). On a relative growth basis 
compared with the 2020 base year, Shell ranked fourth, resulting 
in 0% of vesting for this performance condition.

￮ Absolute FCF: strong performance in all three years resulted in total 
FCF of $122.8 billion, above our maximum threshold of $71 billion. 
This resulted in a 200% of target vesting outcome on this 
performance condition.

￮ Absolute energy transition: the outcome of this performance 

condition is determined holistically by the REMCO, taking account of 
Shell's performance against defined performance indicators and also
Shell's wider performance as it transitions to a net-zero emissions 
energy business. Overall, the REMCO determined the vesting 
outcome as 120% of target. Commentary on energy transition 
performance is provided below. 

Weighting

Threshold

Target

Maximum

Outcome 
(out of the maximum 200%)

Vesting outcome 
(% of target award)

CFFO

TSR

20%

Third

20%

Third

ROACE

20%

Third

First

First

First

FCF

20%

$39bn

$51bn

 $71bn

Energy transition

20%

See below

 1

 2

 3

 4

 5

 1

 2

 3

 4

 5

 1

 2

 3

 4

 5

$122.8bn

0%

150%

0%

200%

120%

0%

30%

0%

40%

24%

94%

Performance 
conditions

Relative
Performance ranked 
against the other energy 
majors: BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil and 
TotalEnergies

Absolute
Performance assessed 
against internal financial 
and strategic targets

Our carbon targets

In 2023 we continued our progress on our path to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. At the end of 2023, we had reduced 
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 31%, and the NCI of our energy products by 6.3% from our 2016 baseline.

Net carbon emissions – Scope 1 & 2 operational emissions

Net carbon intensity (NCI) (gCO2e/MJ)

83
million tonnes
CO2e

68
million tonnes
CO2e

58
million tonnes
CO2e

57
million tonnes
CO2e

41
million tonnes
CO2e

2016
baseline

2021

2022

2023

2030
target

0
tonnes 
CO2e

2050
target

2016
baseline

79

2021

2022

2023

2024
target [B]

2025
target [B]

2030
target

2050
target

-2.5% [A]

-3.8% [A]

-6.3% [A]

-9-12%

-9-13%

-15-20%

-100%

[A] 2021 target 2-3% reduction, 2022 target 3-4% reduction, and 2023 target 6-8% 

reduction; all achieved.

[B] Targets set by the REMCO. Shell continuously evaluates and updates its energy transition 

strategy, including its interim targets.

199
199

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

2021 LTIP energy transition performance condition: outcome

Outcomes for the energy transition performance condition are determined by the REMCO based on quantitative performance and a qualitative 
assessment focused on Shell's short-term NCI reduction target and those elements that we understood at the time would make the most impact 
on achieving our goals over the three-year performance period relating to NCI: the growth of our power business, the growth of lower-carbon 
products, and the development of systems to absorb, capture and store carbon. This approach to the LTIP is intended to support experimentation 
and learning as to what actions will help deliver net-zero emissions in a profitable way. Accordingly, the REMCO uses the performance indicators 
as guidance, rather than applying a formulaic vesting outcome, when making its decisions.

Net carbon intensity (NCI) - performance indicator met
We achieved our short-term target for the 2021-23 LTIP cycle to reduce our NCI by 6-8% compared with the 2016 baseline, with a 6.3% reduction 
by 2023. In making its decision, the REMCO reviewed how the target was met including changing product sales, the use of emission offsets, such 
as carbon credits, and the retirement of Renewable Energy Certificates, recognising the importance of these in the energy transition.

Growing the power business - performance indicator substantively met
A key element of the purpose of the early cycles of the LTIP was to encourage learning about how to profitably decarbonise and the REMCO paid 
close attention to management's work to refine the strategic direction for the Power business over the performance cycle. This has changed from an 
emphasis on growth in the customer base to a more selective focus on those areas where Shell has competitive advantages in the optimisation and 
marketing of molecules, enabling Shell to generate returns and create shareholder value. For example, in 2023 Shell undertook a strategic review of 
its consumer power retail business in Europe, which was determined not fitting for that revised strategy and hence was divested with a connected 
reduction in sales volumes. Stretching targets around growing Shell's power sales were set (original target 340 TWh/year with 279 TWh/year 
achieved in 2023), with attention also on decarbonising those power sales, with targets for creating a pipeline of renewable power generation 
capacity options (target of 5-10 GW well exceeded with 41.4 GW at the close of 2023) and generating renewable power sales (offtake volumes 
target of 3 GW also exceeded with 4.9 GW). A target was also set for a 16-22% reduction in carbon intensity for the Power Portfolio against the 
2020 base year. Changes in reporting methodology mean it is not possible to compare 2023 intensities against 2020 on a like-for-like basis. 
However, the REMCO noted the steady decrease in carbon intensity for the Power Portfolio over the cycle (2021: 66 gCO2e/MJ; 2022: 58 gCO2e/
MJ; 2023: 49 gCO2e/MJ). In assessing the outcome, the REMCO also noted the strong wider progress made over the performance period, and in 
particular the strategic acquisitions of Sprng in 2022 and Savion in 2021 which provide important platforms for growing future low-carbon offerings in 
solar. Meanwhile in wind, 2023 saw the significant milestone of our CrossWind offshore wind joint venture in the Netherlands becoming operational.

Growing new lower-carbon product offerings - performance indicator partially met
Shell is investing in low- and zero-carbon products such as renewable electricity, hydrogen and biofuels, working closely with customers to help 
identify the products they need to decarbonise. Metrics for the performance cycle were designed to encourage development across this range of 
offerings, against which the REMCO noted a number of successes. Shell is one of the world's largest traders of biofuels and our Brazilian joint venture 
Raizen (Shell interest 44%) is one of the world's largest producers and blenders of biofuels. This is a position that has been further developed over the 
performance period with the acquisition of Nature Energy, making Shell Europe's largest producer of renewable natural gas (RNG), and with 
commencing construction of the Shell Rotterdam Biofuels hydro-processed esters and fatty acids (HEFA) facility, which will be amongst the largest in 
Europe when on stream. The REMCO also set a target for 8,000 out-of-home electric vehicle charge points which was well exceeded with more than 
54,000 as Shell looks to leverage its global network of service stations and existing strengths of the marketing business to generate returns. Balancing 
this, the REMCO also reflected on the fact that many of the commercial pathways for these offerings are emerging more slowly than anticipated. 
Holland Hydrogen 1 provides 200 MW of production capacity and is an important platform for future hydrogen development. This is below the 
ambitious target of 500 MW originally set for this LTIP cycle. However, on balance, the REMCO considered this a strong outcome as customer 
demand, technology de-risking and proven business models for hydrogen continue to develop. A target of 6 mtpa of carbon abated through the 
deployment of low-carbon fuels was also narrowly missed (5.3 mtpa achieved). Finally, a target was set for three investments in commercial-scale 
advanced biofuels projects. While two were achieved (LanzaJet and Enerkem Varennes), technology platforms and commercially viable pathways 
proved slower to develop than anticipated and CAPEX was redeployed.

Develop emissions sinks - performance indicator not met
The development of systems that capture and store or absorb carbon is required as part of the global response to climate change to reduce and 
compensate for emissions where there are not currently scalable low-carbon alternatives. The REMCO originally set a target of 25 mtpa CO2 offset by 
carbon credits through carbon-neutral customer offerings. 4 mtpa was achieved as customer demand and willingness to pay for these types of offering 
failed to materialise at the rate anticipated. Targets were also set for maturing carbon, capture, utilisation, and storage projects to final investment 
decision. Against the original target of three projects, two were achieved, highlighting the high degree of stretch in the original targets. The REMCO 
was comfortable that the outcome reflected commercial decision-making by the business in support of appropriate value creation.

Overall, the REMCO determined that the energy transition measure (accounting for 20% of the award) should vest at 120% of target.

The REMCO considered the Company's share price at the time of the 
awards, and determined to reduce the 2021 LTIP awards by 11.8% 
and 8.0% from the usual target award levels for Ben van Beurden 
and Jessica Uhl, respectively. The REMCO was cognisant of possible 
windfall gains arising from share price volatility in 2020, and took 
decisive action upfront to reduce awards at the start of the cycle to 
moderate the potential impact on LTIP award values. Notwithstanding 
the REMCO's proactive approach at the time of award, following the 
conclusion of the performance period, the REMCO further reflected on 
the share price at award and on vesting, noting that share price 
appreciation accounted for 34% of the total value of Wael Sawan's 
LTIP at vest. Taking this and the reduction to the initial awards into 
account, the REMCO was satisfied that the potential for windfall gains 
had been appropriately addressed.

The REMCO decided that the LTIP outcome was consistent with the 
target opportunity and intended operation of the plan under the Policy 
and appropriate, and therefore no adjustment to the vesting outcome 
was required. Accordingly, the REMCO decided that the LTIP should 
vest at 94% of target (equivalent to 47% of maximum).

The overall LTIP vesting outcomes for Wael Sawan and Sinead 
Gorman, including an illustration of the impact of share price 
movements and accrued dividends, are set out below. Wael Sawan 
was an Executive Committee member during 2021, and therefore his 
vested 2021 award is subject to a further three-year holding period 
which extends beyond his tenure as Executive Director, in line with the 
policy for Executive Committee members (and Executive Directors). 
Sinead Gorman was a Senior Executive during 2021, and therefore 
her vested 2021 award is not subject to further holding, though the 
shareholding guideline policy is applicable.

200
200

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

2021 LTIP vesting outcome

Wael Sawan

Vesting outcome: [A]

98,000 x 94% = 
92,120 ordinary shares 
€1,670,136 

Change in
share price: [B]

92,120 x €11.14
€1,026,217

Accrued
dividends: [C]

11,729 ordinary shares 
€343,307

Total LTIP Vesting: 

103,849 ordinary shares 
€3,039,660
£2,600,667 [D] 

Sinead Gorman

Vesting outcome:  [A]

31,500 x 94% =
29,610 ordinary shares
£408,618

Change in
share price:  [B]

29,610 x £10.95 
£324,230

Accrued
dividends:

[C]

Total LTIP Vesting: 

4,089 ordinary shares
£101,214

33,699 ordinary shares 
£834,061

[A] Based on the share price at award of €18.13 for Wael Sawan and £13.80 for Sinead Gorman. For details of Ben van Beurden and Jessica Uhl’s 2021 LTIP awards, see the "Payments to past
       Directors" section. 
[B] Calculated based on the opening share price on March 7, 2024 (being the 2021 LTIP vesting date) minus the share price at the date of award. For Wael Sawan: €29.27 – €18.13 = €11.14;

for Sinead Gorman: £24.75 – £13.80 = £10.95.       

[C] Based on the opening share price on March 7, 2024 of €29.27 for Wael Sawan and £24.75 for Sinead Gorman.
[D] Converted from EUR to GBP using a spot exchange rate on March 7, 2024.

Consideration of 2023 single figure outcomes
In determining the final single figure outcomes for 2023, the REMCO also considered the personal performance of the Executive Directors.

Personal performance 

The Executive Directors have demonstrated strong leadership in 2023. 
CEO Wael Sawan has made changes early in his tenure to simplify the 
Executive Committee for greater alignment, focus and accountability, 
enabling faster and better decision-making. Together with CFO Sinead 
Gorman, he has brought organisational focus on performance, 
discipline and simplification, driving an approach of creating more 
value while reducing emissions.

Key successes are noted throughout this report, particularly on page 
196 on the 2023 annual bonus and page 199 on the 2021 LTIP vesting 
outcome, and additional comments are provided below.

The sector faces many challenges. Critical to a successful 2023 has 
been Wael's leadership of the organisation, setting out an agenda to 
deliver increased shareholder returns through a balanced energy 
transition, helping to provide the secure energy the world needs whilst 
making progress towards our net-zero emissions targets. Demonstrating 
this focus, Capital Markets Day (CMD) in June 2023 set out a plan to 
operationalise the Powering Progress strategy with a clear and concise 
set of targets presented to the market. The Energy Transition Strategy 
2024 (ETS24), worked on extensively by the leadership team in 2023, 
is another example of clear focus and effective collaboration (see the 
Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 on shell.com). By the end of 
2023, key achievements also included:
￮ Delivery of strong financial results with net income of $19.6 billion 

and Adjusted Earnings* of $28.3 billion, and CFFO of $54.2 billion 
against plan target of $44 billion, reflecting continuous high-grading 
of our upstream assets and the strength of our trading businesses;
￮ Delivery of $23 billion of shareholder distributions* in 2023, 2% 

above the 30-40% of CFFO promised at CMD 2023;

￮ Reduction of net debt* to $43.5 billion;

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

201
201

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

￮ Continued refining of the portfolio, agreeing to sell home energy 
businesses in the UK and Germany, as well as the Shell Pakistan 
business;

￮ Delivery of improved operational performance, including Pearl GTL 
reaching 97% availability in the second quarter of 2023, one of its 
highest to date; and new production coming on line at the Timi 
platform in Malaysia which is powered by wind and solar energy, 
and lighter than a conventional platform, reducing both costs and 
emissions;

￮ Continued delivery of a range of lower-carbon projects including 
our CrossWind joint venture designed to produce the equivalent 
of around 3% of Dutch electricity demand; the opening of Shell's 
largest global charging site for electric vehicles in Shenzhen, China; 
and producing biofuel from sugar cane waste at the new second-
generation ethanol plant, the world's largest, in our joint venture 
Raízen in Brazil;

￮ Setting out a clear framework in CMD for a simplified set of financial 

and carbon targets for the coming three years and in doing so, building 
Shell's investment case through the energy transition. Over the period 
between CMD and December 31, 2023, total returns have been 13.4% 
(compared with 8.5% for a global oil and gas index);
￮ Preparing for ETS24, published on March 14, 2024;
￮ Continuing Shell's role in shaping the broader energy conversation 

through engagements at CERAWeek, ADIPEC, and Energy 
Intelligence Forum and Shell's publication of new Energy Security 
scenarios (Archipelagos and Sky 2050);

￮ Maintaining a strong tone of care and safety ethos; and
￮ Maintaining Group-wide top quartile 2023 people survey scores 

for employee engagement and team leadership, alongside 
improvements in other areas that are key to our success such 
as collaboration and learner mindset.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

During 2023, Sinead Gorman assumed responsibilities for strategy 
and sustainability in addition to finance. Working closely with the 
CEO, Sinead Gorman has played a pivotal role in delivering a year 
characterised by strong financial results, improved financial resilience 
and capital discipline. She has steered the finance function's disciplined 
capital stewardship and effective management of Shell's financial 
framework, allowing Shell to meet its organisational objectives and 
commitments to shareholders. By the end of 2023, Sinead Gorman's 
key achievements included:
￮ Playing a critical role in coordinating and driving the review that 

led to CMD 2023;

￮ Leading the team preparing for ETS24, taking stock of our progress, 
seeing what we have learnt, and supporting the team and the Board 
to consider the strategic choices as we transform Shell;

The REMCO also considered a range of other factors in finalising 
its remuneration decisions for 2023, including:
￮ Shell's performance in 2023 and over the LTIP performance period 
2021-2023, and the formulaic outcomes of the bonus and the LTIP 
performance conditions;

￮ The impact of fatalities on the formulaic scorecard outcome;
￮ Absolute and relative TSR performance over the period;
￮ A range of factors that take account of Shell's performance beyond 
the formulaic outcomes of the variable pay structures, including 
safety, reputation, ethics and compliance, and feedback from the 
Audit and Risk Committee and the Sustainability Committee;
￮ The external environment and wider stakeholder experience, 
including shareholders' expectations with regard to executive 
pay decision-making and the employee experience;

￮ Bringing significant focus to lease management as well as working 

￮ The Executive Directors' remuneration compared with the 

capital management;

￮ Expanding the Tax Contribution Report to disclose not only the 
corporate income tax we paid across 97 countries but also our 
total tax contribution in more than half of these; and

variable pay outcomes for the general workforce;

￮ The alignment of the Executive Directors with the shareholder 
experience through their high shareholding requirements; and

￮ The Executive Directors' remuneration compared with 

￮ Driving healthy challenge on capital expenditure, allowing 

historical outcomes.

tightening of the range from $23-27 billion to $23-25 billion earlier 
than expected and allowing Shell to make shareholder distributions 
at the higher end of our guided range.

After reflecting on the above factors, the REMCO was satisfied 
that the Policy had operated as intended, and that the single 
figure outcomes for the CEO and the CFO represented a fair 
level of remuneration.

2023 LTIP

Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors in 2023 (audited)

In 2023, the Executive Directors were awarded conditional share awards under the LTIP as set out in the table below. In approving the awards, 
the REMCO considered Shell's historical share price, including the share price over the prior year, and noted that the share price at award was 
around 20% higher than in 2022, and higher than average historical levels. The REMCO determined that the risk of windfall gain was limited, 
and therefore no adjustment was made to the award size.

Scheme 
interest type

LTIP

Type of 
interest 
awarded

End of 
performance 
period

Target award [A]

Performance 
shares

December 31, 
2025

Wael Sawan: 173,985 London-listed ordinary shares, 
equivalent to 3.0x base salary or £4,200,000

Sinead Gorman: 103,458 London-listed ordinary 
shares, equivalent to 2.7x base salary or £2,497,500

Potential amount vesting

Minimum performance
(% of shares awarded) [B]

Maximum performance (% of 
shares of the target award)

0

Maximum number of shares 
vesting is 200% of the shares 
awarded, before dividends.

[A] The awards for both Executive Directors were made based on the closing market price on the date of grant, February 3, 2023, for ordinary shares of £24.14.
[B] Minimum performance relates to the lowest level of achievement, for which no reward is given.

The performance conditions and weightings applying to LTIP awards 
made in 2023 were: relative cash generation (25% weighting), relative 
TSR (25%), absolute OFCF (25%), and energy transition (25%).

Relative performance conditions
The relative performance conditions are based on our performance on 
key financial and external measures against our closest comparators. 
For each measure, we rank point-to-point growth based on the data 
points at the end of the performance period compared with those at 
the beginning of the period.

Cash generation is defined as CFFO divided by average capital 
employed, and measures Shell's ability to generate the top-line cash 
flow to finance investment in our business and shareholder distributions.

TSR measures actual value created for shareholders (i.e. change in 
share price plus dividends), and as in prior years, is calculated in US 
dollars using a 90-day averaging period.

Vesting under each relative performance condition is assessed 
independently, with the vesting outcome ranging from 0% to 200% 
of the target award in respect of the measure, in accordance with 
the following vesting schedule:
￮ Ranking first equals 200% vesting;
￮ Ranking second equals 150% vesting;
￮ Ranking third equals 80% vesting; and
￮ Ranking fourth or fifth equals 0% vesting.

Outperforming Shell's closest competitors on key financial metrics is 
challenging. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median performance 
is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other UK companies, 
but notes that this is typically applied against a larger comparator 
group. A vesting outcome of 80% for median performance (40% of 
maximum) in a small comparator group is considered appropriate 
by the REMCO.

202
202

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Absolute measures
Organic free cash flow (OFCF)
The OFCF performance condition supports the delivery of our cash 
flow priorities, which are to service and reduce debt, pay dividends, 
buy back shares, and make future capital investments. 

The performance targets for OFCF are set by reference to Shell's 
annual operating plans, based on the sum of plan OFCF targets over 
the three-year performance period, and updating the plan each year to 
reflect a changing price premise. The REMCO has a long-standing no-
adjustments policy, and believes it is more appropriate to set the target 
based on the aggregation of the annual operating plans rather than 
setting a three-year target at the outset and making necessary 
adjustments at the end. OFCF targets are disclosed retrospectively 
and in aggregate, following the conclusion of the three-year period.

Under the OFCF performance condition, achievement of threshold 
performance will result in 40% of the target award (20% of maximum) 
in respect of the OFCF vesting, increasing to full vesting for 
achievement of outstanding performance. A straight-line vesting 
schedule will apply for performance between threshold and 
outstanding. In 2023, the performance condition moved from FCF 
to OFCF to place greater emphasis on the operational outcomes.

Energy transition
For the 2023 award, the energy transition performance condition 
is based on NCI reduction and the supporting strategic themes of 
reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions; building a renewable power 
business; growing new low-carbon energy offerings; and developing 
emission sinks and offsets with the REMCO making a holistic 
assessment of progress when making the vesting decision. The key 
factors in the REMCO's decision will be disclosed at the end of 
the performance period (unless commercially sensitive).

Under CMD, a number of long-term performance indicators were 
retired, and therefore the REMCO's determination of the extent to 
which awards will vest will be based on:
￮ Shell's related climate targets of short-term NCI reduction target 
of 9-13% by 2025 and halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions under 
operational control by 2030 on a net basis (2016 baselines);
￮ A qualitative assessment of the strategic context and business 

environment for the strategic themes; and 

￮ A quantitative assessment of delivery of the operating plans for 

those businesses with most responsibility for the strategic themes.

For an update on Shell's energy transition, see the 2024 Shell Energy Transition Strategy 

from shell.com.

TSR underpin
If Shell's TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the 2023 award that 
can vest on the basis of the other measures will be capped at 50% of 
the maximum.

Performance update on FCF/OFCF
2022 LTIP award 
At December 31, 2023, FCF* performance was above target, with 
a strong outcome of $46 billion for 2022 (target $18 billion), and 
$36.5 billion for 2023 (target $24 billion). As one year of FCF 
performance remains, and 80% of the award is subject to relative 
and energy transition performance conditions, this does not reflect 
the potential vesting of the award.

2023 LTIP award 
At December 31, 2023, OFCF* performance was above target, based 
on $35.9 billion for 2023 (target $22 billion). As two years of OFCF 
performance remain, and 75% of the award is subject to relative 
and energy transition performance conditions, this does not reflect 
the potential vesting of the award.

Single figure of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited)

Dick Boer

Neil Carson 

Ann Godbehere

Euleen Goh [B]

Jane Holl Lute

Catherine Hughes

Martina Hund-Mejean [B]

Sir Andrew Mackenzie

Sir Charles Roxburgh [C]

Bram Schot

Leena Srivastava [C]

Cyrus Taraporevala [D]

Fees

Taxable benefits [A]

Total

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

£ thousand

192 

171 

184 

89 

164 

190 

64 

785 

126 

150 

120 

134 

153 

171 

184 

211 

154 

182 

154 

785 

— 

144 

— 

— 

20 

11 

68 

29 

35 

50 

56 

2 

2 

15 

— 

1 

4 

2 

7 

6 

14 

9 

3 

4 

— 

2 

— 

— 

212 

182 

252 

118 

199 

240 

120 

787 

128 

165 

120 

135 

157 

173 

191 

217 

168 

191 

157 

789 

— 

146 

— 

— 

[A] UK regulations require the inclusion of benefits where these would be taxable in the UK, on the assumption that Directors are tax residents in the UK. On this premise, the taxable benefits 

include the cost of a Non-executive Director's occasional business-required partner travel. Shell also pays for travel between home and the head office, where Board and Committee meetings 
are typically held, and related hotel and subsistence costs. For consistency, business expenses for travel between home and the head office are not reported as taxable benefits because for 
most Non-executive Directors this is international travel and hence would not be taxable in the UK. 

[B] Stepped down as a Director with effect from May 23, 2023.
[C] Appointed as a Director with effect from March 13, 2023.
[D] Appointed as a Director with effect from March 2, 2023.

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365). The most comparable GAAP financial measure for organic free cash flow is cash flow from operating activities of $54 billion for 2023.

203
203

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Statement of Directors' shareholding and share
interests (audited)
Shareholding guidelines
The REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align their 
interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in Shell plc.

Only unfettered shares count towards an Executive Director's 
shareholding. Shares delivered that are subject to holding requirements 
also count towards the guidelines. The CEO and the CFO have five 
years from their respective appointment to the Board to achieve their 
respective shareholding requirements.

There is a Company-sponsored nominee account for each employee 
which allows for restrictions to be applied on the sale or transfer of 
shares that are subject to holding periods. The restrictions remain 
in force beyond the Executive Director's employment.

Further details of the shareholding guidelines can be found on page 213.

Directors' share interests 
The interests, in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents, 
of the Directors in office during 2023, including any interests of 
their connected persons, are set out in the table below.

Directors' share and scheme interests (audited)

Executive Directors

Wael Sawan

Sinead Gorman

Non-executive Directors

Dick Boer

Neil Carson 

Ann Godbehere

Euleen Goh

Jane Holl Lute

Catherine Hughes

Martina Hund-Mejean

Sir Andrew Mackenzie

Sir Charles Roxburgh

Bram Schot [K]

Leena Srivastava

Cyrus Taraporevala

Ordinary shares 
held at January 1, 
2023

Ordinary shares 
held at December 
31, 2023

Unvested and subject 
to performance 
conditions [A]

Shareholding 
guideline as % 
of salary

Current 
shareholding
as % of salary [B]

166,592 

39,660 

179,406 

65,519 

396,355 

256,369 

 700 %

 500 %

 330 %

 182 %

10,000 

16,000 

10,000  [C]

12,895 

7,046  [E]

55,984  [G]

20,000  [H]

27,623 

—  [J]

— 

—  [L]

10,000 

16,000 

10,000 

n/a [D]

7,332  [F]

55,984 

n/a  [I]

35,858 

2,000 

— 

— 

250  [M]

10,000  [N]

[A] Includes unvested long-term incentive awards and notional dividend shares accrued at December 31, 2023. Interests are shown on the basis of the original awards, which can vest at between 

0% and 200% based on performance. Dividend shares accumulate each year on an assumed notional LTIP award. Such dividend shares are disclosed and recorded on the basis of the 
number of shares conditionally awarded but, when an award vests, dividend shares will be awarded only in relation to vested shares as if the vested shares were held from the award date.

[B] Calculated using the £25.72 per share closing price on December 29, 2023, the last market day of 2023.
[C] Held as 5,000 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[D] 12,895 ordinary shares as at May 23, 2023, when she stepped down as a Director.
[E] Held as 3,523 ADS. Revised to include purchases pursuant to a Dividend Reinvestment Scheme.
[F] Held as 3,666 ADS. Includes purchases pursuant to a Dividend Reinvestment Scheme.
[G] Held as 50,984 ordinary shares and 2,500 ADS.
[H] Held as 10,000 ADS.
[I]
[J] As at March 13, 2023, when he was appointed as a Director.
[K] On February 6, 2023, he disposed of 150 Leonteq Express Euro Denominated Certificates on ING, Shell, Unilever (ISIN: CH0470808913), with a nominal value of €1,000 each at a price of 
€1,007.70 per certificate. These certificates are cash settlement instruments of which payment of a conditional coupon depends for 1/3 on the development of the price of the Shell shares on 
Euronext Amsterdam and, as such, are a financial instrument linked to the Shell shares.
On August 9, 2023, he disposed of 8,000 certificates Shell Turbo Long 6,5 BNP Paribas Markets (ISIN: NL0009558519) at a price of €22.345 (5,000 certificates) and a price of €22.342 
(3,000 certificates). These certificates are cash settlement instruments the value of which is linked to the share price of the Company's ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each. In 
this case, the ratio is 1:1 and accordingly 8,000 certificates represent 8,000 Shell shares.

10,000 ADS as at May 23, 2023, when she stepped down as a Director.

[L] As at March 13, 2023, when she was appointed as a Director.
[M] As at March 2, 2023, when he was appointed as a Director. Held as 125 ADS.
[N] Held as 5,000 ADS.

204
204

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

The changes to Directors' shareholdings as at March 8, 2024
are as follows:
￮ Wael Sawan's share interest increased by 82,797 ordinary shares 

after the delivery of the 2023 annual bonus shares and the vesting of 
the 2021 LTIP award; and

￮ Sinead Gorman's share interest increased by 36,137 ordinary shares 
after the delivery of the 2023 annual bonus shares and the vesting of 
the 2021 LTIP award. 

At March 8, 2024, the Directors and Senior Management (pages 147 
and 155) of the Company beneficially owned, individually and in 
aggregate (including shares under option), less than 1% of Company 
shares. These shareholdings are not considered sufficient to affect
the independence of the Directors.

￮ LTIP: Ben van Beurden received an LTIP award of 231,679 ordinary 
shares in 2021 (worth around 265% of salary), which has been pro-
rated. The pro-rated award vested at 94% of target based on 
performance to December 31, 2023. Therefore, 204,589 ordinary 
shares (including accrued dividends) vested on March 7, 2024, with 
a value at vesting of €5,988,311 (equivalent to £5,123,469). A 
three-year holding period applies, which remains in force after 
termination.

￮ Benefits: £270,681, including relocation-related costs (£200,051), 

car allowance (£14,945), and grossing costs (£51,031).

￮ Loss of office: £1,420,000, equivalent to one times base salary. This 
was paid in six equal monthly instalments between July 1, 2023 and 
December 31, 2023, which would have been subject to mitigation 
in the event that he resumed a paid position in that time.

Dilution
In any 10-year period, no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under executive 
(discretionary) share plans adopted by the Company, or 10% when 
aggregated with awards under any other employee share plan 
operated by the Company. To date, no shareholder dilution has 
resulted from these plans, although it is permitted under the rules
of the plans, subject to these limits.

Payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments for loss of office to Executive Directors in 2023.

Payments to past Directors (audited)
Ben van Beurden stepped down from the Board and his role as CEO 
on December 31, 2022, and continued working as a full-time adviser to 
the Board until June 30, 2023. See the 2022 Directors' Remuneration 
Report for details of his role during 2023. As disclosed in last year's 
report, Ben van Beurden did not receive an LTIP award in 2023. 
His remuneration in respect of 2023 is set out below:
￮ Base salary: £710,000.
￮ Pension: pension cash allowance of 20% of salary.
￮ Annual bonus: £1,210,000 (determined based on Shell's 

performance as at Q2 2023).

Former CFO Jessica Uhl received an LTIP award of 69,972 ADS in 
2021 (worth around 248% of salary), which has been pro-rated. The 
pro-rated award vested at 94% of target based on performance to 
December 31, 2023. Therefore, 37,069 ADS (including accrued 
dividends) vested on March 7, 2024, with a value at vesting of 
$2,369,792. A three-year holding period applies, which remains in 
force after termination.

Payments below £5,000 are not reported as they are considered 
de minimis.

TSR performance and CEO pay
Performance graph
The graph below compares the TSR performance of Shell plc over 
the past 10 financial years with that of the FTSE 100 Index. The Board 
regards this index as the most appropriate broad market equity index 
for comparison, following the move of Shell's headquarters to the UK. 
Data shown is for the performance of RDS B shares prior to the 
assimilation of Shell's shares into a single line of ordinary shares 
on January 29, 2022.

CEO pay outcomes
The table below the graphs sets out (i) the single figure of total 
remuneration, (ii) the annual bonus outcome, and (iii) the LTIP vesting 
outcome for the CEO for the past 10 years.

Historical TSR performance
Value of hypothetical £100 holding

£200

£150

£100

£50

£0

a

b

Shell plc

FTSE 100

Year

CEO

Single figure
of total remuneration (£000) [A]

Annual bonus award
(% of maximum opportunity)

LTIP vesting
(% of maximum opportunity)

Dec-13

Dec-14

Dec-15

Dec-16

Dec-17

Dec-18

Dec-19

Dec-20

Dec-21

Dec-22

Dec-23

a

b

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

Ben van Beurden

2023

Wael 
Sawan

19,510 [B]

4,049

7,046

7,811

17,817

8,746

5,197

6,344

9,698

7,940

94%

98%

66%

81%

79%

21%

—

64%

73%

78%

49%

8%

42%

35%

95%

74%

45%

25%

41%

47%

[A] Prior to 2022, the CEO's remuneration was denominated in EUR. Each year's single figure of total remuneration has been converted to GBP using the 12-month average exchange rates for 

the year.

[B] Ben van Beurden's single figure for 2014 was impacted by the increase in pension accrual calculated under the UK reporting regulations and tax equalisation as a result of his promotion and 

prior assignment to the UK.

205
205

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Percentage change in remuneration of the Directors and employees
The table below compares the remuneration of the Executive and Non-executive Directors of Shell plc with an employee comparator group 
consisting of local employees in the UK, the USA, and the Netherlands. The local employee population of these countries is considered to be a 
suitable employee comparator group because: these are countries with a significant Shell employee base; a large proportion of senior managers 
come from these countries; and the REMCO considers remuneration levels in these countries when setting base salaries for Executive Directors. For 
the purposes of comparison, the change in employee remuneration is calculated by reference to the change in salary scale, benefits and annual 
bonus for a notional employee in each of the base countries, not by reference to the actual change in pay for a group of employees.

Taxable benefits are those that align with the definition of taxable benefits applying in the respective country. In line with the "Single figure of total 
remuneration for Executive Directors" table, the annual bonus is included in the year in which it was earned (rather than paid).

Percentage change in remuneration of Directors and employees [A]

Salary/fees (% change)

Benefits (% change)

Annual bonus (% change)

2022-23

2021-22

2020-21

2019-20

2022-23

2021-22 2020-21 2019-20

2022-23 2021-22 2020-21

2019-20

Employees [B]

5.7%

2.4%

0.6%

3.0%

(10.2%)

(8.4%)

0%

0%

14.3%

(0.4%)

—

(100.0%)

— 

— 

— 

— 

Executive Directors 

Wael Sawan

— 

Sinead Gorman [C]

37.0%  

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(39.7%)

Non-executive Directors [D]

Dick Boer

Neil Carson

Ann Godbehere

Euleen Goh

Jane Holl Lute

Catherine Hughes

25.4%

— 

— 

(57.8%)

6.7%

4.6%

70.4%  

— 

389.8%  

85.6%

593.0%  

6.3%

3.6%

0.8%

9.4%

4.3%

2.9%

11.4%

15.8%

829.4% 1286.7%  

0.2%

360.1% 520.3%  

80.4%  

— 

— 

155.0% 1893.8%  

14.1%

2.8%

(10.0%)

435.0% 868.8%  

Martina Hund-Mejean

(58.4%)

8.6%

68.4%  

Sir Andrew Mackenzie

Sir Charles Roxburgh

— 

— 

57.0% 1473.0%  

— 

— 

Bram Schot

4.1%

10.1%

300.0%  

Leena Srivastava

Cyrus Taraporevala

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2085.4% 358.2%  

(57.5%)

(69.3%)

— 

702.6%  

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

45.8%  

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

[A] Where the value for the preceding year was zero or the individual was not in post and therefore no comparison data is available, '-' is recorded.
[B] Relates to change in pay for local employees in the UK, the USA and the Netherlands. 
[C] Sinead Gorman was appointed as CFO effective April 1, 2022. The changes in remuneration shown for 2022-23 are based on the period April 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 for 2022, 

and a full year for 2023.

[D] Non-executive Directors do not receive any short-term incentives. The increases shown reflect the individuals' appointment to the Board part-way through the prior year, or additional fees 

payable for joining Board Committees. For details of Board appointment and departure dates, see "Single figure of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors" on page 203.

Spend on pay can be compared with the major costs associated with 
generating income by referring to the "Consolidated Statement of 
Income". Over the last five years, the average spend on pay was 
around 5% of the major costs of generating income. These costs are 
considered to be the sum of: purchases; production and manufacturing 
expenses; selling, distribution and administrative expenses; research 
and development; exploration; and depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation.

External appointments
Neither Wael Sawan nor Sinead Gorman held any external
Non-executive Director positions during 2023.

Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out distributions to shareholders by way of 
dividends and share buybacks, and remuneration paid to or receivable 
by employees for the last five years, together with annual percentage 
changes.

Year

2023

2022

2021

2020

2019

Dividends and share 
buybacks [A]

Spend on pay (all 
employees) [B]

$ billion

23.0

25.8

9.1

9.1

25.4

Annual 
change

 (11%) 

 183 %

 — 

 (64%) 

 26 %

$ billion

Annual 
change

13.6

14.0

12.1

12.1

13.2

 (2%) 

 16 %

 — 

 (8%) 

 (1%) 

[A] Dividends paid and repurchases of shares as reported in the "Consolidated Statement of 

Changes in Equity".

[B] Employee costs, excluding redundancy costs, as reported in Note 32 to the "Consolidated 

Financial Statements".

206
206

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

Statement of voting at 2023 AGM
Shell's 2023 AGM was held on May 23, 2023. The result of the poll 
in respect of 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration was as follows:

Approval of 2022 Annual Report on Remuneration

Votes

For

Against

Total cast

Withheld [B]

Number

Percentage

3,932,918,278 

221,306,985 

4,154,225,263  [A]

30,948,299 

 94.67 %

 5.33 %

 100.00 %

[A] Representing 60.95% of issued share capital. 
[B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the 

proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.

The result of the poll in respect of the 2023 Directors' Remuneration 
Policy at the 2023 AGM was as follows:

Approval of 2023 Directors' Remuneration Policy

Votes

For

Against

Total cast

Withheld [B]

Number

Percentage

3,931,530,222

224,454,202

4,155,984,424 [A]

29,173,157

 94.60 %

 5.40 %

 100.00 %

[A] Representing 60.97% of issued share capital. 
[B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the 

proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.

CEO pay ratio

Option

25th percentile 
pay ratio

Median 
pay ratio

75th percentile 
pay ratio

2023

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

2022

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

2021

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

2020

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

2019

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

2018

A

Total pay and benefits:
Salary:

80:1

£99,599
£70,000

134:1

£72,632
£45,904

97:1

£65,123 
£43,550

93:1

£55,584 
£49,117

147:1

£59,419 
£40,417

202:1

£88,112 
£53,528

58:1

39:1

£136,066
£76,444

80:1

£121,847
£56,302

57:1

 £111,912 
£68,238

57:1

£90,972 
£75,365

87:1

£100,755 
£56,721

£205,115
£102,634

50:1

£192,995
£96,790

37:1

£170,289 
£101,000

38:1

£136,007 
£118,291

54:1

£161,717 
£79,991

143:1

92:1

£124,459 
£80,407

£193,027 
£96,074

Shell has chosen to use option A (as defined in UK reporting 
regulations) to calculate the CEO pay ratio in accordance with 
guidance from the UK government that this is the preferred approach 
and the most statistically accurate method for identifying the ratios. 
Under option A, a comparable single figure for all UK employees 
has been calculated in order to identify the employees whose pay 
and benefits are at the 25th, 50th (median) and 75th percentiles for 
comparison with the CEO. Employee pay has been calculated based 
on the total pay and benefits paid in respect of 2023 for all employees 
who were employed on December 31, 2023. For part-time workers and 
joiners in the year, pay and benefits have been annualised based on 
the proportion of their working time in the UK during the year. This is 

207
207

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

calculated with an approach consistent with the methodology for 
determining annual bonuses. The REMCO believes that this provides 
a fair and reasonable calculation of the pay ratios for Shell employees 
in the UK.

The ratio of the CEO's pay to the median UK employee is 58. The 
global pay ratio, calculated by comparing the CEO's single figure 
with the average employee headcount cost, is 78. The ratio at median 
for 2023 is lower than for 2022, reflecting a lower aggregate variable 
pay outcome for the new CEO in 2023 as compared with the previous 
CEO in 2022, and specifically, reflecting that his LTIP was granted prior 
to his appointment to the CEO role. Overall, the pay ratios are lower 
than in 2018 (the first year of reporting), reflecting reductions in the 
CEO bonus and LTIP opportunities over time, as well as changes in 
variable pay outcomes. The REMCO believes the CEO pay ratio for 
2023 is appropriate and consistent with Shell's philosophy of pay 
for performance.

Directors' employment arrangements and letters 
of appointment
Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. Non-
executive Directors, including the Chair, have letters of appointment. 
Details of Executive Directors' employment arrangements can be 
found in the Policy on page 216.

Further details of Non-executive Directors' terms of appointment can be found in the 

"Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 227 and the "Governance 

framework" report on page 160.

Compensation of Directors and Senior Management
During the year ended December 31, 2023, Shell paid and/or accrued 
compensation totalling $57 million (2022: $53 million) to Directors 
and Senior Management for services in all capacities while serving 
as a Director or member of Senior Management, including $2 million 
(2022: $2 million) accrued to provide pension, retirement and similar 
benefits. The amounts stated are those recognised in Shell's income 
attributable to Shell plc shareholders on an IFRS basis. See Note 33 
to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". Personal loans or 
guarantees were not provided to Directors or Senior Management.

Workforce engagement on remuneration matters
Workforce engagement
Our employees are fundamental to our success. Fostering a 
collaborative culture and reinforcing a learner mindset is central to 
delivering Powering Progress. The Board's view is that all Directors 
have a collective responsibility for workforce engagement, ensuring 
that employees' voices are heard on all business matters, including 
pay, and that the Company communicates effectively to employees 
on our remuneration policies and practices.

The Board and management regularly engage with the workforce 
through a range of formal and informal channels. These include 
webcasts and all-employee messages from our CEO and other senior 
leaders; town halls and team meetings; virtual coffee connects; 
interviews with senior management; internal social platforms; and 
focused engagements. During interactive sessions, employees have 
the opportunity to ask about any topic, including pay. The Board's 
preference is to build on existing, long-standing channels of 
engagement for discussions around remuneration. During the 
year, management engaged with the workforce on what the 
2023 performance metrics meant for each of us, giving 
employees the opportunity to ask any questions on this topic. 

We conduct annual employee surveys, which receive high levels of 
response (88% in 2023, an all-time high). The Board was pleased to 
note strong results for the 2023 Shell People Survey, maintaining the 
outcomes for 2022 in a number of engagement-related categories. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

These are very encouraging results and are testament to Shell's 
strength, maturity, and resilience.

as the UK gender and ethnicity pay gap analyses. In this way, the 
REMCO is able to satisfy itself that reward across Shell is aligned 
to our strategy, culture, and long-term sustainable success.

Wider employee context
The REMCO receives annual updates on workforce remuneration 
topics, including employees' views on pay matters; CEO pay ratio; 
workforce reward philosophy and principles; alignment of Shell values 
and behaviours with remuneration practices; and general employee 
salary planning and variable pay outcomes, taking account of the cost 
of living environment and the impact of this on our colleagues. The 
REMCO is also periodically updated on wider employee matters such 

Shell adheres to its fair pay principles in all remuneration-related 
matters. Pay in Shell is market-competitive, free from bias, and provides 
security to our employees. Shell sets clear performance expectations, 
gives employees the opportunity to share in Shell's success through a 
variety of variable pay schemes, and is transparent and clear in its 
communication of remuneration. For more information, visit the 
"Human Rights" section of shell.com.

How executive remuneration aligns with wider Company pay policy
Executive remuneration structures in Shell are strongly aligned with the structures for the broader workforce, as set out in the table below.

Element

Comparison of Executive Director and wider workforce arrangements

Salary

The Executive Directors' salaries are reviewed with reference to the factors set out in the Policy, against defined comparator groups. The market-
competitiveness of wider workforce salaries is assessed at a base country level.

Pension and 
benefits

The Executive Directors' pension benefits are aligned with those offered to employees who joined Shell from 2013 onwards in the UK. Shell does not 
operate separate executive pension arrangements. All Group employees participate in the relevant pension plan for their base country based on their 
date of joining.

The Executive Directors are eligible to receive the same benefits available to the broader workforce.

Annual
bonus

The Group scorecard applicable to Group employees is identical to that applicable to Executive Directors in terms of performance measures, 
weightings, and targets. For the wider workforce, an additional multiplier applies based on individual performance during the year. No individual 
multiplier applies to Executive Directors, and further, 50% of the bonus is paid in shares, and the bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions.

Long-term 
incentives

Executive Directors and around 130 senior executives participate in the LTIP on the same terms. Executive Directors' LTIP awards are subject to a three-
year holding period. A further c.17,800 employees participate in the PSP; 50% of the performance conditions are the same as those for the LTIP.

Shareholding 
guidelines

The Executive Directors have the highest shareholding guidelines in the Company, which are set at 700% and 500% of salary for the CEO and the 
CFO, respectively. These guidelines continue post termination for a period of two years.

Shareholding guidelines extend into the organisation to senior manager level. Employees are required to achieve their individual guideline within a 
specified timeframe, as is the case for Executive Directors.

Statement of planned implementation of Policy in 2024
A summary of how the shareholder-approved Policy will be applied to 
Directors' remuneration for 2024 is set out below.

Salaries
Effective January 1, 2024, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received 
an increase of 3.9%, and salaries for 2024 are £1,455,000 and 
£961,000, respectively.

Executive Directors
Comparator group
The benchmarking comparator group for 2024 remains consistent with 
that used in prior years, and consists of other oil majors (BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil, and TotalEnergies) and a selection of major Europe-based 
companies. The oil majors are included in the comparator group as 
these represent our closest direct competitors operating in similar 
market conditions. The Europe-based companies are selected based 
on their size, complexity and global reach. The REMCO retains the 
right to alter the comparator group as it sees fit to ensure it remains 
an appropriate and relevant benchmark.

The REMCO uses benchmark data from these companies only 
as a guide to the competitiveness of the remuneration packages. 
The REMCO does not seek to position remuneration at any 
defined point against the comparator data.

European comparator group

Allianz

AstraZeneca

BAT

Bayer

Diageo

Glencore

GSK

Mercedes-Benz

Nestle

Novartis

Rio Tinto

Roche

Siemens

Unilever

Vodafone

In reviewing the Executive Directors' salaries, the REMCO carefully 
considered the external environment, and the increases provided to the 
Shell workforce in the key markets of the UK (4.5%), the USA (3.1%), 
and the Netherlands (4.3%). The Executive Directors' increases for 
2024 were positioned below other UK employees and in line with 
the average across the key markets and the REMCO recognised 
the "multiplier effect on total remuneration".

Annual bonus
The REMCO reviewed the bonus scorecard during the year and 
considered that it remained well aligned with our strategic and operational 
priorities. Shell’s energy transition plans cover all its businesses, and the 
REMCO updated the annual bonus scorecard accordingly. It determined 
to introduce a measure focussing on the operational performance of the 
LNG business, alongside existing metrics of operational emissions 
reduction and electric vehicle charge points. The 2023 scorecard had 
two Downstream metrics, being electric vehicle charge points and "selling 
lower-carbon products". Electric vehicle charge points has been retained 
as the Downstream metric, aligning to become a global leader in public 
charging for electric vehicles. The performance measures, weightings and 
link to strategy for the 2024 performance year are set out overleaf. See 
the Chair's Statement for further details of changes in light of ETS24.

In the interest of simplification and alignment of the two Executive 
Directors in delivering the operating plan (the primary focus of the annual 
bonus), the CFO's target bonus will be aligned to that of the CEO from 
2024, and will be 125% of salary (and maximum bonus will be 250% 
of salary). There is no change to the shareholder-approved Policy.

208
208

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

2024 annual bonus measures, weightings,
and link to strategy

2024 LTIP performance conditions, weightings, 
and link to strategy

Performance measure

Weighting

Performance condition

Weighting

Financial delivery

35%

Cash generation [A]

25%

Operational excellence

35%

TSR [A]

25%

Shell's journey in 
the energy transition

Safety

15%

Organic free cash flow [B]

25%

15%

Shell's journey in the 
energy transition [B]

25%

Link to strategy 

[A] 

  Relative measures  [B] 

  Absolute measures

Financial delivery
 ■ Cash flow from 

operating activities (35%)

Supports our financial priority to generate 
cash to fund shareholder distributions and 
capital investment.

Underpins delivery of our financial 
framework and ambitions to progress 
in the energy transition.

Drives a direct focus on Shell's plans for the 
energy transition.

Drives an ongoing focus on personal 
and process safety.

Operational excellence
 ■ Asset management 
excellence (15%) 

 ■ Project delivery 
excellence (10%)

 ■ Customer excellence (10%)

Shell's journey in 
the energy transition
 ■ LNG volumes [A] (5%)
 ■ Reducing operational 

emissions (5%)

 ■ Supporting customer 
decarbonisation (5%)

Safety (15%)
 ■ Serious Injury and 

Fatality Frequency (7.5%)

 ■ Tier 1 and 2 process 

safety (7.5%)

[A] Equity liquefaction

Scorecard targets will be disclosed in the subsequent Directors' 
Remuneration Report when they are no longer deemed to be 
commercially sensitive.

Long-term Incentive Plan
On February 2, 2024, a conditional award of performance shares 
under the LTIP was made to the Executive Directors resulting in 
169,937 Shell plc shares being awarded to Wael Sawan and 101,051 
to Sinead Gorman. The awards had a face value of 300% (maximum 
performance outcome 600%) of salary for Wael Sawan and 270% 
(maximum performance outcome 540%) of salary for Sinead Gorman, 
excluding potential share price appreciation and dividends. 2024 LTIP 
awards to Executive Directors are based on salaries as at December 31 
the prior year, consistent with the rest of the organisation. 

The REMCO reviewed the award levels in the context of share price 
movement over the year prior to award, and determined that the risk 
of windfall gain was limited and therefore no adjustment was made.

Performance is measured over the three-year period January 1, 2024 
to December 31, 2026. The performance measures, weightings and 
link to strategy for the 2024 award are set out below. The REMCO 
reviewed the LTIP performance conditions and adjusted the metrics 
under the "Shell's journey in the energy transition" performance 
condition in light of ETS24.

Link to strategy

Vesting schedule 
(% of initial LTIP award)

Cash generation (defined as 
CFFO/average capital employed)
Measurement of Shell's ability to generate the 
top-line cashflows to finance investment in our 
business and shareholder distributions.

1st – 200%
2nd – 150%
3rd – 80%
4th or 5th – 0%

TSR
Assessment of actual value created for 
shareholders.

Performance ranked against 
the other energy majors: BP, 
Chevron, ExxonMobil and 
TotalEnergies.

Organic free cash flow
Recognition of the importance of generating 
cash after net capital expenditure to service 
and reduce debt, pay dividends, buy back 
shares and make future capital investments.

Maximum – 200%
Target – 100%
Threshold – 40%
Below  threshold – 0%

Shell's journey in the energy transition 
Measures focused on Shell's plans for the 
energy transition.

OFCF targets are set 
annually for each annual 
operating plan.

Performance assessment will 
be based on the REMCO's 
holistic assessment of 
progress towards reducing 
Shell's operational emissions 
and supporting our customers 
to reduce emissions.

Holding period
Three-year holding period, which remains in force post tenure.

Performance framework for 2024 LTIP "Shell's journey in the 
energy transition" performance condition
Shell was the first major energy company to introduce a dedicated 
energy transition performance condition to its LTIP in 2019. One of the 
REMCO's key learnings since then has been the need for agility and 
the importance of a holistic assessment of the achievement of strategic 
intent. This approach will continue in 2024, and the REMCO will 
provide a full disclosure of all material factors, both quantitative and 
qualitative, that it took into account in reaching the vesting decision.

The REMCO's determination of the extent to which awards will vest 
will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards reducing 
emissions from our operations and supporting our customers to 
reduce their emissions. This will be based on our journey to net-zero 
climate targets for our own operations of:
￮ Halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 under operational control 

on a net basis (2016 baseline); 

￮ Eliminating routine flaring from upstream operations by 2025 [A]; 

and 

￮ Maintaining methane emissions intensity below 0.2% and achieving 

near-zero methane emissions by 2030. 

[A] Subject to completion of the sale of SPDC.

209
209

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued

The REMCO will also take account of progress in developments 
that support the energy transition to 2030 and beyond, such as the 
development of our Power business (including renewables), lower-
carbon LNG, biofuels, electric vehicle charging, hydrogen and CCS. 

Non-executive Directors' fees

Non-executive Directors' fees 2024

£ Other fees

Chair of the Board

Non-executive Director

Senior Independent Director

Audit and Risk Committee

Chair [A]

Member

Sustainability Committee

Chair [A]

Member

Nomination and Succession Committee

Chair [A]

Member

Remuneration Committee

Chair [A]

Member

850,000 Non-executive 
120,000

Directors receive 
an additional fee 
of £4,000 for any 
Board meeting 
involving 
intercontinental 
travel – except for 
one meeting a year 
held in a location 
other than London.

49,000

55,000

25,000

31,000

15,000

22,000

11,000

42,000

15,000

[A] The chair of a Committee does not receive an additional fee for membership of that 

Committee.

The Company Chair fee is determined by the REMCO, and for 2024 
increases to £850,000 (from £785,000), taking into account fee levels 
at other major listed companies. The Chair of the Board does not 
receive any additional fee for chairing the Nomination and Succession 
Committee or attending any other Board Committee meeting.

The Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee. There are additional 
fees for the Senior Independent Director, a Board Committee chair or 
a Board Committee member, and for most Board meetings involving 
intercontinental travel. Business expenses (including transport between 
home and office and occasional business-required partner travel) 
and associated tax are paid or reimbursed by Shell. 

The Board reviews Non-executive Directors' fees periodically to ensure 
that they are aligned with those of other major listed companies. 
During these reviews the Board considers fees in the top 30 companies 
within the FTSE100 Index and the European comparator group as its 
primary points of reference. For 2024, fees for the Audit and Risk 
Committee Chair and Members increase to £55,000 (from £53,000) 
and £25,000 (from £22,000), respectively, and the REMCO Chair 
fee increases to £42,000 (from £36,000). These fee increases take 
into account market fee levels. All other fees remain unchanged.

We will take into account progress towards achieving a 15-20% 
reduction in NCI by 2030 (2016 baseline), a 15-20% reduction in 
customer emissions from the use of our oil products by 2030 (2021 
baseline) [A], as well as Shell's wider performance in accelerating 
the energy transition, e.g. demonstrating leadership and advocacy 
in standard setting, alongside any other factors that the REMCO 
considers relevant.
[A] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) 

were 517 million tonnes CO2e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO2e in 2021.

Pension
Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman are eligible to participate in 
the defined contribution UK Shell Pension Plan with an employer 
contribution rate of up to 20% of salary, or take this as a pension 
cash alternative. The UK Shell Pension Plan or associated pension 
cash alternative is available to Shell employees in the UK who 
joined Shell from 2013 onwards at the same contribution levels.

Benefits 
Executive Directors are provided with a chauffeured car for business 
travel, including home-to-office commuting. Other benefits, such as 
medical and other risk benefits are in line with those provided to 
the general workforce.

210
210

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy

The Directors' Remuneration Policy sets out:

￮ A summary of shareholder-approved changes to the 

Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 211;

￮ Executive Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 212; and
￮ Non-executive Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 217.

This section describes the Directors' Remuneration Policy (the Policy) 
which, following shareholder approval at the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), came into effect from May 23, 2023, and will 
be effective until the 2026 AGM, unless a revised Policy is proposed 
by the Company and approved by shareholders in the meantime.

The principles underpinning the REMCO's approach to executive 
remuneration are the foundation for everything we do and are:
￮ Alignment with Shell's strategy and sustainability: the Executive 
Directors' compensation package should promote the long-term, 
sustainable success of Shell, and be strongly linked to the 
achievement of stretching targets that are indicators of the
execution of Shell's strategy; 

￮ Pay for performance: the majority of the Executive Directors' 

compensation, (excluding benefits and pensions), should be linked 
directly to Shell's performance through variable pay instruments; 

￮ Competitiveness: remuneration levels should be determined by 
reference internally against Shell's Senior Management and 
externally against companies of comparable size, complexity
and global scope; 

￮ Long-term creation of shareholder value: Executive Directors should 
align their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares
in Shell;

￮ Consistency: the remuneration structure for Executive Directors 

should generally be consistent with the remuneration structure for 
Shell's Senior Management. This consistency builds a culture of 
alignment with Shell's purpose and a common approach to sharing 
in Shell's success; and

￮ Risk assessment: decisions should be made in the context of the Shell 
General Business Principles and Code of Conduct. The remuneration 
structures and rewards should meet risk assessment tests to ensure 
that shareholders' interests are safeguarded and that inappropriate 
actions are avoided.

The Executive Directors' remuneration structure is made up of a fixed 
element of basic pay and two variable elements: the annual bonus 
(50% delivered in shares) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 
Variable pay outcomes are conditional on the successful execution of 
the operating plan in the short term, and the delivery of strategic goals 
and financial and share price outperformance over the longer term.
The award of shares under the bonus and LTIP, along with significant 
shareholding requirements, are intended to ensure executives have a 
sizeable shareholding in the Company and experience the same 
outcomes as our shareholders.

During 2022, the REMCO reviewed the Policy to ensure that it 
continued to support Shell's strategy. The REMCO determined that 
the 2020 Policy remained appropriate in most respects, and required 
changes only to reflect the transition of our Executive Directors to the 
UK to align with market practice and for simplification. For each area 
of the Policy, the REMCO reviewed the alignment with strategy, market 
practice, the corporate governance environment, and feedback from 
shareholders, and additionally spent time updating the selection 
and calibration of performance metrics in variable pay schemes. Any 
potential conflict of interest was mitigated by the independence of the 
REMCO members and the REMCO Terms of Reference. The REMCO 
also considered the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
when reviewing the Policy, and sought to reflect the principles of clarity, 
simplicity, risk management, predictability, proportionality and 
alignment with culture.

A comparison of the 2023 and 2020 Policies is set out below.

Remuneration 
element

Changes to 2020 Policy

Executive Directors

Rationale for the change

Base salary

￮ Salary cap amended from €2 million to £2 million.

￮ To reflect the transition of the Executive Directors to the UK.

Pension 

Severance 
policy

Annual bonus 
and LTIP rules

Leaver 
treatment

TSR underpin
in LTIP

￮ Move from base country arrangements to defined contribution pension 

arrangements applicable to the wider Shell workforce in the UK.

￮ New service contracts under which both the employee and the employer can 
terminate employment by giving 12 months' written notice, replacing the 
previous provision which reflected Dutch statutory provisions.

￮ REMCO discretion to suspend annual bonus or share award vesting pending 

the outcome of an investigation in exceptional circumstances.

￮ To allow sufficient time for investigation, as required.

￮ REMCO discretion to waive remaining bonus/LTIP holding period in 

exceptional circumstances (primarily death).

￮ To align with market practice.

￮ TSR underpin to be removed from the LTIP.

￮ To simplify the plan and align with market practice.

Non-executive Directors

Retirement gift

￮ Maximum value amended from €300 to £300.

￮ To reflect the transition to the UK.

211
211

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Executive Directors' Remuneration Policy table

Purpose and link to strategy

Maximum opportunity

Operation and performance measurement

Base salary

Provides a fixed level of earnings to 
attract and retain Executive 
Directors.

£2,000,000

Reviewed annually with adjustments effective from January 1.

In making salary determinations, the REMCO will consider:
the market positioning of the compensation packages;
￮
￮ comparison with Senior Management salaries; 
￮

the employee context, and planned average salary increase for other employees 
across the UK, the Netherlands, and the USA;
the experience, skills and performance of the Executive Director, or any change in the 
scope and responsibility of their role;

￮

Benefits

Provides benefits, typically in line 
with those applicable to the wider 
workforce, in order to attract and 
retain Executive Directors.

Determined by the nature of the 
benefit itself and costs of provision, 
and may depend on external 
factors, e.g. insurance costs.

Pension

Provides a competitive defined 
contribution pension provision 
applicable to the wider workforce 
in the UK to attract and retain 
Executive Directors.

Determined by the rules of the 
defined contribution UK pension 
arrangements.

Annual bonus

Rewards the delivery of short-term 
operational targets as derived from 
Shell's operating plan.

Aligns the interests of Executive 
Directors and shareholders, and 
supports retention, through long-
term holding in shares.

Target bonus: 125% of 
base salary.

Maximum bonus: 200% 
of target.

￮ general economic conditions, Shell's financial performance, and governance trends; 

and
the impact of salary increases on pension benefits and other elements of the package.

￮

Typical benefits include car allowances, home-to-office transport, risk benefits (for 
example ill health, disability or death-in-service), security provision, and employer 
contributions to insurance plans (such as medical) including Directors' liability insurance. 
In the event an international relocation is required either prior to appointment or while 
appointed, Shell's mobility policies may apply and the REMCO may offer appropriate 
provisions in respect of items including, but not limited to, relocation, assistance with 
visa/immigration/tax issues, and tax return support. It may also provide housing and 
education assistance for a specified period of time, expected to be no more than two 
years. Tax equalisation related to expatriate employment prior to Board appointment, 
or in other limited circumstances to offset double taxation, may also be provided.

Precise benefits will depend on the Executive Director's specific circumstances and may 
include any tax liabilities relating to business-related benefits such as in the case of 
security or relocation provisions. 

The REMCO may adjust the range and scope of the benefits offered in the context of 
developments for other employees in the country which the Executive Director is based. 
Personal loans or guarantees are not provided to Executive Directors.

Executive Directors' retirement benefits are maintained in line with those of the wider 
Shell workforce in the UK. Only base salary is pensionable, unless plan regulations 
specify otherwise and cannot legally be disapplied. The rules of the relevant plan detail 
the pension benefits which members can receive. The REMCO retains the right to amend 
the form of any Executive Director's pension arrangements where appropriate, for 
example in response to changes in legislation to ensure the original objective of this 
element of remuneration is preserved.

New Executive Directors based in the UK, whether internal appointees or external hires, 
will be provided with the defined contribution arrangement, applicable to the wider Shell 
workforce in the UK, which currently includes the flexibility to take this as a pension cash 
alternative.

￮ The bonus is determined by reference to performance from January 1 to December 31 

each year.

￮ Annual bonus = base salary x target bonus % x scorecard result (0–2).
￮ The scorecard is reviewed each year, taking account of Shell's operating plan, to 
ensure that the performance measures, targets and weightings are appropriate. 
Performance measures typically relate to financial delivery, operational excellence, 
progress in the energy transition, and safety, with indicative weightings of 35%, 35%, 
15% and 15% respectively. This helps to balance short-term financial performance with 
the achievement of a broader set of strategic and operational objectives to support 
long-term shareholder value creation. The REMCO retains the flexibility to adjust 
performance measures, weightings and targets on a year-by-year basis, within the 
terms of the Policy.

￮ Scorecard targets are disclosed on a retrospective basis in a subsequent Annual 

Report on Remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive.

￮ To reinforce alignment with shareholder interests, 50% of any bonus earned is 

delivered in cash and 50% is delivered in net-of-tax shares. The shares are subject to 
a three-year holding period from the end of the performance period the award relates 
to, which applies beyond an Executive Director's tenure. The REMCO retains 
discretion to waive any part of this holding period in exceptional circumstances 
(primarily death).

￮ The bonus is subject to malus provisions before it is delivered, and to clawback 

thereafter for a period of three years.

212
212

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Executive Directors' Remuneration Policy table continued

Purpose and link to strategy

Maximum opportunity

Operation and performance management

Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)

Rewards longer-term value 
creation linked to Shell's strategy. 
The measures focus on financial 
performance, capital discipline 
and the achievement of Shell's 
ambitions in the energy transition.

Aligns the interests of Executive 
Directors and shareholders, and 
supports retention through long-term 
holding in shares.

Discretion, malus and clawback

Enables the management of risks 
from behaviour-based incentive 
schemes and the REMCO to manage 
the range of pay outcomes.

Target award: 300% of base salary. 

￮ Award levels are determined in respect of any financial year by the REMCO 

Awards may vest at up to 200% of 
the shares originally awarded, plus 
dividends.

within the Policy maximum.

￮ Awards may vest at between 0% and 200% of the initial award, depending 
on Shell's performance, assessed over a three-year performance period, 
on an absolute basis and/or on a relative basis against an appropriate 
comparator group.

￮ Performance measures and weightings are reviewed and set by the REMCO at 
the beginning of each three-year performance period, taking account of Shell's 
strategic priorities. 

￮ Notional dividends accrue over the vesting period in respect of awards that vest.
￮ To reinforce alignment with shareholder interests, net of tax shares delivered from 
vested awards are subject to a three-year holding period from the end of the 
performance period the award relates to, which applies beyond an Executive 
Director's tenure. The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of this holding 
period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).

￮ Dividends accrue over the vesting period in respect of awards that vest.
￮ The award is subject to malus provisions before vesting, and to clawback 

provisions thereafter for a period of three years.

Adjustment events exist for the 
purposes of applying malus and 
clawback.

￮ The REMCO retains the discretion to adjust mathematical outcomes of the annual 

bonus scorecard and/or LTIP vesting for any Executive Director if and to the 
extent that it considers this appropriate at their sole discretion.

￮ The REMCO may adjust pay outcomes for the purposes of managing quantum. 
This would be done at the REMCO's discretion after considering single figure 
outcome for the year, taking into account Shell's performance, the operation 
of the remuneration structures and any other relevant considerations.
In exceptional circumstances, the REMCO may determine that the vesting of 
an annual bonus or a share award should be suspended pending the outcome 
of an investigation. The suspension may be for such period as the REMCO 
considers sufficient to permit the investigation to be concluded.

￮

￮ The use of any discretion will be disclosed and explained.

￮ Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding to the required 

level over a period of five years from appointment and, once reached, to 
maintain this level for the full period of their appointment. The intention is for the 
shareholding guideline to be reached through retention of vested shares from 
share plans. The REMCO will monitor progress and retains the ability to adjust 
the guideline in special circumstances on an individual basis.
In the event of an increase to the guideline, this timeframe is increased by one 
year for every additional multiple of salary required, subject to a maximum of 
five years from the date of the change. 

￮

￮ The Executive Director will be required to maintain their shareholding requirement 
(or existing shareholding if lower) for a period of two years from the date they 
cease to be an employee. Post-termination holding is enforced through the 
arrangements put in place with the employee on termination.
In the event that another Executive Director joins the Board, the REMCO will 
determine their shareholding requirement level, which will not be less than 200% 
of salary, in line with corporate governance best practice.

￮

￮ Vested shares from incentive plans (including bonus and LTIP shares subject to 

holding period) count towards the requirement. The REMCO monitors individual 
progress and retains the ability to adjust the guideline in special circumstances 
on an individual basis.

The REMCO retains discretion 
to adjust pay outcomes.

Shareholding requirements

Aligns interests of Executive Directors 
with those of shareholders by 
creating a connection between 
individual wealth and Shell's long-
term performance.

Shareholding (% of base salary):
￮ CEO: 700%
￮ CFO: 500%

213
213

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Notes to the Policy table
Executive Directors outside of the UK
In respect of salary, benefits and pension, in the event that an Executive 
Director is based outside of the UK, the REMCO reserves the right to 
determine the individual's remuneration arrangements in line with their 
base or host country, within the spirit of the Policy.

Payments from previously agreed remuneration arrangements
The REMCO reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the Policy
came into effect, or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual was
not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the REMCO,
the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming
a Director of the Company. The REMCO also reserves the right to
honour pre-existing contractual obligations in accordance with the 
terms of the service contract and relevant incentive plan. Details
of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration as they arise.

Selection of performance measures
For the 2023 performance year, the annual bonus scorecard will 
consist of financial delivery (35%), operational excellence (35%), 
progress in the energy transition (15%), and safety (15%). Targets are 
derived from the annual business plan. These measures are designed 
to drive focus on the financial and operational performance critical to 
our success in delivering our Powering Progress strategy. The REMCO 
believes it is important for annual variable pay to remain balanced, 
with short-term operational components complementing the LTIP's 
focus on longer-term financial and strategic outcomes. The same 
annual bonus scorecard applies to the majority of Group employees, 
supporting consistency of remuneration and alignment of objectives 
across employees and senior management.

For 2023 LTIP awards, performance will be assessed based on 75% 
financial metrics (relative CFFO divided by average capital employed, 
relative TSR, absolute OFCF, equally weighted) and 25% on a strategic 
measure focused on Shell's journey in the energy transition. These 
metrics are designed to support our strategic ambition of accelerating 
our transition to be a net-zero emissions business while creating value 
for our shareholders.

For the relative measures, 200% vests for first position, 150% 
for second, 80% for third, and 0% for ranking fourth or fifth. The 
comparator group consists of four of the strongest companies in our 
industry (BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies). Outperforming 
Shell's closest competitors on key financial metrics is challenging. 
A vesting outcome of 80% of target (40% of maximum) for median 
performance in a small comparator group is considered appropriate 
by the REMCO. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median 
performance is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other 
UK companies. However, these are typically applied against a larger 
comparator group.

To simplify the plan and align with market practice, the TSR underpin 
has been removed from the plan effective from 2024 awards.

Discretion
There are a number of specific areas in which the REMCO may 
exercise discretion, including: 
￮ To review the specific measures, weightings and targets for the 
annual bonus scorecard and LTIP award annually and adjust 
accordingly to evolve with Shell's strategy and circumstances to 
ensure that the targets remain stretching but realistic. If the REMCO 
were to propose any material changes to the LTIP performance 
metrics, it would consult with major shareholders; and

￮ To adjust mathematical variable pay outcomes if and to the extent 

that it considers this appropriate. This power to adjust the outcomes 
is broad and includes adjusting the outcomes to zero. For example, 
an adjustment might be made if the REMCO considers:
– The mathematical outcomes do not reflect the wider financial 

or non-financial performance of the Company or the participant 
over the performance period;

– The LTIP vesting percentage is not appropriate in the context of 

circumstances that were unexpected or unforeseen at award; and 

– There is any other reason why an adjustment is appropriate. 

It is not anticipated that discretion would be used for upwards 
adjustment. If, in exceptional circumstances, it was considered, this 
would be done only after consultation with major shareholders.

Performance outcomes and/or share price movements make it difficult 
to predict the final amounts delivered under the LTIP at the time of 
award. Each year, the REMCO reviews the LTIP vesting values and 
single figure outcomes for the Executive Directors to ensure that they 
are appropriate. The REMCO will review the formulaic single figure 
outcomes relative to the quality of performance outcomes and adjust 
these, taking into account Shell's performance, shareholder experience, 
the operation of the remuneration structures and any other relevant 
factors to ensure that the highest variable pay outcomes are only 
achieved in years with the highest quality performance. In years where 
the vesting outcome makes the total remuneration inappropriate for 
any Executive Director, the REMCO will consider an adjustment to 
the annual bonus outcome and/or the LTIP vesting outcome for the 
purposes of managing remuneration quantum. In making any 
adjustment to the annual bonus and/or LTIP vesting outcome for this 
purpose, REMCO will consider the overall level of remuneration for the 
Executive Director, the operation of the annual bonus, the operation of 
the LTIP, the wider performance of Shell over the performance periods, 
as well as the internal context for other employees. An explanation of 
any discretionary adjustment would be set out in the relevant year's 
Directors' Remuneration Report.

Malus and clawback
Variable pay awards may be made subject to adjustment events. 
At the discretion of the REMCO, such an award may be adjusted 
before delivery (malus) or reclaimed after delivery (clawback) if an 
adjustment event occurs.

Adjustment events will be specified in award documentation and it is 
intended that they will, for example, relate to restatement of financial 
statements due to material non-compliance with a financial reporting 
requirement; misconduct by an Executive Director or misconduct 
through their direction or non-direction; any material breach of health 
and safety or environment regulations; serious reputational damage 
to Shell; material failure of risk management; corporate failure; or other 
exceptional events as determined at the discretion of the REMCO. The 
REMCO retains the right to alter the list of adjustment events in respect 
of future awards.

214
214

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors from that for other employees
The remuneration policies, structure, and approach to setting 
remuneration levels are consistent across organisational levels at Shell, 
with consideration given to location, seniority and responsibilities. 
A higher proportion of total remuneration is tied to variable pay for 
Executive Directors and members of Senior Management, to reflect 
these individuals' positions of influence and accountability.

Detailed discussion of how executive remuneration aligns with wider Company pay policy 

may be found in the "Workforce engagement on remuneration matters" section of the Annual 

Report on Remuneration on page 207.

Illustration of potential remuneration outcomes 
The charts on this page illustrate the potential future value and 
composition of the Executive Directors' total remuneration opportunities 
under four performance scenarios ("Minimum", "On-target", "Maximum" 
and "Maximum +50% share price appreciation between award and 
vest"). The remuneration opportunities are based on those set out in 
the Policy table, applied to 2023 base salaries. The majority of the 
Executive Directors' remuneration is delivered through variable pay 
elements, which are conditional on the achievement of stretching 
performance targets.

For simplicity, the charts exclude dividend accrual, and exclude 
the effect of any Company share price movement except in the 
"Maximum +50%" scenario.

Performance scenarios

Minimum

Target

Maximum

CEO pay scenarios (£ million)

Minimum

100%

1.72

On-target

22%

23%

55%

7.67

a

b

c

Fixed remuneration

Annual incentive

Long-term incentive

Maximum

12%

26%

62%

13.62

Maximum +50%
share price
appreciation

10%

19%

a

b

71%

c

17.82

0

5

10

15

20

CFO pay scenarios (£ million)

Minimum

100%

1.14

On-target

24%

23%

53%

4.75

a

b

c

Fixed remuneration

Annual incentive

Long-term incentive

Maximum

14%

26%

60%

8.36

Maximum +50%
share price
appreciation

11%

20%

a

b

69%

c

10.85

0

4

8

12

Recruitment
The REMCO determines the remuneration package for new Executive 
Director appointments. These appointments may involve external 
or internal recruitment, or reflect a change in role of a current 
Executive Director.

Base salary (2023)

Benefits (2022 actual) [A]

Pension (2023)

Bonus (2023)

LTIP (2023)

P

P

P

NIL

NIL

[A] Excluding one-off benefits related to the move to the UK.

P

P

P

P

P

P

125% CEO

250% CEO

When determining remuneration packages for new Executive Directors, 
the REMCO will seek a balanced outcome which allows Shell to:
￮ Attract and motivate candidates of the right quality;
￮ Take into account the individual's current remuneration package

and other contractual entitlements;

120% CFO

240% CFO

￮ Seek a competitive pay position relative to our comparator group, 

300% CEO

600% CEO

270% CFO

540% CFO

without overpaying;

￮ Encourage relocation if required; and
￮ Honour entitlements (for example, variable remuneration) of internal 
candidates before their promotion to the Board, with the exception 
of any previous pension arrangements. 

The REMCO will follow the approach set out below when determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director.

Component

Approach

Ongoing 
remuneration

The salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension benefits will be positioned and 
delivered within the framework of the Policy.

Compensation for 
the forfeiture of any 
awards under 
variable 
remuneration 
arrangements

To facilitate external recruitment, one-off compensation in consideration for forfeited awards under 
variable remuneration arrangements entered into with a previous employer may be required. The 
REMCO will use its judgement to determine the appropriate level of compensation by matching the 
value of any lost awards under variable remuneration arrangements with the candidate's previous 
employer. This compensation may take the form of a one-off cash payment or an additional award 
under the LTIP. The compensation can alternatively be based on a newly created long-term incentive 
plan arrangement where the only participant is the new Director. The intention is that any such 
compensation would, as far as possible, align to the duration and structure of the award being 
forfeited. Where appropriate, performance conditions, holding periods, and malus and clawback 
provisions will apply.

Maximum

As stated in the Executive Directors' 
Remuneration Policy table, and 
notes to the table.

An amount equal to the value of 
the forfeited variable remuneration 
awards, as assessed by the 
REMCO. Consideration will be 
given to appropriate performance 
conditions, performance periods 
and clawback arrangements.

215
215

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Component

Approach

Replacement of 
forfeited entitlements 
other than any 
awards under 
variable 
remuneration 
arrangements

Exceptional 
recruitment incentive

There may also be a need to compensate a new Executive Director in respect of forfeited 
entitlements other than any awards under variable remuneration arrangements. This could include, 
for example, contractual entitlements or other benefits. On recruitment, these entitlements may be 
replicated within the Executive Director's remuneration package or valued by the REMCO and 
compensated in cash.

In cases of internal promotion to the Board, any commitments made which cannot be effectively 
replaced within the Executive Director's remuneration package may, at the REMCO's discretion, 
continue to be honoured.

Apart from the ongoing annual remuneration package and any compensation in respect of the 
replacement of forfeited entitlements, there may be circumstances in which the REMCO needs to 
offer a one-off recruitment incentive in the form of cash or shares to ensure the right external 
candidate is attracted (e.g. to the industry). The REMCO recognises the importance of internal 
succession planning but it must also have the ability to compete for talent with other global 
companies. The necessity and level of this incentive will depend on the individual's circumstances. 
The intention will be that this is only used in genuinely exceptional circumstances. 

Relocation

In the event that an internal or external candidate were required to relocate internationally to take 
up the Executive Director position, the REMCO may offer appropriate relocation provisions in 
respect of items including, but not limited to, relocation, assistance with visa/immigration issues, 
housing, and education assistance. If provided, these will be for a specified period of time, expected 
to be no more than two years.

Maximum

An amount equal to the value of 
the forfeited entitlements, as 
assessed by the REMCO.

A one-off amount up to the limits set 
out in the Executive Directors' 
Remuneration Policy table, in 
addition to the ongoing package.

The level of such benefits would be 
set at an appropriate level by the 
REMCO, taking into account the 
circumstances, provisions 
applicable to the wider 
internationally mobile workforce, 
and typical market practice.

Executive Directors' service contracts and end of employment arrangements (including change of control provisions)

Provision

Policy

Service contracts

Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. Executive Directors based in the UK will be employed on service contracts 
governed by the laws of England and Wales.

Notice period

The Executive Director or the Company may terminate employment by giving 12 months' written notice. The Company may require the 
Executive Director to be on garden leave during all or any of the notice period (whether notice is given by the Company or the Executive 
Director).

Payment in lieu of 
notice (PILON)

The Company may terminate an Executive Director's service contract at any time with immediate effect and pay a sum in lieu of the 
unexpired portion of any notice period to the value of no more than 12 months' fixed pay (salary and regular allowances) and other 
benefits (unless statutory requirements to pay additional sums apply). 

The Company has the contractual right to make any PILON in monthly instalments in its discretion. Once the right to make a PILON is 
exercised, its delivery in instalments is mitigated by a contractual obligation on the Executive Director to seek alternative employment. 

Compensation for 
loss of office

Executive Directors will not usually receive additional payments for loss of office, other than, as appropriate, payments in lieu of notice as 
described above or payments in respect of damages if the Company terminates an Executive Director's employment in breach of contract 
(taking into account, as appropriate, the Executive Director's responsibility to mitigate any losses).

Dismissal

Annual bonus 
accrued prior to 
termination

The REMCO reserves the right to make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims taking into account 
contractual provisions, applicable law, corporate governance provisions, the applicability of any statutory compensation and the best 
interests of Shell and shareholders as a whole.

The Company may terminate employment immediately in particular defined circumstances such as gross misconduct, with no further payment 
or PILON.

The following provisions will normally apply:
￮

In the event of death, disability, injury or ill health, retirement, redundancy, completion of a fixed-term contract, and other circumstances 
at the REMCO's discretion, any annual bonus in the year of departure is pro-rated based on service. Depending on the timing of the 
departure, the REMCO may consider the latest scorecard position or defer payment until the full-year scorecard result is known.
In the event of a change of control, the REMCO will assess the most appropriate treatment for the outstanding bonus period according 
to the circumstances.

￮

￮ Bonuses delivered in shares represent the bonus which a participant has already earned, and carry no further performance conditions. 

Therefore, these shares will normally be unrestricted at the conclusion of the normal holding period otherwise, and no pro-ration will apply.
In other circumstances (including resignation), no award will be made unless statutory requirements apply.

￮
￮ The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of a bonus holding period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).

216
216

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Provision

LTIP awards

Policy

Share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules. The following provisions will normally apply:
￮

In the event of disability, injury or ill health, retirement, redundancy, completion of a fixed-term contract, and other circumstances at the 
REMCO's discretion: outstanding awards are reduced pro-rata (on a monthly basis) for time elapsed during the performance period. They 
will generally survive the end of employment and remain subject to the same vesting performance conditions, holding period and malus 
and clawback provisions, as if the Executive Director had remained in employment. The extent to which awards vest will be determined 
by the REMCO, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
In the event of death: the award will vest in full on the date of death or, if there is a target level set out in the performance condition, then 
at that target level, unless the REMCO determines otherwise.

￮

￮ Change of control: awards will be exchanged for equivalent new awards issued by the acquirer, if agreed to by the acquirer and the 

Board. If there is no agreement to exchange awards, awards will (i) vest immediately in full if there is no performance condition, or (ii) vest 
immediately to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied to the date of vesting. Such awards will be reduced pro-rata 
for time elapsed during the performance period unless agreed otherwise.

￮ Other circumstances (including resignation): awards will lapse on cessation of employment unless statutory requirements apply.
￮ The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of a holding period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).

Other

The provision of end-of-employment benefits such as a contribution to the Executive Director's legal fees for the review of any settlement 
agreement, repatriation costs, and outplacement support may also be included, as deemed reasonable by the REMCO. The Executive 
Director may also remain eligible for other benefits, such as security provision or tax return preparation, in line with policies for the wider 
workforce. The Company may pay the Executive Director's tax on such benefits. 

REMCO may adjust the range and scope of the benefits offered in the context of developments for other employees in relevant countries.

In the event an Executive Director is based outside of the UK, the REMCO will determine the appropriate service contract and end of 
employment arrangements.

The table below sets out the effective dates of the Executive Directors' service contract.

Executive Director

Wael Sawan

Sinead Gorman

Date of contract

January 1, 2023

April 1, 2022

Executive Directors' employment arrangements are available for inspection at the AGM or on request. For further details on appointment and re-appointment of Directors, see the 

"Governance Framework" on page 160 and "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 227.

Non-executive Directors' Remuneration Policy table

Fee structure

Approach to setting fees

Other remuneration

The Chair of the Board fee is determined by 
the REMCO. The Board determines the fees 
payable to NEDs. The maximum aggregate 
annual fees will be within the limit specified 
by the Articles of Association and in 
accordance with the NEDs' responsibilities 
and time commitments.

The Board reviews NED fees periodically 
to ensure that they are appropriate in the 
context of fee levels at other major listed 
companies.

Non-executive Directors (NEDs) receive a 
fixed annual fee for their Directorship. The 
Chair receives a Chair of the Board fee, and 
other NEDs receive a base fee for membership 
of the Board.

Additional annual fees are payable to any NED 
(other than the Chair of the Board) who serves 
as Senior Independent Director, a Board 
Committee Chair, or a Board Committee 
member. Any individual receives either a Chair 
or member fee in respect of each Committee 
they sit on. The Chair of a Committee does not 
receive both fees.

NEDs receive an additional fee for any Board 
meeting involving intercontinental travel, with 
the exception of one meeting a year held in a 
location other than London.

Business expenses incurred in respect of the performance 
of their duties as a NED will be paid or reimbursed by Shell. 
Such expenses could include transport between home and 
office, and occasional business-required partner travel. NEDs 
may receive a token of recognition on retirement from the 
Board. The maximum value for this is £300. The REMCO has 
the discretion to offer other benefits as appropriate to the 
circumstances. Where business expenses or benefits create 
a personal tax liability to the NED, Shell may cover the 
associated tax. 

The Chair and other NEDs are not eligible to receive awards 
under any incentive or performance-based remuneration plans, 
and personal loans or guarantees are not granted to them.

NEDs do not accrue any retirement benefits as a result of 
their Non-executive Directorships with Shell.

NEDs are encouraged to hold Shell shares with a value 
equivalent to 100% of their annual base fee and maintain 
that holding during their tenure.

217
217

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued

Non-executive Directors' letters of appointment
NEDs, including the Chair of the Board, have letters of appointment. 
NEDs' letters of appointment are available for inspection at the AGM 
or on request. The table below shows the effective dates for the NEDs' 
appointments:

The REMCO is kept informed by the CEO, the Chief Human Resources 
& Corporate Officer, and the Executive Vice President Performance and 
Reward on the bonus scorecard and any relevant remuneration matters 
extending below the Board and Executive Committee.

See the "Workforce engagement on remuneration matters" section in the Annual Report on 

Remuneration, on page 207, for more information on how Shell considers and engages with 

the broader workforce on remuneration matters.

Consideration of shareholder views
The REMCO engages with major shareholders regularly throughout 
the year. Such engagement allows the REMCO to hear shareholders' 
views on Shell's approach to executive remuneration, and test 
proposals when developing or evolving the Policy. In recent years, the 
REMCO has responded to shareholder views, including the approach 
to energy transition metrics in the LTIP, the quantum of executive pay 
and the broader use of discretion to manage remuneration outcomes. 
In developing the proposed Policy, the REMCO again consulted with 
shareholders and received a diverse range of views that have helped 
to determine which proposals to refine and which to discard. For 
example, as a result of shareholder feedback in the fourth quarter 
of 2022, the REMCO determined not to proceed with seeking support 
for recruitment provision that would permit an extended notice period 
on hiring. Shareholders have been helpful in emphasising the need for 
balanced metrics in the LTIP to help avoid unintended consequences as 
Shell progresses through the energy transition. In 2022, the continued 
interest in the energy transition LTIP measure directly influenced 
increased transparency in Shell's reporting on the progress of its 
energy transition journey.

It was clear to the REMCO that whilst there were inevitably contrasting 
views around the different aspects of the Policy, shareholders are 
supportive of Shell's overall approach to remuneration and the 
REMCO's careful deliberations in decision-making. The REMCO 
will continue to review the Policy regularly to ensure it continues 
to reinforce Shell's long-term strategy and closely aligns with 
shareholders' interests.

Additional Policy statement
The REMCO reserves the right to make payments outside of the Policy 
in limited, exceptional circumstances, such as for regulatory, tax or 
administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation 
or exchange controls, and only where the REMCO considers such 
payments are necessary to give effect to the intent of the Policy.

Signed on behalf of the Board

/s/ Caroline J. M. Omloo

Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary
March 13, 2024

Non-executive Director

Sir Andrew Mackenzie

Dick Boer

Neil Carson

Ann Godbehere

Jane Holl Lute

Catherine J. Hughes

Sir Charles Roxburgh

Bram Schot

Leena Srivastava

Cyrus Taraporevala

Effective date of 
appointment

October 1, 2020

May 20, 2020

May 21, 2019

May 23, 2018

May 19, 2021

June 1, 2017

March 13, 2023

October 1, 2020

March 13, 2023

March 2, 2023

For further details on appointment and re-appointment of NEDs, see "Governance 

framework" on page 160 and "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 227.

Non-executive Director recruitment
The remuneration package for new NEDs is determined within the 
confines of the Policy table for NED fees, and subject to the Articles 
of Association. NEDs are not offered variable remuneration or 
retention awards.

When determining the benefits for a new Chair of the Board, the 
individual circumstances of the future Chair will be taken into account.

Non-executive Director termination of office
No payments for loss of office will be made to NEDs.

Consideration of wider employee views
The REMCO takes account of the pay and employment conditions of 
the broader workforce when setting the Policy for Executive Directors.

Whilst no specific employee groups were consulted as part of the 
2023 Policy review, Shell promotes and maintains good relations with 
employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement 
programme, and operates multiple forums through which employees 
can engage on various business matters, including pay.

When determining Executive Directors' remuneration structure and 
outcomes, the REMCO reviews a set of information, including relevant 
reference points and trends, which includes internal data on employee 
remuneration (for example, employee relations matters in respect 
of remuneration, and average salary increases applying in the 
Netherlands, UK and the USA). During the Policy review, pay and 
employment conditions of the wider Shell employee population were 
taken into account by adhering to the same performance, rewards 
and benefits philosophy for the Executive Directors, as well as overall 
benchmarking principles. Furthermore, any potential differences from 
other employees (see "Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors from that for other employees") were taken into account when 
providing the REMCO with advice in the formation of the Policy.

218
218

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information

The Directors' Report comprises pages 146-227 and 361-364 of this report, together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by cross 
reference. This section of the Directors' Report contains the remaining information which the Directors are required to report on each year and for 
the year ended December 31, 2023. There are other matters that are required to be reported on and that have been disclosed in other sections of 
the Annual Report, as summarised below. This includes certain disclosures which are required to be contained in the Directors' Report which have, 
as permitted by legislation, been included in the Strategic Report, and are incorporated by cross reference.

Management Report

This Directors' Report, together with the Strategic Report, serves as the Management Report 
for the purpose of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.8R.

Both the Directors' Report and Strategic Report have been presented in accordance with and 
reliance on English law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports 
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.

Corporate governance

The Company's statement on corporate governance, as required by DTR7.2.3R.

Business relationships

A statement, summarising the Directors' business relationships with suppliers, customers 
and others.

Directors' Report: pages 146-227 
and 361-364
Strategic Report: pages1-145

Directors' Report: pages 146-227 
and 361-364

Strategic Report: pages 1-145

Employee engagement

Information on how Directors have engaged with employees.

Workforce engagement: pages 170-171

Directors' interests [A]

The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of the Directors 
in office at the end of the year, including any interests of a "connected person". 

Annual Report on Remuneration: 
pages 194-210

Changes in Directors' share interests during the period from December 31, 2023, 
to March 13, 2024.

Likely future developments

Information relating to likely future developments.

Research and development

Information relating to Shell's research and development, including expenditure.

Diversity, equity and 
inclusion

Information concerning diversity, equity and inclusion. This includes information on the 
equal opportunities in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and rewards 
for all our people, including those with disabilities.

Provided throughout the Strategic 
Report: pages 1-145

Powering Progress strategy: 
pages 6-13

Powering lives: pages 124-132

Employee communication 
and involvement

Corporate social 
responsibility

Information concerning employee communication and involvement.

Powering lives: pages 124-132

A summary of Shell's approach to corporate social responsibility.

Powering lives: pages 124-132

Further details are available on shell.com and in the Shell Sustainability Report 2023.

Branches

A list of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.

Our activities and interests are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates which are subject to the laws and regulations of many 
different jurisdictions.

Additional Information, Appendix 1: 
pages 372-395

Greenhouse gas emissions

Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions. 

Our journey to net zero: pages 82-115

Risk management

Detail on risk factors.

Information on emerging risks.

Risk factors: pages 14-28
Other regulatory and statutory 
information: pages 219-227

Financial risk management, 
objectives and policies

Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Shell's financial risk management objectives 
and policies, and exposure to market risk (including price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 25, pages 302-308

Listing rule information [B]

Information concerning the amount of interest capitalised by Shell.

Listing rule information [B]

The Remuneration Committee Report.

Listing rule information [B]

Details of the Company's long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.3R

Significant shareholdings

Information concerning significant shareholdings.

Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 9, page 277

Directors' Remuneration Report: 
pages 191-193

Directors' Remuneration Report: 
pages 191-193

Shareholder information: 
pages 361-364

[A] "Connected person" has the meaning given to "person closely associated" within the Market Abuse Regulation.
[B] This information is given in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R. Further information in connection with Listing Rule 9.8.4R is contained in the remainder of "Other Regulatory and 

Statutory Information".

219
219

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Modern Slavery Act Statement
We procure goods and services from local and international suppliers 
who meet the standards we require. The standards include those 
relating to human rights, labour practices and business integrity and 
are governed by the Shell Supplier Principles. Monitoring is undertaken 
centrally in connection with the preparation of the Shell Group's 
Modern Slavery Act (MSA) Statement which is prepared by taking 
proposed inputs from Shell companies in scope of the MSA as to their 
steps taken to ensure modern slavery does not occur in their supply 
chain or organisation. The Shell Group Statement is approved by the 
Board of Shell plc, after approval by the boards of Shell companies 
which are in scope of the MSA.

Disclosure of information to auditors
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of 
the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report 
confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company's auditor is unaware. The Director 
has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director 
in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware 
of that information.

Financial Statements, Dividends and Dividend Policy

The "Consolidated Statement of Income" and "Consolidated Balance Sheet" can be 

found on pages 245 and 246 respectively.

Subject to Board approval, Shell aims to grow the dividend per share 
by around 4% every year. As announced as part of Capital Markets 
Day, in total, Shell targets the distribution of 30-40% of cash flow from 
operations through the cycle to shareholders. The Board may choose 
to return cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends 
and share buybacks.

When setting the level of shareholder distributions, the Board looks at 
a range of factors, including the macro environment, the earnings and 
cash flow of the Group, the current balance sheet, future investment, 
acquisition and divestment plans, and existing commitments.

Interim dividends are currently declared by the Board and paid on a 
quarterly basis. Shell does not currently pay a "final" dividend, which 
would need to be voted on by shareholders, requiring the introduction 
of a resolution at the AGM. This would delay the payment of the fourth 
quarter dividend (currently paid in late March) until after the AGM. 
This approach to dividend payments is not uncommon for companies 
distributing returns to shareholders on a quarterly basis.

Shell pays its dividend in USD, EUR or GBP fully electronically either 
in CREST or via interbank transfers.

The Directors have announced a fourth quarter interim dividend 
payable on March 25, 2024, to shareholders on the Register of 
Members at the close of business on February 16, 2024. The closing 
date for dividend currency elections was March 1, 2024 [A] and the 
euro and sterling equivalents announcement date was March 11, 2024.
[A] A different dividend currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares 
in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear 
Nederland. This may also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either 
directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. 
Such shareholders can contact their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial 
institution for the election deadline that applies.

2023 Viability Statement and Going Concern Statement
The "Strategic Report" includes information about Shell's strategy, 
financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, as well as the factors, 
including the principal risks, likely to affect Shell's future development. 
It also describes Shell's business model, including competitive 
advantages and key strengths. The Directors assess Shell's prospects 
both at an operating and strategic level, each involving different time 
horizons. To this end, the Directors assess Shell's portfolio and strategy 
against a wide range of outlooks, including assessing the potential 
impacts of various possible energy transition pathways and scenarios 
for changes in societal expectations in relation to climate change. Shell 
recognises in its strategy that the world is transitioning to a low-carbon 
energy system. 

See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 82-115.

The "Risk factors" section (see pages 14-28) provides an overview 
of the principal risks Shell is exposed to in its operations. We have 
assessed which scenarios linked to the principal risks could lead to a 
severe but possible outcome. Consideration was given to the climate 
change and energy transition risk, however the associated material 
impacts are of a longer-term nature, outside the three-year viability 
statement period. Therefore, it was not assessed as a stress case 
scenario for the viability statement. However, it is worth noting that key 
assumptions that underpin the amounts recognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, such as future oil and gas prices, discount rates, future 
costs of decommissioning and restoration, and tax rates, all go well 
beyond three years and do take climate change and energy transition 
into account.

Viability Statement Process 

Throughout the year, the Board received 
regular updates on the ﬁnancial framework

The Board approved the detailed three-year 
operating plan which includes Shell's cash ﬂows 
and ability to service ﬁnancing requirements [B]

We identiﬁed and modelled ﬁve severe but possible 
scenarios that could potentially impact Shell's viability

We assessed and concluded on the long-term viability 
of the Company (we have deemed a three-year period 
of assessment to be appropriate)

[B] Shell's three-year operating plan contains assumptions in relation to internal and external 

parameters. Some of the key assumptions include the impact of commodity prices, 
exchange rates, future carbon costs, agreements like LNG contract renewals, production 
levels and product demand and schedules of growth programmes.

220
220

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Scenarios and risks

Scenario

Link to 
principal risks

Severity of 
Impact

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement

Reporting requirement

Where to read more in this Report

Page

Unplanned shutdown of a major cash-generating 
asset (for the viability statement period i.e. three 
years)

A low oil and gas price environment (Brent price 
averaging $50 for the next three years)

A significant HSSE event

Global macroeconomic uncertainties (including 
those from a pandemic) - low oil and gas price 
environment, negative impact on oil product and 
chemical margins, and long-term demand reduction

[A]

Low

[B]  Medium

[A]

Medium

[B] and [C]

Higher

A significant HSSE event and a low oil and gas 
price environment

[A] and [B]

Higher

[A] The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which we work, to a wide 

range of health, safety, security and environment risks.

[B] We are exposed to macroeconomic risks including fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural 

gas, oil products and chemicals.

[C] We are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 

foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by the global macroeconomic 
environment and by financial and commodity market conditions. 

Conclusion
Taking account of Shell's position and principal risks at December 31, 
2023, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Shell will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over its three-year operating plan period.

Going Concern
In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption 
over the period to March 31, 2025 (the "going concern period"), 
management have stress-tested Shell's most recent financial projections 
to incorporate a range of potential future outcomes by considering 
Shell's principal risks, further potential downside pressures on 
commodity prices and cash preservation measures, including 
reduced future capital expenditure and shareholder distributions. 
This assessment confirmed that Shell has adequate cash, other 
liquid resources and undrawn credit facilities to enable it to meet 
its obligations as they fall due in order to continue its operations 
during the going concern period. Therefore, the Directors consider 
it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements. See Note 1 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" on page 249.

Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement
The table below forms part of the Strategic Report on pages 1-145 
and constitutes Shell's Non-Financial and Sustainability Information 
Statement, produced to comply with sections 414CA and 414CB of 
the Companies Act 2006 (as amended by The Companies (Strategic 
Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022). 

221
221

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Business Model

Non-financial KPIs

Environmental matters

Powering Progress strategy

Performance indicators

Our journey to net zero and 
Respecting nature

Sustainability and climate change 
and TCFD disclosures

Our journey to net zero

Employees

Powering lives and 
Directors' Report

Social matters

Respect for human rights

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 
matters

Risk

Powering lives

Powering lives

Powering lives

Risk factors

6

29

82

116

82

124

146

124

124

124

14

Repurchases of shares
As announced as part of Capital Markets Day, Shell targets the 
distribution of 30-40% of our cash flow from operations through 
the cycle to shareholders. The Board may choose to return cash to 
shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. 
For all share buyback programmes mentioned below, Shell entered into 
irrevocable, non-discretionary arrangements with a broker in order to 
reduce the issued share capital of the Company.

On October 27, 2022, under shareholder authorities granted at the 
2022 AGM, Shell announced the commencement of a $4 billion share 
buyback programme which was completed on January 27, 2023. 
On February 2, 2023, Shell announced the commencement of a share 
buyback programme of a further $4 billion which was completed 
on April 28, 2023; and on May 4, 2023, Shell announced the 
commencement of a share buyback programme of a further 
$4 billion which was completed on July 21, 2023.

At the May 23, 2023, AGM, shareholders granted the Company 
the authority to repurchase (i) up to 692 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less any "off-market" purchases 
made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 692 million ordinary 
shares off-market (excluding any treasury shares), less any on-market 
purchases made under the authority in (i). The authorities for both on-
market and off-market purchases will expire at the earlier of the close 
of business on August 22, 2024, and the end of the AGM of the 
Company to be held in 2024. On July 27, 2023, Shell announced 
the commencement of a $3 billion share buyback programme which 
was completed on October 27, 2023; on November 2, 2023, Shell 
announced the commencement of a $3.5 billion share buyback 
programme which was completed on January 26, 2024; and on 
February 1, 2024, Shell announced the commencement of a share 
buyback programme of a further $3.5 billion which is expected to be 
completed by April 26, 2024. This means that, as at close of February 
19, 2024, 465 million further shares could still be repurchased under 
the current AGM authorities.

More information, including the number and nominal value of the 
shares repurchased in 2023, can be found in Note 26 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements".

The Board continues to regard the ability to repurchase issued shares 
in suitable circumstances as an important part of Shell's financial 
management. New resolutions will be proposed at the 2024 AGM 
to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own share 
capital, up to specified limits, for a further year. These proposals 
will be described in more detail in the 2024 Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Board of Directors
The names of the Directors who held office during the year can be found on pages 147-154. Information on the Directors who are seeking 
reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.

Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.6 as at 31 December 2023
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(10), the gender identity and ethnicity data of the Board and executive management (which includes 
the Company Secretary, as required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R) in the format prescribed by Listing Rule 9 Annex 2 are set out in the below table. 
Questionnaires are routinely circulated to the Board and Executive Committee members at the end of each financial year, requesting certain 
declarations and confirmations. For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.6, the Board and Executive Committee were asked to confirm as part of 
this annual questionnaire with which of the below categories they identify.

Men

Women

Not specified / prefer not to say

White British or other White (including 
minority-white groups)

Mixed / Multiple ethnic groups

Asian / Asian British

Black / African / Caribbean / Black British

Other ethnic group, including Arab

Not specified / prefer not to say

Number of 
board members

Percentage 
of the board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in executive 
management

7 

5 

– 

58%  

42%  

– 

3 

1 

– 

2 

4 

– 

Number of 
board members

Percentage 
of the board

Number of senior 
positions on the 
board (CEO, CFO, 
SID and Chair)

Number in executive 
management

9 

– 

2 

– 

1 

– 

 75 %  

–  

 17 %  

–  

 8 %  

–  

3 

– 

– 

– 

1 

– 

6 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

Percentage 
of executive 
management

33%

67%

– 

Percentage 
of executive 
management

 100 %

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

The Board met each of the Listing Rules and FTSE Women Leaders 
Review targets of maintaining a minimum of 40% female representation 
on the Board. The Company meets the targets set out in Listing Rule 
9.8.6 R(9) as the Board was 41.7% female. The CFO and a senior 
position on the Board is a woman, and the Board has three Directors 
from minority ethnic backgrounds.

Related party transactions
Other than disclosures given in Notes 13 and 33 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on pages 284 and 315, there were no 
transactions or proposed transactions that were material to either the 
Company or any related party. Nor were there any transactions with 
any related party that were unusual in their nature or conditions.

Qualifying third-party indemnities
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity (Deed) with 
each Director of the Company who served during the year. The terms of 
each of these Deeds are identical and they reflect the statutory provisions 
on indemnities contained in the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006). Under 
the terms of each Deed, the Company has agreed to indemnify the 
Director, to the fullest extent permitted by the CA 2006, against any loss, 
liability or damage, howsoever caused (including in respect of a Director's 
own negligence), suffered or incurred by a Director in respect of their acts 
or omissions while or in the course of acting as a Director or employee of 
the Company, any associated company or affiliate (within the meaning of 
the CA 2006). In addition, the Company shall lend funds to Directors as 
required to meet reasonable costs and expenses incurred or to be 
incurred by them in defending any criminal or civil proceedings brought 
against them in their capacity as a Director or employee of the Company, 
associated company or affiliate, or, in connection with certain 
applications brought under the CA 2006. The provisions in the 
Company's Articles of Association (Articles) relating to arbitration and 
exclusive jurisdiction are incorporated, mutatis mutandis, into the Deeds 
entered into by each Director and the Company.

Political contributions
No payments were made by Shell companies to political parties, 
organisations or their representatives during the year. Shell USA, 
Inc. administers the non-partisan Shell USA, Inc. Employees' Political 
Awareness Committee (SEPAC), a political action committee registered 
with the US Federal Election Commission. Eligible employees may 
make voluntary personal contributions to the SEPAC. All employees' 
contributions comply with federal and state law and are publicly 
reported in accordance with US election laws. Shell USA, Inc. 
does not exercise control over SEPAC's funding decisions.

Recent developments and post-balance sheet events
See Note 35 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 316.

Share capital
The Company's issued share capital at December 31, 2023, is set
out in Note 26 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 
308. The percentage of the total issued share capital is given below. 

Share capital percentage as at December 31, 2023

The Company has provided both indemnities and Directors' and 
Officers' insurance to the Directors in connection with the performance 
of their responsibilities. Copies of these indemnities and the Directors' 
and Officers' insurance policies are open to inspection. A copy of the 
form of these indemnities are filed with the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission.

Share class

Ordinary

222
222

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

%

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Transfer of securities
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the 
ordinary shares other than under the Articles, restrictions imposed by 
law or regulation (for example, insider trading laws) or pursuant to 
the Company's Share Dealing Code.

Share ownership trusts and trust-like entities
Shell has three primary employee share ownership trusts and trust-like 
entities: a Dutch foundation (stichting) and two US Rabbi Trusts. 
The shares held by the Dutch foundation are voted by its Board and 
the shares in the US Rabbi Trusts are voted by the Voting Trustee, 
Newport Trust Company. Both the Board of the Dutch foundation 
and the Voting Trustee are independent of Shell.

The UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan has a separate 
related share ownership trust. Shares held by the trust are voted 
by its trustee, Computershare Trustees Limited, as directed by 
the participants.

Auditor
A resolution relating to the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor 
for the financial year 2024 will be proposed at the 2024 AGM.

Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on May 21, 2024, at the InterContinental 
London - The O2, 1 Waterview Drive, Greenwich Peninsula, London 
SE10 0TW, United Kingdom. The Notice of Annual General Meeting 
will include details of the business to be put to shareholders at 
the AGM.

Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Act and the Company's Articles, the Board 
may authorise any matter that otherwise may involve any Directors 
breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest. The Board has 
adopted a procedure to address these requirements. Detailed conflict 
of interest questionnaires are reviewed by the Board and, if considered 
appropriate, authorised. Conflicts of interest as well as any gifts and 
hospitality received by and provided by Directors are kept under 
review by the Board. Further information relating to conflicts of interest 
can be found in the Articles, available on the Shell website.

Significant commitments of the Chair
The Chair's other significant commitments are given in his biography 
on page 147.

Shell General Business Principles
The Shell General Business Principles define how Shell subsidiaries 
are expected to conduct their affairs and are underpinned by the 
Shell core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people. These 
principles include, among other things, Shell's commitment to support 
fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business 
and to contribute to sustainable development. They are designed to 
mitigate the risk of damage to our business reputation and to prevent 
violations of local and international legislation. They can be found at 
shell.com/sgbp. 

See "Risk factors" on pages 14-28.

Shell Code of Conduct
Directors, officers, employees and contract staff are required to comply 
with the Shell Code of Conduct, which instructs them on how to behave 
in line with the Shell General Business Principles. This Code clarifies 
the basic rules and standards they are expected to follow and the 
behaviour expected of them. These individuals must also complete 
mandatory Code of Conduct training. 

223
223

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Designated individuals are required to complete additional mandatory 
training on antitrust and competition laws, anti-bribery, anti-corruption 
and anti-money laundering laws, financial crime, data protection laws 
and trade compliance requirements. 

See "Risk factors" on pages 14-28.

The Shell Code of Conduct can be found at shell.com/codeofconduct.

Code of Ethics
Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers of Shell must also 
comply with the Code of Ethics. This Code is specifically intended 
to meet the requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
It can be found at shell.com/codeofethics.

Malus and Clawback Policy
In compliance with new US SEC rules, the REMCO adopted a Malus 
and clawback policy for Executive Directors and other Executive 
Committee members in 2023. 

Independent professional advice
All Directors may seek independent professional advice in connection 
with their role as a Director. All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary. The Company has provided both 
indemnities and Directors' and Officers' insurance to the Directors in 
connection with the performance of their responsibilities. Copies of 
these indemnities and the Directors' and Officers' insurance policies are 
open to inspection. A copy of the form of these indemnities has been 
previously filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

Results presentations and analysts' meetings
The planned dates of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results 
presentations, as well as all major analysts' meetings, are announced 
in advance on the Shell website and through a regulatory release.

Generally, presentations are broadcast live via webcast and 
teleconference. Other meetings with analysts or investors are not 
normally announced in advance, nor can they be followed remotely 
by webcast or any other means. Procedures are in place to ensure 
that discussions in such meetings are always limited to non-material 
information or information already in the public domain.

Results and meeting presentations can be found at shell.com/investor. 
This is in line with the requirement to ensure that all shareholders and 
other parties in the financial market have equal and simultaneous 
access to information that may influence the price of the Company's 
securities.

Risk management and controls
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining procedures 
to manage risk, overseeing the internal control framework, and 
determining the nature and extent of the principal risks that Shell is 
willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. 

In 2023, we introduced the Shell Performance Framework to enhance 
the control framework in which Shell operates. This new framework, as 
shown in the diagram below, retains the core strengths of the previous 
Shell Control Framework, including the Shell General Business 
Principles, Code of Conduct and risk management fundamentals. 
However, the Shell Performance Framework also emphasises the value 
of using a holistic or "whole systems" approach to business activities 
along with the role that culture plays in achieving Shell's objectives.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

The Shell Performance Framework

Context

Direction Setting

 Environment

History

Resources

Stakeholders

Customers

Purpose and 

  Strategy

Vision

Business Principles

Business Model

f o r mance Culture

P e r

Structure and 
Accountability

People
and Skills

Improvement 
Cycle

Competitive 
Performance at 
Full Potential

Mindset
and Behaviours

Processes
and Systems

The Shell Performance Framework supports the delivery of sustainable business outcomes. In pursuit of this, consideration is given to both 
the context in which Shell operates and key elements of direction-setting, including, for example, Shell's strategy and the Shell General 
Business Principles.

Delivery of the desired outcomes is then pursued by leveraging our Performance Culture, i.e., the shared values, practices and beliefs of our 
employees. This is influenced by decisions on:
￮ Structure and Accountability – how we are organised and governed and the associated roles and responsibilities;
￮ People and Skills – our workforce composition, such as its size, diversity and location, and the skills required to deliver Shell's objectives;
￮ Processes and Systems – how we transform inputs into outputs in a controlled manner, leveraging data and systems as appropriate. This 

also includes the standards that further define the boundaries within which Shell operates;

￮ Mindset and Behaviours – this includes the role of leadership and Shell's values, beliefs and behaviours, as set out, for example, in the 

Code of Conduct.

At the heart of the Shell Performance Framework is the Improvement Cycle, which integrates performance management, risk management, 
including controls and assurance, learning and improvement. It follows a "Plan-Do-Check-Adjust" approach and helps to drive a consistent 
way of working and improving.

The Shell Performance Framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives. It 
provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

224
224

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Risk management 
As outlined above, risk management is a key component of the 
Improvement Cycle, which emphasises its integration with performance, 
learning and improvement.

Risk identification
We identify and define risks across the spectrum of strategic, 
operational and conduct and culture risks. With strategic risks, we 
consider current and future portfolio issues, examining parameters such 
as country concentration or exposure to higher-risk countries. We also 
consider long-range developments in order to test key assumptions or 
beliefs in relation to energy markets. When assessing operational risks, 
we consider material operational exposures across Shell's entire value 
chain which provide a more granular assessment of key risks facing the 
organisation. Through conduct and culture risks, we consider how our 
policies and practices align with our purpose, core values and desired 
mindset and behaviours.

These perspectives help us to maintain a comprehensive view of the 
different types of risks we face and the different time horizons in which 
they may affect us.

Risk assessment
To further understand the risks we face, we evaluate the impact and 
likelihood of each risk. 

When assessing the potential impact of a risk, we consider the possible 
financial consequences. We also look at the impacts on our reputation, 
our ability to comply with external regulations and impacts on health, 
safety and the environment.

When assessing the likelihood of a risk occurring, we consider several 
factors, such as the level of risk exposure, our ability to prevent the risk 
happening and whether the risk has materialised in the past. 

To support risk assessments, we also seek to establish and articulate 
our risk appetite, which is the level of risk that we are willing to accept 
in pursuit of Shell's strategy and objectives. There are risks that Shell 
accepts, or does not seek to fully mitigate. The financial framework, 
which shapes Shell's financial resilience, sets an overarching boundary 
condition for risk appetite. 

The impact and likelihood assessments, combined with risk appetite, 
determine the type of risk responses, such as controls and assurance 
activities, that may be required to manage each risk. The impact and 
likelihood assessments also help us to prioritise risks. 

Risk response
Risk responses, including appropriate processes and controls, are 
developed taking into account the requirements and guidance in, 
among others, the Shell General Business Principles and the Code 
of Conduct as well as our Group Standards, which establish the 
mandatory rules that need to be followed on specific risks. We use 
assurance activities to objectively assess the effectiveness of, and to 
improve, our risk management activities.

Shell's principal risks and the broad array of measures used to manage each risk are 

described on pages 14-28.

225
225

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Examples of how some principal risks are managed

We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees 
of political, legal and economic stability. This exposes us to a 
wide range of political developments that could cause changes 
to contractual terms, laws and regulations. We and our joint 
arrangements and associates also face the risk of litigation 
and disputes worldwide (see "Risk factors" on page 16). We 
continually monitor geopolitical developments and societal 
issues relevant to our interests. Our Legal and Tax functions are 
organised globally and support our business lines in seeking to 
ensure compliance with local laws and fiscal regulations, and filing 
proactive claims where warranted to protest unfair practices. 
Our Corporate Relations department liaises with governments in 
countries where we operate to understand and engage on local 
policies and to advocate Shell's position on topics relevant to 
our industry. We are prepared to exit a country if we believe we 
can no longer operate there in accordance with our standards and 
applicable law, and we have done so in the past. With regard to 
the conflict in Gaza, we have made adjustments to our operations 
in the Middle East to reduce our exposure and are closely 
monitoring the risk of a wider regional escalation.

An erosion of our business reputation could have a material 
adverse effect on our brand, our ability to secure new 
hydrocarbon or low-carbon opportunities or access capital 
markets, and on our licence to operate (see "Risk factors" on page 
16). We continually assess and monitor the external environment 
for potential risks to our reputation. We engage in ongoing 
dialogue with our key stakeholders such as investors, industry and 
trade groups, universities, governments and non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) to gain greater insights into societal 
expectations of our business. We have mitigation plans for 
identified individual risks at the Group, country and line of business 
level. Our country chairs are responsible for implementing country 
plans which are updated annually. We continually develop and 
defend our brand in line with Shell's purpose and promises, and 
target our investments to drive brand differentiation, relevance 
and preference. 

Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint 
arrangements or with associates, which may reduce our level of 
control and ability to identify and manage risks (see "Risk factors" 
on page 24). For every major project where we share control, 
Shell appoints a Joint Venture Asset Manager, whose 
responsibility is to manage performance and create and protect 
value for Shell. The Joint Venture Asset Manager seeks to influence 
operators and other partners to adapt their practices in order to 
drive value appropriately and to mitigate identified risks. An 
annual review assesses how the joint venture's standards and 
processes align with those of Shell. The Joint Venture Asset 
Manager follows up on any gaps identified.

In response to Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, a Group 
Crisis Team was set up to assess the situation, consider potential 
scenarios of how events may further develop and coordinate 
responses accordingly (see "Risk factors" on page 17). The team 
continue to play an oversight and cross-coordination role across 
Shell's different lines of businesses. Care for our people remains 
Shell's top priority. We continue to closely monitor and respond 
to the sanctions that have been imposed and follow international 
guidelines where relevant to our business activities. Shell no longer 
participates in any joint ventures with Gazprom and related 
entities with ongoing operations inside Russia. Shell has also 
exited all its downstream business (including services stations, 
fuels supply and lubricants) in Russia.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Emerging risks
Management and the Board also consider emerging risks, defined as 
risks where the scope, impact and likelihood are still uncertain, but 
which could have a significant effect on achieving Shell's strategy and 
objectives in the future. These risks are identified through the monitoring 
of external developments, the status of risk indicators, learnings from 
incidents and assurance findings, and the appraisal of Shell's forward-
looking plans. Once identified, we undertake activities to monitor, 
prepare for and reduce the future impact, where possible, should 
such emerging risks materialise.

In 2023, management and the Board identified Artificial Intelligence as 
an emerging risk, given the evolving regulatory landscape associated 
with this technology and its potential impacts, for example, on cyber 
intrusion and data protection.

Board review of principal and emerging risks
The Board confirms it has carried out a robust assessment of Shell's 
principal risks, including a robust process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing these principal risks. The Board also confirms it has carried 
out a robust assessment of Shell's emerging risks. These assessments 
have been in place throughout 2023 and up to the date of this Report, 
are reviewed by the Board and accord with the Financial Reporting 
Council guidance on risk management, internal control and related 
financial and business reporting.

Review of the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit and Risk Committee 
(ARC) to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the 
effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system, 
the integrity of financial reporting, and consideration of 
compliance matters. 

See "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on pages 179-190.

The ARC receives regular reports from the Chief Internal Auditor 
on notable internal audits and those with a significant impact on the 
effectiveness of controls. The ARC reviews significant incidents involving 
financial, operational and compliance controls and receives regular 
reports on business integrity issues. The ARC also requests updates 
on specific financial, operational and compliance control issues 
throughout the year. It is helped with its monitoring and review 
responsibilities by the reports of:
￮ the Executive Vice President Controller;
￮ the Chief Internal Auditor;
￮ the External Auditors;
￮ the Chairs of the Disclosure Committee and the Financial Reporting 

Control Committee; and

￮ the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer; 
￮ as well as summaries of the Annual Proved Reserves Disclosure.

The Chair of the ARC provides regular updates to the Board after 
each of its meetings. These updates cover, among other matters, the 
respective aspects of controls that it monitors in accordance with its 
Terms of Reference. During and after such sessions, the Board has the 
opportunity to request further information and ask clarifying questions. 
The Board also receives the approved minutes of the ARC. This 
helps the Board with its ongoing monitoring and annual review 
of material controls.

The Executive Committee and the ARC conduct an annual review of 
the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control. 
This is based on their own insights and experience during the year, the 
outcomes of the Group-level risk reviews and the Group Assurance 
Letter process. As part of the latter, each Executive Director conducts 
a structured internal assessment of compliance with legal and ethical 
requirements and the Shell Performance Framework.

As part of their annual review, the Executive Committee and ARC 
also consider input from the Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President Controller and the 
External Auditor. The Board reviews and discusses the insights and 
conclusions from this annual assessment. 

The Board confirms that it has conducted its annual review of the 
effectiveness of Shell's system of risk management and internal control 
in respect of 2023, and that this review covered all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls.

Management's evaluation of disclosure controls and 
procedures of Shell
Shell's management, including the CEO and CFO, have evaluated the 
effectiveness of Shell's disclosure controls and procedures at December 
31, 2023. Based on that evaluation, they concluded that Shell's 
disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 

Management's report on internal control over 
financial reporting of Shell
Management, including the CEO and CFO, is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over Shell's 
financial reporting and the preparation of the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements".

Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Shell's 
internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" based on the Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). On the basis of 
this evaluation, management concluded that, at December 31, 2023, 
the Company's internal control over financial reporting and the 
preparation of the "Consolidated Financial Statements" was effective.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting 
There has not been any change in the internal control over financial 
reporting of Shell that occurred during the period covered by this 
Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially 
affect, the internal control over financial reporting of Shell. 

Material financial information of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access 
Trust is included in the "Consolidated Financial Statements" and is 
therefore subject to the same controls and procedures. 

Articles of Association
The Company's Articles were adopted on May 23, 2023. The Articles 
may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a 
general meeting. A full version of the Company's Articles can be found 
at shell.com/investors. 

Management and Directors
The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, 
with management led by a CEO. See "The Board of Shell plc" on pages 
147-154 and Executive Committee on pages 155-156.

226
226

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued

Directors' shareholding qualification
While the Articles do not require Directors to hold shares in the 
Company, the REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align 
their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in the 
Company. The CEO is expected to build up a shareholding of seven 
times base salary over five years from appointment and the CFO is 
expected to build up a shareholding of five times base salary over the 
same period. In the event that another Executive Director joins the 
Board, the REMCO will determine their shareholding requirement, 
which will not be less than 200% of their base salary.

Executive Directors will be required to maintain their requirement 
(or existing shareholding if less than the guideline) for a period of two 
years post employment. Non-executive Directors are encouraged to 
hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% of their base fee and to 
maintain that holding during their tenure. 

Information on the Directors with shares in the Company can be found in the "Directors' 

Remuneration Report" on pages 191-193.

Appointment and retirement of Directors
The Company's Articles, the Corporate Governance Code and the 
Companies Act 2006 govern the appointment and retirement of 
Directors. Board membership and biographical details of the Directors 
are provided on pages 147-154. However, Directors follow the 
direction laid out in the Code and stand for re-election annually. 

On March 2, 2023, Cyrus Taraporevala joined the Board as a
Non-executive Director. 

On March 13, 2023, Sir Charles Roxburgh and Leena Srivastava 
joined the Board as Non-executive Directors. 

On May 23, 2023, at the conclusion of the AGM, both Euleen Goh 
and Martina Hund-Mejean stepped down from the Board as Non-
executive Directors. They served on the Board for almost nine years 
and three years respectively. 

Rights attaching to shares
The full rights attaching to shares are set out in the Company's Articles. 
The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions attached 
to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attached to 
existing shares. These rights or restrictions can be decided either by an 
ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders or by the Board as long 
as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.

Voting
Currently, the voting rights of each ordinary share carry one vote at a 
general meeting of the Company.

Change of control
There are no provisions in the Articles that would delay, defer or 
prevent a change of control.

Directors' responsibilities in respect of the preparation 
of the Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
including the financial statements, in accordance with applicable 
laws and regulations. These require the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. As such, the Directors have 
prepared the (i) Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
of the UK Companies Act 2006, and therefore in accordance with UK-
adopted international accounting standards; and (ii) Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with international accounting 
standards in conformity with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 
2006. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also 

227
227

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). The Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of Shell and the Company and of the profit or loss 
of Shell and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
￮ adopt the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so;
￮ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
￮ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 

prudent; and

￮ state whether international accounting standards in conformity with 
the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, UK-adopted 
international accounting standards and International Financial 
Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB have been followed.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of Shell and the 
Parent Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the 
financial position of Shell and the Parent Company and to enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements are in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The 
Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Shell and the 
Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Each of the Directors, whose names and functions can be found 
on page 147-154, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
￮ the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with international accounting standards in conformity with the 
requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, and therefore in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the 
IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of Shell and the Company; and

￮ the Management Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of Shell, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.

Furthermore, so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware, and each 
of the Directors has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken 
in order to become aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.

The Directors consider that the Annual Report, including the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
Shell's position and performance, business model and strategy.

The Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Shell website (shell.com). Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Signed on behalf of the Board

/s/ Caroline J.M. Omloo

Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary
March 13, 2024

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Financial
Statements
and 
Supplements

229

244

317

336

Independent Auditor's Report related to 
the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements

Supplementary information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)

Supplementary information - EU Taxonomy 
disclosure

350

Parent Company Financial Statements

228

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc

1. Opinion 
In our opinion, the financial statements of Shell plc (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, Shell or Group):
￮ give a true and fair view of the state of Shell's and of the Parent Company's affairs as at December 31, 2023 and of Shell's income and the 

Parent Company's income for the year then ended;

￮ have been properly prepared in accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards and International Financial Reporting 

Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); and

￮ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of the Parent Company and the Group for the year ended December 31, 2023, which are included 
in the Annual Report and comprise:

Group

Parent Company

Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023
Consolidated Statement of Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
material accounting policies, judgements and estimates.

Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023
Statement of Income for the year then ended
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 16 to the Financial Statements, including material accounting 
policies.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK adopted international accounting 
standards.

2. Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISA (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the 'Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements' section of our report. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

3. Independence
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
financial statements in the UK, including the FRC's Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC's Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain 
independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.

4. Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation 
of the financial statements is appropriate. The going concern assessment covered the period to March 31, 2025 (the going concern period). 
Our evaluation of the directors' assessment of the Group and Parent Company's ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting included:
￮ checking the consistency of information used in management's assessment with the operating plan and information obtained through auditing 

other areas of the business such as impairment assessments;

￮ assessing the reasonableness of the estimated financial impact of each of the severe but possible scenarios, and the possible mitigation steps 
and assumptions regarding the availability of future funding options. The scenarios are described by management in the basis of preparation 
statements in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements;

￮ checking that Shell's operating plan reflects the actions that management intend to take in order to achieve their stated Scope 1 and Scope 2 

emissions reductions, as stated in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including confirming that the operating and capital 
expenditure estimates to deliver the reductions are included in the operating plan. This included evaluating Shell's carbon pricing assumptions; 
￮ conducting severe but plausible independent stress testing to a significantly lower price environment than current prices throughout the going 
concern period and a reverse stress test to determine the conditions under which Shell could potentially experience a liquidity shortfall; and

￮ confirming that Shell's going concern disclosures were appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or 
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group's and Parent Company's ability to continue as a going concern until March 31, 2025. 

In relation to the Group and Parent Company's reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors' statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Parent Company 
Financial Statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant section of this report. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group's or Parent Company's 
ability to continue as a going concern. 

229
229

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

5. Overview of our audit approach 

Identifying key audit matters 
(Section 6)

impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements;

The key audit matters that we identified in the 2023 audit were:
￮
￮ estimation of oil and gas reserves;
￮
￮ accounting for complex transactions within Shell's trading and supply function and the valuation of financial derivatives.

impairment assessment of property plant and equipment (PP&E) and joint ventures and associates (JVAs); and

We based materiality on three-year normalised Adjusted Earnings on a pre-tax basis. This approach removes both the 
effects of changes in oil price on inventory carrying amounts and non-recurring gains and charges disclosed as identified 
items, which can significantly distort Shell's results in any one particular year. By applying a normalised Adjusted Earnings 
approach, we concluded that it was appropriate to set planning materiality at $2.0 billion. We adopted the following 
materiality measures in our 2023 audit: 

Assessing materiality

Assessing materiality
(Section 7)

Planning
materiality

Performance
materiality

Reporting
differences

$2.0 billion
(2022: $1.2 billion)

$1.5 billion
(2022: $0.9 billion)

$100 million
(2022: $60 million)

Our scope of the audit of 
Shell's Consolidated Financial 
Statements (Section 8)

Our scope was tailored to the circumstances of our audit of Shell and is influenced by our determination of materiality and 
our assessed risks of material misstatement. Similar to the prior year, during the course of the 2023 audit, we did not make 
any substantial changes to our assessment of the components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures, 
nor the number of IT applications to test; however, what did change was the nature and emphasis of our testing in response 
to our significant audit risks and areas of audit focus. By following this approach, our audit effort focused on higher risk 
areas, such as management judgements.

6. Our assessment of key audit matters
Key audit matters (KAMs) are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These 
matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of Shell's Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

230
230

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements

Description of the key audit matter

The financial statement and audit risks related to climate change and the energy transition remain an area of audit focus given the 
continuing uncertainty surrounding the impact of climate change and the pervasive impact it has on many areas of accounting 
judgement and estimation and, therefore, our audit. 

The processes by which management is informed about climate-related issues is set out in Our journey to net zero, within the Strategic report, which forms part of the 
"other information", rather than the audited financial statements. Within Our journey to net zero, Shell have described climate-related risks and opportunities over the 
short, medium and long term. In this section, they also describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on Shell's business, strategy and financial planning 
and Shell's process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks and the process for managing these risks. 

In Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Shell describe how they consider climate-related impacts in key areas of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and how this translates into the valuation of assets and measurement of liabilities.

In carrying out our audit, we have focused on the alignment of assumptions adopted by Shell in the preparation of their financial statements with commentary on 
climate change within their Strategic Report. We also focused on how Shell had reflected material climate change risks in their financial statements, including the 
impact of the emissions reduction targets on accounting estimates and judgements. 

In focusing on how Shell has reflected material climate change risks in Shell's Consolidated Financial Statements, we have considered:

1) how Shell's assumed future commodity price assumptions compare to energy transition scenarios and a range of third party forecasts; 
2) the reasonableness of Shell's forecast future carbon costs; 
3) the carbon intensity of Shell's Chemicals and Products, Upstream and Integrated Gas assets and associated products and related abatement projects;
4) the incorporation of Shell's stated emissions reduction targets (see Climate-related targets summary within Our journey to net zero in the Strategic Report) within 
Shell's operating plan; 
5) the useful economic lives of assets (volumes expected to be produced beyond 2030 and 2050) and the risk of material stranded assets; and
6) how physical risk considerations have been incorporated into Shell's asset plans.

The critical accounting judgements and estimates that are impacted by climate change and the energy transition are disclosed within Note 4 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 

Our response to the risk

Overall response
To respond to the impact of climate change and the energy transition on our audit, we ensured that we had the appropriate skills and experience within the audit 
team. Our group engagement team included professionals with significant experience in climate change and energy transition. The audit procedures were performed 
by the group engagement team and component teams. 

In our 2023 audit, as part of our risk assessment, we considered financial and non-financial data to assess six climate risks at a granular level. This covered Shell's 
higher risk assets, with a net book value of around $120 billion. We considered the carbon intensity of the assets and products sold and where there could be a higher 
degree of management judgement and bias. This included considering the execution risks of certain abatement projects. 

For the assets that we assessed as most susceptible to climate change and energy transition risks, we performed sensitivity analysis and read management's climate 
scenario analysis to assess whether there were indicators of impairment.

Further procedures performed to address the climate risks included:

Alignment of statements made in Strategic Report with the financial statements 
￮

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, we read the other information in the Annual Report and Accounts (as defined in section 9 below) and, in 
doing so, considered whether the other information, which includes Shell's climate targets, are materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit;

￮

￮ evaluated whether the effects of material climate risks, as disclosed within Our journey to net zero, within the Strategic report, had been appropriately reflected in 
asset values and associated financial statement disclosures, and the timing, nature and measurement of liabilities recognised are in accordance with IFRS, which is 
discussed further below;
read and challenged the completeness of management's disclosures in Note 4. We audited the sensitivity disclosures in Note 4 of the carrying value of Shell's 
Upstream and Integrated Gas PP&E assets to a range of future oil and gas price assumptions, reflecting reduced demand scenarios due to climate change and the 
energy transition, including the IEA Net Zero Emissions (NZE) by 2050 scenario and Announced Pledges Scenarios (APS). This included considering whether the 
downside sensitivities could have reduced the level of Shell's distributable profits such that their 2023 shareholder distributions would not have been in compliance 
with the Companies Act 2006. For Upstream, Integrated Gas and Chemicals and Products assets, we also considered the carrying amounts and their sensitivity to 
IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario and the discount rate sensitivity considering Upstream, Integrated Gas, Chemicals and Products and Renewables and Energy 
Solutions carrying amounts; and 

￮ assessed whether the climate change litigation described in Note 31 was complete and whether it represented obligations where the likelihood of a cash outflow 

was probable and therefore requiring provision. Also, we considered the appropriateness of the climate change litigation disclosures within Note 31, Legal 
proceedings and other contingencies, by comparing the disclosures to our understanding of the claims and allegations and to the most recent disclosures provided 
by other oil and gas companies. 

231
231

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Our response to the risk continued

The reflection of material climate change risks and the impact of Shell's emissions reduction target in the material judgements and 
estimates
￮

tested management's internal controls over the identification and estimation of costs of the potential impacts associated with energy transition and climate change, 
and related financial statement disclosures in Note 4;

￮ held discussions with Group Planning, Group Reporting, Shell's Carbon Strategy group and, where necessary, individual asset managers to understand and 
challenge management on how the following five transition and one physical risks of climate change were being factored into Shell's financial statements:

1) The comparison of commodity price assumptions to energy transition scenarios and a range of third party forecasts
￮ engaged oil and gas valuation specialists to assess the reasonableness of Shell's short and long-term pricing assumptions. This included benchmarking Shell's 
assumptions against a range of third party forecasts (including other oil and gas companies, consultants, banks, brokers and other external outlooks such as 
International Energy Agency ('IEA'));

￮ considered specifically the extent to which management's forecast price assumptions incorporated the potential impact of climate change and the energy 

transition. This included consideration of assumed hydrocarbon and renewables demand and the impacts of such demand movements and supply constraints 
on future prices; and

￮ evaluated the reasonableness of Shell's refining and petrochemical margin assumptions, by comparing Shell's assumptions to external benchmarks. We also 

considered the expected impact on demand for oil products and chemicals in a transition to a net zero economy. Refining margin and petrochemical assumptions 
underpin the recoverable amount of refineries and petrochemical plants respectively.

2) The reasonableness of Shell's forecast future carbon costs
￮ we engaged our climate change specialists to assist in evaluating Shell's carbon price methodology, including how price and free allowance assumptions are 

applied in different jurisdictions. At a country level, we compared Shell's forecast carbon prices to those presented under the IEA NZE scenario. Our procedures 
were focused on assets with high scope 1 and 2 emissions and which are geographically located in high carbon price jurisdictions; and

￮ we independently calculated Shell's forecast carbon cost included in their operating plan, based on carbon price, free allowance and emission assumptions. 

We performed sensitivity analysis on the mid-point carbon price and free allowance assumptions in the operating plan to the independently determined outlooks 
identified by our climate change and energy transition specialists to determine whether deviations are material to Shell's operating plan and respective assets.

3) The carbon intensity of Shell's Chemicals and Products, Upstream and Integrated Gas assets and associated products and related 
abatement projects
￮ we considered the scope 1 and 2 and lifecycle emissions of the products sold by Shell's assets (net carbon intensity), to identify potential impairment triggers. For 

Shell's high carbon intensive assets, we considered the abatement plans included in their operating plan. We obtained an understanding of the planned strategies 
and the basis for associated costs with projects related to carbon capture and storage, energy efficiency and renewables growth. We challenged the associated 
opex and capex included in the operating plan. We also performed sensitivity analysis by removing all in-plan abatement projects at high carbon intensive assets 
to determine whether the incremental carbon cost that would need to be incurred on emissions would trigger an impairment. 

4) The incorporation of emissions reductions into Shell's operating plan
￮ we confirmed that Shell's operating plan, included costs associated with Shell's plans to achieve Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets and their net carbon 

￮

intensity ('NCI') targets. We challenged management's ability to accurately forecast their scope 1 and 2 emissions assumptions included in the operating plan to 
meet their 2030 absolute emissions targets through the performance of lookback analysis; and
for abatement projects, we considered the degree to which Shell is relying on these projects to meet their reduction targets. We also considered additional 
abatement levers outside of the operating plan, which Shell has optionality to execute in order to meet their climate targets. We confirmed whether the carbon 
credits and associated costs were included in the operating plan to meet Shell's 2030 NCI targets.

5) The useful economic lives of assets (volumes expected to be produced beyond 2030 and 2050) and the risk of stranded assets
￮ considering Shell's long-term target to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, we have assessed Upstream and Integrated Gas assets which are expected to be 
producing beyond 2030 and 2050. We also verified that the oil, gas and carbon price sensitivity disclosures in Note 4 incorporated life of field assumptions.

6) Whether physical risk considerations have been incorporated into the asset plans
￮ evaluated management's disclosures around physical risk in the Our journey to net zero section of the Annual Report to ensure compliance with the Task Force 

on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures;

￮ using our data analytics and climate change specialists, we performed a physical risk assessment that considered Shell's asset-level mitigation and adaptation 
measures for the assets that we viewed as being exposed to the highest physical risks, such as hurricanes, flooding, rising temperatures, drought and water 
dredging. For assets assessed to be high risk, we evaluated the mitigation and adaption measures, and ensured that where relevant, the costs have been 
appropriately reflected in the operating plan; and

￮ assessed whether the risk exposure represents an impairment trigger for the associated asset through consideration of the severity of the physical risk, likely time 

horizon, historical ability to manage physical risk and headroom of the asset.

Our procedures were led by the group engagement team, with input from our teams in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Philippines, Poland, Singapore, UK and the USA.

Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit and Risk Committee 

We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee the key procedures that we had performed and the results of those procedures, which are set out below: 

Alignment of statements made in Strategic Report with the financial statements 
￮ we reported that we had not identified any material inconsistencies between Shell's disclosures in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which covers 

the material impacts of climate-related matters, and the disclosures included within the other information; and 

￮ we reported that the various climate change litigations as detailed in Note 31 were consistent with the requirements of IAS 37. We also reported that based on our 

understanding of the claims and allegations, the disclosures within Note 31, are appropriate. 

232
232

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit and Risk Committee continued

The reflection of material climate change risks and the impact of Shell's emissions reduction target in the critical accounting estimates 
and judgments

￮

1) the comparison of Shell's assumed future commodity price assumptions to energy transition scenarios
￮ we  reported  that  Shell's  best  estimate  assumptions  are  within  our  range  when  compared  against  a  range  of  third  party  forecasts  and  EY's  independent 
consideration  of  an  acceptable  range.  Overall,  Shell's  assumptions  are  reasonable,  albeit  for  oil  price  assumptions  towards  the  bottom  end  of  these  ranges. 
We are satisfied Shell's assumptions represent current best estimates, as required by IFRS;
IEA's  Announced  Pledges  Scenario  (APS)  price  assumptions,  which  assumes  that  all  climate  commitments  made  by  governments  around  the  world  to  date,  are 
aligned with Shell's oil price assumptions. Shell's Henry Hub gas price assumption are higher than the APS scenario; however, Henry Hub is not a significant input 
to the recoverable amount of the of the assets that are expected to be producing beyond 2030 and 2050; 
IEA's NZE price scenarios are lower than Shell's Brent and Henry Hub price assumptions and represent an aspirational target reflecting governmental, societal and 
regulatory responses to climate change risks that are still developing; however, as IFRS requires preparers to base the financial statements on current best estimates 
of future oil and gas prices, we are satisfied Shell's assumptions are within a range of benchmarks that reflect the current best estimates of future oil and gas prices; 
and 

￮

￮ we reported that Shell's refining and petrochemical margin assumptions are reasonable and materially aligned with external benchmarks that consider the impact 

on demand for oil products and chemicals in a transition to a net zero economy. 

2) the reasonableness of Shell's forecast future carbon costs
￮ we concluded that Shell had adopted an appropriate methodology to forecast carbon prices and through our independent testing, we verified that Shell's forecast 
carbon  price  assumptions  were  within  our  independently  determined  ranges.  Where  assumed  carbon  prices  were  at  the  bottom  end  of  our  ranges,  we  were 
satisfied that applying our range did not represent an impairment trigger for the impacted assets. Also, we are satisfied that the changes to carbon costs in the 
operating plan versus the prior year plan are a result of changes to planned actions or to changes in allowances that could not have been previously forecast or 
that do not have a material impact. Our sensitivity analysis indicated that applying the IEA NZE50 carbon prices would have an additional operating cost of 2% 
of forecast operating expenses in the operating plan over a 10 year period, which does not represent a material increase in the overall forecast costs. 

3) the carbon intensity of Shell's Chemicals and Products, Upstream and Integrated Gas assets and associated products and related 
abatement projects
￮

for the assets that we assessed as highly carbon intensive, we were satisfied that the planned abatement opex and capex costs related to carbon capture and 
storage, energy efficiency and renewables growth were included in the operating plan and that the headroom on the high carbon intensive assets is not sensitive to 
additional carbon costs that would be incurred should abatement activities not be successful;

4) the incorporation of Shell's stated climate targets within Shell's operating plan
￮ we reported that Shell's operating plan reflected the expected financial impact of management's current planned actions to address the identified climate change 
risks. Where impairment assessments were performed, we were satisfied that the climate change factors had been reflected in the assessments throughout the field 
life of the asset. 

5) the useful economic lives of assets (volumes expected to be produced beyond 2030 and 2050) and the risk of stranded assets
￮ we reported that, of the SEC proved reserves currently recognised at the end of 2023, 54% are expected to be produced by 2030 and only an immaterial amount 
(3%)  will be produced beyond  2050.  Shell's Integrated  Gas  and  Upstream assets and Canadian mines are mainly depreciated over SEC proved reserves. This 
means that the current carrying amount of these assets will be substantially depreciated by 2050, with around $0.7 billion remaining, which is not material;

￮ we concluded that there was a low risk of Shell's current refineries being stranded as the assets are expected to be fully depreciated in the next 11 years. We also 
concluded there was a low risk of Shell's Chemical assets being stranded as petrochemical demand is expected to be resilient to energy transition, as noted in the 
IEA Net Zero 2050 scenario on World Energy Consumption; and

￮ we were satisfied that the reserves recognised that are expected to be extracted post 2050 were consistent with Shell's NZE commitments and that the estimated 

carrying value of these assets in 2050 is not material. 

6) whether physical risk considerations have been incorporated into the asset plans
￮

for the assets that we assessed as susceptible to higher physical risk, we were satisfied that assets included mitigation and adaptation plans and the associated 
costs in the operating plan. Where mitigation and adaptation plans were not included in the operating plan, we have identified other factors, such as annual risk 
assessments, preparation and insurance plans, that reduce the risk of impairment on these assets.

Other observations
￮ with regards to the sensitivity analyses provided by Shell in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including commodity prices, carbon prices, refining 
and  chemical  margins  and  the  discount  rate,  we  were  satisfied  that  the  descriptions  of  the  sensitivities  reflected  the  sensitivities  performed.  Also,  the  prices  and 
assumptions applied by Shell in their calculations were agreed to the scenarios as described. We reperformed the sensitivities and were satisfied that the ranges 
disclosed by Shell in Note 4 were materially correct, including the illustrative disclosures on the impact of commodity prices averaged from three 1.5-2 degrees 
Celsius external climate change scenarios and from the IEA NZE50 scenario; and

￮ we  reported  that  we  had  considered  Shell's  dividend  resilience  statement  in  Note  4.  Had  Shell  applied  the  IEA  NZE50  scenario,  and  had  this  impairment  of 
$25  billion  directly  reduced  the  carrying  value  of  investments  within  the  Parent  Company,  Shell  plc,  this  would  not  have  impacted  the  distributable  reserves 
available to Shell from which to pay dividends and buyback shares in 2023. This is on the basis that Shell plc had a merger reserve of $234 billion and under 
Companies Act 2006, the adverse impact from an impairment would be on the merger reserve as opposed to distributable reserves.

See the "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on page 185 for details on how the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed climate change and energy transition. See "Powring Progress strategy" on 
pages 6-13 and "Energy transition strategy" on pages 89-99 for more details. Also, see Notes 2, 4, 11, 12, and 31 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

233
233

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Estimation of oil and gas reserves

Description of the key audit matter

This is a forecast-based estimate. Oil and gas reserves estimates are used in the calculation of depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation (DD&A) and impairment testing. The risk is the inappropriate recognition of proved reserves that impacts these 
accounting estimates. Given the current environment, there may be a heightened risk of proved reserves with a high carbon 
intensity not ultimately being produced (also see climate change and energy transition key audit matter). 

As described in Notes 11 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2023, production assets amounted to $110.7 billion and had an 
associated DD&A charge of $18.2 billion. Joint ventures and associates (JVAs) amounted to $24.5 billion. As further described in Note 12, exploration and 
production impairment losses of $4.8 billion and exploration and production impairment reversals of $0.5 billion were recorded during the year.

If proved reserves are recognised that are not ultimately produced, DD&A will be understated, and the recoverable amount of assets may be overstated. In-year 
reserve movements are driven by revisions of previous estimates resulting from reclassifications, changes to recovery assumptions, extensions and discoveries and 
purchases and sales of reserves in place. Revisions generally arise from new information, for example additional drilling results, changes in production patterns and 
changes to development plans. 

Auditing the estimation of oil and gas reserves is complex. There is significant estimation uncertainty in assessing the quantities of reserves and resources in place. 
The estimates are based on the Company's central group of experts' assessments of petroleum initially in place, production curves and certain other inputs, including 
prices, license expiration date, capex and opex. Estimation uncertainty is further elevated given the transition to a low-carbon economy, which increases the risk of 
underutilised or stranded oil and gas assets.

Our response to the risk

We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell's oil and gas reserves estimation process. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their 
operating effectiveness. For example, we tested management's review controls over changes to year-on-year estimated oil and gas reserves volumes.

We involved professionals with oil and gas reserves audit experience in evaluating the key assumptions and methodologies applied by management.

Our procedures included, amongst others: 
￮ evaluated the professional qualifications and objectivity of management's experts who performed the detailed preparation of the reserve estimates and those who 
are primarily responsible for providing independent review and challenge, and ultimately endorsement of, the reserve estimates. This covered around 24 individuals 
involved in the process; 
tested that significant additions or reductions in reserves had been made in the period in which the new information became available, by understanding the 
change in circumstance that drove the change. Our most experienced oil and gas team members, which included a reservoir engineer, reviewed the documentation 
and approvals of all changes greater than 50 mmboe (seven fields);

￮

￮ verified that reserve movements were in compliance with Shell's reserves and resources guidance and SEC regulations; 
￮ evaluated management's estimation of the point at which the operating cash flow from a project becomes negative (the economic limit), as this impacts DD&A and 
impairment. Where relevant, we assessed whether the economic limit test incorporated Shell's estimate of future carbon costs to reflect the potential impact of 
climate change and the energy transition; 

￮ assessed the completeness and accuracy of the inputs used by management in estimating the oil and gas reserves by agreeing the inputs to source documentation. 
This included obtaining an understanding of the non-financial information used by the specialists when estimating the reserves. We also performed procedures 
around the completeness and accuracy of this information; 

￮ performed back-testing of historical data to identify indications of optimism bias over time;
￮ performed sensitivity analysis on the impact of changes in oil and gas reserves;
￮ attended all of Shell's Upstream Reserves Committee meetings to observe the internal review and endorsement process. These meeting are part of Shell's proved 

reserves assurance process, which is described in Supplementary Information – Oil and gas section;

￮ we focused our audit procedures on those assets that are currently forecast to be producing beyond 2050 and the carbon intensity of the post 2050 production 

from those fields to identify assets that are carbon intensive, where there may be a higher risk of the reserves not ultimately being produced. The purpose of 
performing such analysis was to identify assets that were at higher risk of the current net book value being overstated; and

￮ we also included unpredictability in our testing by selecting a field that did not meet our selection criteria.

Our procedures were led by the group engagement team, with input from our teams in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Malaysia, Nigeria, Poland, Qatar, UK and the USA.

Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit and Risk Committee

We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee in January 2024 that, in our view, Shell follows a robust process for recognising oil and gas reserves. There are no 
indications that the recognition of the reserve volumes beyond 2030 and 2050 results in any impairment triggers or that the carrying amounts of the related assets 
are overstated. 

We reported to the Committee that the sensitivity analysis that we performed indicated that, at portfolio level with all other assumptions remaining unchanged, 
reserves would have to be overestimated by 18% for DD&A to be misstated by a material amount ($2 billion).

The inputs and assumptions used to estimate proved reserves and resources are appropriate such estimates. For the reserves and resources that were expected to be 
produced post 2050, we were satisfied that this was not inconsistent with Shell's NZE ambitions and that it remains appropriate to recognise these reserves on the 
basis that they are expected to be recovered.

Please see key audit matter on the impact of climate change and the energy transition on the financial statements for details of our considerations on the carbon 
intensity associated with reserves expected to be produced beyond 2030.

See the "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on pages 179-190 for details on how the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed assurances for oil and gas reserves. Also, see Notes 2, 4 and 11 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited").

234
234

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Impairment of Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and Joint ventures and associates (JVA)

Description of the key audit matter

This is a forecast-based estimate. The risk is that potential impairments are not identified on a timely basis, including whether the 
impacts of climate change and the energy transition have been considered in Shell's impairment trigger assessments (also see climate 
change and energy transition key audit matter). 

As described in Notes 11, and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2023 Shell recognised $110.7 billion of production assets, $49.2 billion 
of manufacturing, supply and distribution assets (primarily refineries and petrochemical plants) and $24.5 billion of joint ventures and associates (JVAs). As disclosed 
in Note 12, in 2023, Shell recognised $8.2 billion impairment losses and $0.6 billion impairment loss reversals.

The recoverable amount of PP&E and JVAs can be sensitive to small changes in key assumptions, which increases the risk of indicators of impairment or impairment 
reversal not being identified. Our audit effort has focused on the completeness and timely identification of indicators of impairment charges or impairment reversals. 

Assumptions underpinning the impairment assessments include:
￮ changes in future oil and gas prices, in particular over the mid-to-long term, which are more uncertain than short term forecasts;
￮ changes in refining margin assumptions;
￮ expected production volumes;
￮
￮

the assumed weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and asset-specific risks; and
individual asset impairment assessments.

As described in Note 2, the most complex of these judgements relate to management's view on the long-term oil and gas price outlook. Forecasting future prices is 
inherently difficult, as it requires forecasts that reflect developments in demand such as global economic growth, technology efficiency, policy measures and, on the 
supply side, consideration of investment and resource potential, cost of development of new supply and behaviour of major resource holders. These judgements are 
particularly difficult because of increased demand uncertainty and pace of decarbonisation due to climate change and the energy transition. 

Our response to the risk

We  obtained  an  understanding  of  the  controls  over  Shell's  asset  impairment  process.  We  then  evaluated  the  design  of  these  controls  and  tested  their  operating 
effectiveness. For example, we tested the controls over management's identification of indicators of impairment and reversals of impairment and the approval of oil 
and gas prices and petrochemical and refining margins.

Our procedures included, amongst others:

Oil and gas prices
￮ we  have  included  observations  on  oil  and  gas  prices  in  our  key  audit  matter  above  on  climate  (The  impact  of  climate  change  and  the  energy  transition  on  the 

Consolidated Financial Statements).

Petrochemical and refining margins
￮ we involved our valuations specialists to assess the reasonableness of Shell's margin estimation methodologies and assumptions; and
￮ evaluated the reasonableness of Shell's refining margin assumptions by comparing these to independent market and consultant forecasts.

Oil and gas reserves
￮ we have included observations in our key audit matter above on oil and gas reserves.

WACC
￮ with the assistance of valuation specialists, we independently assessed a range of reasonable input assumptions for calculating Shell's WACC; and
￮ assessed whether Shell's risking in their impairment assessments, through both a discount rate and individual asset cash flows, adequately reflects the appropriate 

level of risking for the asset.

235
235

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Impairment of Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and Joint ventures and associates (JVA) continued

Our response to the risk continued

Individual asset assessments
￮ evaluated Shell's assessment of impairment losses and impairment reversal triggers, including changes in the forecast commodity price assumptions, movements in 
oil and gas reserves, changes in asset performance, changes in Shell's operating plan assumptions, including those relating to Shell's carbon emissions reductions 
targets, and whether these are indicators of impairment or impairment reversal. We also considered whether potential disposals meet the held for sale criteria; 
separately from management, for material assets, we also assessed independently whether or not indicators of impairment or reversal triggers exist and considered 
the  existence  of  contradictory  evidence  such  as  external  commentary  on  asset  performance,  which  could  indicate  a  significant  increase  or  decrease  in  the 
recoverable amount of the assets; 

￮

￮ where triggers were identified, we assessed the inputs to the impairment assessment by comparing forecasts to the operating plan and life of field plans, historical 

actuals and other independent expectations. We also performed a consistency check on the assumptions to other assumptions applied by the group; 
tested the model integrity of material impairment assessments; 

￮
￮ evaluated the assumptions used in the preparation of the operating plan at a group, segment and asset level and compared the actual performance of assets to 

the forecasts made in the prior year; 

￮ considered  the  existence  of  other  contradictory  evidence,  such  as  the  results  of  any  comparable  market  transactions  that  could  indicate  a  material  increase  or 
decrease in the recoverable amount of any of the assets, public comments or commitments made by Shell and whether these could impact the future potential value 
of any assets; and

￮ assessed potential operational changes that have or are expected to have a significant adverse effect on an asset, such unplanned shutdowns, and whether they 

should be considered as impairment triggers.

The audit procedures were performed primarily by our group engagement team as well as our local audit teams in Australia, Canada, Nigeria, Poland, UK and USA.

Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit and Risk Committee

In January 2024, we reported to the Audit and Risk Committee that:

Oil and gas prices
￮

see the key matter above on impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Petrochemical and refining margins
￮ we reported to the Committee that Shell's refining and petrochemical margin assumptions are reasonable and sit comfortably within EY's ranges and relative to the 
external benchmarks. Also, Shell's petrochemical margin assumptions are within the benchmark ranges, other than for North America. Shell's assumptions for North 
America are conservative; however, this has not impacted any financial reporting judgements as no impairment assessments were performed in this region. The 
regions that we considered were Europe, North America and Asia.

Oil and gas reserves
￮

see key matter above on oil and gas reserves. 

WACC
￮ Shell applied a post-tax WACC of 7.5% (2022: 6.5%) to all impairment assessments, other than for the Power business, where a post-tax WACC of 6% (2022: 
5%) has been used. We reported to the Committee that Shell's methodology used in estimating the groupwide WACC was reasonable. Shell increased the rate 
during 2023 and reassessed the rate at the end of the year; and
in addition to applying a discount rate to risk cash flows, Shell also applied asset-specific risks directly in their cash flows. We reported that our valuation specialists 
estimated an asset specific discount rate (the WACC and additional cash flow risking) for the most significant impairment assessments performed and that the 
implicit discount rates were within our ranges.

￮

Individual asset assessments
￮ we reported that Shell's impairment assessment process is in line with IFRS. We reported to the Committee that we were satisfied with the outcomes of the 
individual impairment assessments, including the timing of the assessments. We provided the Committee with our observations on asset impairment trigger 
assessments where we spent the most audit effort, which included assessments where no charge was deemed necessary. Our observations included areas such as 
held for sale classification, cash flow phasing, cash flow risking and alignment with the operating plan;

￮ we reported that there was substantial headroom supporting the goodwill within Upstream, IG and Marketing and that there are no material goodwill impairment 

judgements relating to RE&S.

See the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 185 for details on how the Audit and Risk Committee considered impairments. Also, see Notes 2, 4, 11, 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.

236
236

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Accounting for complex transactions within Shell's Trading and Supply (T&S) function and the valuation of financial 
derivatives

Description of the key audit matter

The recognition of complex deals require accounting and valuation judgement. There is a risk of error in revenue due to the increased 
complexity of trades that are executed by Shell's T&S function. 

Additionally, there is a higher inherent risk of unauthorised trading associated to Shell's wider portfolio of over-the-counter traded 
position.

As described in Note 25, Shell recognised derivative financial instrument assets of $15.9 billion and derivative financial instrument liabilities of $11.8 billion. As 
described in Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2023 Shell recognised $317 billion of revenue. A subset of the consolidated revenue 
relates to T&S transactions, where there is a risk of unrealised revenues being inappropriately recorded. Shell has identified trading in the risk factors section of the 
Strategic Report, which form part of the other information, rather than the audited financial statements. 

Shell's trading and supply function is integrated within the Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, and Renewables and Energy Solutions 
segments. The function executes and settles both standard and non-standard complex trades. The IT environment supporting the function is complex and involves a 
large number of systems, resulting in a high-level of manual intervention being required.

Auditing complex trades is challenging because of the significant judgement used in determining the appropriate accounting treatment, and the key assumptions used 
in valuing the trades. Also, trading is not always carried out in active markets where prices are readily available, increasing subjectivity used in determining the pricing 
curve and volatility assumptions, which are key inputs to valuing the trades and in determining unrealised gains and losses. 

Unauthorised trading may occur on Shell’s portfolio of over-the-counter positions because of trader incentives and the high volume of transactions that Shell executes.

Our response to the risk

We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell's process for the recognition of revenue relating to unrealised trading gains and losses, including controls 
over management's complex deal accounting and valuations. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating effectiveness. 

We involved audit professionals with experience auditing large commodity trading organisations. Our audit procedures focus on the appropriateness of the 
accounting treatment and the valuation of complex contracts. 

To respond to the risk of inappropriate accounting for complex deals we:
￮ assessed the completeness of the list of complex deals by performing an independent search considering non-standard contractual terms, multiple commodity-based 

transactions, long-term contracts, unobservable inputs and complex valuation models;
￮ directly confirmed with the counterparty a sample of new or amended complex deals;
￮ obtained an understanding of the commercial rationale of complex deals by analysing the executed agreements and through discussions with management. Also, 
we performed an independent assessment of the accounting treatment of a sample of the complex deals, challenging management on contract terms and previous 
accounting judgement;

￮ assessed the reasonableness of Shell's derivative valuation methodology by comparing it to market practice, analysing whether a consistent framework was applied 

￮

￮

and checked the consistency of inputs used in deal valuations and other assumptions;
involved valuation specialists to assist us in performing independent testing of complex deals, checking that the appropriate valuation model, accounting method, 
and liquidity window has been applied. Our valuations were established using independent externally sourced inputs, where available;
tested the forward pricing curve and volatility assumptions in management's valuation models, including comparing to external broker quotes, market consensus 
providers, and our independent assessments and further reviewed valuation reserve adjustments for a sample of material complex contracts;

￮ we specifically challenged management’s accounting consideration of whether forward physical contracts to buy and sell LNG are in the scope of IFRS 9 and 

should be fair valued. 

To respond to the risk of unauthorised trading, we:
￮ performed external confirmation procedures for the existence and completeness of recorded forward positions. Our tests included, amongst other procedures, 

requesting Shell's counterparties to confirm their entire position with Shell and asking counterparties to provide details of individual trades;

￮ performed additional procedures over the post year-end tradebook to identify material additions, deletions or amendments from the balance sheet date procedures 

over late deal entries post year-end, corroborating the reasons for the late entry, and validating the impact on the balance sheet date;

￮ analysed material post-balance sheet date cash receipts/disbursements and assessed the completeness of the associated derivative recorded as of the balance 

sheet date;

￮ performed testing of deals that were unconfirmed or excluded from the management’s confirmation process at the balance sheet date. We obtained evidence of 

the trade’s existence at the year-end and validating their exclusion respectively, for a sample of deals; and

￮ performed procedures to assess the appropriateness of Shell's forward price estimates. 

The audit procedures were performed principally by the group engagement team and the UK and US component teams.

Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit and Risk Committee

In January 2024, we reported to the Audit and Risk Committee that:
￮

the valuation of complex derivative contracts were materially correct and the related unrealised gains and losses have been recorded appropriately in the financial 
statements; 

￮ we were satisfied with Shell's key accounting judgments and the application of their accounting policies, including the accounting treatment of non-standard 

contractual terms, were appropriate;

￮ we highlighted that the accounting judgement around LNG liquidity was a significant judgement. We stated that it was appropriate that Shell do not account for 
their LNG contracts as derivatives and therefore do not reflect these at fair value. This was based on Shell's net settlement history (there is no significant past 
practice of net settlement within Shell's LNG portfolio) and market liquidity (indicators do not demonstrate any increase in liquidity in 2023 mid/long term contracts 
continue to dominate the market); and

￮ we did not identify instances of unauthorised trading as of the balance sheet date.

See the "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on pages 179-190 for details on how the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the Trading and Supply's control framework. Also see Note 25 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements".

There were no changes from the prior year as to the Key Audit Matters included in our auditor's report.

237
237

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

7. Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on our audit 
and in forming our audit opinion. 

Overall materiality

What we mean

We define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our procedures.

Level set

Group materiality
We set our preliminary overall materiality for Shell's Consolidated Financial Statements 
at $2.0 billion (2022: $1.2 billion). We kept this under review throughout the year and 
reassessed the appropriateness of our original assessment in the light of Shell's results 
and external market conditions. We did not find it necessary to revise our level of 
overall materiality.

Parent Company materiality
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be $2.0 billion 
(2022: $1.2 billion), which is 0.7% of equity (2022: 1.0%). We concluded 
that equity remains an appropriate basis to determine materiality for 
an investment holding company. The range we normally apply when 
determining materiality on an equity measurement basis is 1- 2%. 
We applied a lower percentage to align the materiality of the Parent 
Company with that of the Group.

Our basis of determining materiality

Our assessment of overall materiality that we applied throughout the year was $2.0 billion, which represented 4.7% of the three-year normalised Adjusted Earnings 
pre-tax (see table below). Our approach is the same as that applied in 2022 other than the period over which we normalise. In 2022, we changed our approach and 
normalised over a two-year period (rather than a three-year period) to reflect structural changes to Shell following significant disposals. Applying a shorter period in 
2022 did not increase the materiality that we applied in 2022. In 2023, we reverted to a three-year period as Shell's underlying business in 2021, 2022 and 2023 
are structurally more comparable.

Where we measure materiality on a pre-tax earnings basis, we normally apply 5% of the measure. Applying this to the three-year normalised Adjusted pre-tax 
earnings would indicate materiality of $2.1 billion. In deciding on an appropriate planning materiality to apply in the Shell audit, we judgementally selected 
$2.0 billion. In 2022, we applied a lower planning materiality ($1.2 billion); however, we could have applied a level similar to that in 2023. We selected a 
lower level in 2022 on the basis that there was more uncertainty over long term prices.

Our materiality was derived from an average of Shell's earnings for 2021-2023, including an initial estimate of the 2023 result, on an Adjusted Earnings basis, which 
we then adjusted for an average effective tax rate. At the end of the year, we reassessed materiality based on the actual results for 2023. As disclosed within Non-
GAAP measures reconciliations within Additional Information, the “Adjusted Earnings” measure aims to facilitate a comparative understanding of Shell’s financial 
performance from period to period by removing the effects of oil price changes on inventory carrying amounts and removing the effects of identified items. Shell's 
identified items are disclosed within Additional Information, Non-GAAP measures reconciliations, in the section Identified items.

Our key criterion in determining materiality remains our perception of the needs of Shell's stakeholders. We consider which earnings, activity or capital-based measure 
aligns best with their expectations. In so doing, we apply a 'reasonable investor perspective', which reflects our understanding of the common financial information 
needs of the members of Shell as a group. 

In our view these needs are best met by basing materiality on normalised Adjusted Earnings on a pre-tax basis. Through applying a normalised earnings approach, 
large year-on-year swings in materiality are minimised. These swings would be driven primarily by price fluctuations rather than specific structural changes to Shell's 
business. In addition, an Adjusted Earnings approach is consistent with the presentation of Shell's segment earnings, which is the earnings measure used by the CEO 
for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance.

We have considered alternative benchmarks to Adjusted Earnings, including profit before taxation and EBITDA. These indicate a range of $1.4 billion to $2.1 billion. 

By applying a normalised Adjusted Earnings approach, we have concluded that it is appropriate to apply a materiality of $2.0 billion (2022: $1.2 billion).

The Adjusted Earnings were as follows:

$ billion

Adjusted Earnings*

Estimated tax impact based on the average effective tax rate

Adjusted Earnings pre-tax

Materiality percentage on the average Adjusted Earnings pre-tax - 2021-2023

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

2023

28.2 

13.7 

41.9 

2022

39.9 

18.5 

58.4 

4.7%

2021

19.3 

8.5 

27.8 

238
238

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

7. Our application of materiality continued

Performance materiality

What we mean

Having established overall materiality, we determined 'performance materiality', which represents our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account. It is 
calculated as a percentage of overall materiality in order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds overall materiality of $2.0 billion for Shell's financial statements as a whole. We assigned performance materiality to our various in-scope 
operating units. The performance materiality allocation is dependent on the size of the operating unit, measured by its contribution of earnings to Shell, or other 
appropriate metric, and the risk associated with the operating unit.

Level set

In our assessment for 2023, we considered the nature, number and impact of the audit differences identified in 2022. We also noted the way in which management 
navigated the financial statement close throughout 2022, and the fact that we did not experience any notable increase in control deficiencies in the prior year audit. 
Based on our assessment of these factors, our judgement was that performance materiality for the 2023 audit should be 75% (2022: 75%) of our overall materiality 
or $1.5 billion (2022: $0.9 billion). 

The level of materiality that we applied in undertaking our audit work at the operating unit level, for the purpose of obtaining coverage over significant financial 
statements accounts, was determined by applying a percentage of our total performance materiality. This percentage is based on the significance of the operating 
unit relative to Shell as a whole and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at that operating unit. In 2023 the range of materiality applied at the 
operating unit level was $225 million to $975 million (2022: $135 million to $585 million). 

The performance materiality was kept under ongoing review, but the conclusion remained unchanged at our year-end re-assessment of materiality. 

Audit difference reporting threshold

What we mean

This is the amount below which identified misstatements are clearly trivial. The threshold is the level above which we collate and report audit differences to the Audit 
and Risk Committee. We also report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected 
misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our 
opinion.

Level set

We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences more than $100 million (2022: $60 million), as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. This represents 5% of our planning materiality (2022: 5%).

239
239

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

8. Our scope of the audit of Shell's financial statements 

What we mean

We are required to establish an overall audit strategy that sets the scope, timing, and direction of our audit. Audit scope comprises the physical locations, operating 
units, activities, and processes to be audited that, in aggregate, are expected to provide sufficient coverage of the financial statements for us to express an audit 
opinion.

Criteria for determining our audit scope and selection of in-scope operating units

Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determined our audit scope for each operating unit within 
Shell which, when taken together, enabled us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Our audit effort was focused towards higher risk areas, 
such as management judgements and on operating units that we considered significant based upon size, complexity or risk.

We assessed our 2023 audit scope following the completion of our 2022 audit. We identified those Areas of Operation (AoOs or operating units) that were 
significant by virtue of their contribution to Shell's results or significant by virtue of their associated risk or complexity. In doing this we considered the history or 
expectation of unusual or complex transactions, potential for or history of material misstatements, the previous effectiveness of controls, our forensic assessment in 
relation to fraud, bribery or corruption, and internal audit findings. We then considered the adequacy of account coverage and remaining audit risk of AoOs not 
directly covered by audit procedures. Finally, we sense checked our scope to the prior year; ensured that there was appropriate unpredictability in our scope and 
made the necessary changes where appropriate. We applied our Risk Scan analytics techniques, which consolidate internal and external data to inform us on higher 
risk components to be included in scope. This allowed us to risk rate the group's operating units. We identified 94 operating units where we believed that it was 
appropriate to carry out targeted testing. 

By following this approach, our audit effort focused on higher risk areas, such as management judgements. Our group wide procedures enabled us to obtain audit 
evidence over the AoOs that were not full, specific or specified procedure scope.

We did not make substantial changes to our 2022 assessment of the components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures. Also, there were no 
significant changes to the number of IT applications we tested. 

We kept our audit scope under review throughout the year to reflect changes in Shell's underlying business and risks; however, no significant changes were required. 

The table below illustrates the scope of work performed by our audit teams:

Operating units

Full scope

Specific scope
Specified procedures1

Other procedures

Total

2023

2022

No. of countries

Basis of inclusion

Extent of procedures

7

34

53

818

912

9

35

54

698

796

6

11

26

100

Size

Complete financial information

Significant risk or higher risk estimates

Individual account balances

Other risk factors

Residual risk of error

Individual transactions or processes
Supplementary audit procedures2

These procedures were performed by components and at the group level, to address specified risks of the audit or for audit coverage purposes.

1
2 We performed supplementary audit procedures in relation to Shell's centralised group accounting and reporting processes. These included, but were not limited to, addressing the implications 

of significant and complex accounting matters across all operating units, procedures over revenue to cash process analytics, review of impairment or impairment reversal indicators by 
segments, procedures over the forecasts as they relate to deferred tax asset recoverability and review of pension scheme assumptions, procedures over unusual accounting transactions 
including trading mark-to-market valuations, acquisitions, divestments and redundancies, addressing the appropriate elimination of intercompany balances and the completeness of provisions 
for litigation and other claims, including those related to non-compliance with laws and regulations. We performed testing of both manual and consolidation journal entries throughout the 
year, homogenous processes, and controls at the Business Service Centres (BSCs) and testing of group wide IT systems. We performed a disaggregated analytical review on each financial 
statement line item and also tested Shell's analytical procedures performed at a group, segment and function level. 

Coverage

Our coverage by full, specific, specified and group procedures is illustrated below. The summary is by Total Assets, Adjusted Earnings and Revenue. Overall, our full, 
specific and specified procedures accounted for 65% of Shell's absolute Adjusted Earnings reported by Shell in its quarterly results announcements and adjusted for 
an effective tax rate. The remaining Adjusted Earnings were covered by Group wide procedures. 

The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by the Group engagement team 

d
9%

c
5%

a
40%

Revenue

b
46%

d
26%

c
18%

a
11%

a
11%

d
35%

Total
Assets

Adjusted
Earnings

b
45%

c
16%

b
38%

a

b

c

d

Full scope

Speciﬁc scope

Speciﬁed procedures

Covered by other procedures

240
240

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

8. Our scope of the audit of Shell's financial statements continued

Group evaluation, review and oversight of component teams

The group engagement partner and Senior Statutory Auditor, Gary Donald, has overall responsibility for the direction, supervision and performance of the Shell audit 
engagement in compliance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. He is supported by segment and function partners, who are 
based in the Netherlands and the UK, and who together with related staff comprise the integrated group engagement team. This group engagement team established 
the overall group audit strategy, communicated with component auditors, performed work on the consolidation process, and evaluated the conclusions drawn from 
the audit evidence as the basis for forming EY's opinion on the group financial statements. 

The group engagement team is responsible for directing, supervising, evaluating and reviewing the work of EY global network firms operating under their instruction 
(local EY teams) to assess whether: 
￮
￮
￮

the local EY audit team had the appropriate level of experience;
the work was performed and documented to a sufficiently high standard; 
the local EY audit team demonstrated that they had challenged management sufficiently and had executed their audit procedures with an appropriate level of 
scepticism; and
there is sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the conclusions reached.

￮

Members of the group engagement team provide direct oversight, review, and coordination of our BSC audit teams. Our BSC teams performed centralised testing 
in the BSCs for certain accounts, including revenue, cash and payroll. In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that 
needed to be undertaken at each of the operating units or BSCs by the group engagement team or by auditors from other local EY teams.

For the operating units where the work was performed by local EY auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement of the group engagement team 
to enable us to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.

The group engagement team provided detailed instructions to our component teams to drive the audit strategy and execution in a coordinated manner. Group audit 
partners physically visited India, Philippines Poland, Singapore and the USA, covering operating units, functions and BSCs. The Group audit partners also performed 
virtual site visits in Australia, Brazil and Nigeria. Our visits covered all of the T&S component teams and Shell's trading locations. The Senior Statutory Auditor 
physically visited India, Poland and the USA and virtually visited Australia and Nigeria. During the USA site visit, the Senior Statutory Auditor accompanied the Audit 
and Risk Committee on their visit to a number of operations, including Shell Polymers Monaca, the Shell Norco facility, the Shell – operated Vito floating production 
facility in the Gulf of Mexico (virtual visit from New Orleans) and the Houston trading floor.

During our visits, we exercised direction, supervision, oversight and review of our overseas EY audit teams. We were satisfied that we have had adequate involvement 
in their work and that we exercised sufficient and appropriate direction to the component teams. 

Our oversight of component teams included maintaining a continuous and open dialogue with our global component teams, as well as holding formal closing 
meetings quarterly, to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress and results of their procedures. 

9. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report including the Strategic Report, Governance, Supplementary 
Information and Additional Information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. The Directors are responsible 
for the other information contained within the Annual Report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement 
in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other 
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

10. Opinions on Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006.

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
￮ the information given in the strategic report and the directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 

is consistent with the financial statements; and 

￮ the strategic report and the directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

241
241

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

11. Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors' report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
￮ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 

branches not visited by us; or

￮ the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 

accounting records and returns; or

￮ certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or
￮ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

12. Corporate Governance Statement
We have reviewed the directors' statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the group and company's compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review 
by the Listing Rules.

Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:
￮ Directors' statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material uncertainties 

identified set out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section;

￮ Directors' explanation as to its assessment of the company's prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is appropriate 

set out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section;

￮ Director's statement on whether it has a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meets its liabilities set 

out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section;

￮ Directors' statement on fair, balanced and understandable set out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section;
￮ Board's confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out in the "Other regulatory and 

statutory information" section;

￮ The section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems set out in the 

"Other regulatory and statutory information" section; and;

￮ The section describing the work of the audit and risk committee set out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section.

13. Responsibilities of the Directors'
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors' responsibilities set out in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" section, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such 
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing Shell and the Parent Company's ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either 
intend to liquidate Shell or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

14. Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISA (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

15. Explanation as to what extent our audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, 
outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud.

The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility 
for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

Our approach was as follows:
￮ we obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to Shell and determined that the most significant are 

those that relate to the reporting framework (UK adopted international accounting standards, IFRS as issued by the IASB, Companies Act 
2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority) and the 
relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which Shell operates. In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws 
and regulations that may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and 
regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, environmental, and bribery and corruption practices.

242
242

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued

15. Explanation as to what extent our audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud 
continued
￮ we understood how Shell is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for 

legal and compliance procedures. We corroborated our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk 
Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies and noted that there was no contradictory evidence.

￮ we assessed the susceptibility of Shell's financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by embedding forensic 
specialists into our group engagement team. Our forensic specialists worked with the group engagement team to identify the fraud risks across 
various parts of the business. In addition, we utilised internal and external information to perform a fraud risk assessment for each of the 
countries of operation. We considered the risk of fraud through management override and, in response, we incorporated data analytics across 
manual journal entries into our audit approach. We also considered the possibility of fraudulent or corrupt payments made through third 
parties, gaining a detailed understanding of the Company's monitoring and compliance activities related to vendor screening and due 
diligence. Where deemed appropriate we conducted analytical testing on third party vendors in high-risk jurisdictions. We utilised a suite of 
digital tools in our assessment of fraud and management override including technology that seeks to verify the authenticity of key documents. 
We also conducted specific audit procedures in relation to the risk of bribery, corruption and sanctions compliance across various countries of 
operation determined on a risk-based approach.

￮ based on the results of our risk assessment we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations 
identified above. Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our 
understanding of the business; enquiries of legal counsel, group management, internal audit and all full and specific scope management; review 
of the volume and nature of complaints received by the whistleblowing hotline during the year; review of internal audit reports issued during the 
year; review of news releases published by external parties; and

￮ if any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were identified, these were communicated to the group engagement team and 
the relevant local EY teams who performed sufficient and appropriate audit procedures, supplemented by audit procedures performed at the 
group level.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council's website at 
frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

16. Other matters we are required to address
Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were re-appointed by Shell plc's Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 
23, 2023, as auditors of Shell to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, and signed an engagement letter on January 
17, 2024. Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is eight years covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 
December 31, 2023. 

Our audit opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee explaining the results of our audit.

17. Use of our report
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

/s/ Gary Donald (Senior Statutory Auditor)

Gary Donald
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
London
March 13, 2024

243
243

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements

Consolidated
Financial
Statements

245 Consolidated Statement of Income

245 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

246 Consolidated Balance Sheet

247 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

248 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

249 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

249 Note 1 Basis of preparation

249 Note 2 Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates 

259 Note 3 Changes to IFRS not yet adopted

259 Note 4 Climate change and energy transition

270 Note 5 Emission schemes and related environmental plans

272 Note 6 Capital Management

272 Note 7 Segment information

277 Note 8 Interest and other income

277 Note 9 Interest expense

278 Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets

279 Note 11 Property, plant and equipment

281 Note 12 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets

284 Note 13 Joint ventures and associates

285 Note 14 Investments in securities

286 Note 15 Trade and other receivables

286 Note 16 Inventories

287 Note 17 Cash and cash equivalents

287 Note 18 Assets held for sale

287 Note 19 Trade and other payables

288 Note 20 Debt

290 Note 21 Leases

292 Note 22 Taxation

294 Note 23 Retirement benefits

301 Note 24 Decommissioning and other provisions

302 Note 25 Financial instruments

308 Note 26 Share capital

309 Note 27 Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust

310 Note 28 Other reserves

312 Note 29 Dividends

312 Note 30 Earnings per share

312 Note 31 Legal proceedings and other contingencies

315 Note 32 Employees

315 Note 33 Directors and Senior Management

316 Note 34 Auditor's remuneration

316 Note 35 Post-balance sheet events

244

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Consolidated Statement of Income
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Revenue

Share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Interest and other income

Total revenue and other income

Purchases

Production and manufacturing expenses

Selling, distribution and administrative expenses

Research and development

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Interest expense

Total expenditure

Income before taxation

Taxation charge

Income for the period

Income attributable to non-controlling interest

Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Basic earnings per share ($)

Diluted earnings per share ($)

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Income for the period

Other comprehensive income/(loss) net of tax

Items that may be reclassified to income in later periods:

Currency translation differences

Debt instruments remeasurements

Cash flow hedging gains/(losses)

Net investment hedging (losses)/gains

Deferred cost of hedging

Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of joint ventures and associates

Total

Items that are not reclassified to income in later periods:

Retirement benefits remeasurements

Equity instruments remeasurements

Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income of joint ventures and associates

Total

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period

Comprehensive income for the period

Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest

Comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

245
245

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes

2023

2022

$ million

2021

7

13

8

7

7

7

7

7

9

22

7

7

7

30

30

316,620 

381,314 

261,504 

3,725 

2,838 

3,972 

915 

4,097 

7,056 

323,183 

386,201 

272,657 

212,883 

258,488 

174,912 

25,240 

13,433 

1,287 

1,750 

31,290 

4,673 

25,518 

12,883 

1,075 

1,712 

18,529 

3,181 

23,822 

11,328 

815 

1,423 

26,921 

3,607 

290,556 

321,386 

242,828 

32,627 

12,991 

19,636 

277 

64,815 

21,941 

29,829 

9,199 

42,874 

20,630 

565 

529 

19,359 

42,309 

20,101 

2.88 

2.85 

5.76 

5.71 

2.59 

2.57 

Notes

7

2023

2022

$ million

2021

19,636 

42,874 

20,630 

28

28

28

28

28

13

28

28

13

1,397 

(2,986)   

(1,413) 

41 

71 

(44)   

(148)   

18 

(78)   

(232)   

180 

200 

274 

(28) 

21 

295 

(39) 

(109) 

1,335 

(2,642)   

(1,273) 

(1,083)   

5,466 

7,198 

(99)   

(201)   

(1,383)   

(48)   

(491)   

(253)   

4,722 

2,080 

145 

3 

7,346 

6,073 

19,588 

44,954 

26,703 

312 

621 

468 

19,276 

44,333 

26,235 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at December 31, 2023

Assets

Non-current assets

Goodwill

Other intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Joint ventures and associates

Investments in securities

Deferred tax

Retirement benefits

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Current assets

Inventories

Trade and other receivables

Derivative financial instruments

Cash and cash equivalents

Assets classified as held for sale

Total assets

Liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Debt

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

Deferred tax

Retirement benefits

Decommissioning and other provisions

Current liabilities

Debt

Trade and other payables

Derivative financial instruments

Income taxes payable

Decommissioning and other provisions

Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale

Total liabilities

Equity

Share capital

Shares held in trust

Other reserves

Retained earnings

Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Non-controlling interest

Total equity

Total liabilities and equity

Signed on behalf of the Board

/s/ Sinead Gorman

Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer
March 13, 2024

246
246

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

$ million

10

10

11

13

14

22

23

15

25

16

15

25

17

18

20

19

25

22

23

24

20

19

25

24

18

26

28

16,660 

10,253 

194,835 

24,457 

3,246 

6,454 

9,151 

6,298 

801 

16,039 

9,662 

198,642 

23,864 

3,362 

7,815 

10,200 

6,920 

582 

272,155 

277,086 

26,019 

53,273 

15,098 

38,774 

31,894 

66,510 

24,437 

40,246 

133,164 

163,087 

951 

2,851 

134,115 

165,938 

406,270 

443,024 

71,610 

3,103 

2,301 

15,347 

7,549 

22,531 

122,441 

9,931 

68,237 

9,529 

3,422 

4,041 

95,160 

307 

95,467 

74,794 

3,432 

3,563 

16,186 

7,296 

23,845 

129,116 

9,001 

79,357 

23,779 

4,869 

2,910 

119,916 

1,395 

121,311 

217,908 

250,427 

544 

(997)   

21,145 

165,915 

186,607 

1,755 

584 

(726) 

21,132 

169,482 

190,472 

2,125 

188,362 

192,597 

406,270 

443,024 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders

$ million

Share capital
(see Note 26)

Shares
held in trust

Other
reserves
(see Note 28)

Retained
earnings

Non-
controlling
interest

Total

Total
equity

At January 1, 2023

584 

(726)   

21,132 

169,482 

190,472 

2,125 

  192,597 

Comprehensive income for the period

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Dividends (see Note 29) [A]

Repurchases of shares [B]

Share-based compensation

Other changes

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Comprehensive income for the period

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Dividends (see Note 29) [A]

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

Other changes

December 31, 2022

At January 1, 2021

Comprehensive income for the period

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Dividends (see Note 29) [A]

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

Other changes

At December 31, 2021

— 

— 

— 

(40)   

— 

— 

544 

641 

— 

— 

— 

(57)   

— 

— 

584 

651 

— 

— 

— 

(10)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(271)   

— 

(83)   

19,359 

19,276 

312 

19,588 

(112)   

112 

— 

— 

— 

— 

40 

168 

— 

(8,389)   

(8,389)   

(764)   

(9,153) 

(14,571)   

(14,571)   

(85)   

(188)   

7 

7 

— 

— 

82 

(14,571) 

(188) 

89 

(997)   

21,145 

165,915 

186,607 

1,755 

  188,362 

(610)   

18,909 

153,026 

171,966 

3,360 

  175,326 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(116)   

— 

2,024 

42,309 

44,333 

621 

  44,954 

(34)   

34 

— 

— 

— 

— 

57 

176 

— 

(7,283)   

(7,283)   

(206)   

(7,489) 

(18,547)   

(18,547)   

131 

191 

— 

— 

(18,547) 

191 

(188)   

(188)   

(1,650)   

(1,838) 

(726)   

21,132 

169,482 

190,472 

2,125 

  192,597 

(709)   

12,752 

142,616 

155,310 

3,227 

  158,537 

— 

— 

— 

— 

99 

— 

6,134 

20,101 

26,235 

468 

  26,703 

(45)   

45 

— 

— 

— 

— 

10 

58 

— 

(6,321)   

(6,321)   

(348)   

(6,669) 

(3,513)   

(3,513)   

93 

5 

250 

5 

— 

— 

13 

(3,513) 

250 

18 

641 

(610)   

18,909 

153,026 

171,966 

3,360 

  175,326 

[A] The amount charged to retained earnings is based on prevailing exchange rates on payment date.
[B] Includes shares committed to repurchase under irrevocable contracts and repurchases subject to settlement at the end of the year. (See Note 26) 

247
247

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Income before taxation for the period

Adjustment for:

Interest expense (net)

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Exploration well write-offs

Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses

Share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates

Decrease/(increase) in inventories

Decrease/(increase) in current receivables

(Decrease)/increase in current payables

Derivative financial instruments

Retirement benefits

Decommissioning and other provisions

Other

Tax paid

Cash flow from operating activities

Capital expenditure

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Investment in equity securities

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses

Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital reduction and repayment of 
long-term loans

Proceeds from sale of equity securities

Interest received

Other investing cash inflows

Other investing cash outflows

Cash flow from investing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in debt with maturity period within three months

Other debt:

New borrowings

Repayments

Interest paid

Derivative financial instruments

Change in non-controlling interest

Cash dividends paid to:

Shell plc shareholders

Non-controlling interest

Repurchases of shares

Shares held in trust: net purchases and dividends received

Cash flow from financing activities

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

248
248

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes

11 

2023

32,627 

2,360 

31,290 

868 

2022

64,815 

2,135 

18,529 

881 

$ million

2021

29,829 

3,096 

26,921 

639 

(246)   

(642)   

(5,995) 

(3,725)   

(3,972)   

(4,097) 

3,674 

6,325 

12,401 

4,398 

3,929 

(8,360)   

(7,319) 

(8,989)   

(20,567) 

(10,888)   

11,915 

(5,723)   

(2,619)   

(37)   

(473)   

(550)   

417 

35 

2,991 

17,519 

5,882 

16 

(76) 

803 

(13,712)   

(13,120)   

(5,476) 

54,191 

68,414 

45,104 

(22,993)   

(22,600)   

(19,000) 

(1,202)   

(1,973)   

(197)   

(260)   

(479) 

(218) 

2,565 

1,431 

14,233 

474 

51 

2,124 

4,269 

511 

117 

906 

584 

296 

423 

2,060 

2,928 

(2,825)   

(2,640)   

(3,528) 

(17,734)   

(22,448)   

(4,761) 

(211)   

318 

14 

1,029 

269 

1,791 

(10,650)   

(8,459)   

(21,534) 

(4,441)   

(3,677)   

723 

(1,799)   

(4,014) 

(1,165) 

(22)   

(1,965)   

19 

(8,393)   

(7,405)   

(6,253) 

(764)   

(206)   

(348) 

(14,617)   

(18,437)   

(2,889) 

(889)   

(593)   

(285) 

(38,235)   

(41,954)   

(34,664) 

306 

(736)   

(1,472)   

3,276 

40,246 

38,774 

36,970 

40,246 

(539) 

5,140 

31,830 

36,970 

7   

7   

7   

17 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1. Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as "Shell") have been prepared 
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards and with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 as applicable 
to companies reporting under those standards. As applied to Shell, there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 

As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
except for certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods. 

The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 13, 2024.

Going concern
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting. In assessing the appropriateness of the 
going concern assumption over the period to March 31, 2025 (the "going concern period"), management have stress-tested Shell's most recent 
financial projections to incorporate a range of potential future outcomes by considering Shell's principal risks, further potential downside pressures 
on commodity prices and long-term demand, and cash preservation measures, including reduced future capital expenditure and shareholder 
distributions. This assessment confirmed that Shell has adequate cash, other liquid resources and undrawn credit facilities to enable it to meet its 
obligations as they fall due in order to continue its operations during the going concern period. Therefore, the Directors consider it appropriate to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the audited Consolidated Financial Statements.

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates
This Note describes Shell's material accounting policies. It allows for an understanding as to how material transactions, other events and conditions 
are reported. It also describes: (a) judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management makes in applying the policies that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and (b) estimations, including assumptions about the 
future, that management makes in applying the policies. The sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of a material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are specifically identified as a significant estimate. 

The accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption as from January 1, 2023, of IFRS 
17 Insurance contracts (IFRS 17) and IAS 12 Income taxes (IAS 12) amendments.

The transition to the accounting pronouncements as listed below has no material impact on Shell's financial reporting.

IFRS 17 Insurance contracts
IFRS 17 as issued in 2017, with amendments published in 2020 and 2021, was adopted as from January 1, 2023. The IFRS 17 model combines a 
current balance sheet measurement of insurance contracts with recognition of profit over the period that services are provided. The general model 
in IFRS 17 requires insurance contract liabilities to be measured using probability-weighted current estimates of future cash flows, an adjustment to 
reflect the time value of money and financial and non-financial risk, and a contractual service margin representing the profit expected from fulfilling 
the contracts. Effects of changes in the estimates of future cash flows and the risk adjustment relating to future services are recognised over the 
period services are provided rather than immediately in profit or loss. 

The adoption of IFRS 17 has no significant impact on Shell's financial reporting.

Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments to IAS 12)
IAS 12 amendments, published in May 2021, were adopted as from January 1, 2023 (see Note 22). These amendments require companies to 
recognise deferred tax on particular transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal amounts of taxable and deductible temporary 
differences. The amendments typically apply to transactions where assets and liabilities are recognised from a single transaction, such as leases 
for the lessee and decommissioning and restoration provisions.

The adoption of these IAS 12 amendments has no significant impact on Shell's financial reporting.

International Tax Reform — Pillar Two Model Rules (Amendments to IAS 12)
In May 2023, amendments to IAS 12 were published and adopted from that date. The amendments introduce a temporary mandatory relief from 
accounting for deferred taxes arising from the jurisdictional implementation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(OECD)/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Pillar Two Model Rules (Pillar Two or Pillar Two income taxes). On 
June 20, 2023, the UK substantively enacted Pillar Two. The adoption of Pillar Two by the jurisdictions in which Shell operates is not expected to 
have a significant impact (see Note 22). As required by the amendments to IAS 12, Shell has applied the exception to recognising and disclosing 
information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars (dollars) and comprise the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, being those entities over which the Company has control, either directly or indirectly, through exposure or rights to their variable 
returns and the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entities. Information about subsidiaries at December 31, 2023, can 
be found in "Appendix 1: Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited)". 

249
249

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained until the date that such control ceases, using consistent accounting 
policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from such transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Non-controlling interest represents the 
proportion of income, other comprehensive income and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the Company's shareholders.

Currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at quarter-end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (including those in respect of inter-company balances, unless related to loans 
of a long-term investment nature) are recognised in income unless when recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow or 
net investment hedges. Foreign exchange gains and losses in income are presented within interest and other income or within purchases where 
not related to financing. Share capital issued in currencies other than the dollar is translated at the exchange rate at the date of issue. 

On consolidation, assets and liabilities of non-dollar entities are translated to dollars at year-end rates of exchange, while their statements of 
income, other comprehensive income and cash flows are translated at monthly average rates. Prior to January 1, 2023, these currency translations 
were performed at quarterly average rates. This change has no significant impact on Shell's financial reporting. The resulting translation differences 
are recognised as currency translation differences within other comprehensive income. Upon sale of all or part of an interest in, or upon liquidation 
of, an entity, the appropriate portion of cumulative currency translation differences related to that entity is generally recognised in income. 

Revenue recognition
Revenue from sales of oil, natural gas, chemicals and other products is recognised at the transaction price to which Shell expects to be entitled, 
after deducting sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies. For contracts that contain separate performance obligations, the transaction price 
is allocated to those separate performance obligations by reference to their relative stand-alone selling prices. 

Revenue is recognised when control of the products has been transferred to the customer. For sales by Integrated Gas and Upstream operations, 
this generally occurs when the product is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism; for sales by refining operations, 
it is either when the product is placed onboard a vessel or offloaded from the vessel, depending on the contractually agreed terms; and for sales 
of oil products and chemicals, it is either at the point of delivery or the point of receipt, depending on contractual conditions. 

Revenue resulting from hydrocarbon production from properties in which Shell has an interest with partners in joint arrangements is recognised on 
the basis of Shell's volumes lifted and sold. Revenue resulting from the production of oil and natural gas under production-sharing contracts (PSCs) 
is recognised for those amounts relating to Shell's cost recoveries and Shell's share of the remaining production. Gains and losses on derivative 
contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as held primarily for the purpose of being traded are 
reported on a net basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Purchases and sales of hydrocarbons under exchange contracts that are 
necessary to obtain or reposition feedstocks for the refinery operations are presented net in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 

Revenue resulting from arrangements that are not considered contracts with customers is presented as revenue from other sources.

Research and development 
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalised as intangible assets. All other research 
and development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred.

Exploration costs 
Hydrocarbon exploration costs are accounted for under the successful efforts method: exploration costs are recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income when incurred, except that exploratory drilling costs, including in respect of the recapitalisation of depreciation, are included 
in property, plant and equipment pending determination of proved reserves. Exploration costs capitalised in respect of exploration wells that are 
more than 12 months old are written off unless: (a) proved reserves are booked; or (b) (i) they have found commercially producible quantities 
of reserves; and (ii) they are subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way 
or firmly planned for the near future or other activities are being undertaken to sufficiently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic 
and operating viability of the project. 

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment comprise assets owned by Shell, assets held by Shell under lease contracts, and assets operated by Shell as 
contractor in PSCs. They include rights and concessions in respect of properties with proved reserves ("proved properties") and with no proved 
reserves ("unproved properties"). Property, plant and equipment, including expenditure on major inspections, and intangible assets are initially 
recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost where it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits. This includes 
capitalisation of decommissioning and restoration costs associated with provisions for asset retirement (see "provisions"), certain development 
costs (see "research and development") and the effects of associated cash flow hedges (see "financial instruments") as applicable. Interest 
is capitalised as an increase in property, plant and equipment, on major capital projects during construction. The accounting for exploration 
costs is described separately (see "exploration costs"). Intangible assets other than goodwill include liquefied natural gas (LNG) off-take 
and sales contracts, environmental certificates, power purchase agreements, software costs, retail customer relationships and trademarks. 

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation (including any impairment). Gains and losses on sale are determined by comparing the proceeds with the 
carrying amounts of assets sold and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income, within interest and other income. 

250
250

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
An asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, which is 
when the sale is highly probable, and it is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary 
for sales of such assets. Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount upon classification and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Assets classified as held for sale and the associated liabilities are presented separately from other assets and liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Once assets are classified as held for sale, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than 
goodwill are no longer subject to depreciation or amortisation.

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Property, plant and equipment related to hydrocarbon production activities are in principle depreciated on a unit-of-production basis over the 
proved developed reserves of the field concerned, other than assets whose useful lives differ from the lifetime of the field which are depreciated 
applying the straight-line method. For certain Integrated Gas and Upstream assets, the use of proved developed reserves, which are determined 
using the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandated yearly average oil and gas prices, could result in depreciation charges for these 
assets which do not reflect the pattern in which their future economic benefits are expected to be consumed as, for example, it may result in assets 
with long-term expected lives having accelerated or being fully depreciated within one year. Therefore, in these instances, other approaches are 
applied to determine a reserves base for the purpose of calculating depreciation, such as using management's expectations of future oil and gas 
prices rather than yearly average prices and using total proved reserves to provide a phasing of periodic depreciation charges that more 
appropriately reflects the expected utilisation of the assets concerned. (See Note 11)

Rights and concessions in respect of proved properties are depleted on the unit-of-production basis over the total proved reserves of the relevant 
area. Where individually insignificant, unproved properties may be grouped and depreciated based on factors such as the average concession 
term and past experience of recognising proved reserves. 

Property, plant and equipment held under lease contracts, capitalised LNG off-take and sales contracts and power purchase agreements are 
depreciated or amortised over the term of the respective contract. Other property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill 
are depreciated or amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. They include energy and chemicals parks (for which the 
useful life is generally 20 years), retail service stations (for which the useful life is generally 15 years), onshore power infrastructure (for which the 
useful life is generally 30-35 years), offshore wind assets (for which the useful life is generally 25-30 years) and major inspection costs, which 
are depreciated over the estimated period before the next planned major inspection (three to five years).

On classification of an asset as held for sale, depreciation ceases. 

Estimates of the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed annually 
and adjusted if appropriate.

Impairment
Intangible assets other than goodwill and assets other than unproved properties (see "Exploration costs") are tested for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for those assets may not be recoverable. If any such indication of 
impairment exists, the carrying amounts of those assets are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less
costs of disposal (see "Fair value measurements") and value in use.

Value in use is determined as the amount of estimated risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows. For this purpose, assets are grouped into cash-
generating units based on separately identifiable and largely independent cash inflows. Estimates of future cash flows used in the evaluation of 
impairment of assets are made using management's forecasts of commodity prices, market supply and demand, potential costs associated with 
operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, mainly related to CO₂, and forecast product, refining and chemical margins. In addition, 
management takes into consideration the expected useful lives of the manufacturing facilities, exploration and production assets, and expected 
production volumes. The latter takes into account assessments of field and reservoir performance and includes expectations about both proved 
reserves and volumes that are expected to constitute proved reserves in the future (unproved volumes), which are risk-weighted utilising 
geological, production, recovery and economic projections. Cash flow projections are based on management's most recent Operating Plan that 
represents management's best estimate and are risked as appropriate. The discount rate is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of 
capital (WACC). Using a
post-tax discount rate to calculate value in use does not result in a materially different outcome than using a pre-tax discount rate. (See Note 12).

Impairments are reversed as applicable to the extent that the events or circumstances that triggered the original impairment have changed.

Impairment losses and reversals are reported within depreciation, depletion and amortisation.

Upon classification of an asset as held for sale, the carrying amount is impaired if this exceeds the fair value less costs to sell.

251
251

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued

Judgements and estimates
Proved oil and gas reserves
Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are principally measured based on management's estimates of proved 
developed oil and gas reserves. Also, exploration drilling costs are capitalised pending the results of further exploration or appraisal activity 
(successful efforts method), which may take place for several years before the final investment decision on a development project is taken 
and before any related proved reserves can be booked. 

Proved reserves are estimated by internal qualified professionals. The proved reserves are estimated with reasonable certainty by analysis 
of available geological and engineering data at the time of the estimation, and only include volumes for which access to market is assured 
with reasonable expectation. Yearly average oil and gas prices are used for the estimation of proved reserves unless prices are defined by 
contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Proved reserves are subject to regular revision, both upward 
or downward, based on new information from the drilling of additional wells, observation of long-term reservoir performance under producing 
conditions, updates of development plans and changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract terms, legislation or 
development plans.

Changes to estimates of proved developed reserves affect prospectively the amounts of depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged 
and, consequently, the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets. Generally, in the normal course of business the diversity 
of the asset portfolio will limit the net effect of such revisions. The outcome of, or assessment of plans for, exploration or appraisal activity 
may result in the related capitalised exploration drilling costs being recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income in that period. 

Judgement is involved in determining when to use an alternative reserves base in order to appropriately reflect the expected utilisation 
of the assets concerned (see "Depreciation, depletion and amortisation"). 

Information about the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets and the amounts charged to the Consolidated Statement 
of Income, including depreciation, depletion and amortisation and the quantitative impact of the use of an alternative reserves base, 
is presented in Note 11. 

Impairment 
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of assets has occurred, and the extent of any impairment loss or its reversal, the key 
assumptions management uses in estimating risk-adjusted future cash flows for value in use measures are future oil and gas prices and product 
margins including refining and chemical margins. In addition, management uses other assumptions such as potential costs associated with 
operational GHG emissions, market supply and demand, expected production volumes and forecast expenditure. These assumptions and the 
judgements of management that are based on them are subject to change as new information becomes available. Changes in assumptions 
could affect the carrying amounts of assets, and any impairment losses and reversals will affect income. Changes in economic conditions can 
affect the rate used to discount future cash flow estimates or the risk adjustment in the future cash flows. Judgement is applied to conclude 
whether changes in assumptions or economic conditions are an indicator that an asset may be impaired or that an impairment loss 
recognised in prior periods may no longer exist, or may have decreased. 

Expected production volumes, which comprise proved reserves and unproved volumes, are used for impairment testing because management 
believes this to be the most appropriate indicator of expected future cash flows. Reserves estimates are inherently imprecise. Furthermore, 
projections about unproved volumes are based on information that is necessarily less robust than that available for mature reservoirs. 

Estimation is involved with respect to the expected life of energy and chemicals parks, including management's view on the future 
development of refining margins. 

The determination of cash-generating units requires judgement. Changes in this determination could impact the calculation of value in use 
and therefore the conclusion on the recoverability of assets' carrying amounts when performing an impairment test. 

Judgement, which is subject to change as new information becomes available, can be required in determining when an asset is classified 
as held for sale. A change in that judgement could result in impairment charges affecting income, depending on whether classification 
requires a write-down of the asset to its fair value less costs to sell. 

In assessing the value in use, the estimated risk-adjusted future post-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a post-tax 
discount rate that reflects Shell's post-tax WACC. (See Note 12). The level of risking reflected in the cash flow assumptions is a consideration 
in management's assessment of the discount rate to be applied in order to avoid duplication of systemic and asset-specific risking in 
calculating value in use, and to ensure the discount rate applied is commensurate with risks included in forecast cash flows.

Significant estimates 
Assumptions about future commodity prices and refining and chemical margins used in the impairment testing in, respectively, Integrated 
Gas and Upstream and Chemicals and Products (see Note 12) are regularly assessed by management, noting that management does not 
necessarily consider short-term increases or decreases in prices as being indicative of long-term levels. 

The price methodology applied is based on Shell management's understanding and interpretation of demand and supply fundamentals 
in the near term, taking into account various other factors such as industry rationalisation and energy transition in the long term.

Future commodity prices and refining margins used in impairment testing provide a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to 
in paragraph 125 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (IAS 1.125).

Information about the carrying amounts of assets and impairments and their sensitivity to changes in significant estimates is presented in Note 12. 

252
252

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for any non-controlling 
interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at the acquisition date. The amount 
recognised for any non-controlling interest is measured as a percentage of the identified net assets of the acquiree based on the present 
ownership's proportionate share. At the acquisition date, acquired goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit (CGU), or groups of CGUs, 
expected to benefit from the combination's synergies. The CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which the goodwill 
will be monitored and managed. 

Goodwill is not amortised and is subsequently measured at the initial amount recognised less any accumulated impairment losses. (See Note 12).

Impairment 
The carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. An impairment loss is recognised when the CGU's recoverable amount is lower than its 
carrying amount.

Previously recognised impairment losses of goodwill are not reversed subsequently.

Leases
A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for payments to 
be made to the owners (lessors) is accounted for as a lease. Contracts are assessed to determine whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the 
inception of a contract or when the terms and conditions of a contract are significantly changed. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a 
lease, together with contractual options to extend or to terminate the lease early, where it is reasonably certain that an extension option will be 
exercised or a termination option will not be exercised.

At the commencement of a lease contract, a lease liability and a corresponding right-of-use asset are recognised, unless the lease term is 12 
months or less. The commencement date of a lease is the date on which the underlying asset is made available for use. The lease liability is 
measured at an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments during the lease term that are not paid at that date. The lease liability 
includes contingent rentals and variable lease payments that depend on an index, rate, or where they are fixed payments in substance. The lease 
liability is remeasured when the contractual cash flows of variable lease payments change due to a change in an index or rate when the lease 
term changes following a reassessment.

Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate is not readily available, the incremental borrowing rate 
is applied. The incremental borrowing rate reflects the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, with a 
similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar nature and value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.

In general, a corresponding right-of-use asset is recognised for an amount equal to each lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any pre-paid 
lease payment relating to the specific lease contract. The depreciation on right-of-use assets is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income unless capitalised as exploration drilling cost (see "exploration cost") or capitalised when the right-of-use asset is used to construct another 
asset.

Where Shell is the lessor in a lease arrangement at inception, the lease arrangement will be classified as a finance lease or an operating lease. 
Classification is based on the extent to which the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset lie with the lessor or the lessee.

Where Shell, usually in its capacity as operator, has entered into a lease contract on behalf of a joint arrangement, a lease liability is recognised 
to the extent that Shell has primary responsibility for the lease liability. A finance sublease is subsequently recognised if the related right-of-use 
asset is subleased to the joint arrangement. This is usually the case when the joint arrangement has the right to direct the use and obtains 
substantially all of the economic benefits from using the asset.

Impairment of the right-of-use asset
Right-of-use assets are subject to existing impairment requirements as set out in "Property, plant and equipment", above, and as presented
in Note 12.

Judgements and estimates 
A lease term includes optional lease periods where it is reasonably certain Shell will exercise the option to extend or not exercise the option 
to terminate the lease. Determination of the lease term is subject to judgement and has an impact on the measurement of the lease liability 
and related right-of-use asset. When assessing the lease term at the commencement date, Shell takes into consideration the broader 
economics of the contract. Reassessment of the lease term is performed upon changes in circumstances that may affect the probability 
that an option to extend or to terminate the lease will be exercised.

Where the rate implicit in the lease is not readily available, an incremental borrowing rate is applied. This incremental borrowing rate reflects 
the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of a similar nature and value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. Determination of the incremental borrowing 
rate requires estimation. 

253
253

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Joint arrangements and associates 
Arrangements under which Shell has contractually agreed to share control (see "Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements" for 
the definition of control) with another party or parties are joint ventures where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, 
or joint operations where the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Investments in entities 
over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are classified as associates. Information about incorporated joint 
arrangements and associates at December 31, 2023, can be found in "Appendix 1: Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings 
(audited)".

Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, under which the investment is initially recognised at 
cost and subsequently adjusted for the Shell share of post-acquisition income less dividends received and the Shell share of other comprehensive 
income and other movements in equity, together with any loans of a long-term investment nature. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of Shell. In an exchange of assets 
and liabilities for an interest in a joint venture, the non-Shell share of any excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities transferred over 
the pre-exchange carrying amounts is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Unrealised gains on other transactions between 
Shell and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of Shell's interest in them; unrealised losses are treated similarly but 
may also result in an assessment of whether the asset transferred is impaired. 

Shell recognises its assets and liabilities relating to its interests in joint operations, including its share of assets held jointly and liabilities incurred 
jointly with other partners. 

Inventories
Inventories are stated at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. Cost comprises direct purchase costs (including transportation), 
and associated costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present condition and location, and is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) 
method for oil, gas and chemicals and by the weighted average cost method for materials. 

Taxation
The charge for current tax is calculated based on the income reported by the Company and its subsidiaries, as adjusted for items that are
non-taxable or disallowed and using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 

Deferred tax is determined, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and on unused tax losses and credits carried forward. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when an asset 
is realised or a liability is settled. They are not recognised where they arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a 
transaction (other than in a business combination) that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, or in respect 
of taxable temporary differences associated with subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the reversal of the respective temporary 
difference can be controlled by Shell and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward can be utilised. 

Income tax receivables and payables as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities include provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments. 

Income taxes are recognised in income except when they relate to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Income tax assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except 
where there is a right of offset within fiscal jurisdictions and an intention to settle such balances on a net basis.

Judgements and estimates 
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority. In such 
cases, provision is made for the amount that is expected to be settled, where this can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for uncertain 
income tax positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the expected value, whichever method is more appropriate. 
Generally, uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except where they are expected to be settled collectively. It is 
assumed that taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the right to do so and that they have full knowledge of the 
relevant information. A change in estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or in the expected amount to be settled would be 
recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs. This requires the application of judgement as to the ultimate outcome, 
which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. Judgements mainly relate to transfer pricing, including inter-company 
financing, interpretation of PSCs, expenditure deductible for tax purposes and taxation arising on disposal. 

254
254

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued

Judgements and estimates continued 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable. This involves an 
assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits available 
to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain. To 
the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in respect 
of deferred tax assets as well as in the amounts recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs. 

Taxation information, including charges and deferred tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 22. Income taxes include taxes at higher 
rates levied on income from certain Integrated Gas and Upstream activities. 

Retirement benefits 
Benefits in the form of retirement pensions and health care and life insurance are provided to certain employees and retirees under defined benefit 
and defined contribution plans.

Obligations under defined benefit plans are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which takes into 
account employees' years of service and, for pensions, average or final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value using 
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and of a duration consistent with the 
plan obligations. Where plans are funded, payments are made to independently managed trusts; assets held by those trusts are measured at fair 
value. Defined benefit plan surpluses are recognised as assets to the extent that they are considered recoverable, which is generally by way of 
a refund or lower future employer contributions.

The amounts recognised in income in respect of defined benefit plans mainly comprise service cost and net interest. Service cost comprises 
principally the increase in the present value of the obligation for benefits resulting from employee service during the period (current service cost) 
and also amounts relating to past service and settlements or amendments of plans. Plan amendments are changes to benefits and are generally 
recognised when all legal and regulatory approvals have been received and the effects have been communicated to members. Net interest is 
calculated using the net defined benefit liability or asset matched against the discount rate yield curve at the beginning of each year for each 
plan. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability or asset resulting from actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding 
the amount recognised in income, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 

For defined contribution plans, pension expense represents the amount of employer contributions payable for the period. 

Significant judgements and estimates 
Defined benefit obligations and plan assets, and the resulting liabilities and assets that are recognised, require significant estimation as these 
are subject to volatility as (actuarial) assumptions regarding future outcomes and market values change. Substantial judgement is required 
in determining the actuarial assumptions, which vary for the different plans to reflect local conditions but are determined under a common 
process in consultation with independent actuaries. The assumptions applied in respect of each plan are reviewed annually and adjusted 
where necessary to reflect changes in experience and actuarial recommendations. 

Actuarial assumptions applied in determining defined benefit obligations provide a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to in IAS 1.125.

Information about the amounts reported in respect of defined benefit pension plans, assumptions applicable to the principal plans and their 
sensitivity to changes in significant estimates is presented in Note 23. 

Provisions 
Provisions are recognised at the balance sheet date at management's best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation. 
Non-current amounts are discounted at a rate intended to reflect the time value of money. The carrying amounts of provisions and the discount 
rate applied are regularly reviewed and adjusted for new facts or changes in law, technology or financial markets.

255
255

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs, which arise principally in connection with hydrocarbon production facilities, oil products 
manufacturing facilities and pipelines, are measured on the basis of current requirements, technology and price levels; the present value is 
calculated using amounts discounted over the useful economic life of the assets. The liability is recognised (together with a corresponding amount 
as part of the related property, plant and equipment) once a legal or constructive obligation arises to dismantle an item of property, plant and 
equipment and to restore the site on which it is located and when a reasonable estimate can be made. The effects of changes resulting from 
revisions to the timing or the amount of the original estimate of the provision are reflected on a prospective basis, generally by adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment. However, where there is no related asset, or the change reduces the carrying 
amount to nil, the effect, or the amount in excess of the reduction in the related asset to nil, is recognised in income. 

Shell reviews its energy and chemicals parks on a regular basis to determine whether any changes in assumptions, including expected life, 
trigger the need to recognise a provision for decommissioning and restoration.

Redundancy provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business concerned, the location and 
number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs and an appropriate timeline, and the employees affected have been 
notified of the plan's main features. 

An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract exceeds the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it. The unavoidable cost under a contract is the lower of the cost of fulfilling the contract and any 
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it. The cost of fulfilling a contract comprises the costs that relate directly to the contract. 
Before an onerous provision is recognised Shell first recognises any impairment loss that has occurred on assets dedicated to that contract.

Other provisions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period in which an obligation arises and the amount can be 
reasonably estimated. Provisions are measured based on current legal requirements and existing technology where applicable. Recognition 
of any joint and several liability is based on management's best estimate of the final pro rata share of the liability. Provisions are determined 
independently of expected insurance recoveries. Recoveries are recognised when virtually certain of realisation. 

Estimates 
Estimates of provisions for future decommissioning and restoration costs are recognised and based on current legal and constructive 
requirements, technology and price levels. Because actual cash outflows can differ from estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, 
public expectations, technology, prices and conditions, and can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions 
are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take account of such changes. 

Significant estimate
The discount rate applied to reflect the time value of money in the carrying amount of provisions requires estimation. The discount rate used 
in the calculation of provisions is the pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Generally, the market 
assessments of the time value of money can be reflected in the risk-free rate and given the long-term investment nature of oil and gas business, 
Shell considers it appropriate to use the 20-year US Treasury bond yield return as the risk-free rate. The discount rate applied is reviewed 
regularly and adjusted following changes in market rates. 

The discount rate applied to determine the carrying amount of provisions provides a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to in IAS 1.125.

Information about decommissioning and restoration provisions and their sensitivity to changes in estimates is presented in Note 24. 

Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except where there is a legally enforceable right 
of offset and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 

Financial assets
Financial assets are classified at initial recognition and subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income 
or fair value through profit or loss. The classification of financial assets is determined by the contractual cash flows and where applicable the 
business model for managing the financial assets. 

Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost, if the objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset in order to collect contractual 
cash flows and the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. It is initially recognised at fair value 
plus or minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset. Subsequently, the financial asset is 
measured using the effective interest method less any impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired. 

All equity instruments and other debt instruments are recognised at fair value. For equity instruments, on initial recognition, an irrevocable election 
(on an instrument-by-instrument basis) can be made to designate these as at fair value through other comprehensive income instead of fair value 
through profit or loss. Dividends received on equity instruments are recognised as other income in profit or loss when the right of payment has 
been established, except when Shell benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case such 
gains are recorded in other comprehensive income.

256
256

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Investments in securities
Investments in securities ("securities") comprise equity and debt securities. Equity securities are carried at fair value. Generally, unrealised holding 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. On sale, net gains and losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive 
income are transferred to retained earnings. Debt securities are generally carried at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses recognised 
in other comprehensive income. On sale, net gains and losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive income are recognised in income.

Impairment of financial assets
The expected credit loss model is applied for recognition and measurement of impairments in financial assets measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income. The expected credit loss model is also applied for financial guarantee contracts to which IFRS 9 
applies and which are not accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. The loss allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-month expected credit losses. If the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss 
allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. Changes in loss allowances are recognised 
in profit or loss. For trade receivables, a simplified impairment approach is applied recognising expected lifetime losses from initial recognition. 

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including offsetting bank overdrafts, short-term bank deposits, money market funds, 
reverse repos and similar instruments that generally have a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase. 

Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, unless they are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss, such as instruments 
held for trading, or Shell has opted to measure them at fair value through profit or loss. Debt and trade payables are recognised initially at fair 
value based on amounts exchanged, net of transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost except for fixed rate debt subject to fair value 
hedging which is remeasured for the hedged risk (see below). Interest expense on debt is accounted for using the effective interest method, and 
other than interest capitalised, is recognised in income. For financial liabilities that are measured under the fair value option, the change in the fair 
value related to own credit risk is recognised in other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value change is recognised at fair value through 
profit or loss.

Derivative contracts and hedges 
Derivative contracts are used in the management of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, and foreign currency 
cash balances. Derivatives that are not closely related to the host contract in terms of economic characteristics and risks and the host contract of 
which is not a financial asset are separated from their host contract and recognised at fair value with the associated gains and losses recognised 
in income.

Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash are accounted for as financial instruments, with the exception of those 
contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with Shell's 
expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as 
effective hedging instruments are recognised in income.

Certain derivative contracts qualify and are designated either: as a fair value hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
or an unrecognised firm commitment; or as a cash flow hedge for the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset 
or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction; or as a net investment hedge of the change in foreign exchange rates associated with net 
investments in foreign operations with a different functional currency than Shell's functional currency.

A change in the fair value of a hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge is recognised in income, together with the consequential 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item. The effective portion of a change in fair value of a derivative contract designated as a 
cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction occurs; any ineffective portion is recognised in income. 
Where the hedged item is a non-financial asset or liability, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income is transferred to the initial 
carrying amount of the asset or liability (reclassified to the balance sheet); a net investment hedge is accounted for similarly to a cash flow hedge. 
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income while any 
gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income. On disposal of the foreign operation, 
the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the Consolidated Statement of Income.

The effective portion of a change due to retranslation at quarter-end exchange rates in the carrying amount of debt and the principal amount of 
derivative contracts used to hedge net investments in foreign operations is recognised in other comprehensive income until the related investment 
is sold or liquidated; any ineffective portion is recognised in income.

All relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items are documented, as well as risk management objectives and strategies for 
undertaking hedge transactions. The effectiveness of hedges is also continually assessed and hedge accounting is discontinued when there is 
a change in the risk management strategy.

Unless designated as hedging instruments, contracts to sell or purchase non-financial items that can be settled net as if the contracts were financial 
instruments and that do not meet expected own-use requirements (typically, forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in trading 
operations), and contracts that are or contain written options, are recognised at fair value; associated gains and losses are recognised in income.

Derivatives that are held primarily for the purpose of trading are presented as current in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

257
257

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued

Judgement
Judgement is required to determine whether contracts to buy or sell LNG are capable of being settled on a net basis. Due to the limited 
liquidity in the LNG market and the lack of net settlement history, contracts to buy or sell LNG are not considered capable of being settled 
on a net basis. As a result, these contracts are accounted for on an accrual basis and not as a financial instrument. 

Fair value measurements
Fair value measurements are estimates of the amounts for which assets or liabilities could be transferred at the measurement date, based on 
the assumption that such transfers take place between participants in principal markets and, where applicable, taking highest and best use 
into account.

Estimate 
Where available, fair value measurements are derived from prices quoted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. In the absence of 
such information, other observable inputs are used to estimate fair value. Inputs derived from external sources are corroborated or otherwise 
verified, as appropriate. In the absence of publicly available information, fair value is determined using estimation techniques that take into 
account market perspectives relevant to the asset or liability, in as far as they can reasonably be ascertained, based on predominantly 
unobservable inputs. For derivative contracts where publicly available information is not available, fair value estimations are generally 
determined using models and other valuation methods, the key inputs for which include future prices, volatility, price correlation, counterparty 
credit risk and market liquidity, as appropriate; for other assets and liabilities, fair value estimations are generally based on the net present 
value of expected future cash flows. 

Share-based compensation plans
The fair value of share-based compensation expense arising from the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) - 
Shell's main equity-settled plans - is estimated using the average Monte Carlo fair values and is recognised in income from the date of grant over 
the vesting period with a corresponding increase directly in equity. The model projects and averages the results for a range of potential outcomes 
for the vesting conditions, the principal assumptions for which are the share price volatility and dividend yields for Shell and four of its main 
competitors using respectively three years and 10 years of historical data.

Shares held in trust
Shares in the Company, which are held by employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities, are not included in assets but are reflected 
at cost as a deduction from equity as shares held in trust.

Acquisitions and sales of interests in a business 
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed when control is obtained over a business, and when an interest or an additional interest is acquired in 
a joint operation which is a business, are recognised at their fair value at the date of the acquisition; the amount of the purchase consideration 
above this value is recognised as goodwill. When control is obtained, any non-controlling interest is recognised as the proportionate share of the 
identifiable net assets. The acquisition of a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and the sale of an interest while retaining control are accounted 
for as transactions within equity. The difference between the purchase consideration or sale proceeds after tax and the relevant proportion of the 
non-controlling interest, measured by reference to the carrying amount of the interest's net assets at the date of acquisition or sale, is recognised 
in retained earnings as a movement in equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders. 

Emission schemes and related environmental programmes
Emission certificates, biofuel certificates and renewable power certificates (together "environmental certificates") held for trading purposes are 
recognised at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower, and classified under inventory.

Emission trading schemes
Emission certificates acquired for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost and classified under intangible assets. In the schemes 
where a cap is set for emissions, the associated emission certificates granted are recognised at cost, which may be zero. An emission liability 
is recognised under other liabilities when actual emissions occur that give rise to an obligation. To the extent the liability is covered by emission 
certificates held for compliance purposes, the liability is measured with reference to the value of these emission certificates held and for the 
remaining uncovered portion at market value. The associated expense is presented under "Production and manufacturing expenses". Both 
the emission certificates and the emission liability are derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.

Biofuel programmes
Biofuel certificates acquired that are held for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost under intangible assets. Self-generated biofuel 
certificates are recognised at nil value, as they primarily offset the obligation. A biofuel liability is recognised under other liabilities when the 
obligation arises under local regulations. To the extent covered by biofuel certificates held for compliance purposes, the liability is measured with 
reference to the value of these certificates held and for the remaining uncovered portion at market value. The associated expense is presented 
under "purchases". Biofuel certificates and the biofuel liability are both derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.

258
258

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Renewable power programmes
Renewable power certificates acquired for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost as an intangible asset. Self-generated renewable 
power certificates are generally transferred to the customer upon sales of electricity. A renewable power liability is recognised under other 
liabilities when electricity sales take place that give rise to an obligation to retire renewable power certificates. The associated cost is recognised 
in "purchases" in the income statement. If the obligation relates to power consumed in business operations, it is presented in other liabilities with 
cost reflected in "Production and manufacturing expenses". To the extent covered by renewable power certificates held for compliance purposes, 
the liability is measured with reference to the value of these renewable power certificates and for the remaining uncovered portion at market 
value. Renewable power certificates and the renewable power liability are derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.

Consolidated Statement of Income presentation 
Purchases reflect all costs related to the acquisition of inventories and the effects of the changes therein, and include associated costs incurred in 
conversion into finished or intermediate products. Production and manufacturing expenses are the costs of operating, maintaining and managing 
production and manufacturing assets. Selling, distribution and administrative expenses include direct and indirect costs of marketing and selling 
products.

3. Changes to IFRS not yet adopted
As from January 1, 2024, various amendments to IFRS standards will apply that do not have a material impact on Shell.

4. Climate change and energy transition
This note describes how Shell has considered climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements and how this translates into 
the valuation of assets and measurement of liabilities as Shell makes progress in the energy transition. The note is structured as follows:

Climate change and energy transition

Carrying value of assets

Portfolio changes

Estimated useful life

Integrated Gas and Upstream

Price sensitivities using climate pricelines

Carbon price sensitivities

Chemicals and Products

Marketing

Financial planning 
and assumptions

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Portfolio changes

Estimated useful life

Price sensitivities – chemical
and reﬁning margins

Carbon price sensitivities  

Discount rate sensitivity

Global oil and gas demand considerations

Deferred tax assets 

Decommissioning and other provisions

Onerous contracts

Dividend resilience

Physical risks

259
259

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Note 2 Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates describes uncertainties, including those that have the potential to have a material effect 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the next 12 months. This note describes the key areas of climate impacts that potentially have short-, medium- and 
longer-term effects on amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Where relevant, this note contains references to 
other notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and aims to provide an overarching summary of the energy transition impact. 

In 2021, Shell launched its Powering Progress strategy to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. The strategy aims to deliver more 
value with less emissions. Targets include reduction of absolute emissions from operations and the energy Shell buys to run them, compared with 
2016 baseline. Shell's targets include reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions on a net basis under operational control by 50% by 2030, compared with 
2016 baseline, achieving near-zero methane emissions for operated oil and gas assets by 2030 and eliminating routine gas flaring from Shell's 
upstream-operated assets by 2025 (subject to the completion of the divestment of Shell's interest in The Shell Petroleum Development Company of 
Nigeria Limited (SPDC)). Shell's target is to reduce the net carbon intensity of energy products sold by 9-12% by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 15-20% 
by 2030 and 100% by 2050, compared to a 2016 baseline. In March 2024, Shell set a new ambition to reduce customer emissions (Scope 3, 
Category 11) related to the use of oil products sold by 15-20% by 2030, compared with 2021.

Financial planning and assumptions
This section provides an overview of key assumptions used for financial planning related to climate change and the energy transition. These 
assumptions that underpin the amounts recognised in these financial statements -- such as future oil and gas prices, future chemical and refining 
margins, discount rates, future costs of decommissioning and restoration, carbon emission cost and deferred tax assets - take climate change and 
energy transition into account and are similarly used for impairment testing of carrying amounts of assets. The areas described focus on those most 
pertinent to Shell's business and how financial planning and assumptions interact with scenarios. Subsequently, the sensitivity of carrying amounts 
to commodity prices, carbon emission costs, chemical and refining margins, discount rates and demand, if different assumptions were applied, is 
described.

There is no one single scenario that underpins the financial statements. Shell scenarios are designed to challenge management's perspectives on 
the future business environment and stretch management to consider events that may be only remotely possible. As a result, these scenarios are 
not intended to be predictions of likely future events or outcomes and are not the basis for Shell's financial statements and Operating Plans. 

Shell scenarios and the range of possible outcomes inform the development of Shell's strategy and Shell's view on future oil and gas price 
outlooks, refining margins and chemical margins. The oil and gas price outlooks are one of the key assumptions that underpin Shell's financial 
statements. Shell's scenarios inform high-, mid- and low-price outlooks. The mid-price outlook represents management's reasonable best estimate 
and is the basis for Shell's financial statements, Operating Plans and impairment testing. Impairment testing applies management's reasonable best 
estimates across the full life cycle of assets, which may go beyond the operating plan period.

Shell's targets including to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions on a net basis [A] by 50% by 2030, compared with 2016 baseline, and a 
15-20% reduction of net carbon intensity [B] by 2030 have been included in Shell's Operating Plan. The Operating Plan also includes expected 
costs for evolving carbon regulations (see section "Carbon price sensitivities" below) based on a forecast of Shell's equity share of emissions from 
operated and non-operated assets, also taking into account the estimated impact of free allowances. For impairment testing purposes key 
assumptions that underpin the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, such as future oil and gas prices, refining margins, chemical 
margins, discount rates, future costs of decommissioning and restoration, carbon emission cost and tax rates, all go beyond the planning horizon 
in the Operating Plan and do take climate change and energy transition into account. 
[A] Operational control boundary.
[B] GHG emissions based on the energy product sales included in the net carbon intensity (NCI) using equity boundary. 

Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and joint ventures and associates
The carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, property plant and equipment, and joint ventures and associates by segment as at 
December 31 was as follows:

2023

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Chemicals and Products

Marketing

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate

Total

Other 
intangible 
assets

Property, 
plant and 
equipment

Joint ventures 
and 
associates

Goodwill

4.9 

5.4 

0.3 

4.4 

1.7 

— 

3.2 

0.3 

2.4 

2.9 

1.5 

— 

57.7 

70.9 

36.9 

22.2 

4.8 

2.3 

6.1 

7.6 

4.0 

4.7 

2.0 

0.1 

$ billion

Total

71.9 

84.2 

43.6 

34.2 

10.0 

2.4 

16.7 

10.3 

194.8 

24.5 

246.3 

260
260

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued

2022

Other 
intangible 
assets

Property, 
plant and 
equipment

Joint ventures 
and 
associates

Goodwill

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Chemicals and Products

Marketing

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate

Total

4.9 

5.3 

0.3 

3.3 

2.2 

— 

16.0 

3.9 

0.2 

2.1 

1.8 

1.6 

0.1 

9.7 

60.8 

74.5 

38.1 

19.1 

3.2 

2.9 

5.6 

7.7 

4.2 

4.4 

1.9 

0.1 

$ billion

Total

75.2 

87.7 

44.7 

28.6 

8.9 

3.1 

198.6 

23.9 

248.2 

For Integrated Gas and Upstream, sensitivity to commodity prices and carbon prices has been tested (see below) covering the carrying amount 
of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and joint ventures and associates. Sensitivity testing was performed applying 
alternative price scenarios to the forecasted cash flows for the whole period until the end of life of the asset tested. For Chemicals and Products, 
sensitivity to chemical margins, refining margins and carbon prices has been tested (see below). Marketing and Renewables and Energy Solutions 
are expected to be resilient through the energy transition with limited exposure of stranded assets. 

In addition, sensitivity to changes in the discount rate applied in impairment testing has also been tested (see below).

In calculating recoverable value, key assumptions are not determined in isolation, to ensure relevant interdependencies are appropriately 
reflected. In particular, management considers the relationship between discount rates, forecast commodity prices and cash flow risking to ensure 
impairment testing assumptions result in an implicit expected return which is balanced and appropriate for the asset under review. Each of the 
sensitivities described above has been tested under a ceteris paribus assumption where all other factors remain unchanged, and as such do 
not reflect the potential offsetting effects of corresponding changes in other assumptions. 

Carrying value of Integrated Gas and Upstream assets

Carrying value of Integrated Gas 
and Upstream assets
$ billion as at December 31

Carrying value of production assets
$ billion as at December 31

Carrying value of exploration and 
evaluation assets
$ billion as at December 31

250

200

231

136

222

128

214

123

212

119

150

b

185

106

166

91

163

88

156

84

95

94

91

93

a

79

75

75

72

100

50

0

200

150

100

50

0

169

154

149

150

a

132

118

117

111

20

19

19

18

15

10

5

0

15

9

7

6

5

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

a

IG

b

Upstream

a

Right-of-use assets under leases

Within Integrated Gas and Upstream, the assets potentially most sensitive to the energy transition are production assets and exploration and 
evaluation assets. Both production assets of $111 billion and exploration and evaluation assets of $5 billion are recognised within Property, 
plant and equipment within Integrated Gas and Upstream.

Portfolio composition and changes
Since 2016, the carrying amount of production assets in Integrated Gas and Upstream decreased from $169 billion as at December 31, 2016, 
to $111 billion as at December 31, 2023. Over this period, depreciation was higher than additions for each year, and disposals of property, 
plant and equipment with a carrying amount of $26 billion occurred. The carrying amount of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenses 
decreased from $19 billion as at December 31, 2016, to $5 billion at December 31, 2023. This is the result of final investment decisions, 
reclassifications to production assets and amounts charged to expenses exceeding additions. 

261
261

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Estimated useful life
The energy transition and the pace at which it progresses may impact the remaining life of assets. Integrated Gas and Upstream assets are 
generally depreciated using a unit-of-production methodology where depreciation generally depends on production of SEC proved reserves 
(see Note 2). Based on production plans of existing assets, 43%, 7% and 1% of SEC proved reserves as at December 31, 2023, would currently 
be left by 2030, 2040 and 2050, respectively. Based on the unit-of-production depreciation methodology applied, carrying amounts for 
individual assets are depreciated to nil in the same pattern as the depletion of reserves towards nil. An analysis of Integrated Gas and Upstream 
production assets of $111 billion as at December 31, 2023, based on planned reserves depletion shows that these assets would be significantly 
further depreciated under the unit-of-production method by 2030 and nearly fully depreciated by 2050. This provides a further perspective on 
the risk of stranded assets carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023. 

Price sensitivities using climate pricelines
As noted, in accordance with IFRS, Shell's financial statements are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent 
management's current best estimate of the range of economic conditions that may exist in the foreseeable future. The mid-price outlook informed 
by Shell's scenario planning represents management's best estimate. A change of -10% or +10% to the mid-price outlook, as an average 
percentage over the whole life cycle of assets, would result in around $5-8 billion (2022: $2-5 billion) impairment or $2-5 billion
(2022: $2-4 billion) impairment reversal respectively in Integrated Gas and Upstream (see Note 12). Compared with the prior year, the higher 
impact of a 10% decrease in commodity prices is mainly driven by lower headroom for certain assets between carrying value and recoverable 
value at December 31, 2023.  

The energy transition will continue to bring volatility and there is significant uncertainty as to how commodity prices will develop over the next 
decades. Some pricelines see a structurally lower price during the transition period, while other pricelines see structurally higher commodity prices 
as a result of changes in supply and demand. As the risk of stranded assets is prevalent with downside price risk in energy transition scenarios, 
sensitivities have only been undertaken for such downside scenarios. If different price outlooks from external and often normative climate change 
scenarios were used, this would impact the recoverability of certain assets recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 
2023. These external scenarios are not representative of management's mid-price reasonable best estimate.

Sensitivity of carrying amounts to commodity prices described below is under the assumption that all other factors in the models used -- such 
as cost levels, volumes, mid-price CO2 assumptions and the discount rate -- to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain unchanged. 
Sensitivity testing has been performed by applying the alternative commodity price scenarios to cash flows for the whole period until the end of life 
of the assets tested, which may extend beyond the operating plan period. The alternative commodity prices were applied in the local cash flow 
models and thereafter aggregated by segment. Changes to commodity prices are applied because of the significant impact on Shell's business. 
It should be noted that a significant decrease in long-term forecasted commodity prices would probably lead to further changes, such as in 
portfolio choices and cost levels.

Sensitivity to changes in commodity prices in value in use calculations has been tested as follows:
Priceline 1 – Average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios: in view of the broad range of price outlooks 
across the various scenarios, the average of three external price outlooks was taken.

￮ IHS Markit/ACCS 2023 – under this scenario oil prices (real terms 2023 (RT23)) gradually decrease towards $25 per barrel (/b) in 2037, 
gradually recovering to $63/b in 2045 with subsequent levels until 2050 ranging between $62/b and $69/b. Gas prices (RT23) are around 
$3 per million British thermal units (/MMBtu) until 2050 for Henry Hub. For Europe, prices decrease from $17/MMBtu in 2024 towards around 
$3/MMBtu in 2030, remaining around that level until 2050. For Asia, prices decrease from $18/MMBtu in 2024 towards around $3/MMBtu 
in 2031, staying at a level between $3 and $4/MMBtu until 2050.

￮ Woodmac WM AET-1.5 degree – under this scenario oil prices (RT23) gradually decrease towards $28/b in 2050. Gas prices (RT23) are 
around $3/MMBtu until 2033 and subsequently some $4/MMBtu until 2046, thereafter some $3/MMBtu until 2050 for Henry Hub. For 
Europe, gas prices (RT23) decrease gradually from around $15/MMBtu in 2024 to some $5/MMBtu in 2050. For Asia, gas prices decrease 
from $15/MMBtu in 2024 to $7/MMBtu in 2031, subsequently ranging between $6/MMBtu and $10/MMBtu until 2050.

￮ IEA NZE50 – under this scenario oil prices (RT23) gradually decrease towards some $26/b in 2050. Gas prices (RT23) decrease from some 
$5/MMBtu in 2024 to around $2/MMBtu for Henry Hub in 2030, remaining slightly below that level until 2050. For Europe and Asia, gas 
prices (RT23) decrease from some $26/MMBtu and $14/MMBtu respectively in 2024 to some $4/MMBtu and $6/MMBtu respectively 
around 2030, staying at that level until 2050.

This average priceline provides an external view of the development of commodity prices under 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change 
scenarios over the whole period under review. 

Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion (2022: $75 billion) and Upstream assets of $84 billion (2022: $88 billion) as 
at December 31, 2023, shows recoverable amounts that are $12-16 billion (2022: $4-6 billion) and $3-5 billion (2022: $1-2 billion) lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. For Integrated Gas the change in sensitivity compared with 2022 reflects lower 
near-term gas prices applied in the priceline for Europe and Asia, alongside lower headroom for certain assets between carrying value and 
recoverable value at December 31, 2023. For Upstream the change in sensitivity compared with 2022 reflects lower oil prices applied in the 
priceline alongside lower headroom for certain assets between carrying value and recoverable value at December 31, 2023 

262
262

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Priceline–2 - Hybrid Shell Plan and IEA NZE50: this priceline applies Shell's mid-price outlook for the next 10 years (see Note 12). Because of 
the greater uncertainty for the period after 10 years, the International Energy Agency (IEA) normative Net Zero Emissions scenario is applied. 
This gives less weight to the price-risk uncertainty in the first 10 years reflected in the operating plan period and applies more risk to the more 
uncertain subsequent periods. 

Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion (2022: $75 billion) and Upstream assets of $84 billion (2022: $88 billion) 
as at December 31, 2023, shows recoverable amounts that are $8-10 billion (2022: $4-6 billion) and $1-3 billion (2022: $1-2 billion) lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. For Integrated Gas the change in sensitivity compared with 2022 is largely 
driven by lower near-term Shell mid-prices applied, an increased differential between the Shell mid-price and the gas prices applied in sensitivity 
testing for Europe and Asia from 2034 onwards and lower headroom for certain assets between carrying value and recoverable value at 
December 31, 2023. 

Priceline–3 - IEA NZE50: this priceline applies the IEA normative Net Zero Emissions scenario over the whole period under review. This priceline 
has been applied in order to also reflect the sensitivity to a pure net-zero emissions scenario from the IEA. 

Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion (2022: $75 billion) and Upstream assets of $84 billion (2022: $88 billion) as 
at December 31, 2023, shows recoverable amounts that are $15-20 billion (2022: $9-12 billion) and $3-5 billion (2022: $8-11 billion) lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. For Integrated Gas the change in sensitivity compared with 2022 is largely 
driven by an increased differential between the Shell mid-price and the gas prices applied in sensitivity testing for Europe and Asia from 2030 
onwards and lower headroom for certain assets between carrying value and recoverable value at December 31, 2023. For Upstream the change 
in sensitivity compared with 2022 is largely driven by higher near-term oil prices applied in the priceline, partly offset by lower headroom for 
certain assets between carrying value and recoverable value at December 31, 2023.

Oil price assumptions

$180

$160

$140

$120

$100

$80

$60

$40

$20

$0

a
d

b

a

$180

$160

$140

$120

$100

$80

$60

$40

$20

$0

c

d
e

f
g

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Monthly average price (actual on money of the day basis) b

Monthly average price (actual on real terms basis using US CPI all urban consumers)

c

NGFS GCAM NZE 2050 [A] 

Shell mid-price

e

IEA APS

f

Average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios

g

IEA NZE50

[A] The Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) is a group of 127 central banks and supervisors and 20 observers committed to sharing best practices, contributing to the 

development of climate– and environment–related risk management in the financial sector and mobilising mainstream finance to support the transition toward a sustainable economy. 
This scenario results from the NGFS GCAM model. This model embodies certain assumptions on the relationships between economic and energy output and climate interactions. 
This NGFS scenario shows a decline in world oil demand relative to the current policies baseline, in part a response to substitution away from fossil fuels. At the same time prices 
increase due to supply constraints. 

[B] All figures are presented on RT23 basis unless noted differently.

The graph above shows the oil pricelines on a real-terms basis applied for the period until 2050 for Shell's mid-price outlook in comparison 
with the IEA announced pledges (IEA APS) scenario, the NGFS GCAM NZE 2050 scenario, the average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius 
external climate change scenarios (Priceline 1, above) and the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario (IEA NZE50, Priceline 3 above). The 
development of future oil prices is uncertain and oil prices have been subject to significant volatility in the past. Future oil prices may be impacted 
by future changes in macroeconomic factors, available supply, demand, geopolitical and other factors. The pricelines as per the scenarios NGFS 
GCAM NZE 2050, IEA APS, the average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios and IEA NZE50 differ from 
Shell's best estimate and view of the future oil price.

263
263

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued

Sensitivity + 10% to the mid-price outlook

Sensitivity - 10% to the mid-price outlook

Carrying amount

Sensitivity

Carrying amount

Sensitivity

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

2023

2022

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

2023

2022

$ billion

$ billion

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Total

72 

84 

156 

75 

88 

  2 

  4 

  2 

  3 

Integrated Gas

  — 

1 

  — 

1 

Upstream

163 

  2 

  5 

  2 

  4 

Total

72 

84 

156 

75 

88 

  (4)    (6)    (2)    (4) 

  (1)    (2)    — 

  (1) 

163 

  (5)    (8)    (2)    (5) 

Sensitivity averaged from three below-two-degrees-
Celsius external climate scenarios

Sensitivity Hybrid Shell Plan + IEA NZE50

Carrying amount

Sensitivity

Carrying amount

Sensitivity

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

2023

2022

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

2023

2022

$ billion

$ billion

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Total

72 

84 

156 

75 

88 

 (12)   (16)    (4)    (6) 

Integrated Gas

  (3)    (5)    (1)    (2) 

Upstream

163 

 (15)   (21)    (5)    (8) 

Total

72 

84 

156 

75 

88 

  (8)   (10)    (4)    (6) 

  (1)    (3)    (1)    (2) 

163 

  (9)   (13)    (5)    (8) 

Sensitivity IEA NZE50

Carrying amount

Sensitivity

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

2023

2022

$ billion

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Total

72 

84 

156 

75 

88 

 (15)   (20)    (9)   (12) 

  (3)    (5)    (8)    (11) 

163 

 (18)   (25)   (17)   (23) 

Carbon price sensitivities
Carbon costs in the Operating Plan
The Operating Plan includes capital expenditure and operating costs to achieve Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets (see above). These 
include asset level abatement project costs that drive efficiencies and reduce emissions, expected costs for evolving carbon regulations based 
on a forecast of Shell's equity share of emissions and costs of offsets for any residual amounts. 

The total capital expenditure for abatement projects in relation to efficiency improvements, energy and chemicals parks transformations and 
use of renewable power included in the Operating Plan is in excess of $5 billion (2022: $4 billion). Total yearly carbon emission costs in Shell's 
Operating Plan gradually increase from $1 billion in 2024 to $4 billion in 2033 using the mid-price scenario. The sensitivity of carrying values 
of assets to changes in carbon prices is described in the section below. 

Methods for estimating costs vary, depending on the nature of the cost. Abatement projects costs to improve efficiencies and reduce emissions 
are estimated by applying a bottom-up approach where individual opportunities on an asset-level, project-by-project basis are identified. 

Costs for evolving carbon regulations are based on a forecast of Shell's equity share of emissions and are included in the Operating Plan at Shell's
mid-price outlook on a country-by-country basis and represent management's best estimate. In the short and near term, up to around 2030, costs 
for carbon emissions estimates are largely policy driven, through emission trading schemes or taxation levied by governments which currently 
vary significantly on a country-by-country basis. Beyond 2030, where policy predictions are more challenging, the costs for carbon emissions 
are estimated based on the expected costs of abatement technologies required for 2050. The estimated costs are trending towards $125 or 
$170 per tonne (RT23), depending on the country [A], in 2050. This outlook used for the Operating Plan sits within the middle of abatement costs 
range of $100-200 which incorporates a broad range of technologies.
[A] Except for the Netherlands and Norway where the estimated mid-price assumption is around $220 per tonne in 2050.

Sensitivity to changes in carbon price assumptions
There is significant uncertainty as to how carbon costs will develop over the next decades. These will depend on policies set by countries and 
the pace of the energy transition. In accordance with IFRS, Shell's financial statements are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions 
that represent management's current best estimate, which is policy based up to 2030 and then based on the mid-price outlook beyond 2030. As 
the risk of stranded assets is prevalent with higher carbon emission prices than anticipated, sensitivity analyses have only been undertaken for such 
a downside scenario. If the IEA NZE 2050 outlook is applied, this would impact the recoverability of certain assets recognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023. This scenario is not representative of management's mid-price reasonable best estimate.

Sensitivity of carrying amounts to carbon emission costs as described below is under the assumption that all other factors in the value in use 
models used to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain unchanged. Changes to carbon emission costs are applied for Integrated Gas, 
Upstream and Chemicals and Products because of the potential impact on Shell's business. 

264
264

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Integrated Gas assets of $72 billion (2022: $75 billion) and Upstream assets of $84 billion 
(2022: $88 billion), up to the end of life of these assets, shows recoverable amounts that are $2-4 billion (2022: $2-5 billion) lower for Integrated 
Gas and up to $1 billion lower for Upstream than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. 

Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Chemicals and Products assets of $44 billion shows recoverable amounts that are $3-4 
billion lower than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023. For Chemicals and Products, increased carbon cost could however potentially 
be recovered partially through increased product sale prices.

Sensitivity IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Chemicals and Products [A]

Total

Carrying amount

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

72 

84 

44 

200 

75 

88 

163  [A]

2023

(2)   

— 

(3) 

(5)   

Sensitivity

(4)   

(1)   

(4)   

(9) 

$ billion

2022

(2)   

— 

(5) 

— 

[A] Excludes Chemicals and Products for 2022 for which from 2023 sensitivity to IEA NZE 2050 carbon prices has been included.

For the key regions and countries the following carbon prices per tonne (RT23) have been assumed in the Operating Plan:

Region

European Union [A]

Norway

United Kingdom

Canada (Federal)

United States of America (Federal)

Australia

All other countries

Operating plan period

Subsequent period

2024-2033

$87-$132

$97-$226

$94-$145

$59-$113

$0-$42

$29-$61

$0-$55

2034-2050

$134-$170

$226-$226

$146-$170

$113-$125

$47-$125

$65-$125

$25-$125

[A] Except for the Netherlands where the ranges are $87-159 per tonne (2024-2033) and $163-220 per tonne (2034-2050). 

The graph below shows the carbon pricelines per tonne for the European Union on an RT23 basis under Shell's mid-price outlook that represents 
the best estimate as required to be applied under IFRS, in comparison with the IEA NZE 2050 scenario. The IEA NZE 2050 scenario differs from 
Shell's best estimate and view of future CO2 prices. Sensitivity of carrying amounts to the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario is provided above.

CO2 prices - European Union
RT23 $/tonne

b

a

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041

2042

2043

2044 2045 2046 2047 2048 2049 2050

a

Shell mid-price

b

IEA NZE 50

265
265

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued

Carrying value of Chemicals and Products assets
$ billion as at December 31

47

43

44

45

44

38

39

8

14

16

7

14

18

26

c

b

a

1

10

15

12

13

22

11

7

25

11

6

27

11

6

28

13

6

25

50

40

30

20

10

0

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

a

Chemicals

b

Reﬁneries

c

Other

Within Chemicals and Products, the assets potentially most sensitive to the energy transition are refineries. 

Portfolio composition and changes
Since 2016, Shell's Chemicals and Products portfolio has evolved, shifting from 15 refineries at the end of 2016 to eight at the end of 2023. During 
that period, Shell assumed the sole ownership of two refineries through the dissolution of the Motiva joint venture, and disposed of, converted 
or closed nine refineries. Further, during 2023 Shell agreed to sell one refinery (under assets held for sale at the end of 2023, see Note 18), 
announced the intention to sell the Singapore refining and chemicals assets and subsequently announced plans to repurpose the Rheinland 
refinery in Germany into a base oil manufacturing plant. The carrying amount of refineries decreased from $10 billion as at December 31, 2016, 
to less than $6 billion as at December 31, 2023. In line with Shell's strategy, Shell's refining footprint continues its transformation into energy and 
chemicals parks that will provide feedstocks for the chemicals and lubricants business, as well as other low-carbon energy products, including 
biofuels and hydrogen. This transformation will involve investments in assets within these energy and chemicals parks that will be recognised 
as separate cash-generating units and are expected to be resilient in the energy transition, and hence their carrying amounts may increase. 

Estimated useful life
Refineries in the Chemicals and Products segment (carrying amount as at December 31, 2023, $6 billion (2022: $6 billion)) may be impacted 
under a two-degrees-Celsius or less external climate scenario. 

For refineries in Chemicals and Products, depreciation of assets is on a straight-line basis over the life of the assets, starting at the date the asset 
becomes available for use, over a period of 20 years (see Note 2). Over the course of the energy transition, the current carrying amount of 
refineries will be fully depreciated, offset by anticipated investments in assets that are expected to be resilient in the energy transition as described 
above. Based on current depreciation of the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2023, and assuming no further investment, all refineries would 
be fully depreciated between four and 11 years. 

In addition to refineries, further assets of $38 billion include $25 billion of assets in relation to Chemicals. This includes $15 billion for the new 
Pennsylvania chemical plant, which started operations in November 2022 and being a more efficient plant, it is expected to be more resilient in 
the energy transition. Chemical products are not produced with the aim to combust and consequently do not generate GHG emissions. Under the 
IEA NZE 2050 scenario chemical production volumes are not expected to decrease towards 2050, compared with current levels and hence 
chemical assets are expected to be resilient through the energy transition.

Other assets of $13 billion include $8 billion of assets mainly related to storage tanks, vessels, terminals and depots in trading and supply that are 
also expected to be resilient in the energy transition. Another $3 billion of assets relates to oil sands. Based on production plans for oil sands 
assets, 82%, 57% and 32% of SEC proved reserves for oil sands as at December 31, 2023, would currently be left by 2030, 2040 and 2050, 
respectively. Taking into consideration the carrying amount as at December 31, 2023 and depreciation under the unit-of-production methodology, 
this provides a further perspective on the risk of stranded oil sands assets carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023. 

Price sensitivities
Where available Shell uses external climate scenarios for sensitivity testing. In relation to chemical and refining margin forecasts, no credible 
climate scenarios have been identified and consequently sensitivity testing is performed by providing sensitivity to changes in margins. 

Chemical margins applied for impairment testing by reference to value in use are at an average of $252/tonne (20-year average). A change 
of -$30/tonne or +$30/tonne in long-term chemical margins over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in up to 
$2 billion impairment or no impairment reversal, respectively, in Chemicals and Products (see Note 12).

Refining margins applied for impairment testing by reference to value in use are at an average of $7.6/bbl (20-year). A change of -$1/bbl or +
$1/bbl to the refining margin outlook over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in $1-2 billion impairment or up to
$1 billion impairment reversal respectively in Chemicals and Products (see Note 12).

Sensitivities to carbon prices are described in the section above. 

266
266

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Carrying value of Marketing assets

Carrying value of Marketing assets
$ billion as at December 31

23

25

20

15

15

34

29

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Portfolio composition and changes
Assets in the Marketing segment are expected to be resilient through the energy transition with a change in the product mix as the energy 
transition progresses. The demand for products sold — such as chemicals, lubricants, biofuels, bitumen, electric vehicle charging and convenience 
retail -- is not expected to decrease and is expected to increase for a variety of these products in many markets. Shell is expanding networks of 
refuelling stations offering low-carbon fuels, including biofuels and various gaseous fuels, such as LNG and bio-LNG. As a result, the carrying value 
of these assets is not expected to be impacted by the energy transition or lower commodity price scenarios.

Carrying value of Renewables and Energy Solutions assets

Carrying value of Renewables and Energy Solutions assets
$ billion as at December 31

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

9

10

3

3

5

1

2017

1

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

Portfolio composition and changes

Assets in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment are expected to be resilient through the energy transition. 

267
267

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Other energy transition considerations
Discount rate sensitivity 
The discount rate applied for value in use impairment testing is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and is 
determined at 7.5% except for the power activities in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment where 6% is applied. The discount rate 
includes generic systematic risk for energy transition risk. In addition, cash flow projections applied in individual assets include specific asset risks, 
including risk of transition. An increase in systematic climate risk could lead to a higher WACC and consequently to a higher discount rate to be 
applied in impairment testing. An increase of the discount rate applied for impairment testing of 1% under the assumption that all other factors 
(such as commodity prices, product margins and carbon prices) in the models used to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain 
unchanged would lead to a change in the carrying amount of $2-4 billion in Integrated Gas and Upstream, and up to $1 billion in Chemicals 
and Products, and no significant impairment in other segments. 

Global oil and gas demand considerations 
A decrease in global demand and unchanged supply of oil and gas would likely lead to a decrease in price (see price sensitivity above). During 
2023, Shell's production of oil and gas accounted for 1.5% and 2% of total global production of oil and gas respectively. Changes in global oil 
and gas demand are therefore not expected to directly impact the ability to sell volumes of oil and gas produced by Shell at market prices. 

Deferred tax assets
In general, it is expected that sufficient deferred tax liabilities and forecasted taxable profits within the planning period of 10 years are available for 
recovery of the deferred tax assets recognised at December 31, 2023. Integrated Gas and Upstream deferred tax assets recognised are expected to 
be recovered within the period of production of each asset. For deferred tax assets of $241 million as at December 31, 2023 (2022: $303 million) this 
period extends beyond 10 years. Deferred tax assets in Chemicals and Products and in Marketing expected to be recovered in more than 10 years 
(between 11 and 20 years) are $455 million as at December 31, 2023 (2022: $382 million) for which the forecasted taxable profits to determine 
recoverability have been risked. (See Note 22). 

Decommissioning and other provisions
The energy transition may result in decommissioning and restoration occurring earlier than expected. The risk on the timing of decommissioning 
and restoration activities for Integrated Gas and Upstream fields is limited, supported by production plans in the foreseeable future (see 
"Estimated useful life" above). Acceleration of decommissioning and restoration activities has also been reflected in the assessment of the 
appropriate discount rate. In 2021, the discount rate was revised from a 30-year to a 20-year term in line with the average remaining life of 
Integrated Gas and Upstream assets. On an undiscounted basis the provision for decommissioning and restoration as at December 31, 2023 
was $33 billion (2022: $33 billion), recognised on a discounted basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2023 at $19 billion 
(2022: $20 billion). Sensitivity to changes in the discount rate is provided in Note 24.

Historically, in Chemicals and Products, it was industry practice not to recognise decommissioning and restoration provisions associated with 
manufacturing facilities. This was on the basis that these assets were considered to have indefinite lives, so it was considered remote that an 
outflow of economic benefits would be required. In 2020, Shell considered the changed macroeconomic fundamentals, together with Shell's plans 
to rationalise the Group's manufacturing portfolio. Shell also reconsidered whether it remained appropriate not to recognise decommissioning and 
restoration provisions for manufacturing facilities. Since 2020, decommissioning and restoration provisions are recognised for certain shorter-lived 
manufacturing facilities (see Notes 24 and 31). The energy and chemicals parks are considered longer-lived facilities that are expected to be 
resilient in the energy transition, and decommissioning would generally be more than 50 years away.

Onerous contracts
Closure or early termination of activities may lead to supply contracts becoming onerous. Onerous contract provisions (see Note 24) have been 
recognised as at December 31, 2023, to reflect changes in expected future utilisation of certain assets. These include contracts in relation to 
unused terminals and refineries. The total carrying amount of the provision for onerous contracts as at December 31, 2023 was $1.1 billion 
(2022: $1.5 billion) principally related to contracts in relation to unused terminals and refineries.

Dividend resilience
External stakeholders have requested disclosures on how climate change affects dividend-paying capacity. If a further impairment had been 
recognised in 2023 using any of the climate change scenarios described above, this would not have impacted the ability to pay dividends in 
this financial year because of strong cash flow generation and financial reserves. Had Shell applied the IEA NZE50 scenario (see above), and if 
this had led to a decrease in the recoverable amount of Integrated Gas and Upstream assets of $18-25 billion and recognition of an equivalent 
impairment, this would not have impacted the distributable reserves available to Shell from which to pay dividends in 2023. This is on the basis 
that such impairment would have resulted in part-realisation of the merger reserve recognised by the Company of $234 billion
as at December 31, 2023.

A forward-looking statement regarding future dividend-paying capacity cannot be provided because of unknown risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. 

268
268

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Physical risks
Mitigation of physical risks, whether or not related to climate change, is considered and embedded in the design and construction of Shell's 
projects, and/or operation of Shell's assets to minimise the risk of adverse incidents to Shell's employees and contractors, the communities where 
Shell operates, and Shell's equipment. The potential impact of physical changes comes from both acute and chronic physical risks. Acute risks, such 
as flooding and droughts, wildfires and more severe tropical storms, and chronic risks, such as rising temperatures and rising sea levels, could 
potentially impact some of Shell's facilities, operations and supply chains. The frequency of these hazards and impacts is expected to increase in 
certain high-risk locations. Extreme weather events, whether or not related to climate change, could have a negative impact on Shell's earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition. 

In 2023 Shell carried out a detailed review to assess the impact of a range of changing climatic conditions including changes in temperature, 
precipitation, wind and sea levels across segments and geographies for our significant assets. Shell used IPCC climate modelling data covering 
three future climate scenarios (RCP2.6, RCP4.5 and RCP8.5) across the time-horizons 2025, 2030 and 2050. In the short to medium term, the 
risks were found to be related to factors that Shell is already aware of (whether or not related to climate change) and the assets are actively 
managing to mitigate, e.g. hurricane impacts in the US Gulf Coast, rising air temperatures in the Middle East and water scarcity in Europe and 
Asia. As an example, in recent years the Rhine river in Europe has seen historic lows during the summer months leading to challenges in the use of 
barges for transportation of our products. Dredging of harbours and investment in shallower-draft barges have helped to mitigate the risk. In the 
long term, the results of the exercise indicated that while we have evaluated against current known risk factors and our current asset portfolio, the 
frequency and severity of the identified risk factors may increase by 2050. The level of predictability is such that the need for investment in climate 
adaptation measures at the assets is not immediate and the results mean we are in a position to monitor the assets and determine whether there is 
any need for adaptation action, e.g. the impact of potential water scarcity on various assets. Shell tested over 70% of the carrying amount of 
Shell's physical assets as at December 31, 2022, to assess the potential impact of climate-related changes on Shell's significant assets. 13% (based 
on the carrying value) of physical assets tested are considered to be exposed to climate-related physical risks in the short to medium term which 
the assets are already actively managing to mitigate. In addition, we reviewed significant acquisitions made in 2023 of which none are 
considered to be exposed to climate-related physical risks in the short to medium term. Shell's plan reflects the impact of mitigating actions in the 
short to medium term. Shell will continue to monitor and assess the future exposure of Shell's assets in the longer term to changing climatic 
conditions to establish the need for any further adaptation actions and related metrics.

Additionally, the impact of physical climate change on Shell's operations is unlikely to be limited to the boundaries of Shell's assets. The overall 
impact, including how supply chains, resource availability and markets may be affected, also needs to be considered for a holistic assessment 
of this risk. Shell's assets manage this risk as part of broad risk and threat management processes as required by Shell's HSSE & SP Control 
Framework part of the wider Shell Performance Framework.

269
269

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

5. Emission schemes and related environmental programmes
Emission trading and related schemes
In general, emission trading schemes (ETS) are mandated governmental schemes to control emission levels and enhance clean energy transition, 
allowing for the trading of emission certificates. In most ETS, governments set an emission cap for one or more sectors. Generally, entities in scope 
of the scheme are allowed to buy emission certificates to cover shortages or sell surplus emission certificates. In certain countries, emissions are 
priced through a carbon tax. For Shell, the most significant carbon pricing mechanisms are established in Europe, Canada and Singapore.

Biofuel programmes
Biofuel programmes are mandated governmental schemes that set binding national targets on the share of renewables in fuel consumption 
or measures on reducing GHG emissions by fuel suppliers. Biofuels are blended with existing fuels, such as gasoline and diesel, to reduce net 
emissions. The share of biofuels in the total sales mix of fuel is used to comply with regulatory requirements. This can be achieved by the blending 
of biofuels in refineries and/or distribution depots (self-blending), through import of biofuels (for jurisdictions that grant biofuels certificates at the 
point of import) or by the purchasing of certificates from third parties (for jurisdictions that have a tradable biofuel certificates mechanism). Biofuel 
programmes also include regulatory requirements to pay a levy for the combustion of fossil fuels, based on CO₂ emitted – mainly related to the 
German Fuel Emissions Trading Act (BEHG) which has applied since January 1, 2021. 

Renewable power programmes
Renewable power programmes create a financial incentive to consume power that is sourced from renewable origins or require that a minimum 
percentage of power sold meets the green definition of the relevant standard. These regulations are typically accompanied by schemes supporting 
investments in the renewable technology. Renewable power programmes generally use certificates to monitor compliance, where renewable 
power certificates are granted for each MWh of energy generated that meets the predefined renewable criteria. Shell's compliance obligation 
under renewable power programmes comes primarily from energy supply and results from regulations applying in Europe, North America 
and Australia.

Cost of emission schemes and related environmental programmes recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income

ETS and related schemes

Biofuels [A]

Renewable power

Total

2023

493 

2,581 

552 

3,626 

2022

493 

2,918 

594 

4,005 

[A] Represents the cost of biofuel certificates required for compliance purposes over and above those generated from self-blending activities.

Purchased environmental certificates (presented under Other intangible assets, see Note 10) [A]

$ million

2021

331 

2,609 

455 

3,395 

$ million

Total

2,201 

3,837 

ETS and 
related 
schemes

440 

396 

Biofuels

1,601 

2,955 

Renewable 
power

160 

486 

(413)   

(2,783)   

(451)   

(3,647) 

18 

441 

284 

385 

32 

1,805 

2,362 

1,485 

(50)   

145 

101 

468 

— 

2,391 

2,747 

2,338 

(256)   

(2,142)   

(398)   

(2,796) 

27 

440 

(104)   

1,601 

(11)   

160 

(88) 

2,201 

At January 1, 2023

Additions

Settlements

Other movements

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Additions

Settlements

Other movements

At December 31, 2022

[A] Relates to environmental certificates held for compliance purposes.

270
270

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

5. Emission schemes and related environmental programmes continued

Obligation (presented under Other payables, see Note 19) 

At January 1, 2023

Current

Non-current

Additions

Additions covered by government grants

Settlements

Other movements

At December 31, 2023

Current

Non-current

At January 1, 2022

Current

Non-current

Additions

Additions covered by government grants

Settlements

Other movements

At December 31, 2022

Current

Non-current

ETS and 
related 
schemes

(458) 

— 

(458) 

(1,244) 

762  [A]

479 

(37) 

(40) 

(498) 

— 

(498) 

(270) 

— 

(270) 

(1,237) 

776  [A]

292 

(19) 

(188) 

(458) 

— 

(458) 

Biofuels

Renewable 
power

$ million

Total

(3,424)   

(350)   

(4,232) 

(422)   

(3,846)   

(2,593)   

3,386 

(64)   

729 

(56)   

(406)   

(597)   

492 

80 

(25)   

(478) 

(4,710) 

(4,434) 

762 

4,357 

(21) 

664 

(3,012)   

(105)   

(3,117)   

(343)   

(88)   

(431)   

(3,853) 

(193) 

(4,046) 

(3,262)   

(273)   

(3,805) 

(182)   

(3,444)   

(2,916)   

2,456 

58 

(29)   

(302)   

(637)   

499 

34 

(402)   

(104)   

(211) 

(4,016) 

(4,790) 

776 

3,247 

73 

(694) 

(3,424)   

(350)   

(4,232) 

(422)   

(56)   

(478) 

(3,846)   

(406)   

(4,710) 

[A] Emission certificates that were allocated free of charge at an equivalent fair value at grant date.

Environmental certificates acquired that are held for compliance purposes are recognised at cost under other intangible assets (see Note 10). 
In addition, a portfolio of environmental certificates is held for trading purposes and classified under inventory (see Note 2 and Note 16). 
Environmental certificates held for trading purposes can be redesignated for compliance purposes and then used to settle compliance obligations.

Cost recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income represents the compliance cost associated with emissions or with products sold during 
the year. The liability at year-end represents the compliance cost recognised over current and past compliance periods to the extent not settled 
to date. Liabilities are settled in line with compliance periods, which depend on the scheme and may not coincide with the calendar year. 

The figures present compliance schemes only, excluding voluntary activities.

271
271

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

6. Capital management
Shell manages its businesses to deliver strong cash flows to sustain its strategy and for profitable growth. Management's current priorities for 
applying Shell's cash are:

Balanced Capital 
Allocation

Enhanced shareholder distributions [A]

Strong balance sheet

Disciplined investment

Targeting total shareholder distributions 
of 30-40% of cash flow from operating 
activities through the cycle (2022: 20-30%)

Around 4% annual growth
in dividend per share, subject
to Board approval (2022: 4%)

Targeting AA credit metrics 
through the cycle

￮ Continued focus on Net debt 

reduction in upcycle

￮ Divest for value
￮ Invest for value

Cash capital expenditure (see Note 7) 
within $22-25 billion
per annum for 2024 and 2025 
(2022: $23-27 billion)

￮ Includes inorganic capex

[A] Total shareholder distributions (dividends + share buybacks) based on cash generation, macro-outlook and balance sheet trajectory.

7. Segment information
General information 
Shell is an international energy company engaged in the principal aspects of the energy and petrochemicals industries and reports its business 
through segments: Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions, and Corporate. 

The Integrated Gas segment includes liquefied natural gas (LNG), conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels and other products. It 
includes natural gas and liquids exploration and extraction, and the operation of the upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver 
these to market. The segment also includes the marketing, trading and optimisation of LNG, including LNG as a fuel for heavy-duty vehicles.

The Upstream segment includes exploration and extraction of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil 
and gas, and operates the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to the market.

The Marketing segment comprises the Mobility, Lubricants, and Sectors & Decarbonisation businesses. The Mobility business operates Shell's 
retail network, including electric vehicle charging services. The Lubricants business produces, markets and sells lubricants for road transport, 
and machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture and construction. The Sectors & Decarbonisation business sells fuels, 
speciality products and services, including low-carbon energy solutions, to a broad range of commercial customers, including the aviation, marine, 
and agricultural sectors.

The Chemicals and Products segment includes chemicals manufacturing plants, with their own marketing network, and refineries, which turn crude 
oil and other feedstocks into a range of oil products which are moved and marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. 
The segment also includes the pipeline business, trading and optimisation of crude oil, oil products and petrochemicals, and oil sands activities 
(the extraction of bitumen from mined oil sands and its conversion into synthetic crude oil).

The Renewables and Energy Solutions segment includes renewable power generation, the marketing and trading and optimisation of power 
and pipeline gas, as well as carbon credits, and digitally enabled customer solutions. The segment also includes production and marketing 
of hydrogen, development of commercial carbon capture and storage hubs, investment in nature-based projects that avoid or reduce carbon 
emissions, and Shell Ventures, which invests in companies that work to accelerate the energy and mobility transformation.

The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting Shell, comprising Shell's holdings and treasury organisation, its self-
insurance activities and its headquarters and central functions. All finance expense and income and related taxes are included in Corporate 
segment earnings rather than in the earnings of business segments.

272
272

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

7. Segment information continued
Basis of segmental reporting
Sales between segments are based on prices generally equivalent to commercially available prices. Third-party revenue and non-current assets 
information by geographical area are based on the country of operation of the Group subsidiaries that report this information. Separate disclosure 
is provided for the UK as this is the Company's country of domicile. 

Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings). On this basis, the purchase price of volumes sold during the 
period is based on the current cost of supplies during the same period after making allowance for the tax effect. CCS earnings therefore exclude 
the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts. CCS earnings attributable to Shell plc shareholders is the earnings measure 
used by the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance. 

Finance expense and income related to core financing activities, as well as related taxes, are included in the Corporate segment earnings rather 
than in the earnings of the business segments.

Information by segment on a current cost of supplies basis is as follows:

2023

Revenue:

Third-party

Inter-segment

Integrated 
Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals 
and Products

Renewables 
and Energy 

Solutions Corporate

Total

$ million

37,645 

6,475 

108,858 

11,560 

41,230 

768 

671 

27 

209 

435 

7,890 

9,845 

9,186 

163 

496 

1,534 

4,823 

4,529 

168 

126 

216 

(324)   

(206)   

(1)   

8,903 

3,472 

12,463 

1,360 

146 

2,803 

7,046 

507 

8,377 

8,528 

624 

548 

76 

9 

16 

51 

94,614 

9,336 

949 

8,137 

250 

— 

2,335 

420 

52 

819 

118,781 

2,252 

44,819 

4,707 

42 

— 

316,620  [A]

60,373 

590 

61 

57 

(61)   

65 

(96)   

(3)   

75 

12 

110 

1,818 

2,202 

5 

(47)   

(389)   

3,758 

2,838 

2,313 

257 

268 

102,396 

40,170 

15 

272,441 

11,483 

7,908 

3,323 

252 

— 

6,411 

2,787 

(90)   

62 

(198)   

3,831 

2,610 

1,058 

163 

— 

1,159 

908 

(141)   

642 

58 

584 

— 

— 

19 

— 

— 

4 

3,902 

90 

1,303 

3,038 

39,960 

25,240 

13,433 

1,287 

1,750 

31,290 

8,947  [B]

(762) [C]

4,673 

13,194 

Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 
(CCS basis)

Interest and other income, of which:

Interest income

Net gains/(losses) on sale and revaluation of non-
current assets and businesses

Other

1,951 

137 

6 

(22)   

153 

Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis)

27,356 

Operating expenses, of which: 

Production and manufacturing expenses

Selling, distribution and administrative expenses

Research and development expenses

Exploration expenses

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, 
of which:

Impairment losses

Impairment reversals

Interest expense

Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis)

CCS earnings

2,950 

1,530 

(2,811)   

20,281 

[A] Includes $15,607 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 
includes both the reversal of prior gains of $4,689 million related to sales contracts and prior losses of $2,074 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and 
where physical settlement has taken place during 2023.

[B] Impairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($8,182 million), Goodwill ($635 million) and Other intangible assets ($130 million). (See Note 12).
[C] Impairment reversals comprise Property, plant and equipment ($627 million) and Other intangible assets ($135 million). (See Note 12).

273
273

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

7. Segment information continued

2022

Revenue:

Third-party

Inter-segment

Integrated
 Gas

Upstream Marketing

Chemicals 
and Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate

Total

$ million

  54,751 

8,352 

  120,638 

144,342 

18,412 

  52,285 

606 

2,684 

53,190 

6,791 

41 

  381,314  [A]

— 

  80,778 

Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 
(CCS basis)

Interest and other income, of which:

Interest income

Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets 
and businesses

Other

1,219 

(714) 

43 

101 

(858) [B]

2,111 

726 

22 

437 

267 

237 

(104)   

— 

374 

244 

24 

(186)   

282 

82 

(62)   

(7)   

57 

(2)   

8 

51 

(4)   

3,930 

706 

959 

915 

1,046 

— 

642 

(253)   

(773) 

Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis)

  37,785 

10,666 

108,012 

127,521 

57,024 

(28)    340,980 

Operating expenses, of which: 

Production and manufacturing expenses

Selling, distribution and administrative expenses

Research and development expenses

Exploration expenses

5,237 

4,907 

218 

112 

240 

10,365 

8,383 

9,676 

233 

456 

1,472 

810 

7,351 

222 

— 

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which:

2,211 

10,334 

1,900 

Impairment losses

Impairment reversals

Interest expense

Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis)

CCS earnings

115 

950 

480 

(3,449) 

(2,504)   

(151)   

(73)   

84 

5,899 

  22,212 

345 

14,070 

16,222 

46 

903 

22 

935 

2,133 

4,515 

(1,059)   

(2,461)    41,562 

[A] Includes $11,708 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 

includes both the reversal of prior losses of $9,815 million related to sales contracts and prior gains of $7,201 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and where 
physical settlement had taken place during 2022.

[B] Includes the full write-down of the Nord Stream 2 loan amounting to $1,126 million as a result of the withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities.
[C] Impairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($1,799 million), Goodwill ($361 million) and Other intangible assets ($153 million). (See Note 12).
[D] Impairment reversals fully comprise Property, plant and equipment. (See Note 12).

274
274

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

11,362 

7,583 

3,592 

187 

— 

3,289 

356 

3,590 

2,520 

972 

98 

— 

777 

412 

— 

2 

539 

  39,476 

22 

  25,518 

517 

12,883 

— 

— 

18 

— 

— 

1,075 

1,712 

18,529 

2,313  [C]

(6,177) [D]

2,682 

3,181 

(303)   

(7)    21,497 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

7. Segment information continued

2021

Revenue:

Third-party

Inter-segment

Integrated

 Gas Upstream Marketing

Chemicals 
and Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate

Total

$ million

  29,922 

9,182 

  83,494 

116,448 

8,072 

  35,789 

254 

1,890 

22,415 

4,675 

43 

  261,504  [A]

— 

  50,680 

Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 
(CCS basis)

Interest and other income, of which:

Interest income

Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets 
and businesses

Other

1,933 

1,596 

— 

632 

4,592 

37 

385 

278 

3 

1,610 

4,130 

285 

(14)   

425 

(10)   

989 

37 

36 

(24)   

25 

(27)   

1 

3,913 

200 

4 

353 

431 

7,056 

511 

(6)   

— 

5,995 

202 

(78)   

550 

Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis)

20,188 

9,094 

  70,745 

103,294 

26,048 

(5)    229,364 

Operating expenses, of which:

4,526 

10,322 

7,501 

10,347 

Production and manufacturing expenses

4,194 

9,797 

Selling, distribution and administrative expenses

Research and development expenses

Exploration expenses

231 

101 

122 

186 

339 

1,301 

950 

6,384 

167 

— 

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which:

5,908 

13,485 

1,700 

Impairment losses

Impairment reversals

Interest expense

Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis)

CCS earnings

723 

920 

129 

(204)   

(9)   

(1)   

71 

333 

2,648 

8,060 

6,057 

9,603 

27 

903 

6,815 

3,375 

157 

— 

5,485 

2,248 

— 

44 

2,745 

2,098 

596 

51 

— 

326 

45 

— 

— 

524 

  35,965 

(32)    23,822 

556 

11,328 

— 

— 

815 

1,423 

17 

  26,921 

— 

— 

4,065  [B]

(214) [C]

3,132 

3,607 

(210)   

(342)   

(665)   

8,391 

3,535 

404 

(1,514)   

(2,606)   

17,482 

[A] Includes $126 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 
includes both the reversal of prior losses of $4,824 million related to sales contracts and prior gains of $4,892 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and 
where physical settlement had taken place during 2021.

[B] Impairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($3,894 million), Goodwill ($167 million) and Other intangible assets ($4 million). (See Note 12).
[C] Impairment reversals fully comprise Property, plant and equipment. (See Note 12).

Reconciliation of CCS earnings to income for the period

Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Income attributable to non-controlling interest

Income for the period

Current cost of supplies adjustment:

Purchases

Taxation

Share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Current cost of supplies adjustment

Of which:

Attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Attributable to non-controlling interest

CCS earnings

Of which:

CCS earnings attributable to Shell plc shareholders

CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest

275
275

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

2022

19,359 

42,309 

277 

565 

$ million

2021

20,101 

529 

19,636 

42,874 

20,630 

815 

(1,714)   

(3,772) 

(203)   

33 

645 

444 

(42)   

808 

(184) 

(1,312)   

(3,148) 

650 

(1,196)   

(3,029) 

(5)   

(116)   

(119) 

20,281 

41,562 

17,482 

20,008 

273 

41,113 

449 

17,072 

410 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

7. Segment information continued
Information by geographical area is as follows:

2023

Third-party revenue, by origin

118,135  [A]

99,967 

70,291 

28,227 

316,620 

Europe

Asia,
Oceania,
Africa

USA

Other
Americas

$ million

Total

Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31

[A] Includes $44,815 million that originated from the UK.
[B] Includes $21,478 million located in the UK.

2022

48,008  [B]

91,374 

57,261 

49,562 

246,205 

Third-party revenue, by origin

135,975  [A]

126,643 

87,085 

31,611 

381,314 

Europe

Asia,
Oceania,
Africa

USA

Other
Americas

$ million

Total

Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31

[A] Includes $50,236 million that originated from the UK.
[B] Includes $20,772 million located in the UK.

2021

40,161  [B]

97,019 

59,233 

51,794 

248,207 

Europe

Asia,
Oceania,
Africa

USA

Other
Americas

$ million

Total

Third-party revenue, by origin

78,549  [A]

87,070 

73,647 

22,238 

261,504 

Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31

[A] Includes $21,846 million that originated from the UK. 
[B] Includes $21,974 million located in the UK. 

38,881  [B]

97,278 

58,286 

48,595 

243,040 

Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure is a measure used by the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and 
assessing performance.

2023

Capital expenditure

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Investments in equity securities

Cash capital expenditure*

[A] See Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

$ million

Integrated 
Gas

3,491 

705 

— 

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate

Total

8,249 

5,563 

3,106 

2,314 

270 

22,993  [A]

94 

— 

49 

— 

84 

2 

261 

106 

9 

89 

1,202  [A]

197  [A]

4,196 

8,343 

5,612 

3,192 

2,681 

368 

24,392 

276
276

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

7. Segment information continued

2022

Capital expenditure

3,433 

8,020 

4,527 

3,835 

2,610 

Integrated 
Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Investments in equity securities

Cash capital expenditure*

[A] See Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

2021

832 

— 

123 

— 

304 

— 

2 

1 

703 

156 

4,265 

8,143 

4,831 

3,838 

3,469 

Capital expenditure

3,306 

6,277 

2,122 

5,091 

2,069 

Integrated 
Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Investments in joint ventures and associates

Investments in equity securities

Cash capital expenditure*

[A] See Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

8. Interest and other income

196 

— 

(109)   

— 

148 

3 

80 

4 

154 

136 

3,502 

6,168 

2,273 

5,175 

2,359 

$ million

Corporate

Total

175 

9 

103 

287 

22,600  [A]

1,973  [A]

260  [A]

24,833 

$ million

Corporate

Total

135 

10 

75 

220 

19,000  [A]

479  [A]

218  [A]

19,697 

Interest income

Dividend income (from investments in equity securities)

Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses

Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains on financing activities

Other

Total

2023

2,313 

49 

257 

(458)   

677 

2,838 

2022

1,046 

216 

642 

(340)   

(649)   

$ million

2021

511 

91 

5,995 

118 

341 

915 

7,056 

Other includes amounts recognised in respect of sublease income from partners in joint operations (2023: $418 million, 2022: $319 million, 2021: 
$313 million).

In 2022, Other included the full write-down of the Nord Stream 2 loan amounting to $1,126 million as a result of Shell's withdrawal from Russian 
oil and gas activities. In 2021, net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses arose mainly in respect of gains on the sale of Integrated Gas 
assets in Australia and Norway, and Upstream assets in the USA and Nigeria.

9. Interest expense

Interest incurred and similar charges

Interest expense related to leases

Less: interest capitalised

Other net losses/(gains) on fair value and cash flow hedges of debt

Accretion expense

Total

2023

2,669 

1,772 

(532)   

45 

719 

4,673 

2022

1,971 

1,724 

(950)   

(71)   

507 

3,181 

$ million

2021

2,086 

1,987 

(917) 

1 

450 

3,607 

The rate applied in determining the amount of interest capitalised in 2023 was 4.0% (2022: 4.0%; 2021: 4.0%).

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

277
277

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

10. Goodwill and other intangible assets

2023

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1

Charge for the year [B]

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

2022

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1 

Charge for the year [B]

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

17,557 

1,436 

(506) 

55 

18,542 

1,518 

635 

(296) 

25 

1,882 

16,660 

16,117 

1,954 

(351) 

(163) 

17,557 

1,197 

360 

— 

(39) 

1,518 

16,039 

— 

9,734 

6,060 

790 

(99) 

— 

6,751 

2,983 

9,833 

— 

— 

— 

5,267 

793 

— 

— 

6,060 

3,773 

Other intangible assets

$ million

Goodwill

LNG off-take
and sales 
contracts

Environmental 
certificates

Other

Total

9,833 

— 

2,201 

3,837 

8,158 

1,721 

[C]

(99)   

(3,714)   

67 

2,391 

Other intangible assets

$ million

Goodwill

LNG off-take
and sales 
contracts

Environmental 
certificates

Other

Total

2,747 

2,338 

6,679 

1,263  [C]

(2,749)   

459  [D]

(135)   

9,833 

2,201 

(376) 

139 

9,642 

4,470 

442 

(222) 

73 

4,763 

(243) 

8,158 

4,219 

532 

(137) 

(144) 

4,470 

20,192 

5,558 

(4,189) 

206 

21,767 

10,530 

1,232 

(321) 

73 

11,514 

10,253 

19,259 

3,601 

(2,290) 

(378) 

20,192 

9,486 

1,325 

(137) 

(144) 

10,530 

9,662 

[A] Includes the reclassification of assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Includes impairment losses and reversals. (See Note 12).
[C] Includes feedstock supply contracts and intellectual property rights ($948 million) from an acquisition in Marketing and software ($357 million) primarily in Integrated Gas and Marketing. 
[D] Includes software ($829 million), power purchase agreements, retail customer relationships and trademarks.

2,391 

4,879  [D]

2,201 

3,688  [E]

[A] Includes the reclassification of assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Includes impairment losses and reversals. (See Note 12).
[C] Includes other intangible assets ($1,010 million) mainly acquired through acquisitions in Marketing and Renewables and Energy Solutions.
[D] Includes the reclassification from goodwill following the completion of a purchase price allocation in Renewables and Energy Solutions. 
[E] Includes software ($583 million), power purchase agreements, retail customer relationships and trademarks.

Goodwill at December 31, 2023, related principally to the acquisition of BG Group plc in 2016, allocated to Integrated Gas ($4,945 million) 
and Upstream ($5,294 million) at the operating segment level, and to Pennzoil-Quaker State Company ($1,665 million), a lubricants business 
in the Marketing segment based largely in North America. 

Additions to goodwill in 2023 of $1,436 million mainly related to goodwill recognised from acquisitions in Marketing ($1,304 million) and 
Renewables and Energy Solutions ($132 million).

278
278

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

11. Property, plant and equipment

2023 [A]

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Exploration and production

Exploration
and evaluation

Production

Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution

$ million

Other

Total

11,565 

277,016 

106,785 

39,595 

434,961 

2,161 

10,731 

5,910 

7,029 

25,831 

Sales, retirements and other movements [B]

(5,164)   

(1,153)   

(1,016)   

(1,387)   

(8,720) 

Reclassifications [C]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1

Charge for the year [D]

—   

(2,779)   

73 

1,855 

527 

863 

2,252 

207 

— 

2,998 

8,635 

285,670 

113,069 

47,696 

455,070 

5,162 

731 

159,662 

18,202 

56,901 

8,295 

14,594 

2,687 

236,319 

29,915 

Sales, retirements and other movements [B]

(2,609)   

(2,000)   

(2,083)   

(1,394)   

(8,086) 

Reclassifications [C]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

[A] Includes right-of-use assets under leases. (See Note 21).
[B] Includes the reclassification of assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[C] Reclassifications of right-of-use assets. (See Note 21). 
[D] Includes impairment losses and reversals. (See Note 12).

— 

39 

3,323 

5,312 

(2,217)   

1,326 

174,973 

110,697 

63 

650 

63,826 

49,243 

2,154 

72 

— 

2,087 

18,113 

260,235 

29,583 

194,835 

2022 [A] 

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Exploration and production

Exploration
and evaluation

Production

Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution

$ million

Other

Total

12,679 

1,564 

285,903 

11,954 

104,182 

6,928 

34,005 

436,769 

7,808 

28,254 

Sales, retirements and other movements [B]

(2,469)   

(14,541)   

(2,548)   

(242)   

(19,800) 

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1

Charge for the year [C]

Sales, retirements and other movements [B]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

[A] Includes right-of-use assets under leases. (See Note 21).
[B] Includes the reclassification of assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[C] Includes impairment losses and reversals. (See Note 12).

(209)   

(6,300)   

(1,777)   

(1,976)   

(10,262) 

11,565 

277,016 

106,785 

39,595 

434,961 

5,580 

397 

167,530 

9,709 

(765)   

(13,207)   

(50)   

(4,370)   

5,162 

6,403 

159,662 

117,354 

55,131 

5,149 

(2,054)   

(1,325)   

56,901 

49,884 

13,596 

2,055 

241,837 

17,310 

(396)   

(16,422) 

(661)   

(6,406) 

14,594 

25,001 

236,319 

198,642 

279
279

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

11. Property, plant and equipment continued
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2023, included $28,135 million (2022: $27,277 million) of assets 
under construction. This amount excludes exploration and evaluation assets.

The carrying amount of exploration and production assets at December 31, 2023, included rights and concessions in respect of proved and 
unproved properties of $6,097 million (2022: $7,662 million). Exploration and evaluation assets principally comprise rights and concessions 
in respect of unproved properties and capitalised exploration drilling costs.

The total contractual commitments for the purchase and lease of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2023, amounted to $12,419 
million of which $8,594 million related to lease commitments.

Capitalised exploration drilling costs

At January 1

Additions pending determination of proved reserves

Amounts charged to expense

Reclassifications to productive wells on determination of proved reserves

Other movements

At December 31

Between 1 and 5 years

Between 6 and 10 years

Between 11 and 15 years

Between 16 and 20 years

Total

2023

2,911 

1,967 

(868)   

(874)   

—   

3,136 

2022

3,015 

1,298 

(881)   

(531)   

10 

2,911 

$ million

2021

3,654 

1,024 

(639) 

(577) 

(447) 

3,015 

Wells

Number

13  

6  

2  

2 

23  

Projects

$ million

721 

704 

69 

124 

1,618 

Number

$ million

14  

22  

20  

8  

64  

353 

708 

390 

167 

1,618 

Exploration drilling costs capitalised for periods greater than one year at December 31, 2023, analysed according to the most recent year of 
activity, are presented in the table above. These comprise $273 million relating to five projects where drilling activities were under way or firmly 
planned for the future, and $1,345 million relating to 18 projects awaiting development concepts.

280
280

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

12. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets

Impairments

Impairment losses

Goodwill

Intangible assets other than goodwill

Property, plant and equipment, of which [A]

Exploration and production

Manufacturing, supply and distribution

Other

Total [B]

Impairment reversals

Intangible assets other than goodwill

Property, plant and equipment, of which [A]

Exploration and production

Manufacturing, supply and distribution

Other

Total [B]

[A] Includes right-of-use assets under leases. (See Note 21).
[B] See Note 7.

2023

2022

2021

$ million

635 

130 

8,182 

4,820 

2,785 

577 

8,947 

135 

627 

528 

91 

8 

762 

361 

153 

1,799 

868 

474 

457 

167 

4 

3,894 

1,533 

2,340 

21 

2,313 

4,065 

— 

6,177 

5,954 

72 

151 

6,177 

— 

214 

213 

— 

1 

214 

Discount rate and other assumptions
The discount rates applied in determining value in use reflect a current market assessment of the time value of money, adjusted for risks not 
included in forecast cash flows. The discount rate applied is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC), derived from 
the following key assumptions:

Risk-free rate
derived from a range of benchmark US 
Treasury yields of varying maturities, to reﬂect 
the range of useful economic lives of Shell's 
assets and to appropriately adjust, where 
relevant, for pricing anomalies and short-term 
volatility of speciﬁc tenors.

Cost of debt [A]
derived from observable risk premiums
on corporate debt issued by a group of 
comparable energy companies, adjusted
for a blended statutory tax rate.

Cost of equity [A]
calculated per the capital asset pricing model. 
Equity risk premiums are derived from a range 
of published sources, adjusted to reﬂect a beta 
derived from a peer group of comparable 
energy companies, and subsequently 
calibrated to ensure that total cost of equity
is consistent with market practice.

WACC

[A] The peer group of comparable energy companies is tailored to reflect relevant integrated power companies (for power activities in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment) and 
integrated oil and gas companies (for the rate applied to all other assets). The proportion of debt and equity in the WACC calculation reflects a target gearing ratio, tailored for power 
activities and oil and gas activities as appropriate.

This rate is reassessed throughout the reporting period, with adjustments made when changes in assumptions applied would lead to a change 
in an investor's expected rate of return on a portfolio of similar assets. This assessment considers a range of factors, including macroeconomic 
forecasts, the historical volatility of key assumptions and the level of risking reflected in cash flow forecasts, including the extent to which systemic 
risks have been reflected in Shell's Operating Plan, which forms the basis of forecast cash flows in determining value in use. 

Cash flow projections used in the determination of value in use were made using management's forecasts of commodity prices, market supply 
and demand, forecast expenditures, potential costs associated with operational GHG emissions, product margins including forecast refining 
margins, chemical margins and expected production volumes (see Note 2). The level of risking reflected in these assumptions is a consideration 
in management's assessment of the discount rate to be applied in order to avoid duplication of systemic and asset-specific risking in calculating 
value in use, and to ensure the discount rate applied is commensurate with risks included in forecast cash flows.

The discount rate increased in 2023, predominantly as a result of sustained increases in US Treasury yields. The discount rate applied was a 
nominal post-tax WACC of 6% (2022: 5%) for the power activities in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment and a nominal post-tax 
WACC of 7.5% (2022: 6.5%) for all other businesses.

281
281

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

12. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Recoverable value was predominantly assessed by reference to value in use. The pre-tax discount rates applied for value in use impairment 
testing vary according to the characteristics of the asset, including its useful life and cash flow profiles. The weighted average pre-tax discount 
rate applied in the recognition of impairment charges during the year was 9.9% for the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment and 12.9% 
for all other businesses. Prior year impairment charges were predominantly related to the withdrawal from Russia where value in use calculations 
were not applicable.

The near-term commodity price assumptions applied in impairment testing were as follows:

Commodity price assumptions [A]

2023

Brent crude oil ($/b)

Henry Hub natural gas ($/MMBtu)

2022

Brent crude oil ($/b)

Henry Hub natural gas ($/MMBtu)

[A] Money of the day.

2024

70 

4.00 

2023

80 

4.00 

2025

2026

2027

70 

4 

2024

70 

3.50 

70 

4 

2025

70 

3.50 

74 

4 

2026

71 

3.98 

For periods after 2027, the real-terms price assumptions applied were: $70 per barrel (/b) (2022: $65/b) for Brent crude oil, $4.00 per million 
British thermal units (/MMBtu) (2022: $4.00/MMBtu) for Henry Hub natural gas. 

Oil and gas price assumptions applied for impairment testing are reviewed and, where necessary, adjusted on a periodic basis. Reviews include 
comparison with available market data and forecasts that reflect developments in demand such as global economic growth, technology efficiency, 
policy measures and, in supply, consideration of investment and resource potential, cost of development of new supply, and behaviour of major 
resource holders. 

For certain assets in the Chemicals and Products and Renewables and Energy Solutions segments, the recoverable value was determined by 
reference to fair value less costs of disposal. In determining fair value, adjustments are made to forecast cash flows to reflect assumptions used 
by market participants. These adjustments predominantly relate to the discount rate applied and commodity price assumptions. For certain assets 
in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment, the valuation methodology incorporates other adjustments to reflect comparable transactions. 

The total carrying value of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets at December 31, 2023 for which recoverable 
value was determined by reference to fair value less costs of disposal was $2.6 billion related to assets in Renewables and Energy Solutions and 
$2.5 billion in Chemicals and Products. The weighted average post-tax discount rate applied to impairments recognised during the year is 12% for 
Renewables and Energy Solutions and 10% for Chemicals and Products.

Goodwill
Goodwill impairments of $635 million in 2023 are mainly recognised in Renewables and Energy Solutions primarily related to an asset in 
North America, triggered by annual goodwill impairment testing reflecting factors including the impact of the deteriorated macro environment. 

Property, plant and equipment
Exploration and production
Impairment losses recognised in Exploration and production in 2023 of $4,820 million related to various assets in Integrated Gas ($3,472 
million) and Upstream ($1,348 million). Impairments recognised in Integrated Gas mainly related to an asset located in North America, triggered 
by a change in the discount rate applied, and a project in Australia, triggered by factors including revised production estimates and regulatory 
changes. Impairment losses recognised in Upstream principally relate to projects in North America, Nigeria and the UK triggered by factors 
including revised reserves estimates and portfolio choices.

Manufacturing, supply and distribution
Impairment losses recognised in Manufacturing, supply and distribution in 2023 of $2,785 million mainly related to chemical assets in Singapore 
in Chemicals and Products, triggered by lower expected chemical margins and associated with portfolio choices.

Other
Other impairment losses in 2023 of $577 million related to various assets in Marketing ($292 million) and assets in Renewables and Energy 
Solutions mainly in Europe ($273 million).

Impairment reversals in 2023 of $627 million are mainly triggered by the reassessment of fair value less costs of disposal in Integrated Gas
($325 million) and revised reserves estimates in Upstream ($203 million).

Impairment losses in 2022 mainly related to the withdrawal from Russia ($854 million), the classification of an Upstream asset as held for sale 
($320 million) and an impairment of capital expenditure additions in fully impaired sites in Chemicals and Products ($257 million). 

282
282

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

12. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The recognition of impairment reversals in 2022 was mainly triggered by the revision of Shell's mid- and long-term commodity price assumptions 
reflecting the energy market demand and supply fundamentals. They are related to: i) Integrated Gas for $3,449 million, mainly relating to the 
Queensland Curtis LNG asset; and ii) Upstream for $2,504 million, mainly related to two offshore projects in Brazil and an asset in the US Gulf of 
Mexico.

Impairment losses in 2021 were predominantly triggered by reclassifications of assets held for sale and portfolio developments. They were mainly 
related to three refineries in the USA within Chemicals and Products impaired on classification as held for sale ($1,537 million), and exploration 
and evaluation assets both within Integrated Gas ($600 million) and Upstream ($373 million).

Sensitivities
The main sensitivities in relation to value in use impairment assessment are the commodity price assumptions in Integrated Gas and Upstream, 
refining and chemical margins in Chemicals and Products, and discount rates in all segments.

Commodity price assumptions
A change of -10% or +10% in the commodity price assumptions over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in 
$5-8 billion impairments or $2-5 billion impairment reversal, respectively, in Integrated Gas and Upstream. 

Refining margins
Refining margins applied for impairment testing by reference to value in use are at an average of $7.6/bbl. A change of -$1/bbl or +$1/bbl
in long-term refining margins over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in $1-2 billion impairments or up to $1 billion 
impairment reversal, respectively, in Chemicals and Products. 

Chemical margins
Chemicals margins applied for impairment testing by reference to value in use are at an average of $252/tonne. A change of -$30/tonne or +
$30/tonne in long-term chemical margins over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in up to $2 billion impairments or 
no impairment reversal, respectively, in Chemicals and Products. 

Discount rates
A change of +1% in the discount rate would ceteris paribus result in $2-4 billion impairments in Integrated Gas and Upstream, and up to
$1 billion in Chemicals and Products, and would have no significant impact in other segments. 

Where carrying values have been supported by reference to fair value less costs of disposal, recoverable amounts are less sensitive to Shell's 
planning assumptions. This is on the basis that key assumptions (including discount rates and commodity prices) have been adjusted to reflect 
those used by market participants. 

In calculating recoverable value, key assumptions are not determined in isolation, to ensure relevant interdependencies are appropriately 
reflected. In particular, management considers the relationship between discount rates, forecast commodity prices and cash flow risking to ensure 
impairment testing assumptions result in an implicit expected return which is balanced and appropriate for the asset under review. Each of the 
sensitivities described above have been tested under a ceteris paribus assumption where all other factors remain unchanged, and as such do 
not reflect the potential offsetting effects of corresponding changes in other assumptions.

283
283

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

13. Joint ventures and associates

Shell share of comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates

2023

Joint
ventures

Associates

Total

Joint
ventures

Associates

2022

Total

Joint
ventures

$ million

2021

Associates

Total

Income for the period

1,619 

2,106 

3,725 

  2,589 

1,383  [A]

3,972 

1,955 

2,142 

4,097 

Other comprehensive
(loss)/income for the period

(183)   

— 

(183) 

21 

— 

21 

(106)   

— 

(106) 

Comprehensive income for the period

1,436 

2,106 

3,542 

2,610 

1,383 

3,993 

1,849 

2,142 

3,991 

[A] Includes an impairment charge of $1,614 million related to Sakhalin-2. (See Note 14).

Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures and associates

Net assets

Transactions with joint ventures and associates [A]

Sales and charges to joint ventures and associates

Purchases and charges from joint ventures and associates

Dec 31, 2023

$ million

Dec 31, 2022

Joint
ventures

Associates

Total

Joint
ventures

Associates

Total

17,382 

7,075 

  24,457 

17,056 

6,808 

  23,864 

2023

10,223 

15,084 

2022

12,230 

22,286 

$ million

2021

8,509 

13,584 

[A] Includes 25% (2022: 29%) of sales and 19% (2022: 16%) purchases in transactions with one joint venture operating in the oil trading business.

These transactions principally comprise sales and purchases of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Related balances 
outstanding at December 31, 2023, and 2022, are presented in Notes 15 and 19.

Other arrangements in respect of joint ventures and associates

Commitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates [A]

Commitments to provide debt or equity funding to joint ventures and associates

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

1,397 

405 

1,234 

567 

[A] Commitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates mainly relate to contracts associated with LNG processing fees and transportation capacity. Shell has other purchase 

obligations related to joint ventures and associates that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of time through sales agreements with third 
parties. These include long-term LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or crude oil at market prices. 

284
284

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

14. Investments in securities

Investments in securities

Equity securities:

Equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income

Debt securities:

Debt securities at amortised cost

Debt securities at fair value through other comprehensive income

Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss

Total

At fair value

Measured by reference to prices in active markets for identical assets

Measured by reference to other observable inputs

Measured using predominantly unobservable inputs

Total

At cost

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

1,605 

1,605 

1,641 

28 

1,285 

328 

3,246 

1,983 

92 

1,143 

3,218 

28 

3,246 

1,533 

1,533 

1,829 

21 

1,308 

500 

3,362 

1,884 

158 

1,299 

3,341 

21 

3,362 

As at December 31, 2023, investments included equity securities comprising interests in which Shell has no significant influence; debt securities, 
principally comprising a portfolio required to be held by the Company's internal insurance entities as security for their activities; and assets held 
in escrow in relation to the Group's UK pension arrangements.

Equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income include a 27.5% (minus one share) interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment 
Company Ltd. (SEIC). Up to March 31, 2022, this investment was accounted for as an associate applying the equity method. Significant influence 
over the Sakhalin-2 investment was lost from April 1, 2022, leading to recognition, without financial impact, of the investment as a financial asset 
accounted for at fair value from that date, with subsequent changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income. The carrying value 
of the investment is zero as at December 31, 2023 (2022: zero). 

Investments in securities measured using predominantly unobservable inputs [A]

At January 1

Losses recognised in other comprehensive income

Purchases

Sales

Other movements

At December 31

2023

1,299 

(126)   

146 

(207)   

31 

1,143 

$ million

2022

1,707 

(206) 

142 

(37) 

(307) 

1,299 

[A] Based on expected dividend flows, adjusted for country and other risks as appropriate and discounted to their present value. 

Other movements in 2022 includes a reclassification to Property, plant and equipment, as a result of obtaining title to assets in a project in Asia.

285
285

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

15. Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables

Lease receivables

Other receivables

Amounts due from joint ventures and associates

Prepayments and deferred charges

Total

Dec 31, 2023

$ million

Dec 31, 2022

Current

Non-current

Current

Non-current

36,273 

— 

39,334 

188 

9,642 

1,014 

6,156 

53,273 

1,032 

2,801 

278 

2,187 

6,298 

206 

9,737 

2,722 

14,511 

66,510 

— 

1,090 

3,247 

423 

2,160 

6,920 

The fair value of financial assets included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly unobservable inputs. 

Other receivables at December 31, 2023, included receivables from certain governments in their capacity as joint arrangement partners of 
$296 million (2022: $717 million), after provisions for impairments, that are overdue in part or in full. Recoverability and timing thereof are subject 
to uncertainty, however, the ultimate risk of default on the carrying amount is considered to be low. Other receivables at December 31, 2023, 
also included current income tax receivables of $558 million (2022: $363 million) and non-current income tax receivables of $568 million 
(2022: $469 million).

Current prepayments and deferred charges at December 31, 2023, mainly decreased compared to prior year due to lower gas and power prices 
and a lower outstanding collateral position.

Provisions for impairments deducted from trade and other receivables amounted to $1,251 million at December 31, 2023 (2022: $1,510 million).

Allowance for expected credit losses - trade receivables
Shell uses a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (ECLs) for trade receivables. The provision matrix is initially based on Shell's 
historical observed default rates. Shell calculates the ECL to adjust the historical credit loss experienced with forward-looking information.
The ECL at December 31, 2023, was $185 million (2022: $214 million), which represents 0.51-0.54% (2022: 0.45-0.54%) of all 
trade receivables. 

A loss allowance provision of $415 million (2022: $841 million) was established in addition to all other impairments to trade receivables
as at December 31, 2023, that are outside of the provision matrix calculations. 

Lease receivables

Lease contracts where Shell is the lessor are classified as finance leases or operating leases. Receivables for lease contracts classified as finance 
leases are as follows:

Less than one year

Between 1 and 5 years

5 years and later

Total undiscounted lease payments receivable

Unearned finance income

Net investment in leases

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

238 

848 

453 

1,539 

260 

1,279 

257 

792 

532 

1,581 

270 

1,311 

In addition, at December 31, 2023, Shell is entitled to future contractual payments under operating leases of $312 million (2022: $389 million).

16. Inventories

Oil, gas and chemicals

Environmental certificates

Materials

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

22,232 

27,823 

2,108 

1,679 

26,019 

2,557 

1,514 

31,894 

Inventories at December 31, 2023, included write-downs to net realisable value of $1,567 million (2022: $2,705 million).

286
286

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

17. Cash and cash equivalents

Cash 

Short-term bank deposits

Money market funds, reverse repos and other cash equivalents

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

5,886 

6,590 

26,298 

38,774 

6,608 

5,147 

28,491 

40,246 

In 2023, cash continued to be invested with an emphasis on capital preservation. Information about credit risk is presented in Note 25. Included 
in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2023, were amounts totalling $460 million (2022: $156 million) subject to currency controls or 
other legal restrictions.

18. Assets held for sale

Intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Joint ventures and associates

Investments in securities

Deferred tax

Retirement benefits

Trade and other receivables

Inventories

Assets classified as held for sale

Debt

Trade and other payables

Retirement benefits

Decommissioning and other provisions

Income taxes payable

Current

Non-current

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

103 

463 

566 

2 

94 

— 

7 

1 

71 

250 

19

— 

10 

1 

34 

— 

385 

82 

— 

53 

68 

— 

Dec 31, 2023

Total

71 

250 

19

— 

10 

1 

137 

463 

951 

84 

94 

53 

75 

1 

Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale

104 

203 

307 

Current

Non-current

$ million

Dec 31, 2022

Total

— 

— 

2,526 

2,526 

94 

128 

— 

— 

51 

— 

94 

128 

— 

— 

95 

8 

2,799 

2,851 

1 

22 

— 

971 

— 

994 

4 

278 

— 

1,105 

8 

1,395 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

44 

8 

52 

3 

256 

— 

134 

8 

401 

At December 31, 2023, assets held for sale mainly related to an asset in Chemicals and Products in Europe, a Renewables and Energy Solutions 
project in North America and an asset within Marketing in Asia. All transactions that resulted in the reclassification of assets held for sale at 
December 31, 2023, are expected to be completed in 2024. 

At December 31, 2022, assets held for sale mainly related to three Upstream projects. All transactions that resulted in assets held for sale 
reclassification at December 31, 2022, were completed in 2023. 

19. Trade and other payables

Trade payables

Other payables [A]

Sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies

Amounts due to joint ventures and associates

Accruals and deferred income

Total

Dec 31, 2023

$ million

Dec 31, 2022

Current

Non-current

Current

Non-current

34,591 

9,887 

3,105 

7,519 

13,135 

68,237 

— 

2,835 

— 

33 

235 

3,103 

42,632 

10,059 

3,270 

8,441 

14,955 

79,357 

— 

3,148 

— 

31 

253 

3,432 

[A] Includes obligations under environmental compliance schemes of $4,046 million as at December 31, 2023 (2022: $4,710 million). (See Note 5).

The fair value of financial liabilities included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly
unobservable inputs.

Other payables include amounts due to joint arrangement partners and in respect of other project-related items.

Information about offsetting, collateral and liquidity risk is presented in Note 25.

287
287

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

20. Debt

Debt

Current debt:

Short-term debt

Long-term debt due within 1 year

Non-current debt

Total

[A] Further analysis of lease liabilities is provided in Note 21.

Dec 31, 2023

Debt 
(excluding
lease liabilities)

5,288 

845 

4,443 

48,544 

53,832 

Lease
liabilities [A]

4,643 

4,643 

23,066 

27,709 

Debt 
(excluding
lease liabilities)

4,620 

1,026 

3,594 

51,532 

56,152 

Total

9,931 

845 

9,086 

71,610 

81,541 

Lease
liabilities [A]

4,381 

4,381 

23,262 

27,643 

$ million

Dec 31, 2022

Total

9,001 

1,026 

7,975 

74,794 

83,795 

Net debt is the sum of current and non-current debt, less cash and cash equivalents, adjusted for the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
used to hedge the volatility caused by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates relating to debt, and associated collateral balances. 
Net debt is a non-GAAP measure, providing additional information to help demonstrate the economic impacts of debt, associated hedges, 
and cash and cash equivalents.

Net debt

At January 1, 2023

Cash flow

Lease additions [A]

Other movements

Currency translation differences and foreign exchange (gains)/losses

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Cash flow

Lease additions [A]

Other movements 

Currency translation differences and foreign exchange (gains)/losses

Current
debt

Non-current
debt

9,001 

74,794 

(9,617)   

1,021 

9,619 

(93)   

9,931 

8,218 

(7,618)   

1,111 

7,560 

(270)   

(215) 

3,321 

(7,184) 

894 

71,610 

80,868 

(254) 

4,077 

(7,883) 

(2,014) 

At December 31, 2022

9,001 

74,794 

[A] Further analysis of lease liabilities is provided in Note 21.

Borrowing facilities and amounts undrawn

$ million

(Asset)/liability

Derivative
financial
instruments

Cash and cash
equivalents
(see Note 17)

Net debt*

1,288 

723 

(40,246)   

44,837 

1,778 

(7,331) 

(481)   

(755)   

775 

440 

4,342 

1,954 

— 

(306)   

(260) 

(38,774)   

43,542 

(36,970)   

52,556 

(1,799)   

(4,012)   

(13,683) 

1,393 

1,254 

1,288 

— 

736 

5,188 

1,070 

(294) 

(40,246)   

44,837 

Facility

Amount undrawn

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

20,000 

20,000 

20,000 

20,000 

unlimited

unlimited

unlimited

unlimited

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

9,920 

9,920 

9,920 

9,920 

CP programmes

EMTN programme

US shelf registration

Committed credit facilities

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

288
288

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

20. Debt continued
Shell has access to international debt capital markets via two commercial paper (CP) programmes, a Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme 
and a US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. Issuances under the CP programmes are supported by a committed credit facility and cash. 

Under the CP programmes, Shell can issue debt of up to $10,000 million with maximum maturities ranging between 183 days and 364 days 
depending on the form of the notes issued; and $10,000 million with maturities not exceeding 397 days.

The EMTN programme is updated each year, most recently in November 2023. During 2023, no debt was issued under this programme
(2022: no debt issued).

The US shelf registration provides Shell with the flexibility to issue debt securities, ordinary shares, preferred shares and warrants. 
The registration is updated once every three years and was last updated in December 2023. During 2023, no debt was issued under the US 
shelf registration (2022: no debt issued).

On December 13, 2019, Shell refinanced its revolving credit facilities (RCF), which are linked to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), at 
pre-agreed margins. In December 2023, Shell extended the short-dated tranche of the facility of $1,920 million until December 2024. The facility 
retains a further one-year bank extension option, taking final maturity to 2025. The additional RCF tranche is $8,000 million expiring in 2026 
(2022: $320 million expiring in 2025 and $7,680 million expiring in 2026). The terms and availability are not conditional on Shell's financial 
ratios nor its financial credit ratings. The interest and fees related to these facilities are linked to Shell's progress towards reaching its short-term 
Net Carbon Intensity target.

The following tables compare contractual cash flows for debt, excluding lease liabilities at December 31, with the carrying amount in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Contractual amounts reflect the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates; differences from carrying amounts 
reflect the effects of discounting, premiums and, where fair value hedge accounting is applied, fair value adjustments. Interest is estimated 
assuming that interest rates applicable to variable-rate debt remain constant and there is no change in aggregate principal amounts of debt 
other than repayment at scheduled maturity, as reflected in the table.

2023

Bonds

EMTN 

US shelf

Bank and other borrowings

Total (excluding interest)

Interest

2022

Bonds

EMTN

US shelf

Bank and other borrowings

Total (excluding interest)

Interest

Contractual payments

$ million

Less than
1 year

Between
1 and 2
years

Between
2 and 3 
years

Between
3 and 4
years

4,292 

3,042 

1,250 

1,060 

5,352 

1,569 

6,194 

3,444 

2,750 

230 

6,424 

1,452 

3,856 

1,106 

2,750 

73 

3,929 

1,285 

2,489 

2,489 

— 

346 

2,835 

1,207 

Between
4 and 5
years

5,442 

3,942 

5 years
and later

Difference
from carrying
amount

Total

Carrying
amount

30,049 

52,322 

(567)   

51,755 

7,649 

21,672 

(414)   

21,258 

1,500 

22,400 

30,650 

(153)   

30,497 

53 

316 

2,078 

(1) 

2,077 

5,495 

30,365 

54,400 

(568)   

53,832 

1,177 

13,366 

20,056 

Contractual payments

$ million

Less than
1 year

Between
1 and 2
years

Between
2 and 3 
years

Between
3 and 4
years

3,365 

865 

2,500 

1,229 

4,594 

1,669 

4,184 

2,934 

1,250 

335 

4,519 

1,574 

6,054 

3,304 

2,750 

64 

6,118 

1,463 

3,817 

1,067 

2,750 

156 

3,973 

1,314 

Between
4 and 5
years

2,400 

2,400 

— 

63 

5 years
and later

Difference
from carrying
amount

Total

Carrying
amount

35,005 

54,825 

(1,210)   

53,615 

11,105 

21,675 

(936)   

20,739 

23,900 

33,150 

(274)   

32,876 

704 

2,551 

(14)   

2,537 

2,463 

35,709 

57,376 

(1,224)   

56,152 

1,233 

14,757 

22,010 

Interest rate swaps have been entered into against certain fixed rate debt affecting the effective interest rate on these balances (see Note 25).
The fair value of debt excluding lease liabilities at December 31, 2023, was $50,866 million (2022: $51,959 million), mainly determined from
the prices quoted for those securities. The difference between the fair value of debt and the carrying amount is predominantly related to fixed 
rate debt.

289
289

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

21. Leases
Shell has lease contracts in Integrated Gas and Upstream, principally for floating production storage and offloading units, subsea equipment, 
drilling and ancillary equipment, service vessels, LNG vessels and land and buildings; in Marketing, principally for land and retail sites; in 
Chemicals and Products, principally for plant pipeline and machinery, tankers and storage capacity; in Renewables and Energy Solutions, 
principally for power generation assets, storage capacity and land; and in Corporate, principally for land and buildings. Shell's obligations 
under its leases are secured on the leased assets.

Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets are included in property, plant and equipment for the following amounts:

2023

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Reclassifications [B]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1

Charge for the year [C]

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Reclassifications [B]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

Exploration and production

Exploration
and evaluation

Production

Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution

Other [D]

Total

$ million

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

14,675 

790 

(116)   

(2,779)   

27 

12,597 

8,275 

1,382 

(303)   

(2,217)   

9 

7,146 

5,451 

16,463 

2,442 

29 

527 

24 

9,899 

1,308 

(1,040)   

2,252 

(268)   

41,037 

4,540 

(1,127) 

— 

(217) 

19,485 

12,151 

44,233 

6,695 

2,428 

2,950 

998 

17,920 

4,808 

(1,149)   

(1,042)   

(2,494) 

63 

12 

8,049 

11,436 

2,154 

(101)   

4,959 

7,192 

— 

(80) 

20,154 

24,079 

[A] Includes the reclassification of right-of-use assets to assets held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Reclassification from Production to Manufacturing, supply and distribution and Other.
[C] Includes impairment losses ($72 million) and reversals ($2 million). (See Note 12).
[D] Other mainly includes lease contracts for retail sites, land and buildings in Marketing, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate.

2022

Cost

At January 1

Additions

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments

At January 1

Charge for the year [B]

Sales, retirements and other movements [A]

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Carrying amount at December 31

Exploration and production Manufacturing,
Exploration 
supply and
and evaluation
distribution

Production

Other [C]

Total

$ million

5 

— 

(5)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

14,322 

1,088 

(569)   

(166)   

15,748 

2,305 

(1,530)   

8,031 

2,111 

319 

(60)   

(562)   

38,106 

5,504 

(1,785) 

(788) 

14,675 

16,463 

9,899 

41,037 

7,935 

1,182 

(751)   

(91)   

8,275 

6,400 

5,946 

2,223 

(1,444)   

2,273 

797 

23 

(30)   

(143)   

6,695 

9,768 

2,950 

6,949 

16,154 

4,202 

(2,172) 

(264) 

17,920 

23,117 

[A] Includes the reclassification of right-of-use assets to assets held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Includes impairment losses ($160 million) and reversals ($206 million). (See Note 12).
[C] Other mainly includes lease contracts for retail sites, land and buildings in Marketing, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate.

290
290

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

21. Leases continued
Lease arrangements 
Shell also has certain lease contracts of items with lease terms of 12 months or less. For these lease contracts, Shell applies the short-term lease 
recognition exemption. Lease expenses not included in the measurement of lease liability are:

Lease expenses not included in the measurement of lease liability

Expense relating to short-term leases

Expense relating to variable lease payments

2023

495 

1,415 

$ million

2022

552 

1,251 

The total cash outflow in respect of leases representing repayment of principal and payment of interest in 2023 was $7,512 million 
(2022: $6,280 million), recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows within Cash flows from financing activities.

The future lease payments under lease contracts and the carrying amounts at December 31, by payment date are as follows:

2023

Less than 1 year

Between 1 and 5 years

5 years and later

Total

Contractual 
lease 
payments

6,182 

Interest

1,539 

16,105 

  4,443 

16,794 

  5,390 

$ million

Lease
liabilities

4,643 

11,662 

11,404 

39,081  [A]

11,372 

27,709 

[A] Future cash outflows in respect of leases may differ from lease liabilities recognised due to future decisions that may be taken by Shell in respect of the use of leased assets. These decisions 
may result in variable lease payments being made. In addition, Shell may reconsider whether it will exercise extension options or termination options, which are not reflected in the lease 
liabilities. There is no exposure to these potential additional payments in excess of the recognised lease liabilities until these decisions have been taken by Shell.

2022

Less than 1 year

Between 1 and 5 years

5 years and later

Total

Contractual 
lease 
payments

5,914 

15,624 

17,935 

39,473 

Interest

1,533 

4,655 

5,642 

11,830 

$ million

Lease
liabilities

4,381 

10,969 

12,293 

27,643 

291
291

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

22. Taxation

Taxation charge

Current tax:

Charge in respect of current period

Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total

Deferred tax:

2023

2022

13,066 

16,383 

(422)   

(947)   

12,644 

15,436 

Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences, tax losses and credits

(305)   

5,196 

Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation

Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total

Total taxation charge

242 

410 

347 

12,991 

785 

524 

6,505 

21,941 

$ million

2021

7,254 

(719) 

6,535 

2,971 

10 

(317) 

2,664 

9,199 

Adjustments in respect of prior periods relate to events in the current period and reflect the effects of changes in rules, facts or other factors 
compared with those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in prior periods. 

Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates and legislation in 2022 principally relate to the introduction of the UK Energy Profits Levy Act 2022 
(EPL) on July 14, 2022.

On December 20, 2021, the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on BEPS released the Pillar Two Model Rules aimed to address the tax challenges 
of the digitalisation of the economy. The Pillar Two rules are designed to ensure large multinational enterprises (meeting certain conditions) pay 
a minimum level of tax on the income arising in each jurisdiction where they operate. On June 20, 2023, the UK substantively enacted Pillar Two. 
Shell has established a Group-wide Pillar Two Project, with oversight from senior executives, to prepare and implement these new tax rules.

Shell has applied the exception, as set out in the amendments to IAS 12, to recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets 
and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes. The adoption of Pillar Two by the jurisdictions in which Shell operates is not expected to have 
a significant impact (see also Note 2).

Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rates to taxation charge

Income before taxation

Less: share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Income before taxation and share of profit of joint ventures and associates

Applicable tax charge at standard statutory tax rates

Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Tax effects of:

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

Incentives for investment and development

Derecognition/(recognition) of deferred tax assets

Changes in tax rates and legislation

Income not subject to tax at standard statutory rates

Disposals

Exchange rate differences

Other reconciling items

Taxation charge

Weighted average of statutory tax rates [A]

Effective tax rate based on income before taxation [B]

Effective tax rate based on income before taxation excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates [C]

2023

32,627 

2022

64,815 

$ million

2021

29,829 

(3,725)   

(3,972)   

(4,097) 

28,902 

11,921 

60,843 

22,170 

25,732 

10,097 

(12)   

(424)   

(1,036) 

1,225 

849 

(553)   

(1,388)   

243 

242 

(213)   

(113)   

89 

162 

12,991 

 41 %

 40 %

 45 %

(457)   

785 

234 

39 

(102)   

235 

21,941 

 36 %

 34 %

 36 %

893 

(467) 

(113) 

10 

90 

(328) 

53 

— 

9,199 

 39 %

 31 %

 36 %

[A] The weighted average of statutory tax rates is calculated by dividing the applicable tax charge at standard statutory tax rates by Income before taxation and share of profit of joint ventures 

and associates.

[B] The effective tax rate based on income before taxation is calculated by dividing Taxation charge by Income before taxation.
[C] The effective tax rate based on income before taxation excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates is calculated by dividing Taxation charge by Income before taxation and 

share of profit of joint ventures and associates. 

292
292

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

22. Taxation continued
Compared with 2022, the increase in the weighted average of statutory tax rates reflects a higher proportion of earnings mainly in the Upstream 
segment subject to relatively higher tax rates.

2023 – Deferred tax

Deferred tax asset

At January 1, 2023

(Charge)/credit to income

Currency translation differences

Other comprehensive income

Other movements

At December 31, 2023

Deferred tax liability

At January 1, 2023

Credit/(charge) to income

Currency translation differences

Other comprehensive income

Other movements

At December 31, 2023

Net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2023

Deferred tax asset/(liability) as presented in the 
balance sheet at December 31, 2023

Deferred tax asset

Deferred tax liability

2022 – Deferred tax

Deferred tax asset

At January 1, 2022

(Charge)/credit to income

Currency translation differences

Other comprehensive income

Other movements

At December 31, 2022

Deferred tax liability

At January 1, 2022

(Charge)/credit to income

Currency translation differences

Other comprehensive income

Other movements

At December 31, 2022

Net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2022

Deferred tax asset/(liability) as presented in the balance 
sheet at December 31, 2022

Deferred tax asset

Deferred tax liability

Decommissioning
and other
provisions

6,049 

61 

89 

— 

Property,
plant and
equipment

4,290 

(680) 

18 

— 

Tax losses
and credits 
carried 
forward

Retirement 
benefits

6,446 

1,977 

(2,025)   

66 

(5)   

27 

28 

104 

$ million

Total

23,589 

(2,060) 

190 

122 

Other

4,827 

557 

(11)   

23 

1,378  [A]

(2,044) [A]

(202)   

(386)   

(964)   

(2,218) 

7,577 

1,584 

4,280 

1,750 

4,432 

19,623 

(24,818) 

2,109 

(173) 

(3) 

889 

(21,996) 

(3,189)   

(3,953)   

(31,960) 

(228)   

227 

(90)   

400 

(168)   

1,713 

— 

(3)   

54 

(96) 

484 

1,773 

(2,880)   

(3,640)   

(28,516) 

(8,893) 

6,454 

(15,347) 

$ million

Total

29,362 

(4,818) 

(941) 

(530) 

516 

Decommissioning
and other
provisions

Property,
plant and
equipment

Tax losses
and credits 
carried 
forward

Retirement 
benefits

6,562 

4,993 

10,518 

2,744 

(217)   

(303)   

(1,261)   

(3,434)   

(63)   

(426)   

— 

7 

— 

621 

18 

(230)   

(66)   

(40)   

(618)   

(43)   

Other

4,545 

160 

(109)   

70 

161 

6,049 

4,290 

6,446 

1,977 

4,827 

23,589 

(23,144) 

(1,503) 

380 

4 

(555) 

(24,818) 

(2,736)   

(3,603)   

(29,483) 

93 

287 

(870)   

37 

(277)   

(1,687) 

170 

18 

(261)   

837 

(848) 

(779) 

(3,189)   

(3,953)   

(31,960) 

(8,371) 

7,815 

(16,186) 

[A] Includes the impact of the IAS 12 amendments Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction. (See Note 2).

The presentation in the balance sheet takes into consideration the offsetting of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities within the same tax 
jurisdiction, where this is permitted. The overall deferred tax position in a particular tax jurisdiction determines if a deferred tax balance related to 
that jurisdiction is presented within deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities.

293
293

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

22. Taxation continued
Other movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities relates to acquisitions, sales of non-current assets and businesses.

The deferred tax category Other primarily includes deferred tax positions in respect of leases, financial assets and liabilities, inventories, intangible 
assets other than goodwill and investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.

The deferred tax category Property, plant and equipment also includes deferred tax positions in respect of investments in partnerships in the USA 
which are considered pass-through entities by its parent for tax purposes.

Deferred tax assets of $6,454 million (2022: $7,815 million) are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will 
be recoverable. This involves an assessment of when those assets are likely to be recovered, and a judgement as to whether or not there will 
be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the assets. It is considered probable based on business forecasts that such taxable profits will be 
available. For Marketing, as well as Chemicals and Products, additional judgement is required; in some jurisdictions the assessment of forecasted 
taxable profits resulting in deferred tax asset recognition of $455 million (2022: $382 million) extends for an additional 10 years beyond Shell's 
regular 10-year planning horizon. In those situations, additional risking has been applied to the forecast of taxable profits. For Integrated Gas and 
Upstream, deferred tax assets recognised are expected to be recovered within the period of production of each asset. For deferred tax assets of 
$241 million (2022: $303 million) as at December 31, 2023, this period extends beyond 10 years. 

The amount of deferred tax assets which are dependent on future taxable profits not arising from the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, 
and which relate to tax jurisdictions where Shell has suffered a loss in the current or preceding year, was $2,027 million at December 31, 2023 
(2022: $4,202 million). The decrease compared with 2022 is primarily attributable to the utilisation of deferred tax assets in 2023 and a higher 
number of entities which have generated profit in both the current and preceding year.

Expected expiration of unused tax losses, unrecognised deductible temporary differences and tax credits

Expected expiration

Less than one year

Between 1 and 5 years

5 years and later [A]

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

1,496 

1,475 

71,709 

74,680 

1,034 

3,257 

72,032 

76,323 

[A] Includes unrecognised losses for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT) in Australia which, due to the annual augmentation, increased to $46,220 million as at the end of the most recent PRRT 

fiscal year, June 30, 2023 (June 30, 2022: $43,832 million).

Unrecognised taxable temporary differences associated with undistributed retained earnings of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates amounted to $5,311 million at December 31, 2023 (2022: $5,521 million). These retained earnings are subject to withholding tax upon 
distribution.

Excluding unrecognised tax losses for PRRT, the unrecognised deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward 
amounted to $28,460 million at December 31, 2023 (2022: $32,491 million), and included amounts of $25,489 million (2022: $28,199 million) 
that are subject to time limits for utilisation of five years or later, or are not time limited. 

23. Retirement benefits 
Retirement benefits are provided in most of the countries where Shell has operational activities. Shell offers these benefits through funded 
and unfunded defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. The most significant pension plans are in the Netherlands, UK and USA. 

Other post-employment benefits (OPEB) comprising retirement health care and life insurance are also provided in certain countries. The most 
significant OPEB plan is in the USA.

294
294

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued

Financial position

Obligations

Plan assets

Asset ceilings

 Surplus

Retirement benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:

Non-current assets

Non-current liabilities:

Non-current liabilities - Pensions

Non-current liabilities - OPEB

Total

Retirement benefit expense

Defined benefit plans:

Current service cost, net of plan participants' contributions

Interest expense on defined pension benefit obligations

Interest income on plan assets

Interest expense on OPEB obligations

Current OPEB service cost

Other [A]

Total

Defined contribution plans

Total retirement benefit expense

[A] Mainly related to plan amendments and curtailments on pension and OPEB plans.

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

(78,024)   

(73,481) 

79,961 

76,756 

(335)   

1,602 

(371) 

2,904 

9,151 

10,200 

(7,549)   

(7,296) 

(4,448)   

(4,417) 

(3,101)   

(2,879) 

1,602 

2,904 

2023

2022

$ million

2021

731 

3,072 

1,100 

1,584 

1,385 

1,223 

(3,417)   

(1,732)   

(1,160) 

166 

36 

262 

850 

474 

1,324 

120 

57 

246 

1,375 

420 

1,795 

128 

60 

(343) 

1,293 

403 

1,696 

Retirement benefit expenses are presented principally within production and manufacturing expenses and selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Interest income on plan assets is calculated using the same rate as that applied to the related 
defined benefit obligations for each plan to determine interest expense.

Remeasurements

Actuarial (losses)/gains on obligations:

Due to changes in financial assumptions on pensions [A]

Due to changes in financial assumptions on OPEB [A]

Due to experience adjustments on pensions [B]

Due to experience adjustments on OPEB [B]

Due to changes in demographic assumptions on pensions [D]

Due to changes in demographic assumptions on OPEB [D]

Total

Return on plan assets in excess/(shortage) of interest income

Other movements

Total remeasurements

[A] Mainly relates to changes in the discount rate and inflation assumptions.
[B] Experience adjustments arise from differences between the actuarial assumptions made in respect of the year and actual outcomes.
[C] Includes $782 million to reflect the impact of prescription drug rebates.
[D] Mainly relates to updates in mortality assumptions.

295
295

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

2022

(1,513)   

28,840 

(264)   

527 

(491)   

(2,956) 

230 

(299)   

(38)   

1,480  [C]

27 

25 

(2,375)   

27,943 

1,243 

44 

(20,612) 

(349) 

(1,088)   

6,982 

$ million

2021

1,915 

59 

136 

322 

(320) 

(111) 

2,001 

8,185 

5 

10,191 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued
Defined benefit plan obligations

2023

At January 1

Current service cost

Interest expense

Actuarial losses

Benefit payments

Other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Comprising:

Funded pension plans

Weighted average duration

Unfunded pension plans

Weighted average duration

Unfunded OPEB plans

Weighted average duration

The 
Netherlands

UK 

USA

Pension benefits

Rest of the 
world

24,608 

17,791 

14,793 

13,410 

184 

904 

929 

145 

881 

257 

215 

695 

832 

(1,032)   

(1,014)   

(956)   

252 

901 

26,746 

26,746 

16 years

— 

1,014 

19,074 

18,734 

15 years

340 

— 

— 

14,695 

11 years

884 

16 years

8 years

$ million, except where indicated

Other post-
employment 
benefits

OPEB [A]

2,879 

36 

166 

72 

Total

73,481 

759 

3,238 

2,375 

(88)   

(3,847) 

— 

36 

189 

1,829 

179 

592 

285 

(757) 

(63) 

(122) 

11,298 

13 years

2,226 

11 years

71,473 

14 years

3,450 

11 years

3,101 

— 

3,101 

13 years

13 years

15,579 

13,524  [B]

3,101 

78,024 

[A] Mainly related to post-retirement medical benefits in the USA.
[B] Rest of the world includes pension plans in Germany ($3,647 million) and Canada ($3,930 million) which are the largest pension plans in this category.

2022

At January 1

Current service cost

Interest expense

Actuarial gains

Benefit payments

Other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31

Comprising:

Funded pension plans

Weighted average duration

Unfunded pension plans

Weighted average duration

Unfunded OPEB plans

Weighted average duration

The 
Netherlands

UK 

USA

Pension benefits

Rest of the 
world

$ million, except where indicated

Other post-
employment 
benefits

OPEB [A]

Total

35,340 

29,913 

19,003 

18,213 

4,867 

107,336 

286 

298 

259 

489 

282 

417 

261 

380 

57 

120 

1,145 

1,704 

(8,806)   

(9,793)   

(3,730)   

(3,582) 

(2,032)   

(27,943) 

(942)   

(1,124)   

(1,088)   

374 

130 

(1,942)   

(2,083)   

(91)   

— 

(771) 

(154) 

(937) 

(178)   

(4,103) 

37 

8 

24,608 

17,791 

14,793 

13,410  [B]

2,879 

24,608 

17 years

17,474 

15 years

317 

13,925 

12 years

868 

11,258 

13 years

2,152 

15 years

9 years

12 years

2,879 

296 

(4,954) 

73,481 

67,265 

15 years

3,337 

11 years

2,879 

14 years

14 years

[A] Mainly related to post-retirement medical benefits in the USA.
[B] Rest of the world includes pension plans in Germany ($3,477 million) and Canada ($3,482 million) which are the largest pension plans in this category.

296
296

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued
Defined benefit plan assets

2023

$ million, except where indicated

At January 1

27,986 

21,963 

14,243 

12,564 

The 
Netherlands

UK

USA

Pension benefits

Rest of the 
world

Return on plan assets in excess of interest income

Interest income

Employer contributions [A]

Plan participants' contributions

Benefit payments

Other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31 

833 

1,035 

419 

11 

(999)   

1,094 

34 

16 

(1,032)   

(1,014)   

(6)   

(16)   

1,020 

1,242 

609 

679 

274 

— 

(957)   

(13)   

— 

800 

609 

(23) 

7 

(703) 

17 

(731) 

30,266 

22,320 

14,835 

12,540  [B]

79,961 

[A] Includes the netted amount of $225 million received from the captive structure in relation to pension plans reinsured in Rest of the world.
[B] Rest of the world includes pension plans in Germany ($2,730 million) and Canada ($3,504 million) which are the largest pension plans in this category.

2022

At January 1

The 
Netherlands

UK

37,096 

33,720 

USA

18,055 

Return on plan assets in excess of interest income

(6,576)   

(8,682)   

(3,523)   

$ million, except where indicated

Pension benefits

Rest of the 
world

15,624 

(1,831) 

460 

41 

5 

(735) 

(184) 

(816) 

314 

228 

11 

552 

54 

16 

406 

408 

— 

(942)   

(1,124)   

(1,088)   

(9)   

150 

(2,136)   

(2,723)   

(15)   

— 

27,986 

21,963 

14,243 

12,564  [A]

Total

76,756 

1,243 

3,417 

704 

34 

(3,706) 

(18) 

1,531 

Total

104,495 

(20,612) 

1,732 

731 

32 

(3,889) 

(58) 

(5,675) 

76,756 

Interest income

Employer contributions

Plan participants' contributions

Benefit payments

Other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31

[A] Rest of the world includes pension plans in Germany ($2,538 million) and Canada ($3,497 million) which are the largest pension plans in this category.

Type of pension assets

Quoted in active markets:

Equities

Debt securities

Real estate

Other

Unquoted

Equities

Debt securities

Real estate

Investment funds

Debt repurchase agreements [A]

Cash

2023

2022

 12 %

 71 %

 1 %

 — %

 12 %

 4 %

 7 %

 3 %

 (11) %

 1 %

 13 %

 70 %

 — %

 1 %

 13 %

 2 %

 7 %

 4 %

 (14) %

 4 %

[A] Debt repurchase agreements are mainly related to UK member defined pension plans to fund liability-driven investments. In addition to these contracts, derivatives including interest rate 

and inflation swaps are used in the principal defined benefit plan in the Netherlands for liability matching strategies.

Employer contributions to funded defined benefit pension plans are based on actuarial valuations in accordance with local regulations and are 
estimated to be $480 million in 2024.

297
297

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued
Characteristics of significant defined benefit and defined contribution plans and regulatory framework
The Netherlands
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands is a funded career-averaged pension arrangement with retired employees drawing 
benefits as an annuity, with a surplus of $3,520 million reported as at December 31, 2023, (2022: $3,378 million surplus). While the plan was 
closed to employees hired or rehired after July 1, 2013, it currently remains open for ongoing accrual for existing active members. Active members 
account for 23% (2022: 23%) of the total defined benefit liability in the Netherlands. From July 1, 2013 onwards, new employees in the 
Netherlands are entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan. 

In line with Dutch regulations, the defined benefit pension plan has a joint Trustee Board with trustee representatives nominated by the Company, 
the Central Staff Council and retired members. The defined benefit pension plan also has an Accountability Council comprised of members 
nominated by the Company, the Central Staff Council and retired members. Furthermore, there is a Supervisory Committee, which includes 
external experts from the pension industry, to oversee management, compliance and operations of the fund. The defined contribution pension 
plan has a one-tier Trustee Board with an independent chair, trustee representatives nominated by the Company and the Central Staff Council, 
as well as two executive board members. The defined contribution fund also has an Accountability Council comprised of members nominated 
by the Company and the Central Staff Council. Both Trustee Boards are responsible for administering the plans in line with the Dutch "Pensioen 
Wet" (PW), including corporate governance, investment strategy for the pension plans' assets and paying member benefits, and are required 
to act in the best interests of the members.

As per July 1, 2023, new pension legislation ("Wet Toekomst Pensioenen") came into effect in the Netherlands which needs to be implemented 
latest January 2028. This legislation aims to create a more resilient and adaptable pensions system that can better accommodate demographic 
changes and economic fluctuations while providing adequate retirement income. The legislation requires all future pension accruals to be in a 
defined contribution framework and also intends that benefits accrued in pension funds are converted into a defined contribution framework. The 
new regulatory framework will have an impact on both the defined benefit pension plan and the defined contribution pension plan. The necessary 
changes to the pension plans require Central Staff Council consent and acceptance by the Trustee Boards of the pension plans. It is our 
expectation that consent will be obtained during 2024 and that following this, a transition plan will be offered to the Trustee Boards for 
acceptance. Shell will continue to monitor and take appropriate actions when and as necessary, as required by the law. There remains a 
degree of uncertainty regarding the potential outcome and impact on Shell's earnings, cash flows and financial position.

UK
The three largest defined benefit pension plans for employees in the UK are funded final salary pension arrangements with retired employees 
mainly drawing benefits as an annuity with the option to take a portion as a lump sum. The three plans are separate and independent plans 
and cannot be netted against each other. In total, the plans reported a surplus of $3,246 million as at December 31, 2023 (2022: surplus of 
$4,172 million), which is after netting of unfunded plans of $340 million (2022: $317 million) which are reported as non-current liabilities on the 
balance sheet. All three plans were closed to new employees hired or rehired. However, two plans currently remain open for ongoing accrual 
for existing active members. Active members account for 16% (2022: 17%) of the total defined benefit liability in the UK. From March 1, 2013, 
onwards new employees in the UK are entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan.

In line with UK regulations, the principal defined benefit pension plan is governed by a corporate trustee whose board is comprised of four trustee 
directors nominated by the Company, including the chair and four member-nominated trustee directors. The defined contribution pension plan is 
governed by a corporate trustee whose board is comprised of three company-nominated directors, including the chair and two member-nominated 
trustee directors. The trustees are responsible for administering the plans in line with the Trust Deed and Regulations, including setting the investment 
strategy for the pension plans' assets and paying member benefits, and are required to act in the best interests of the members of the pension plans.

USA
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the USA is a funded final average pay pension plan with a surplus of $140 million reported as at 
December 31, 2023 (2022: $318 million surplus). After retirement, all retirees can choose to draw their benefits as an annuity, whereas others 
also have the choice to take their benefit in a lump sum. There is also an unfunded defined benefit pension plan with a deficit of $884 million 
(2022: $868 million deficit). The benefits under this plan are taken primarily in a lump sum. In addition, the Company provides a defined 
contribution benefit plan. The funded defined benefit, unfunded defined benefit, and Shell's defined contribution pension plans are subject 
to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Active members account for 23% (2022: 24%) of the total defined 
benefit liability in the USA.

Both the funded defined benefit pension plan and the defined contribution pension plan are governed by trustees who are appointed by the Plan 
Sponsor and are named fiduciaries with respect to the plans. The trustees are generally responsible for investment-related matters, appointing 
the Plan Administrator, maintaining general oversight and deciding appeals of participants.

In line with Shell group's strategic objectives and risk management, on January 30, 2024, the principal defined benefit pension plan in the USA, 
Shell Pension Plan, entered into a contract with "The Prudential Insurance Company of America" to settle $5,052 million of pension liabilities. The 
settlement price consisted of $4,920 million of pension assets. As a result of this transaction, all legal and constructive obligations for a tranche 
of benefits provided by the Shell Pension Plan have been eliminated. A gain on settlement of $101 million (after tax) will be recognised in Shell's 
Consolidated Statement of Income in 2024.

298
298

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued
USA OPEB 
The Company also sponsors "other post-retirement employee benefits" (OPEB), mainly in the USA. The OPEB plans in the USA provide medical, 
dental and vision benefits, as well as life insurance benefits to eligible retired employees. The plans are unfunded, and the Company and retirees 
share the costs with a deficit of $2,267 million reported as at December 31, 2023 (2022: $2,135 million deficit). The plan that provides post-
retirement medical benefits in the USA is closed to employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2017. Certain life insurance benefits are 
paid by the Company.

Significant funding requirements: 
￮ Additional contributions to the Dutch defined benefit pension plan would be required if the 12-month rolling average local funding percentage 

falls below 105% for six months or more. At the most recent (2023) funding valuation, the local funding percentage was above this level. 
￮ There are no set minimum statutory funding requirements for the UK plans. A professional qualified independent actuary, appointed by the 

trustee board, undertakes a local funding valuation typically every three years. The most recent completed funding valuation for the principal 
defined benefit plan was undertaken as at December 31, 2020, and revealed a funding ratio of 103% and therefore no sponsor contributions 
(except for salary sacrifice contributions) were payable under the schedule of contributions. 

￮ Under the Pension Protection Act, US pension plans are subject to minimum required contribution levels based on the funding position.

No contributions are required based on the most recent funding valuation.

Associated risks to which retirement benefits are exposed
There are inherent risks associated with defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. These risks are related to various assumptions made on valuation 
of the liabilities and the cash funding requirement of the underlying plans. Volatility in capital markets or government policies, and the resulting 
consequences for investment performance, interest and inflation rates, as well as changes in assumptions for mortality, retirement age or 
pensionable remuneration at retirement, could result in significant changes to the funding level of future liabilities. In case of a shortfall, 
there could be a requirement to make substantial cash contributions (depending on the applicable local regulations).

These inherent risks are managed by a pension forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, which oversees Shell's pension strategy, policy 
and operations. The forum is supported by a risk committee in reviewing the results of the assurance process with respect to pension risk.

Investment strategies
Long-term investment strategies of plans are generally determined by the relevant pension plan trustees using a structured asset/liability 
modelling approach to define the asset mix that best meets the objectives of optimising returns within agreed risk levels, while maintaining 
adequate funding levels.

Principal and actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions applied in determining the present value of defined benefit obligations and their bases were as follows: 
￮ rates of increase in pensionable remuneration, pensions in payment and health-care costs: historical experience and management's

long-term expectation;

￮ discount rates: prevailing long-term AA corporate bond yields, chosen to match the currency and duration of the relevant obligation; and 
￮ mortality rates: published standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned adjusted for Shell experience where statistically 

significant. 

The weighted averages for those assumptions and related sensitivity information as at December 31, 2023 are presented below. Sensitivity 
information indicates by how much the defined benefit obligations would increase or decrease if a given assumption were to increase or decrease 
with no change in other assumptions. The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as 
it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another. The weighted averages are at nominal terms and based on 
market expectations at December 31, 2023.

299
299

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

23. Retirement benefits continued

$ million, except where indicated

Effect of using alternative assumptions

Assumptions used
at nominal rates

Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligations

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

Range
of assumptions

Dec 31, 2023

Dec 31, 2022

 3.9 %

 3.3 %

 4.1 %

 4.6 %

 1.9 %

 2.4 %

 2.8 %

 — %

 4.1 %

 3.3 %

 4.6 %

 4.9 %

 2.0 %

 2.4 %

 2.9 %

88 years

88 years

87 years

87 years

89 years

90 years

89 years

89 years

 7.0 %

 5.6 %

 4.0 % -1% to +1%

(828)   

915 

(833)   

921 

 3.3 %

 4.1 %

 4.6 %

 2.1 % -1% to +1%

(5,599)   

6,713 

(5,542)    6,657 

 2.6 %

 3.0 %

 — %

 4.5 % -1% to +1%

  10,560 

(8,472)    10,522 

(8,328) 

 3.7 %

 4.8 %

 5.0 %

 2.2 % -1% to +1%

(6,034)    7,300 

(6,002)    7,271 

 2.6 %

 3.1 %

87 years

-1 year to +1 year

(1,166)   

1,143 

(1,130)   

1,103 

88 years

87 years

85 years

89 years

-1 year to +1 year

(1,006)   

1,041 

(993)   

1,077 

89 years

90 years

86 years

 6.4 % -1% to +1%

 5.7 % -1% to +1%

(338)   

422 

(298)   

372 

457 

(358)   

401 

(309) 

Rate of increase in pensionable remuneration [A]

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

of which USA

Rate of increase in pensions in payment

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

of which USA

Discount rate for pension plans

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

of which USA

Inflation rate for defined benefit obligation [B]

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

Expected age at death for persons aged 60:

Men

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

of which USA

Women

of which the Netherlands

of which UK

of which USA

Rate of increase in health-care costs [C]

Discount rate for health-care plans [C]

[A] Based on active members. 
[B] Excluding US funds in the weighted average inflation rate, because of the insignificant impact on the defined benefit obligation.
[C] Mainly related to post-retirement health-care benefits in the USA.

300
300

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

24. Decommissioning and other provisions

At January 1, 2023

Current

Non-current

Additions

Decommissioning
and restoration

Legal

Onerous 
contracts

Environmental

Redundancy

Other

Total

$ million

856 

19,429 

20,285 

617 

224 

1,177 

1,401 

853 

277 

1,207 

1,484 

26 

321 

730 

1,051 

208 

171 

153 

324 

424 

1,061 

2,910 

1,149 

  23,845 

2,210 

  26,755 

806 

2,934 

Amounts charged against provisions

(777)   

(195)   

(345)   

(233)   

(154)   

(203)   

(1,907) 

Accretion expense

Disposals and liabilities classified as held for sale

Remeasurements and other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31, 2023

Current

Non-current

At January 1, 2022

Current

Non-current

Additions

643 

(60)   

21 

(1)   

24 

— 

(1,499)   

(24)   

(83)   

244 

1 

(2)   

13 

(16)   

(74)   

7 

(832)   

655   

(380)   

(95)   

1,296 

18,157 

508 

1,548 

224 

880 

19,453 

2,056 

1,104 

871 

21,213 

22,084 

618 

270 

1,141 

1,411 

314 

653 

1,029 

1,682 

620 

318 

638 

956 

332 

847 

1,179 

178 

4 

(1)   

9 

(1)   

714 

(79) 

(113)   

(321)   

(2,114) 

6 

166 

367 

123 

490 

410 

235 

645 

226 

13 

303 

269 

(183) 

1,328 

4,041 

1,185 

22,531 

2,513 

  26,572 

802 

3,338 

1,339 

  25,804 

2,141 

29,142 

832 

2,788 

Amounts charged against provisions

(672)   

(272)   

(661)   

(211)   

(372)   

(333)   

(2,521) 

Accretion expense

483 

16 

13 

Disposals and liabilities classified as held for sale

(1,228)   

(21)   

(66)   

Remeasurements and other movements

Currency translation differences

At December 31, 2022

Current 

Non-current

(182)   

(818)   

(44)   

(139)   

(3)   

35 

(1,799)   

(10)   

(198)   

856 

19,429 

20,285 

224 

1,177 

1,401 

277 

1,207 

1,484 

12 

(2)   

(78)   

(27)   

(128)   

321 

730 

1,051 

1 

— 

5 

530 

(7)   

(1,324) 

(155)   

(354)   

(952) 

(21)   

(74)   

(908) 

(321)   

69 

(2,387) 

171 

153 

324 

1,061 

2,910 

1,149 

  23,845 

2,210 

  26,755 

The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within 
management's control. Reviews of estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs and the discount rate applied are carried out regularly. 
The discount rate applied at December 31, 2023, was 4.5% (2022: 3.25%). In 2023, there was a decrease of $2,916 million in total provisions 
due to the change in discount rate. Of this total, $2,777 million relates to a decrease in the decommissioning and restoration provision, partly 
offset by an increase resulting from changes in cost estimates of $1,340 million, reported within remeasurements and other movements. This net 
decrease is predominantly reflected in the carrying amount of the related asset.

An increase of 0.5% or a decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate could result in a decrease of $0.9 billion (2022: $1.2 billion) or an increase of 
$1 billion (2022: $1.3 billion) in decommissioning and restoration provisions, respectively. Where applicable, the carrying amount of the related 
asset is to be tested for impairment. 

Other provisions at December 31, 2023, include amounts recognised in respect of employee benefits.

301
301

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

24. Decommissioning and other provisions continued
The decommissioning and restoration provision at December 31, 2023, is expected to be utilised within:

Between 1 to 5 years

Between 6 to 10 years

11 years and later

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023

4,766 

5,102 

9,585 

19,453 

25. Financial instruments
Financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet include investments in securities (see Note 14), cash and cash equivalents (see Note 17), 
debt (see Note 20) and derivative contracts.

Risks
In the normal course of business, financial instruments of various kinds are used for the purposes of managing exposure to interest rate, foreign 
exchange and commodity price movements.

Treasury standards are applicable to all subsidiaries and each subsidiary is required to adopt a treasury policy consistent with these standards. 
These policies cover: financing structure; interest rate and foreign exchange risk management; insurance; counterparty risk management; and use 
of derivative contracts. Wherever possible, treasury operations are carried out through specialist regional organisations without removing from 
each subsidiary the responsibility to formulate and implement appropriate treasury policies.

Apart from forward foreign exchange contracts to meet known commitments, the use of derivative contracts by most subsidiaries is not permitted 
by their treasury policy.

Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative contracts is confined to specialist trading and central treasury organisations that 
have appropriate skills, experience, supervision, control and reporting systems.

Shell's operations expose it to market, credit and liquidity risk, as described below.

Market risk
Market risk is the possibility that changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or the prices of crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, 
chemical feedstocks, power and environmental certificates will adversely affect the value of assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.

Interest rate risk
Most debt is raised from central borrowing programmes. Shell's policy continues to be to have debt principally denominated in dollars and to 
maintain a largely floating interest rate exposure profile. However, Shell has issued a significant amount of fixed rate debt in recent years, taking 
advantage of historically low interest rates available in debt markets. As a result, the majority of the debt portfolio at December 31, 2023, is at 
fixed rates and this reduces Shell's adverse exposure to rising floating dollar interest rates (see Note 2). 

The financing of most subsidiaries is structured on a floating-rate basis, and any further interest rate risk management is only applied under 
exceptional circumstances. 

On the basis of the floating-rate net cash position at December 31, 2023, (both issued and hedged), and assuming other factors (principally 
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further interest rate management action was taken, an increase 
in interest rates of 1% would have increased 2023 income before taxation by $226 million (2022: $234 million increase).

The carrying amounts and maturities of debt and borrowing facilities are presented in Note 20. Interest expense is presented in Note 9.

Foreign exchange risk 
Many of the markets in which Shell operates are priced, directly or indirectly, in dollars. As a result, the functional currency of most Integrated Gas 
and Upstream entities and those with significant cross-border business is the dollar. For Chemicals and Products entities, the functional currency is 
typically the local currency. Consequently, Shell is exposed to varying levels of foreign exchange risk: when an entity enters into transactions that 
are not denominated in its functional currency; when foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date; and 
as a result of holding net investments in operations that are not dollar-functional. Each entity is required to adopt treasury policies that are 
designed to measure and manage its foreign exchange exposures by reference to its functional currency.

302
302

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise in the normal course of business from the recognition of receivables and payables and other monetary 
items in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. Foreign exchange risk may also arise in connection with capital expenditure. For 
major projects, an assessment is made at the final investment decision stage of whether to hedge any resulting exposure. 

Assuming other factors (principally interest rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further foreign exchange risk management 
actions were taken, a 10% appreciation against the dollar at December 31 of the main currencies to which Shell is exposed would have the 
following effects:

10% appreciation against the dollar of:

Sterling

Euro

Malaysian ringgit

Australian dollar

Canadian dollar

Increase/(decrease)
in income before taxation

$ million

Increase in net assets

2023

2022

2023

2022

(270)   

(46)   

49 

(129)   

9 

(168) 

124 

65 

(65) 

(44) 

1,022 

2,434 

279 

780 

1,392 

894 

1,486 

313 

837 

1,575 

The above sensitivity information was calculated by reference to carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at December 31 only. The effect on 
income before taxation arises in connection with monetary balances denominated in currencies other than an entity's functional currency; the 
effect on net assets arises principally from the translation of assets and liabilities of entities that are not dollar-functional. 

Foreign exchange gains and losses included in income are presented in Note 8.

Commodity price risk 
Certain subsidiaries have a mandate to trade crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, chemical feedstocks, power and environmental 
certificates, and to use commodity derivative contracts (forwards, futures, swaps and options) as a means of managing price and timing risks 
arising from this trading activity. In effecting these transactions, the entities concerned operate within procedures and policies designed to ensure 
that risks, including those relating to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorised limits. A department that is independent from 
Shell's traders monitors market risk exposures daily.

Value-at-risk (VAR) techniques based on variance/covariance or Monte Carlo simulation models are used to make a statistical assessment of the 
market risk arising from possible future changes in market values for commodity positions held by these subsidiaries over a 1-day holding period 
and within a 95% confidence level. The calculation of potential changes in fair value takes into account positions, the history of price movements 
and the correlation of these price movements. Models are regularly reviewed against actual fair value movements to ensure integrity is 
maintained. The VAR average and year-end positions in respect of commodities traded in active markets, which are presented in the table 
below, are calculated on a diversified basis in order to reflect the effect of offsetting risk within combined portfolios.

Value-at-risk (pre-tax)

Global oil

North America gas and power

Europe gas and power

Australia gas and power

Environmental certificates

2023

$ million

2022

Average

Year-end

Average

Year-end

43 

13 

31 

4 

9 

25 

10 

12 

2 

4 

72 

18 

54 

12 

10 

56 

23 

40 

12 

13 

Furthermore, commodity derivative hedge contracts are used to partially mitigate price volatility on future LNG sales and purchases. 

As contracts to buy and sell physical LNG are accounted for on an accrual basis (see Note 2) and commodity derivatives are accounted for on a 
fair-value basis, this creates an accounting mismatch over periods. The fair value accounting of commodity derivatives can result in gains or losses 
in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

These derivative contracts are based on a mix of European and North American gas price indices, global crude price indices and Asian LNG price 
indices. In previous years, Shell has seen high volatility in these markets. On that basis, a sensitivity analysis has been performed for a 50% price 
increase or decrease of this basket of derivative contracts at year-end 2023, which would result in a gain or loss of $1.5 billion (pre-tax) in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income (2022: $2.7 billion), whereas the same sensitivity analysis applied to the average exposures for the period 
was $0.8 billion (2022: $2.5 billion).

303
303

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued
Credit risk 
Policies are in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies include credit 
analysis and monitoring of trading partners against counterparty credit limits. Credit information is regularly shared between business and finance 
functions, with dedicated teams in place to quickly identify and respond to cases of credit deterioration. Mitigation measures are defined and 
implemented for higher-risk business partners and customers, and include shortened payment terms, collateral or other security posting and 
vigorous collections. In addition, policies limit the amount of credit exposure to any individual financial institution. 

A defined portfolio credit risk appetite is in place to manage credit risk concentrations. It includes a set of thresholds and alerts set at different 
portfolio levels (e.g. country, industry sector, creditworthiness). Utilisation against these thresholds is actively monitored, and actions are taken 
to ensure compliance where appropriate. In 2023, there were no material concentrations of credit risk, with individual customers or 
geographically. In 2022, elevated commodity prices, mainly in relation to strategic long-term contracts in the gas portfolios resulted in a material 
concentration of risk representing around 25% of total Shell net credit exposure after offsetting for cash collateral and other instruments held.

Surplus cash is invested in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instruments including short-term bank deposits, money market funds, reverse 
repos and similar instruments. The portfolio of these investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or 
counterparty. Management monitors the investments regularly and adjusts the investment portfolio in light of new market information where 
necessary to ensure credit risk is effectively diversified.

In commodity trading, counterparty credit risk is managed within a framework approved by the CEO and CFO, and for which delegations are 
in place to other executives in the business. Credit limits are defined and their utilisation is regularly reviewed. Credit risk exposure is continuously 
monitored and the acceptable level of credit exposure is determined in accordance with the approved delegations. Credit checks are performed 
by a department independent of traders, and are undertaken before contractual commitment. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit 
insurance, prepayments and collateral are used to manage specific risks.

Shell routinely enters into offsetting, master netting and similar arrangements with trading and other counterparties to manage credit risk. Where 
there is a legally enforceable right of offset under such arrangements and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and 
settle the liability simultaneously, the net asset or liability is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, otherwise assets and liabilities are 
presented gross. These amounts, as presented net and gross within trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and derivative 
financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, were as follows:

2023

Assets:

Within trade receivables

Within derivative financial instruments

Liabilities:

Within trade payables

Within derivative financial instruments

2022

Assets:

Within trade receivables

Within derivative financial instruments

Liabilities:

Within trade payables

Within derivative financial instruments

Gross 
amounts
before offset

20,810 

26,166 

18,423 

23,037 

Amounts 
offset

Amounts
offset

Net amounts
as presented

Cash collateral
received/pledged

Amounts not 
offset

Other 
offsetting
instruments

$ million

Net amounts

12,350 

13,140 

12,351 

13,163 

8,460 

13,026 

6,072 

9,874 

18 

1,688 

69 

2,040 

356 

2,616 

356 

2,636 

8,086 

8,722 

5,647 

5,198 

$ million

Amounts 
offset

Gross 
amounts
before offset

Amounts
offset

Net amounts
as presented

Cash collateral
received/pledged

Amounts not 
offset

Other 
offsetting 
instruments

Net amounts

28,259 

56,154 

29,981 

58,991 

17,200 

34,685 

17,200 

34,710 

11,059 

21,469 

12,781 

24,281 

292 

1,904 

608 

4,788 

495 

4,563 

495 

3,364 

10,272 

15,002 

11,678 

16,129 

Amounts not offset principally relate to contracts where the intention to settle on a net basis was not clearly established at December 31.

304
304

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued
The carrying amount of financial assets pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities at December 31, 2023, presented within trade 
and other receivables, was $3,437 million (2022: $11,133 million). The decrease in financial assets pledged as collateral is driven by the reduction 
in overall derivative exposure, mainly due to the decline in gas and power forward prices. The carrying amount of collateral held at December 31, 
2023, presented within trade and other payables, was $1,404 million (2022: $1,648 million). Collateral mainly relates to initial margins held with 
commodity exchanges and over-the-counter counterparty variation margins. Some derivative contracts are fully cash collateralised, thereby 
eliminating both counterparty risk and the Group's own non-performance risk.

Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for Shell's business activities may not be available. Management believes that it has access 
to sufficient cash and cash equivalents, debt funding sources (capital markets) and to undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet foreseeable 
requirements. Information about borrowing facilities is presented in Note 20.

Derivative contracts and hedges
Derivative contracts are used principally as hedging instruments. However, because hedge accounting is not always applied, movements in the 
carrying amounts of derivative contracts that are recognised in income may not be matched in the same period by the recognition of the income 
effects of the related hedged items.

Carrying amounts, maturities and hedges 
The carrying amounts of derivative contracts at December 31, designated and not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting 
purposes, were as follows:

2023

Designated

Not
designated

Total

Designated

Not
designated

Assets

Liabilities

2 

697 

— 

16 

697 

177 

14,783 

14,783 

226 

226 

98 

— 

1,959 

— 

— 

—   

592 

13 

9,161 

7 

15,708 

15,899 

2,057 

9,773 

11,830 

Total

98 

592 

1,972 

9,161 

7 

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Commodity derivatives

Other contracts

Total

2022

14 

— 

177 

— 

— 

191 

Designated

Not
designated

Total

Designated

Assets

1 

907 

24 

1 

907 

55 

23,676 

23,676 

380 

380 

169 

— 

2,925 

— 

— 

Not
designated

— 

996 

5 

22,858 

389 

Liabilities

Total

169 

996 

2,930 

22,858 

389 

24,988 

25,019 

3,094 

24,248 

27,342 

(2,323) 

$ million

Net

(82) 

105 

(1,795) 

5,622 

219 

4,069 

$ million

Net

(168) 

(89) 

(2,875) 

818 

(9) 

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Commodity derivatives

Other contracts

Total

— 

— 

31 

— 

— 

31 

305
305

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued 
As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative hedge contracts are entered into for mitigation of future purchases, sales and inventory. 
Net gains before tax on derivative contracts, excluding those designed as hedges, were $5,189 million in 2023 (2022: $1,331 million gains; 
2021: $8,377 million losses). 

Certain contracts, mainly to hedge price risk relating to forecast commodity transactions, were designated in cash flow hedging relationships 
and are presented after the offset of related margin balances with exchanges. Contracts to hedge foreign exchange risks were also designated 
in cash flow hedging relationships and the net carrying amount of these contracts at December 31, 2023, was a liability of $373 million 
(2022: $828 million liability). See Note 28 for the accumulated balance recognised within other comprehensive income.

Certain interest rate and currency swaps were designated in fair value hedges, principally in respect of debt for which the net carrying amount 
of the related derivative contracts, net of accrued interest, at December 31, 2023, was a liability of $1,441 million (2022: $2,191 million liability). 

At December 31, 2023, no debt instruments (2022: €3 billion) were designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, relating to the 
foreign exchange risk arising between certain intermediate holding companies and their subsidiaries. See Note 28 for the accumulated balance 
recognised within other comprehensive income.

In the course of trading operations, certain contracts are entered into for delivery of commodities that are accounted for as derivatives. 
The resulting price exposures are managed by entering into related derivative contracts. These contracts are managed on a fair value basis 
and the maximum exposure to liquidity risk is the undiscounted fair value of derivative liabilities. 

For a minority of commodity derivatives contracts, carrying amounts cannot be derived from quoted market prices or other observable inputs, 
in which case fair value is estimated using valuation techniques, such as Black-Scholes; option spread models; and extrapolation, using quoted 
spreads with assumptions developed internally based on observable market activity.

Other contracts include certain contracts that are held to sell or purchase commodities and others containing embedded derivatives, which 
are required to be recognised at fair value because of pricing or delivery conditions, even though they were entered into to meet operational 
requirements. These contracts are expected to mature in 2024-2025, with certain contracts having early termination rights (for either party). 
Valuations are derived from other observable inputs.

The contractual maturities of derivative liabilities at December 31 compare with their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as follows:

2023

Contractual maturities

Total

98 

565 

3,118 

9,671 

8 

— 

(3)   

859 

597 

— 

$ million

Carrying
amount

98 

592 

Difference
from carrying
amount [A]

— 

27 

(1,146)   

1,972 

(510)   

9,161 

(1)   

7 

1,453 

13,460 

(1,630)   

11,830 

Less than
1 year

Between
1 and 2
years

Between
2 and 3
years

Between
3 and 4
years

Between
4 and 5
years

5 years
and later

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Commodity derivatives

Other contracts

Total

78 

465 

551 

5,767 

2 

9 

77 

609 

1,902 

4 

3 

25 

521 

799 

2 

6,863 

2,601 

1,350 

3 

1   

5 

—   

392 

381 

— 

777 

186 

225 

— 

416 

[A] Mainly related to the effect of discounting.

306
306

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued

2022

Contractual maturities

$ million

Less than
1 year

Between
1 and 2
years

Between
2 and 3
years

Between
3 and 4
years

Between
4 and 5
years

5 years
and later

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

120 

629 

582 

50 

294 

554 

Commodity derivatives

17,273 

3,678 

2 

18 

750 

1,203 

22 

1 

(1)   

588 

515 

1 

Other contracts

Total

[A] Mainly related to the effect of discounting.

212 

148 

18,816 

4,724 

1,995 

1,104 

Difference
from carrying
amount [A]

Carrying
amount

(6)   

61 

169 

996 

Total

175 

935 

1 

(2)   

1 

(3)   

507 

270 

1 

777 

1,353 

4,334 

(1,404)   

2,930 

793 

  23,732 

(874)   

22,858 

— 

384 

5 

389 

2,144 

  29,560 

(2,218)   

27,342 

Fair value measurements 
The net carrying amounts of derivative contracts held at December 31 categorised according to the predominant source and nature of inputs 
used in determining the fair value of each contract were as follows: 

Prices in active 
markets for 
identical
assets/liabilities

Other
observable
inputs

Unobservable
inputs

— 

— 

— 

(39)   

— 

(39)   

(82)   

105 

(1,795)   

3,191 

223 

1,642 

— 

— 

— 

2,470 

(4)   

2,466 

Prices in active 
markets for 
identical
assets/liabilities

Other
observable
inputs

Unobservable
inputs

(168)   

(89)   

(2,875)   

(1,161)   

(7)   

— 

— 

— 

1,911 

(2)   

— 

— 

— 

68 

— 

68 

(4,300)   

1,909 

(2,323) 

$ million

Total

(82) 

105 

(1,795) 

5,622 

219 

4,069 

$ million

Total

(168) 

(89) 

(2,875) 

818 

(9) 

2023

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Commodity derivatives

Other contracts

Total

2022

Interest rate swaps

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Currency swaps and options

Commodity derivatives

Other contracts

Total

307
307

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

25. Financial instruments continued

Net carrying amounts of derivative contracts measured using predominantly unobservable inputs

At January 1

Net gains recognised in revenue

Purchases

Sales

Settlements

Recategorisations (net)

Currency translation differences

At December 31

2023

1,909 

576 

271 

(185)   

(125)   

25 

(5)   

$ million

2022

389 

1,190 

886 

(623) 

46 

17 

4 

2,466 

1,909 

Included in net gains recognised in revenue in 2023 were unrealised net gains totalling $797 million relating to assets and liabilities held at 
December 31, 2023 (2022: $449 million gains).

Unrecognised day one gains or losses
Certain long-term commodity contracts extend to periods where observable pricing data are limited and their value may include estimates. 
Where this is more than an insignificant part of the overall contract valuation, any gains or losses will be deferred. Valuation techniques are 
further described in Note 2. The unrecognised gains on these derivative contracts at December 31, 2023, were as follows:

At January 1

Movements

At December 31

26. Share capital

2023

1,620 

(13)   

1,607 

$ million

2022

1,024 

596 

1,620 

Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]

Number of shares

Nominal value 

$ million

At January 1, 2023

Repurchases of shares

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

A

B

Ordinary
shares

 7,003,503,393 

  (479,394,344) 

  6,524,109,049 

A

B

Ordinary 
shares

584 

Total

584 

(40)   

(40) 

544 

296 

(3) 

544 

641 

(3) 

— 

— 

(54) 

584 

  4,101,239,499 

 3,582,892,954 

345 

Repurchases of shares before assimilation

— 

(34,106,548) 

Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into 
ordinary shares

Repurchases of B shares on January 27 and 
28, 2022, cancelled as ordinary shares on 
February 2 and 3, 2022 

Repurchases of shares after assimilation

At December 31, 2022

 (4,101,239,499) 

 (3,548,786,406)   7,650,025,905 

(345)   

(293)   

638 

(507,742) 

  (646,014,770) 

 7,003,503,393 

— 

(54)   

584 

[A] Share capital at December 31, 2022, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each, which were redeemed on March 27, 2023. Upon redemption, the 

sterling deferred shares were treated as cancelled and the Company's issued share capital was reduced by the nominal value of the shares redeemed in accordance with section 688 
of the UK Companies Act 2006.

On January 29, 2022, as part of the Simplification announced on December 20, 2021, the Company's A and B shares were assimilated into 
a single line of ordinary shares. This is reflected in the above table.

At the Company's Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 23, 2023, the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of approximately 
€161 million (representing approximately 2,307 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. 
This authority expires at the earlier of the close of business on August 22, 2024, and the end of the AGM to be held in 2024, unless previously 
renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting.

308
308

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

26. Share capital continued
At the May 23, 2023, AGM, shareholders granted the Company the authority to repurchase (i) up to 692 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less the number of ordinary shares purchased or committed to be purchased in terms of the buyback 
contracts ("off-market"), made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 692 million ordinary shares off-market, less any on-market purchases 
made under the authority in (i).

In the case of both on-market and off-market purchases of the ordinary shares, the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for 
an ordinary share is €0.07 and the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount 
equal to 5% above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid in relation to ordinary shares on the trading 
venues where the purchase is carried out. The authorities for both on-market and off-market purchases of the ordinary shares will expire at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 22, 2024, and the end of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2024. Ordinary shares purchased 
by the Company pursuant to these authorities will either be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares are shares in the Company which are 
owned by the Company itself.

27. Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust

Share-based compensation expense

Equity-settled [A]

[A] On an incidental basis awards may be cash-settled, where an equity settlement is not possible under local regulations.

2023

700 

2022

807 

$ million

2021

539 

The principal share-based employee compensation plans are the PSP and LTIP. Awards of shares and American Depositary Shares (ADS) of the 
Company under the PSP and LTIP are granted upon certain conditions to eligible employees. The actual number of shares that may vest ranges 
from 0% to 200% of the awards, depending on the outcomes of prescribed performance conditions over a three-year period beginning on 
January 1 of the award year. 

Share awards [A]

At January 1, 2023

Granted

Vested

Forfeited

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into ordinary shares

Granted

Vested

Forfeited

At December 31, 2022

Number of A 
shares
(million)

Number of B 
shares
(million)

Number of 
ordinary shares 
(million) [B]

Number of 
ADSs
(million)

Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)

58 

19 

(17)   

(2)   

58 

50 

28 

(13)   

(7)   

58 

10 

3 

(3) 

— 

10 

9 

4 

(2) 

(1) 

10 

1.1

0.9

1.2

1.1

38 

(38)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

12 

(12)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

[A] As revised, includes notional dividends.
[B] On January 29, 2022, as part of the Simplification announced on December 20, 2021, the Company's A and B shares were assimilated into a single line of ordinary shares. 

Other plans offer eligible employees opportunities to acquire shares and ADSs of the Company or receive cash benefits measured by reference 
to the Company's share price. 

Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities purchase the Company's shares in the open market to meet delivery commitments 
under employee share plans. At December 31, 2023, they held a total of 24.2 million ordinary shares (2022: 23.9 million) and 6.8 million ADSs 
(2022: 4.5 million).

309
309

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

28. Other reserves

Other reserves attributable to Shell plc shareholders

At January 1, 2023

Other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2022

At January 1, 2021

Other comprehensive loss attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Transfer from other comprehensive income

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2021

Merger
reserve

37,298 

Share
premium
reserve

154 

— 

— 

— 

— 

37,298 

37,298 

— 

— 

— 

— 

37,298 

37,298 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

154 

154 

— 

— 

— 

— 

154 

154 

— 

— 

— 

— 

Capital
redemption
reserve

Share plan
reserve

Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income

$ million

Total

196 

— 

— 

40 

— 

236 

139 

— 

— 

57 

— 

196 

129 

— 

— 

10 

— 

1,140 

(17,656)   

21,132 

— 

— 

— 

168 

1,308 

964 

— 

— 

— 

176 

1,140 

906 

— 

— 

— 

58   

(83)   

(112)   

— 

— 

(83) 

(112) 

40 

168 

(17,851)   

21,145 

(19,646)   

18,909 

2,024 

2,024 

(34)   

— 

— 

(34) 

57 

176 

(17,656)   

21,132 

(25,735)   

12,752 

6,134 

6,134 

(45)   

(45) 

— 

— 

10 

58 

37,298 

154 

139 

964 

(19,646)   

18,909 

The merger reserve and share premium reserve were established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal 
Dutch Petroleum Company and The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, plc, now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited, in 2005. 
The merger reserve increased in 2016 following the issuance of shares for the acquisition of BG Group plc. 

The capital redemption reserve was established in connection with repurchases of shares of the Company. 

The share plan reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 27). The movement comprises the net of the 
charge for the year and the release as a result of vested awards.

310
310

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

28. Other reserves continued
Accumulated other comprehensive income comprises the following:

Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders

Currency
translation
differences

Equity
instruments
remeasurements

Debt
instruments
remeasurements

$ million

Cash flow
hedging 
(losses)/
gains

Net 
investment
hedging 
(losses)/
gains

Deferred
cost of
hedging

Retirement
benefits
remeasurements

Total

At January 1, 2023

(12,590)   

487 

(75)   

(524)   

(1,964)   

(26)   

(2,964)   

(17,656) 

1,393 

(67)   

1 

— 

— 

3 

1,397 

16 

1,413 

(36)   

1,377 

(11,213)   

(9,563)   

— 

— 

(112)   

(32)   

(211)   

(202)   

(413)   

(1)   

(414)   

73 

1,294 

33 

9 

(1)   

— 

— 

41 

— 

41 

— 

41 

(196)   

(44)   

(273)   

(1,088)   

(242) 

162 

117 

— 

(12)   

71 

2 

73 

— 

73 

— 

`  

— 

— 

61 

1 

— 

63 

— 

— 

— 

5 

(44)   

(148)   

(1,083)   

233 

117 

(112) 

27 

23 

— 

— 

1 

(183) 

(44)   

(148)   

(1,082)   

(160) 

— 

— 

2 

(35) 

(44)   

(148)   

(1,080)   

(195) 

(34)   

(451)   

(2,008)   

(174)   

(4,044)   

(17,851) 

3 

(536)   

(2,144)   

(226)   

(8,474)   

(19,646) 

(3,422)   

(524)   

(90)   

426 

180 

— 

— 

(32)   

33 

(523)   

(283)   

(806)   

(1)   

(807)   

487 

1,144 

180 

— 

— 

(45)   

(35)   

100 

50 

150 

— 

150 

12 

— 

— 

— 

(636)   

(81)   

— 

59 

(78)   

(232)   

— 

244 

(78)   

— 

(78)   

(75)   

12 

— 

12 

64 

81 

— 

— 

55 

200 

— 

200 

— 

200 

6,982 

3,616 

— 

— 

(2)   

(106) 

(81) 

(34) 

(1,516)   

(1,370) 

5,464 

2,025 

30 

21 

5,494 

2,046 

16 

(56) 

5,510 

1,990 

— 

— 

— 

— 

180 

— 

180 

— 

180 

(524)   

(1,964)   

(26)   

(2,964)   

(17,656) 

31 

(485)   

(2,439)   

(187)   

(15,624)    (25,735) 

(23)   

(5)   

— 

— 

— 

(28)   

— 

88 

(38)   

(13)   

— 

(16)   

21 

(72)   

(28)   

(51)   

— 

— 

(28)   

(51)   

295 

(145)   

10,191 

8,745 

— 

— 

— 

— 

295 

— 

295 

— 

295 

92 

— 

— 

14 

(39)   

— 

(39)   

— 

(39)   

— 

— 

— 

417 

(13) 

(45) 

(2,993)   

(2,970) 

7,198 

6,134 

(48)   

(106) 

7,150 

6,028 

— 

61 

7,150 

6,089 

1,294 

3 

(536)   

(2,144)   

(226)   

(8,474)   

(19,646) 

Recognised in other comprehensive 
income

Reclassified to income

Reclassified to the balance sheet

Reclassified to retained earnings

Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified

Total, net of tax

Share of joint ventures and associates

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for 
the period

Less: non-controlling interest

Attributable to Shell plc shareholders

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Recognised in other comprehensive 
income

Reclassified to income

Reclassified to the balance sheet

Reclassified to retained earnings

Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified

Total, net of tax

437 

— 

— 

(1)   

(2,986)   

Share of joint ventures and associates

30 

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the period

Less: non-controlling interest

Attributable to Shell plc shareholders

At December 31, 2022

At January 1, 2021

Recognised in other comprehensive 
income

Reclassified to income

Reclassified to the balance sheet

Reclassified to retained earnings

Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified

Total, net of tax

Share of joint ventures and associates

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the period

Less: non-controlling interest

Attributable to Shell plc shareholders

At December 31, 2021

(2,956)   

(71)   

(3,027)   

(12,590)   

(8,175)   

(1,841)   

368 

— 

— 

60 

(1,413)   

(36)   

(1,449)   

61 

(1,388)   

(9,563)   

311
311

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

29. Dividends

Interim dividends

Cash: 

March

June

September

December

Total 

2023

2022

2021 [A]

2023

2022

$ per share

0.2875 

0.2875 

0.3310 

0.3310 

1.237 

0.24 

0.25 

0.25 

0.25 

0.99 

0.1665 

0.1735 

0.24 

0.24 

0.82 

2,030 

1,984 

2,179 

2,196 

8,389 

1,829 

1,850 

1,818 

1,786 

7,283 

$ million

2021 [B]

1,290 

1,331 

1,854 

1,846 

6,321 

[A] In 2021 Shell plc declared equal amounts of dividends per A and B share as presented.
[B] Dividends paid on A shares totalled in 2021: $3,330 million and dividends paid on B shares totalled in 2021: $2,991 million.

On February 1, 2024, the Directors announced a further interim dividend in respect of 2023 of $0.3440 per ordinary share. The total dividend 
is estimated to be $2,230 million and is payable on March 25, 2024, to shareholders on the register at February 16, 2024.

Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their dividends in US dollars, sterling or euros.

30. Earnings per share

Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders ($ million)

Weighted average number of shares used as the basis for determining:

Basic earnings per share (million of shares)

Diluted earnings per share (million of shares)

2023

2022

19,359 

42,309

2021

20,101

6,733.5 

6,799.8 

7,347.5 

7,410.5 

7,761.7 

7,806.8 

Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the income attributable to Shell plc shareholders for the year by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of shares outstanding excludes shares held in trust.

Diluted earnings per share are based on the same income figures. The weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is 
increased by dilutive shares related to share-based compensation plans. If the inclusion of potentially issuable shares could decrease diluted 
loss per share, the potentially issuable shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate diluted 
earnings per share.

31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies
General
In the ordinary course of business, Shell subsidiaries are subject to a number of contingencies arising from litigation and claims brought by 
governmental authorities, including tax authorities, and private parties. The operations and earnings of Shell subsidiaries continue, from time to 
time, to be affected to varying degrees by political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating to the protection of the 
environment and indigenous groups in the countries where they operate. The industries in which Shell subsidiaries are engaged are also subject to 
physical risks of various types.

The amounts claimed in relation to such events and, if such claims against Shell were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in 
the various cases could be substantial. Based on information available to date and taking into account that in some cases it is not practicable to 
estimate the possible magnitude or timing of any resultant payments, management believes that the foregoing are not expected to have a material 
adverse impact on Shell's Consolidated Financial Statements. However, there remains a high degree of uncertainty around these contingencies, 
as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's financial condition.

In certain divestment transactions, liabilities related to decommissioning and restoration are de-recognised upon transfer of these obligations to the 
buyer. For certain of these obligations Shell has issued guarantees to third parties and continues to be liable in case the primary obligor is not able 
to meet its obligation. These potential obligations arising from issuance of these guarantees are assessed to be remote.

Decommissioning and restoration of manufacturing facilities
For long-lived manufacturing facilities, where decommissioning would generally be more than 50 years away, while there is a present obligation 
that has arisen from past events, the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured. This is because the settlement dates are indeterminate; 
and other estimates, such as extremely long-term discount rates for which there is no observable measure, cannot be reliably determined. 
Consequently, the decommissioning and restoration obligation that exists for such long-lived manufacturing facilities cannot be reliably quantified 
and is disclosed as a contingent liability. There remains a high degree of uncertainty concerning such obligations and their potential effects on 
future operations, earnings, cash flows, reputation and Shell's financial condition.

312
312

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies continued
Pesticide litigation 
Shell USA, Inc. (Shell USA), along with another agricultural chemical pesticide manufacturer and several distributors, has been sued by public 
and quasi-public water purveyors, water storage districts and private landowners alleging responsibility for groundwater contamination caused by 
applications of chemical pesticides. There are approximately 24 such cases currently pending, four claims made but not yet filed, and an active 
subpoena for records. These matters assert various theories of strict liability and negligence, seeking to recover actual damages, including drinking 
well treatment and remediation costs. Most assert claims for punitive damages. While Shell USA continues to vigorously defend these actions, in 
January 2018 an environmental regulatory standard became effective in the State of California, where a majority of the suits are pending. The 
2018 standard requires public water systems state-wide to perform quarterly or monthly sampling of their drinking water sources for a chemical 
contained in certain pesticides. Water systems deemed out of compliance with the regulatory standard must take corrective action to resolve the 
exceedance or take the potable water source out of service. In response to this regulatory standard, Shell USA monitors the sampling results to 
determine the number of wells potentially impacted. Based on the claims asserted and Shell USA's history with regard to amounts paid to resolve 
varying actions, management does not expect the outcome of the matters pending at December 31, 2023, to have a material adverse impact on 
Shell. However, there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the potential outcome of some of these pending lawsuits, as well as their 
potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's financial condition.

Climate change litigation
In the USA, energy companies (including Shell), industry associations, and others have been named in several matters alleging responsibility for 
the impacts of climate change due to the use of fossil fuels. These matters assert a number of different theories of liability for a wide variety of 
harms, including but not limited to, impacts to public and private infrastructure, natural resources, and public health and services. As of December 
31, 2023, 24 lawsuits naming Shell as a defendant were pending, three claims were filed but not yet served, and one petition to preserve 
testimony was pending. 

In the Netherlands, in a case against Shell brought by a group of environmental non-governmental organisations (eNGOs) and individual 
claimants, the Court found that while Shell is not currently acting unlawfully, Shell must reduce the aggregate annual volume of CO2 emissions of 
Shell operations and energy-carrying products sold across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 45% (net) by the end of 2030 relative to its 2019 emissions levels 
(the "Dutch Court Order"). For Scopes 2 and 3, this is a significant best-efforts obligation. Shell appealed that ruling and a hearing is scheduled to 
take place before the Dutch Court of Appeal of The Hague in April 2024. 

Management believes the outcome of these matters should be resolved in a manner favourable to Shell, but there remains a high degree of 
uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's 
financial condition. 

NAM (Groningen gas field) litigation
Since 1963, NAM – a joint venture between Shell and ExxonMobil (50%:50%) – has been producing gas from the Groningen field, the largest 
gas field in Western Europe. After smaller tremors in the 1990s and the late 2000s, an earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter scale occurred 
in 2012, causing damage to properties in the affected area, and the area continues to experience tremor/earthquake-type events. NAM has 
successfully settled close to 80,000 claims for physical damage to property. The Dutch State has taken over the damage-claim-handling from 
NAM for all claim categories, and the strengthening operation in the region, while NAM remains financially responsible insofar as the costs 
corresponded to NAM's liability. In 2022, NAM started arbitrations with the Dutch government to have its financial liability determined for costs 
which the Dutch government compensated to claimants and subsequently charged to NAM. These claims include but are not limited to physical 
damage to property, housing value loss, emotional damage and loss of living enjoyment. 

Shell and ExxonMobil seek to reach a final, all-encompassing settlement with the Dutch government on the new design of the Dutch "Gasgebouw" 
and the wind-down of natural gas production in Groningen. Shell, ExxonMobil and the Dutch government reached agreements in 2018 (Heads of 
Agreement) and 2019 (Interim Agreement) and subsequently have been engaged in discussions on the interpretation and implementation of these 
agreements and on a final and all-encompassing settlement. As these discussions have not led to such a settlement, in December 2023, the NAM 
shareholders asked an independent arbitration panel to rule on the interpretation and implementation of the agreements made in 2018/2019. The 
purpose of this arbitration is for a neutral third party to assess the situation and provide clarity. The arbitration is expected to take several years 
and the judgement will be binding. The arbitration does not preclude a final and all-encompassing settlement, provided Shell, ExxonMobil and 
the Dutch government agree to pursue such a settlement.

There remains a high degree of uncertainty concerning the ultimate outcome of these disputes and their potential effect on future operations, 
earnings, cash flows, reputation and Shell's financial condition.

313
313

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies continued
Kazakhstan
Shell has several matters in dispute involving the Republic of Kazakhstan. One litigation matter involving a Shell NOV relates to a Sulphur 
permitting inspection outcome. An unfavourable ruling was issued by the Administrative Collegium of Astana City Court in February 2024. The 
Shell NOV is assessing its next steps, including filing an appeal to the Kazakhstan Supreme Court. 

The other matters are two Shell NOVs concerning disputes as to cost recovery for the period 2010 to 2019 under the applicable production 
sharing contracts. In March 2023, the Republic of Kazakhstan appointed its arbitrator in each of the disputes, formally starting the arbitration 
process. No Statement of Claim has been filed in either matter. 

Accordingly, at this time, it is not possible to reliably estimate the magnitude and timing of any possible obligations or payments in respect of the 
matters above or whether any payments will be due. There remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcomes, as well as the 
potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's financial condition.

Nigerian litigation
Shell subsidiaries and associates operating in Nigeria are parties to various environmental, non-environmental and contractual disputes brought 
in the courts of Nigeria and England. These disputes are at different stages in litigation, including at the appellate stage, where judgements have 
been rendered against Shell entities in some of these disputes. If taken at face value, the aggregate amount of these judgements could be seen 
as material. Management, however, believes that the outcomes of these disputes, once determined, will be favourable to Shell. However, there 
remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding these cases, as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's 
financial condition.

OPL 245
On January 27, 2017, the Nigeria Federal High Court issued an Interim Order of Attachment for Oil Prospecting Licence 245 (OPL 245), pending 
the conclusion of the investigation of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Ltd.'s (SNEPCO's) investment in the Nigeria oil block OPL 
245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that block with regard to potential anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering 
laws. SNEPCO applied for and was granted a discharge of this order on constitutional and procedural grounds. Also in Nigeria, in March 2017, 
criminal charges alleging official corruption and conspiracy to commit official corruption were filed against SNEPCO, one then current now former 
Shell employee and third parties including ENI SpA and one of its subsidiaries. Those proceedings are in abeyance. In January 2020, criminal 
charges alleging disobeying direction of law related to tax waivers were filed in Nigeria against Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Ltd., SNEPCO, and third 
parties including Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited (NAE). Those proceedings are ongoing. In March 2017, parties alleging to be shareholders of 
Malabu Oil and Gas Company Ltd. (Malabu) filed two actions to challenge the 2011 settlement and the award of OPL 245 to SNEPCO and an 
ENI SpA subsidiary by the Federal Government of Nigeria. Both actions are currently stayed awaiting the outcome of appeals filed against 
procedural decisions. Those appeal proceedings are ongoing. On May 8, 2018, Human Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) sought 
permission from the Federal High Court of Nigeria to apply for an order to direct the Attorney General of the Federation to revoke OPL 245 on 
grounds that the entire Malabu transaction in relation to the OPL is unconstitutional, illegal and void as it was obtained through fraudulent and 
corrupt practice. On July 3, 2019, the Nigerian Federal High Court upheld objections from SNEPCO and NAE and struck the lawsuit filed by 
HEDA. The suit was struck because of the statute of limitations and lack of jurisdiction to hear the matter. HEDA has appealed the judgement, 
which is ongoing.

On a separate OPL 245 matter, pre-trial criminal proceedings are pending against an individual who also did not work for or on behalf of Shell.

On July 21, 2022, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's office announced it had dismissed its investigation into bribery allegations related to OPL 245. 
On October 24, 2022, Re:Common, HEDA and The Corner House announced that they filed a complaint at the Court of Appeal in The Hague, 
pursuant to Article 12 of the Dutch Code for Criminal Procedure, challenging the decision by the Dutch Public Prosecutor to dismiss its investigation. 
There remains a high degree of uncertainty around the OPL 245 matters and contingencies discussed above, as well as their potential effect on 
future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's financial condition. Accordingly, at this time, it is not possible to reliably estimate the possible 
obligations and timing of any payments. Any violation of anti-bribery, anti-corruption or anti-money laundering legislation could have a material 
adverse effect on Shell plc's earnings, cash flows and financial condition.

314
314

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

32. Employees

Employee costs

Remuneration

Social security contributions

Retirement benefits (see Note 23)

Share-based compensation (see Note 27)

Total [A]

[A] Excludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates.

Average employee numbers [A]

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate 

 - of which Shell Business Service Centre (SBSC)

Total [B]

2023

10,648 

957 

1,324 

700 

2022

10,509 

860 

1,795 

807 

$ million

2021

9,038 

819 

1,696 

539 

13,629 

13,971 

12,092 

2023

2022

2021

Thousand

6

11

26

22

5

30

23

100

6

12

17

21

4

27

20

87

6

13

14

22

3

25

19

83

[A] Employee numbers are based on headcount.
[B] Excludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates (2023: 2,000 employees; 2022: 2,000 employees; 2021: 2,000 employees).

33. Directors and Senior Management

Remuneration of Directors of the Company

Emoluments

Value of released awards under long-term incentive plans

Employer contributions to pension plans

2023

2022

12 

4 

1 

12 

7 

1 

$ million

2021

12 

5 

1 

Emoluments comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses (for the period for which performance is assessed) and other benefits. The value of 
released awards under long-term incentive plans for the period is in respect of the performance period ending in that year. In 2023, no Director 
accrued retirement benefits in respect of qualifying services under defined benefit plans.

Further information on the remuneration of the Directors can be found in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 191-193.

Directors and Senior Management expense

Short-term benefits

Retirement benefits

Share-based compensation

Termination and related amounts

Total

2023

2022

31 

2 

17 

7 

57 

33 

2 

17 

1 

53 

$ million

2021

27 

3 

16 

2 

48 

Directors and Senior Management comprise members of the Executive Committee and the Non-executive Directors of the Company.

Short-term benefits comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses delivered in cash and shares (for the period for which performance is assessed), 
other benefits and employer social security contributions.

315
315

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued

34. Auditor's remuneration

Fees in respect of the audit of the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements, including audit of 
consolidation returns

Other audit fees, principally in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries

Total audit fees

Audit-related fees

Fees in respect of other non-audit services

Total

2023

2022

$ million

2021

42 

19 

61 

3 

2 

66 

45 

18 

63 

3 

3 

69 

39 

18 

57 

3 

3 

63 

In addition, the auditor provided audit services to retirement benefit plans for employees of subsidiaries. Remuneration paid by those benefit plans 
amounted to $1 million in 2023 (2022: $1 million; 2021: $1 million). 

35. Post-balance sheet events
On January 16, 2024, Shell reached an agreement to sell its Nigerian onshore subsidiary The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria 
Limited (SPDC) for a consideration of $1.3 billion with additional cash payments up to $1.1 billion as well as further contingent payments. Under 
the agreed deal structure, economic performance accrues to the buyer with effect from December 31, 2021, however, Shell will continue to 
consolidate SPDC until control transfers at completion. At completion Shell will provide secured term loans of up to $1.2 billion and additional 
financing of up to $1.3 billion over future years. Completion of the transaction is subject to approvals by the Federal Government of Nigeria and 
other conditions.

On January 30, 2024, the principal defined benefit pension plan in the USA, Shell Pension Plan, entered into a contract with "The Prudential 
Insurance Company of America" to settle $5,052 million of pension liabilities. The settlement price consisted of $4,920 million of pension assets. 
As a result of this transaction, all legal and constructive obligations for a tranche of benefits provided by the Shell Pension Plan have been 
eliminated. This transaction will have no significant impact on the Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet 
or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

On February 1, 2024, Shell announced the commencement of a $3.5 billion share buyback programme covering an aggregate contract term of 
approximately three months (the "programme"). The purpose of the programme is to reduce the issued share capital of the Company. All shares 
repurchased as part of the programme will be cancelled. It is intended that, subject to market conditions, the programme will be completed prior 
to the Company's first quarter 2024 results announcement, scheduled for May 2, 2024. The Company has entered into an arrangement with a 
single broker consisting of three irrevocable, non-discretionary contracts, to enable the purchase of ordinary shares.

316
316

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)

About this section
The purpose of this section is to comply with the requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) "Extractive Activities – Oil and 
Gas (Topic 932)". Extractive activities for this purpose include exploration and production activities to extract oil, condensates, natural gas liquids, 
oil sands and natural gas from their natural reservoirs.

In Shell, extractive activities, or oil and gas exploration and production activities, are undertaken within the Integrated Gas, Upstream and 
the Chemicals and Products (includes oil sands) segments. Shell's extractive activities do not represent the full extent of Integrated Gas, Upstream 
and Chemicals and Products activities, and exclude GTL, some LNG activities, trading and optimisation, as well as other non-extractive activities. 
As a result, the information in this extractive activities section is not suitable for modelling Shell's integrated businesses, for which we refer to the 
segment information. Full segment information to the Consolidated Financial Statements is available on pages 272-277.

The information set out on pages 317-335 is referred to as "unaudited" as a means of clarifying that it is not covered by the audit opinion of the 
independent registered public accounting firm that has audited and reported on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Proved reserves
Proved reserves estimates are calculated pursuant to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rules and the FASB's Topic 932. 
Proved reserves can be either developed or undeveloped. The definitions used are in accordance with the SEC Rule 4–10 (a) of Regulation S-X. 
We include proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations. 

Proved reserves shown are net of any quantities of crude oil or natural gas that are expected to be (or could be) taken as royalties in kind. Proved 
reserves outside North America include quantities that will be settled as royalties in cash. Proved reserves include certain quantities of crude oil or 
natural gas that will be produced under arrangements that involve Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in risks and rewards but do not 
transfer title of the product to those entities. 

Subsidiaries' proved reserves at December 31, 2023, were divided into 76% developed and 24% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent (boe) 
basis. For the Shell share of joint ventures and associates, the proved reserves at December 31, 2023, were divided into 34% developed and 66% 
undeveloped on a boe basis. 

Proved reserves are recognised under various forms of contractual agreements. Shell's proved reserves volumes at December 31, 2023, present 
in agreements such as production-sharing contracts (PSC), tax/variable royalty contracts or other forms of economic entitlement contracts, where 
the Shell share of reserves can vary with commodity prices, were 2,095 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, and 10,443 thousand 
million standard cubic feet (scf) of natural gas. 

Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because estimation of reserves involves subjective judgement (see "Risk factors" on page 17 and 
our "Proved reserves assurance process" below). These estimates remain subject to revision and are unaudited supplementary information. 

Proved reserves assurance process
A central group of reserves experts, who on average have around 28 years' experience in the oil and gas industry, undertake the primary 
assurance of the proved reserves bookings. This group of experts is part of the Resources Assurance and Reporting (RAR) organisation within Shell. 
A Vice President with 38 years' experience in the oil and gas industry currently heads the RAR organisation. He is a member of the Society of 
Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and holds a BA in mathematics from Oxford University and an MEng in Petroleum 
Engineering from Heriot-Watt University. The RAR organisation reports directly to an Executive Vice President of Finance, who is a member of the 
Upstream Reserves Committee (URC). The URC is a multidisciplinary committee consisting of senior representatives from the Finance, Legal, 
Integrated Gas and Upstream organisations. The URC reviews and endorses all major (larger than 20 million barrels of oil equivalent) proved 
reserves bookings and debookings and endorses the total aggregated proved reserves. Final approval of all proved reserves bookings remains 
with Shell's CEO, and all proved reserves bookings are reviewed by Shell's Audit and Risk Committee. The Internal Audit function also provides 
secondary assurance through audits of the control framework. 

Crude oil, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil and bitumen
Shell subsidiaries' proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs), synthetic crude oil and bitumen at the end of the year; their share of 
the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the end of the year; and the changes in such reserves during the year are set out on pages 
318-321. Significant changes in these proved reserves are discussed below (except where specific disclosures are prohibited), where "revisions and 
reclassifications" are changes based on new information that resulted from development drilling, production history and changes in 
economic factors.

317
317

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved reserves 2023–2022
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia
￮ The increase of 149 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Oman.

Africa
￮ The increase of 79 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Bonga in Nigeria.

USA
￮ The increase of 69 million barrels in extensions and discoveries was due to FID of Sparta.
￮ The increase of 46 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Appomattox. 
￮ The decrease of 110 million barrels in sales in place was in Aera.

South America
￮ The increase of 165 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Mero and Atapu in Brazil.

Proved reserves 2022–2021
Shell subsidiaries 
Canada
￮ The increase of 240 million barrels in purchases was mainly in Jackpine Mine.

South America
￮ The increase of 55 million barrels in purchases was in Atapu in Brazil.

318
318

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2023

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production

At December 31 

Total [B]

192

2

—

—

—

—

1,411

149

106

(17)

218

79

3

2

—

(11)

—

—

1

—

—

—

—

—

(34)

(162)

160

1,392

(11)

79

(38)

259

3

—

—

—

—

—

(1)

2

327

—

—

—

85

—

(22)

390

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

543

46

—

69

3

(110)

(112)

439

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

162

1,782

79

259

439

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

—

—

—

—

—

4

1

—

1

—

—

(1)

5

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5

—

731

35

—

—

11

—

1,138

3,612

165

—

25

—

—

425

3

97

4

(121)

731

35

4,343

460

—

—

11

—

3

97

15

(121)

(528)

(20)

(150)

(508)

(20)

757

1,178

3,512

757

4,269

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

7

(7)

337

(7)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

85

—

(23)

392

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

337

(7)

—

—

85

—

(23)

392

757

1,178

3,904

757

4,661

378

—

—

378

378

[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
[B] On January 16, 2024, Shell announced an agreement to sell its Nigerian onshore subsidiary The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) which holds a 30% interest 
in the SPDC JV to Renaissance, subject to approvals by the Federal Government of Nigeria and other conditions. As of December 31, 2023, we had proved reserves of 142 million barrels in 
crude oil. See Note 35 on page 316.

Proved developed reserves 2023

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2023

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

140

122

3

2

999

985

154

113

73

53

—

—

187

230

356

305

—

—

—

—

3

2

—

—

731

757

831

841

2,589

2,538

731

757

3,320

3,295

—

—

7

—

164

115

—

—

164

115

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

52

38

—

—

412

407

173

277

33

26

—

—

31

29

—

—

187

134

—

—

1

3

—

—

—

—

—

—

307

337

1,023

974

—

—

173

277

—

—

—

—

1,023

974

173

277

319
319

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2022

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production

At December 31 

Total [B]

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

208

1,521

16

—

5

—

—

(37)

192

7

(3)

—

—

—

—

(1)

3

34

—

13

12

(1)

(168)

1,411

217

(23)

—

—

159

—

(26)

327

80

11

—

24

—

—

265

(18)

610

48

—

—

—

—

—

7

—

—

(9)

106

(29)

218

(122)

543

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

195

1,738

106

218

543

5

(1)

—

1

—

—

(1)

4

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4

1,131

3,820

533

4,353

137

(25)

533

(25)

—

—

240

—

(17)

731

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

47

32

11

55

—

32

61

67

(1)

(138)

(504)

1,138

3,612

4

1

—

4

—

—

(2)

7

228

(25)

—

4

159

—

(29)

337

112

32

61

307

(1)

(521)

4,343

228

(25)

—

4

159

—

(29)

337

—

—

240

—

(17)

731

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

731

1,145

3,949

731

4,680

365

365

365

[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
[B] As announced on February 28, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 100% interest in Shell Onshore Ventures LLC, which held a 51.8% membership interest in Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV.

As of December 31, 2022, we had proved reserves of 112 million barrels in crude oil.

Proved developed reserves 2022

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2022

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

140

140

1,348

999

7

3

197

154

71

73

—

—

218

187

397

356

—

—

—

—

2

3

—

—

533

731

786

831

2,962

2,589

533

731

3,495

3,320

—

—

4

7

208

164

—

—

208

164

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

68

52

—

—

173

412

20

173

9

33

—

—

47

31

—

—

213

187

—

—

3

1

—

—

—

—

—

—

345

307

858

1,023

—

—

20

173

—

—

—

—

858

1,023

20

173

320
320

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2021 

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production

At December 31 

Total [B]

178

67

1,573

121

—

4

—

—

—

11

—

—

(41)

(184)

208

1,521

6

2

—

—

—

—

(1)

7

210

40

—

—

—

—

(33)

217

73

18

—

—

—

—

(11)

80

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

379

(53)

—

1

—

(21)

(41)

265

728

119

9

55

—

(136)

(165)

610

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

215

1,738

80

265

610

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

—

—

—

—

—

[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
[B] As of December 31, 2021, we had proved reserves of 93 million barrels in crude oil relating to activities in Russia.

Proved developed reserves 2021

15

—

—

1

—

(8)

(3)

5

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5

—

644

(90)

—

—

—

—

815

325

21

103

—

—

(21)

(133)

3,761

644

4,405

597

30

175

—

(165)

(578)

(90)

—

—

—

—

(21)

507

30

175

—

(165)

(599)

533

1,131

3,820

533

4,353

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4

—

2

—

—

216

46

—

2

—

—

(2)

4

(36)

228

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

216

46

—

2

—

—

(36)

228

533

1,135

4,048

533

4,581

267

—

—

267

267

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2021

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

103

140

1,417

1,348

6

7

192

197

69

71

—

—

316

218

539

397

—

—

—

—

12

2

—

—

644

533

674

786

3,130

2,962

644

533

3,774

3,495

—

—

1

4

199

208

—

—

199

208

Europe

Asia Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

Oil and 
NGL

Oil and 
NGL

Synthetic 
crude oil

All 
products

Million barrels

76

68

—

—

156

173

18

20

5

9

—

—

63

47

—

—

189

213

—

—

3

3

—

—

—

—

—

—

141

345

—

—

633

858

18

20

—

—

—

—

633

858

18

20

321
321

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Natural gas
Shell subsidiaries' proved reserves of natural gas at the end of the year, their share of the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the 
end of the year, and the changes in such reserves during the years are set out on pages 322-325. Significant changes in these proved reserves
are discussed below (except where specific disclosures are prohibited).

Volumes are not adjusted to standard heat content. Apart from integrated projects, volumes of gas are reported on an "as-sold" basis. The price 
used to calculate future revenue and cash flows from proved gas reserves is the contract price or the 12-month average on "as-sold" volumes. 
Volumes associated with integrated projects are those measured at a designated transfer point between the upstream and downstream portions 
of the integrated project. Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.

Proved reserves 2023–2022
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
￮ The increase of 952 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Oman.

Oceania 
￮ The increase of 1,043 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Surat QGC and Gorgon in Australia.

Canada
￮ The increase of 443 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Groundbirch in Canada. 

Proved reserves 2022–2021
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
￮ The increase of 682 thousand million scf in purchases was mainly in Oman. 
￮ The increase of 581 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Marjoram and Rosmari in Malaysia. 
￮ The decrease of 906 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly due to higher prices resulting in a lower reserves 

entitlement in production-sharing contracts.

Oceania 
￮ The increase of 959 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Surat QGC in Australia. 
￮ The increase of 453 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was due to FID of Crux in Australia. 

Canada
￮ The decrease of 540 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Groundbirch in Canada. 

South America
￮ The increase of 288 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Trinidad and Tobago.

Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Asia 
￮ The decrease of 776 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Lunskoye in Russia.

322
322

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2023

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [B]

At December 31 

Total [C]

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

2,884 

9,078 

(103)   

952 

5,949 

1,043 

1,841 

139 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

55 

— 

(82)   

— 

— 

14 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

521 

64 

— 

43 

2 

(31)   

956 

443 

— 

224 

— 

— 

1,819 

23,048 

64 

— 

14 

— 

— 

2,602 

— 

336 

16 

(113) 

(273)   

(835)   

(777)   

(133)   

(114)   

(140)   

(341)   

(2,613) 

2,508 

9,168 

6,229 

1,847 

485 

1,483 

1,556 

23,276 

175 

5,008 

169 

3 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(141)   

— 

— 

1,516 

— 

60 

— 

30 

— 

— 

(56)   

(280)   

(31)   

122 

6,103 

228 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

7 

5,359 

(6)   

(84) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

30 

1,516 

— 

(1)   

(368) 

— 

6,453 

2,630 

15,271 

6,457 

1,847 

485 

1,483 

1,556 

29,729 

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

[A] Includes 233 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] Includes 27 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[C] On January 16, 2024, Shell announced an agreement to sell its Nigerian onshore subsidiary The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) which holds a 30% interest 
in the SPDC JV to Renaissance, subject to approvals by the Federal Government of Nigeria and other conditions. As of December 31, 2023, we had proved reserves of 1765 thousand million 
standard cubic feet in natural gas. See Note 35 on page 316.

Proved developed reserves 2023

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2023

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

2,460 

2,205 

175 

120 

6,698 

7,348 

2,261 

1,936 

4,111 

4,870 

129 

228 

984 

875 

— 

— 

275 

268 

— 

— 

712 

706 

1,582 

1,273 

16,822 

17,545 

— 

— 

7 

— 

2,572 

2,284 

Thousand million standard cubic feet

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

424 

303 

— 

2 

2,380 

1,820 

2,747 

4,167 

1,838 

1,359 

40 

— 

857 

972 

— 

— 

246 

217 

— 

— 

244 

777 

— 

— 

South 
America

237 

283 

— 

— 

Total

6,226 

5,731 

2,787 

4,169 

323
323

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2022

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [B]

At December 31 

Total [C]

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

2,991 

9,573 

5,307 

2,016 

615 

1,540 

1,753 

23,795 

131 

— 

64 

— 

— 

(906)   

959 

— 

581 

682 

(53)   

— 

453 

— 

— 

15 

— 

— 

— 

— 

22 

— 

10 

— 

— 

(540)   

288 

— 

81 

— 

— 

— 

81 

33 

— 

(31) 

— 

1,270 

715 

(53) 

(302)   

(799)   

(770)   

(190)   

(126)   

(125)   

(336)   

(2,648) 

2,884 

9,078 

5,949 

1,841 

521 

956 

1,819 

23,048 

312 

3,560 

(3)   

(776)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2,549 

— 

71 

45 

— 

77 

— 

— 

(134)   

(325)   

(24)   

175 

5,008 

3,059 

14,086 

169 

6,118 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

6 

1 

— 

3 

— 

— 

3,949 

(733) 

— 

80 

2,549 

— 

(3)   

(486) 

7 

5,359 

1,841 

521 

956 

1,826 

28,407 

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

[A] Includes 228 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] Includes 31 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[C] As announced on February 28, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 100% interest in Shell Onshore Ventures LLC, which held a 51.8% membership interest in Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV.

As of December 31, 2022, we had proved reserves of 31 thousand million standard cubic feet.

Proved developed reserves 2022

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2022

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

2,532 

2,460 

265 

175 

8,789 

6,698 

3,097 

2,261 

4,089 

4,111 

71 

129 

981 

984 

— 

— 

373 

275 

— 

— 

757 

712 

— 

— 

1,301 

1,582 

18,822 

16,822 

6 

7 

3,439 

2,572 

Thousand million standard cubic feet

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

459 

424 

47 

— 

784 

2,380 

463 

2,747 

1,218 

1,838 

1,035 

857 

— 

40 

— 

— 

242 

246 

— 

— 

783 

244 

— 

— 

South 
America

452 

237 

— 

— 

Total

4,973 

6,226 

510 

2,787 

324
324

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2021

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

2,442 

9,927 

4,176 

2,363 

Revisions and reclassifications

838 

(37)   

1,905 

(63)   

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [A]

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

Revisions and reclassifications

Improved recovery

Extensions and discoveries

Purchases of minerals in place

Sales of minerals in place

Production [B]

At December 31 

Total [C]

— 

1 

1 

— 

— 

559 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

126 

— 

(122)   

(225)   

(291)   

(876)   

(774)   

(288)   

(214)   

801 

90 

5 

158 

— 

1,295 

123 

— 

277 

— 

(37)   

(118)   

1,128 

535 

4 

357 

— 

— 

22,132 

3,391 

9 

1,477 

1 

(384) 

(271)   

(2,831) 

2,991 

9,573 

5,307 

2,016 

615 

1,540 

1,753 

23,795 

262 

210 

3,678 

313 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

41 

51 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(160)   

(431)   

(21)   

312 

3,303 

3,560 

13,133 

71 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

3 

— 

2 

— 

— 

— 

6 

3,982 

577 

— 

2 

— 

— 

(612) 

3,949 

5,378 

2,016 

615 

1,540 

1,759 

27,744 

Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

[A] Includes 232 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] Includes 41 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[C] As of December 31, 2021, we had proved reserves of 980 thousand million cubic feet in natural gas relating to activities in Russia.

Proved developed reserves 2021

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Proved undeveloped reserves 2021

Shell subsidiaries

At January 1

At December 31

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

At January 1

At December 31

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

1,590 

2,532 

227 

265 

9,675 

8,789 

3,175 

3,097 

3,656 

4,089 

1,341 

981 

42 

71 

— 

— 

670 

373 

— 

— 

720 

757 

— 

— 

924 

1,301 

18,576 

18,822 

1 

6 

3,445 

3,439 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

Thousand million standard cubic feet

852 

459 

35 

47 

252 

784 

502 

463 

520 

1,218 

1,022 

1,035 

— 

— 

— 

— 

132 

242 

— 

— 

575 

783 

— 

— 

203 

452 

3,556 

4,973 

— 

— 

537 

510 

325
325

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Standardised measure of discounted future cash flows 
The SEC Form 20-F requires the disclosure of a standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows, relating to proved reserves quantities 
and based on a 12-month unweighted arithmetic average sales price, calculated on a first-day-of-the-month basis, with cost factors based on those 
at the end of each year, currently enacted tax rates and a 10% annual discount factor. In our view, the information so calculated does not provide 
a reliable measure of future cash flows from proved reserves, nor does it permit a realistic comparison to be made of one entity with another 
because the assumptions used cannot reflect the varying circumstances within each entity. In addition, a substantial but unknown proportion of 
future real cash flows from oil and gas production activities is expected to derive from reserves which have already been discovered, but which 
cannot yet be regarded as proved. 

Standardised measure of discounted future cash flows relating to proved reserves at December 31

2023 – Shell subsidiaries 

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

3,799

27,841

Non-controlling interest included

—

—

2023 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

2022 – Shell subsidiaries 

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

$ million

South 
America

Total

47,840

130,018

61,283

25,740

34,456

54,604

96,804

450,745

13,367

29,098

28,065

10,844

14,506

23,944

43,320

163,144

6,013

13,744

23,310

37,566

8,902

3,562

49,610

20,754

5,150

1,351

21,769

7,594

13,160

—

3,446

6,805

4,645

1,392

3,253

—

8,771

1,561

9,618

1,644

7,974

—

6,633

5,485

15,862

63,371

11,674

89,963

18,542

25,948

134,267

13,453

9,320

56,523

5,089

2,544

16,628

77,744

—

2,544

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

1,885

71,003

792

601

386

106

(83)

189

27,725

8,267

24,495

10,516

6,539

3,977

1,478

1,136

155

—

187

(59)

246

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

South 
America

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$ million

Total

74,366

29,653

9,023

24,881

10,809

6,397

4,412

$ million

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

82,513

157,030

67,551

28,054

52,231

66,059

115,529

568,967

16,781

32,416

22,764

6,125

15,240

43,626

50,771

8,696

6,917

15,981

58,603

29,174

9,762

3,004

9,670

5,618

1,580

23,546

28,520

46,947

180,736

7,720

3,821

5,269

7,004

15,917

61,971

15,074

136,883

17,144

25,266

37,591

189,377

4,056

17,478

13,104

77,710

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

5,193

25,770

10,529

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

10,788

32,833

18,645

4,038

13,088

Non-controlling interest included

—

—

—

—

—

7,788

3,314

24,487

111,667

—

3,314

326
326

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

2022 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

2021 – Shell subsidiaries

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

Non-controlling interest included

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

Europe

6,576

3,626

86,464

31,569

778

7,139

2,257

34,551

(85)

85

(170)

13,205

6,152

7,053

1,227

760

536

—

(69)

(130)

61

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

South 
America

577

162

15

81

319

67

252

$ million

Total

94,844

36,117

8,468

36,889

13,370

6,174

7,196

$ million

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South 
America

Total

37,801

115,068

37,462

22,663

41,431

34,835

81,239

370,499

11,977

30,567

13,446

12,989

28,834

6,718

2,206

42,678

15,092

18,771

4,205

5,347

12,311

8,166

1,754

6,412

—

23,907

10,887

2,762

—

—

—

8,742

3,078

7,584

3,259

497

23,314

15,565

35,787

139,398

7,787

1,572

8,758

1,207

7,551

—

4,063

3,153

16,130

56,112

7,829

63,489

12,054

21,493

111,500

7,331

4,723

1,906

7,270

41,035

14,223

70,465

—

1,906

2021 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates

Future cash inflows

Future production costs

Future development costs

Future tax expenses

Future net cash flows

Effect of discounting cash flows at 10%

Europe

4,006

2,869

931

1,623

(1,417)

(316)

Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows

(1,101) [A]

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

36,365

15,653

6,819

6,229

7,664

1,630

6,034

326

245

82

—

(1)

(29)

28

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$ million

Total

40,980

18,895

7,847

7,861

6,377

1,319

5,058

South 
America

283

128

15

9

131

34

97

[A] While proved reserves are economically producible at the 2021 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves

at December 31, 2021, due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves. 

327
327

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Change in standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved reserves

2023

At January 1

Net changes in prices and production costs

Revisions of previous reserves estimates

Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery

Purchases and sales of minerals in place

Development cost related to future production

Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs

Development cost incurred during the year

Accretion of discount

Net change in income tax

At December 31

2022

At January 1

Net changes in prices and production costs

Revisions of previous reserves estimates

Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery

Purchases and sales of minerals in place

Development cost related to future production

Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs

Development cost incurred during the year

Accretion of discount

Net change in income tax

At December 31

2021

At January 1

Net changes in prices and production costs

Revisions of previous reserves estimates

Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery

Purchases and sales of minerals in place

Development cost related to future production

Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs

Development cost incurred during the year

Accretion of discount

Net change in income tax

At December 31

328
328

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates

111,667

(57,249)

17,624

5,007

(4,039)

(8,339)

(41,345)

9,797

17,482

27,139

77,744

7,196

(8,991)

(1,507)

60

3,365

(2,011)

(1,976)

1,337

1,855

5,084

4,412

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates

70,465

107,637

12,378

7,422

3,187

(11,233)

(54,486)

10,079

9,796

(43,578)

111,667

5,058

10,441

(5,544)

439

10,374

(1,619)

(7,029)

1,545

888

(7,357)

7,196

Shell
subsidiaries

Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates

28,452

74,896

19,435

5,631

(880)

(10,652)

(35,754)

8,594

3,832

(23,089)

70,465

106

9,188

3,253

60

—

(982)

(4,455)

969

170

(3,251)

5,058

$ million

Total

118,863

(66,240)

16,117

5,067

(674)

(10,350)

(43,321)

11,134

19,337

32,223

82,156

$ million

Total

75,523

118,078

6,834

7,861

13,561

(12,852)

(61,515)

11,624

10,684

(50,935)

118,863

$ million

Total

28,558

84,084

22,688

5,691

(880)

(11,634)

(40,209)

9,563

4,002

(26,340)

75,523

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Oil and gas exploration and production activities capitalised costs
The aggregate amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, relating to oil and gas exploration and 
production activities, and the aggregate amount of the related depreciation, depletion and amortisation at December 31 are shown in the 
tables below.

Shell subsidiaries

Cost

Proved properties [A]

Unproved properties

Support equipment and facilities

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Proved properties [A]

Unproved properties

Support equipment and facilities

Net capitalised costs

[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.

Shell share of joint ventures and associates 

Cost

Proved properties [A]

Unproved properties

Support equipment and facilities

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Proved properties [A]

Unproved properties

Support equipment and facilities

Net capitalised costs

2023

$ million

2022

260,979 

251,173 

8,711 

11,767 

11,641 

11,329 

281,457 

274,143 

164,860 

149,884 

3,400 

6,953 

175,213 

106,244 

5,238 

6,241 

161,363 

112,780 

2023

$ million

2022

48,424 

46,244 

1,372 

4,673 

1,528 

4,577 

54,469 

52,349 

36,844 

34,683 

452 

3,053 

40,349 

14,120 

452 

3,023 

38,158 

14,191 

[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.

Oil and gas exploration and production activities costs incurred 
Costs incurred during the year in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalised or charged to 
income currently, are shown in the tables below. Development costs include capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs (including 
increases or decreases arising from changes to cost estimates or to the discount rate applied to the obligations) and exclude costs of acquiring 
support equipment and facilities, but include depreciation thereon.

Shell subsidiaries

2023

Acquisition of properties

Proved

Unproved

Exploration

Development

[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.

329
329

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

1 

— 

352 

1,431 

— 

— 

201 

1,701 

— 

— 

62 

1,039 

— 

(6)   

536 

353 

3 

18 

1,159 

3,265 

— 

34 

293 

309 

$ million

Total

4 

91 

South 
America

— 

45 

365 

2,968 

1,982 

10,080 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

2022

Acquisition of properties

Proved

Unproved

Exploration

Development

[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.

2021

Acquisition of properties

Proved

Unproved

Exploration

Development

[A] Comprises Canada and Mexico.
[B] As revised, following a reassessment.

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

(1)   

— 

422 

981 

— 

— 

141 

1,001 

— 

— 

21 

547 

102 

(1)   

259 

727 

— 

66 

721 

1,951 

— 

8 

140 

213 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

2 

— 

— 

— 

298  [B]  

106  [B]  

996 

693 

— 

— 

26 

600 

246 

2 

136 

166 

— 

26 

920 

3,116 

— 

34 

217 

106 

Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures and associates did not incur costs in the acquisition of oil and gas properties in 2023, 2022, and 2021. 

2023

Exploration

Development

2022

Exploration

Development

2021

Exploration

Development

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Other

— 

2 

65 

2,809 

5 

189 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

North America

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Other

— 

50 

(8)   

2,250 

3 

246 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

North America

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Other

— 

101 

69 

1,648 

1 

205 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

North America

$ million

Total

285 

100 

2,295 

9,386 

$ million

Total

247 

103 

1,873 

7,113 

$ million

Total

70 

3,000 

$ million

Total

104 

2,575 

$ million

Total

111 

2,002 

South 
America

184 

27 

591 

3,966 

South 
America

— 

42 

170 

1,436 

South 
America

— 

— 

South 
America

51 

87 

South 
America

41 

49 

330
330

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Oil and gas exploration and production activities earnings
In Shell, extractive activities, or oil and gas exploration and production activities, are undertaken within the Integrated Gas, Upstream and 
Chemicals and Products segments. Shell's extractive activities do not represent the full extent of Integrated Gas, Upstream and Chemicals 
and Products activities, and exclude GTL, some LNG activities, trading and optimisation, as well as other non-extractive activities.

The earnings disclosed in this "extractive activities" section are only a subset of Shell's total earnings and as a result are not suitable for modelling 
Shell's integrated businesses, for which we refer to the full segment earnings and descriptions of Integrated Gas, Upstream and Chemicals and 
Products. These are available on pages 42, 48, and 69 respectively. The earnings disclosed in this "extractive activities" section are not adjusted 
for items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges and charges for onerous contract provisions. Full segment information to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements is available on pages 272-277.

The results of operations for oil and gas producing activities are shown in the tables below. Taxes other than income tax include royalties in cash 
to governments, without option to pay in kind outside USA and Canada. 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

$ million

South
 America

Total

1,328 

7,452 

2,967 

11,717 

754 

7,113 

8,780 

14,684 

7,867 

1,655 

1,827 

102 

146 

1,687 

1,846 

3,344 

2,362 

165 

256 

1,324 

1,350 

9,762 

5,544 

1,431 

2,344 

3,775 

659 

284 

317 

123 

8,711 

8,834 

1,259 

— 

446 

827 

1,934 

9,364 

2,382 

10,663 

  50,382 

3,209 

12,597 

  59,746 

677 

1,514 

— 

3,307 

236 

8,772 

4,270 

1,750 

1,181 

412 

13 

2,760 

1,471 

4,330 

118 

(32)   

886 

4,100 

16,766 

1,774 

7,537 

3,383 

1,076 

976 

343 

733 

1,913 

330 

1,583 

(493)   

1,666 

20,651 

(13)   

1,088 

10,630 

(480)   

578 

10,021 

336 

1,094 

1,595 

982 

4,218 

2,407 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

$ million

South
 America

Total

257 

888 

2,459 

12,989 

12,221 

2,713 

12,107 

63,129 

12,478 

3,601 

14,566 

76,118 

1,986 

3,832 

11,115 

14,503 

13,101 

18,335 

2,151 

1,956 

102 

274 

1,468 

3,772 

831 

121 

2,090 

1,089 

1,394 

8,457 

9,851 

1,331 

688 

74 

2,173 

2,013 

4,186 

825 

238 

233 

1,556 

(3)   

621 

731 

— 

92 

403 

(211)   

1,090 

4,462 

135 

(336)   

629 

1,557 

5,334 

12,248 

5,151 

183 

7,561 

4,687 

7,834 

3,025 

4,809 

2,136 

527 

5,213 

739 

1,609 

4,474 

818 

229 

589 

1,331 

9,881 

3,837 

5,693 

297 

1,722 

1,030 

1,712 

11,024 

7,876 

6,349 

  39,932 

1,681 

18,913 

4,668 

21,019 

Shell subsidiaries

2023

Revenue

Third parties

Sales between businesses

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge/(credit)

Earnings after taxation

[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.

2022

Revenue

Third parties

Sales between businesses

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge/(credit)

Earnings after taxation

[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.

331
331

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

2021

Revenue

Third parties

Sales between businesses

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA Other [A]

North America

$ million

South
 America

Total

1,502 

  3,084 

5,524 

  11,107 

  7,026 

  14,191 

1,892 

1,817 

77 

239 

858 

73 

681 

5,256 

5,937 

1,222 

234 

21 

1,849 

2,214 

3,411 

8,009 

4,063 

11,420 

1,013 

2,165 

250 

133 

120 

616 

816 

1,815 

2,631 

679 

— 

191 

181 

1,167 

12,510 

8,249 

42,174 

9,416 

  54,684 

1,045 

2,847 

150 

9,833 

4,386 

1,423 

3,973 

16,546 

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

1,342 

  2,817 

1,805 

1,227 

5,201 

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge/(credit)

Earnings after taxation

[A] Comprises Canada and Mexico. 

Shell share of joint ventures and associates

2023

3,747 

1,330 

(155)   

(349)   

(2,550)   

1,045 

233 

3,301 

(271)    7,296 

2,810 

1,789 

494 

  4,452 

831 

35 

5,868 

1,268 

(765)    2,844 

1,979 

1,754 

4,600 

535 

180 

355 

1,168 

19,195 

256 

912 

7,516 

11,679 

Third-party revenue

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge

Earnings after taxation

2022

Third-party revenue

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge

Earnings after taxation

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

433 

433 

255 

26 

105 

(2)   

49 

25 

24 

3,801 

3,801 

634 

872 

9 

501 

29 

1,756 

868 

888 

239 

239 

109 

17 

— 

45 

17 

51 

— 

51 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(7)   

7 

2 

5 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

$ million

Total

4,525 

4,525 

1,005 

922 

9 

680 

27 

South
 America

52 

52 

7 

7 

— 

29 

(10)   

19 

1,882 

(20)   

875 

39 

1,007 

Europe

2,899 

2,899 

289 

231 

1 

155 

(2,061)   

4,284 

2,958 

1,326 

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

South
 America

5,997 

5,997 

617 

1,402 

26 

2,910 

184 

858 

1,437 

(579)   

190 

190 

97 

18 

— 

46 

14 

15 

— 

15 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(2)   

2 

1 

1 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

219 

219 

23 

25 

— 

47 

18 

106 

22 

84 

$ million

Total

9,305 

9,305 

1,026 

1,676 

27 

3,158 

(1,847) 

5,265 

4,418 

847 

332
332

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

2021

Third-party revenue

Total

Production costs excluding taxes

Taxes other than income tax

Exploration

Depreciation, depletion and amortisation

Other costs/(income)

Earnings before taxation

Taxation charge

Earnings after taxation

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

USA

Canada

North America

1,632 

1,632 

246 

48 

2 

254 

732 

350 

62 

288 

5,236 

5,236 

770 

900 

27 

1,262 

118 

2,159 

877 

1,282 

78 

78 

82 

7 

— 

32 

(22)   

(21)   

— 

(21)   

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(8)   

8 

2 

6 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

$ million

Total

7,048 

7,048 

1,107 

967 

29 

1,586 

831 

2,528 

South
 America

102 

102 

9 

12 

— 

38 

11 

32 

(2)   

939 

34 

1,589 

Acreage and wells
The tables below reflect acreage and wells of Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The term "gross" refers to the total activity in which 
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have an interest. The term "net" refers to the sum of the fractional interests owned by Shell 
subsidiaries plus the Shell share of joint ventures and associates' fractional interests. Data below are rounded to the nearest whole number. 

Oil and gas acreage (at December 31)

2023

2022 

Thousand Acres

2021 

Developed

Undeveloped

Developed

Undeveloped

Developed

Undeveloped

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

  5,913 

1,854 

  4,230 

  2,105 

  6,008 

1,873 

  6,121 

  3,095 

  6,022 

1,880 

  8,083 

  3,839 

 20,654 

  7,360 

 34,782 

  18,515 

 20,678 

  7,370 

  33,382 

  18,524 

  21,360 

  7,651 

  31,620 

  17,022 

  2,381 

879 

  7,618 

  4,337 

  2,368 

854 

  8,978 

  4,940 

  2,343 

839 

  9,714 

  5,237 

  3,086 

1,141 

 57,376 

  28,471 

  3,086 

1,141 

  71,934 

  37,199 

  3,937 

  1,457 

  71,398 

 35,633 

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

388 

242 

1,984 

1,318 

486 

286 

  2,180 

  1,457 

487 

286 

  2,049 

  1,555 

North America - Mexico

— 

— 

  5,406 

  3,335 

— 

— 

  5,406 

  3,335 

— 

— 

  5,407 

  3,335 

North America - Canada

385 

213 

1,147 

646 

379 

209 

1,126 

626 

367 

208 

1,326 

821 

South America

Total

1,678 

761 

  31,164 

  20,183 

  1,669 

755 

  26,156 

  14,393 

  1,463 

616 

 23,467 

  12,629 

 34,485 

  12,450 

 143,707 

  78,910 

 34,674 

  12,488 

 155,283 

 83,569 

 35,979 

  12,937 

 153,064 

  80,071 

333
333

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Number of productive wells [A] (at December 31)

Oil

Gross

Net Gross

2023

Gas

Net

  754 

  201 

  930 

  295 

Oil

Gross

749

Net

199

  8,536 

 2,959 

  374 

  238 

8,164 [B]

2,843 [B]

— 

— 

 3,579 

 2,127 

  328 

  108 

  83 

  33 

—

321

—

106

6,617

—

2022 

Gas

Oil

Gross

Net

Gross

Net Gross

2021 

Gas

Net

963 

316 

  306 

  201 

796   

193    1,021    324 

  8,804   3,213    362    209 

3,382 

 1,964 

—   

—   3,398   1,974 

84 

26 

34 

18 

391   

126   

114   

 13,042   6,627   

28   

56 

20 

530 

  459 

—   

—    510    440 

North America – USA

173 

  109 

  23 

16 

13,021

North America – Canada

— 

— 

  545 

  472 

—

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

South America

  345 

  170 

  63 

  39 

293 [C]

144 [C]

58  [D]  

35  [D]

229   

112   

67   

39 

Total

 10,136 

 3,547 

 5,597 

 3,220 

22,548 [E]

9,909 [E]

5,359  [F]

 3,017  [F]

 23,262   10,271   5,500   3,062 

[A] The number of productive wells with multiple completions at December 31, 2023 was 346 Gross (142 Net); December 31, 2022: 869 Gross (400 Net); December 31, 2021: 956 Gross 

(427 Net).

[B] Corrected From 8,147 Gross (2837 Net).
[C] Corrected From 294 Gross (145 Net).
[D] Corrected From 69 Gross (40 Net).
[E] Corrected From 22,532 Gross (9904 Net).
[F] Corrected From 5,370 Gross (3022 Net).

Number of net productive wells and dry holes drilled [A]

Exploratory [A]

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

Development

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

2023

2022

Productive

Dry

Productive

Dry

Productive

—

1

24

—

2

3

10

40

2

255

166

2

12

10

20

467

1

4

0

2

5

—

—

12

—

3

25

—

—

1

—

29

5

4

20

—

—

—

18

47

3

217

84

5

54

22

23

408

2

5

1

2

5

—

2

17

—

—

1

—

—

—

—

1

—

5

—

—

3

—

5

13

3

218

7

6

46

—

31

311

2021

Dry

—

10

2

11

39

15

1

78

1

—

—

—

—

—

—

1

[A] Productive wells are wells with proved reserves allocated. Wells in the process of drilling are excluded and presented separately below.

334
334

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued

Number of wells in the process of exploratory drilling [A]

Wells in the process 
of drilling at January 
1 and allocated 
proved reserves 
during the year

Gross

— 

Net

— 

At January 1

Gross

9 

Net

5 

66  [B]

25  [B]

(2)   

(1)   

2023

Wells in the process of 
drilling at January 1 and 
determined as dry 
during the year

New wells in the 
process of drilling at 
December 31

At December 31

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

— 

(6)   

— 

— 

— 

(1)   

— 

— 

(51)   

(24)   

— 

— 

(2)   

(2)   

(3)   

(3)   

— 

— 

(14)   

(6)   

— 

(1)   

— 

— 

2 

4 

10 

6 

1 

— 

17 

40 

1 

3 

5 

4 

1 

— 

8 

22 

11 

62 

30 

26 

7 

6 

26 

168 

7 

26 

11 

15 

5 

6 

12 

82 

71 

20 

11 

6 

24 

31 

11 

9 

6 

10 

207  [C]

97  [C]

(69)   

(33)   

(10)   

(4)   

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

[A] Wells in the process of exploratory drilling includes wells pending further evaluation.
[B] Corrected from 60 Gross (22 Net).
[C] Corrected from 201 Gross (94 Net).

Number of wells in the process of development drilling

Europe

Asia

Oceania

Africa

North America - USA

North America - Canada

South America

Total

[A] Corrected from 29 Gross (16 Net).
[B] Corrected from 359 Gross (226 Net).

At January 1

2023

At December 31

Gross

2

109 [A]

282

1

21

6

18

Net

1

20 [A]

184

1

12

5

7

439 [B]

230 [B]

Gross

5

127

165

3

5

—

26

331

Net

2

20

94

1

3

—

6

126

In addition to the present activities mentioned above, the following recovery methods are operational in the following countries: water flooding 
(Brazil (including water alternating gas), Brunei, Malaysia, Nigeria, Oman, the UK and the USA); gas injection (Brazil, Brunei, Kazakhstan, 
Malaysia, Nigeria and Oman); steam injection (the Netherlands, Oman and the USA), and polymer flooding (Oman). 

335
335

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure

The EU Taxonomy

Introduction
Regulation EU 2020/852 (the "EU Taxonomy Regulation") is a 
classification system for determining when an economic activity 
can be considered environmentally sustainable according to 
European Union (EU) standards. It aims to encourage investment 
in a low-carbon economy by creating common definitions of 
sustainability and mandatory disclosures to help investors make 
informed decisions.

Non-financial companies screen their eligible activities against the 
taxonomy's technical criteria for environmental sustainability and 
minimum safeguards. This allows them to calculate the share of 
revenue (turnover), capital expenditure (capex) and operating 
expenditure (opex) that can be classified as aligned. 

Shell supports the EU's ambition to achieve net zero emissions, 
which aligns with our own target to become a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050. We report against the taxonomy 
voluntarily because we recognise the importance of increasing 
transparency about how companies are progressing in the energy 
transition, even if the regulation is still evolving. 

Reporting scope
The taxonomy's reporting scope covers Shell's global business, 
based on the financial consolidation boundary. Shell's eligible 
activities include elements of our chemicals, power generation and 
storage, hydrogen, biogas and biofuels, electric vehicle charging, 
carbon capture and storage (CCS) and nature-based solutions 
(NBS) businesses. Our remaining businesses are non-eligible. 

The taxonomy's reporting basis differs from that used in our financial 
statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). 

Scope of taxonomy-eligible activities

For example, the taxonomy does not recognise our interests in 
equity-accounted joint ventures and associates, goodwill, feasibility 
expenses or integrated value chains. These and other differences 
result in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the 
taxonomy compared with our other disclosures. 

Technical criteria
The taxonomy’s technical criteria recognise stringent levels of 
environmental performance rather than transitional steps or 
alternative pathways. The complexity of the criteria and their 
reliance on EU standards can make the criteria difficult to interpret 
and apply, especially for activities outside the EU. 

Eligible and aligned share of Shell's business
In 2023, Shell's eligible turnover was $8,445 million or 2.7% 
(2022: $11,986 million or 3.1%), capex was $6,032 million or 
19.2% (2022: $6,744 million or 20.9%) and opex was $1,382 
million or 25.9% (2022: $796 million or 16.1%). 

In 2023, our aligned turnover was $542 million or 0.2%, capex 
was $4,173 million or 13.3% and opex was $30 million or 0.6%, 
comparing with zero alignment reported in 2022. The increase in the 
alignment was attributable to further development of our approach 
to technical screening based on evolving market practices and the 
acquisition of a biogas business. Our taxonomy-aligned activities 
include elements of our hydrogen, wind, solar, battery storage, 
biogas and biofuels and EV charging business, excluding 
individual assets that are not currently aligned with the 
technical screening criteria. 

The taxonomy does not provide a complete picture of our low-carbon 
business. Nevertheless, we support efforts to improve the framework 
and advance climate-related disclosure more broadly. For more 
information, see "Our journey to net zero" on pages 82-115.

1.4

Conservation forestry

3.14

Manufacture of chemicals

3.17

Manufacture of plastics

3.10

Manufacture of hydrogen

4.13

Manufacture of biogas 
and biofuels

4.1

4.3

Electricity from solar

Electricity from wind

4.10

Storage of electricity

4.29

Electricity from fossil gas

5.11

5.12

Transport of CO2
Storage of CO2

6.15

Infrastructure enabling 
low-carbon road transport

7.6

Installation of renewable 
energy technologies

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Equity-accounted
JVAs

Feasibility

Eligible
projects

Feasibility

Manufacturing

Non-eligible
projects

Non-eligible
products

Feasibility

Manufacturing

Trading

Feasibility

Feasibility

Feasibility

Feasibility

Power
generation

Power
storage

Power
generation

Transport
& storage

Feasibility

Infrastructure

Feasibility

B2C
solutions

Trading and
B2B/B2C sales

Trading and
B2B/B2C sales

Trading and
B2B/B2C sales

Carbon
capture

Retail power
and hydrogen
sales

Trading

Trading

Feedstock
(biofuels only)

Decarbonisation
of non-eligible
activities

Upstream,
midstream,
LNG, GTL

B2B/B2C
solutions

B2B  Business-to-Business  B2C  Business-to-Consumer  JVA  Joint Ventures & Associates  LNG  Liqueﬁed Natural Gas  GTL  Gas-to-Liquids 

Taxonomy non-eligible

Taxonomy-eligible

336

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

The taxonomy framework
The taxonomy establishes technical criteria for environmental 
sustainability across more than 150 economic activities and six 
environmental objectives. 

activities due to uncertainty in the market about how to interpret 
various aspects of the technical criteria. Several activities were, 
however, assessed as close to aligned, including solar, wind, hydrogen, 
low-carbon road transport and renewable energy technology.

An activity is taxonomy-eligible if it is described in a delegated 
act adopted under the EU Taxonomy Regulation. Such an activity 
is eligible regardless of whether it complies with the technical 
screening criteria. 

An activity is taxonomy-aligned if it contributes substantially to one 
or more environmental objectives, does no significant harm to any of 
the other objectives, is carried out in compliance with minimum human 
and labour rights safeguards, and complies with the relevant technical 
screening criteria.

The EU has stated that the taxonomy will develop over time. It notes 
that the fact an activity is not recognised as substantially contributing 
to one of the EU's environmental objectives does not necessarily mean 
it is not sustainable, and that not all activities with the potential to make 
a substantial contribution to the environmental objectives are yet 
included in the framework.

As a UK company with its registered office and headquarters in 
London, Shell plc is not currently subject to the EU Taxonomy 
Regulation. We expect to come into scope in 2024 via the EU's 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which extends 
the EU Taxonomy Regulation's reporting obligation to third-country 
issuers that are listed on European exchanges. 

Our eligibility and alignment
In 2023, Shell's eligible turnover was $8,445 million or 2.7% 
(2022: $11,986 million or 3.1%), capex was $6,032 million or 19.2% 
(2022: $6,744 million or 20.9%) and opex was $1,382 million or 
25.9% (2022: $796 million or 16.1%). 

Eligible turnover decreased by $3,541 million, mainly due to lower 
prices and lower demand for Chemicals products. Capex was 
comparable to capex reported in 2022. Lower capex for wind 
and solar was offset by an increase in capex for the biogas and 
biofuels businesses. Opex was higher by $586 million compared with 
2022, mainly driven by commencement of operations at the Shell 
Polymers Monaca polyethylene production facility in Pennsylvania.

In 2023, Shell's taxonomy-aligned turnover was $542 million or 0.2%, 
capex was $4,173 million or 13.3% and opex was $30 million or 0.6%. 
In 2022, Shell elected to report zero alignment for all economic 

In 2023, five economic activities were assessed as taxonomy-aligned, 
including manufacture of hydrogen, electricity from wind, electricity 
from solar, storage of electricity and infrastructure enabling low-carbon 
road transport. For a sixth activity, manufacture of biogas and biofuels, 
we assessed some elements of our activities as taxonomy-aligned and 
some as non-aligned.

We further developed our approach to technical screening based 
on evolving market practices and internal efforts to improve alignment 
with the technical screening criteria. For example, we carried out a 
review of physical climate risks for our eligible activities in line with the 
requirements of the Generic criteria for Do No Significant Harm to 
Climate Change Adaptation (Appendix A). Completion of this review 
made it possible to report several activities that were close to 
alignment in 2022 as aligned in 2023. 

Basis of preparation
Shell seeks to prepare its disclosure in accordance with Delegated 
Regulation EU 2021/2178 (the "Disclosures Delegated Act") as well 
as several Commission Notices containing answers to frequently asked 
questions about taxonomy reporting issued between 2021 and 2023.

Shell has adopted a three-step process to prepare its taxonomy 
disclosure: 
￮ we identify our eligible activities and map these to our assets and 

projects; 

￮ we screen those activities for alignment with the technical criteria 

and the minimum safeguards; and

￮ we calculate the metrics for eligibility and alignment, based on 

the screening results. 

Each step is discussed below. 

Identification of eligible activities
Shell has assessed its business against the economic activities 
qualifying for the taxonomy's six environmental objectives. These 
include the activities listed in Delegated Regulation EU 2021/2139 (the 
"Climate Delegated Act", as amended), the gas-related activities listed 
in Delegated Regulation EU 2022/1214 (the "Complementary Climate 
Delegated Act") and the activities listed in EU 2023/2486 (the 
"Environmental Delegated Act").

EU taxonomy eligibility and alignment 2023

Aligned

Eligible

Non-eligible

Total

Aligned % of total

Eligible % of total

Non-eligible % of total

Turnover

542 

8,445 

308,175 

316,620 

 0.2 %

 2.7 %

 97.3 %

Capex

4,173 

6,032 

25,440 

31,472 

 13.3 %

 19.2 %

 80.8 %

$ million, except where indicated

2023

Opex

30 

1,382 

3,951 

5,333 

 0.6 %

 25.9 %

 74.1 %

Turnover

— 

11,986 

369,328 

381,314 

 — %

 3.1 %

 96.9 %

Capex

— 

6,744 

25,556 

32,300 

 — %

 20.9 %

 79.1 %

2022

Opex

— 

796 

4,138 

4,934 

 — %

 16.1 %

 83.9 %

337
337

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

The taxonomy does not provide criteria for determining when an 
economic activity is in scope for reporting. According to EU guidance, 
an economic activity takes place when resources — such as capital, 
goods, labour, manufacturing techniques or intermediary products — 
are combined to produce specific goods or services. Based on this 
definition, Shell treats economic activities as in scope for reporting if 
they correspond to final goods or services offered for sale to customers, 
or if they are intended to be offered for sale in the future, based on 
current business plans. We do not report on factors of production 
or overheads, such as real estate or IT, since these do not represent 
a final good or service. We also do not report on activities which are 
immaterial to our results and are not intended to operate as stand-
alone businesses, such as sales of waste heat or electricity from 
refineries and chemical plants.

For 2023, we identified a total of 13 economic activities as eligible 
for reporting. The only addition to our activities since last year was 
Storage of electricity, which became an eligible activity due to the 
development of new power storage projects. Although we screen our 
activities against all applicable environmental objectives, the discussion 
of our performance against the technical screening criteria focuses 
on the climate mitigation objective.

Alignment screening
Shell has developed an internal process to assess its eligible activities 
for alignment with the technical screening criteria and minimum 
safeguards, based on our understanding of the requirements of 
the Disclosures Delegated Act.

For each eligible activity, we begin by identifying the assets in scope 
for reporting. An asset is typically a discrete element of physical plant 
or equipment that contributes to an economic activity, such as a 
chemical plant or a wind farm, or a project in development that is 
intended to become an asset in the future. 

Once the assets for each activity have been defined, we review the 
Substantial Contribution and Do No Significant Harm criteria and 
proceed to screen the assets. Screening is carried out by subject 
matter experts and subject to cross-checking at various levels.

The technical criteria are highly detailed, with extensive references 
to European standards and regulations, which are not widely used 
outside the region. Applying them poses several challenges including: 
￮ where it is difficult to translate EU standards or regulations to a non-

EU context; 

￮ where Shell is materially aligned with a complex technical standard 

but varies in certain details; 

￮ where the criteria are expressed in qualitative terms that are open 

to interpretation; or 

￮ where the criteria are designed for a narrower range of applications 

than the one implied by the activity description.

These situations require us to apply judgement in determining whether 
the criteria are met.

Sometimes it is not possible to associate eligible turnover, capex or 
opex with a specific asset. For example, this can happen when we incur 
research and development expenses for an activity but the expenditure 
cannot be tied to a specific project for screening purposes. If alignment 
cannot be reasonably established according to our alignment 
screening process, the relevant amounts are classified as eligible 
but non-aligned.

Situations can arise where we may not be able to screen all assets in 
scope of an activity. This can occur when an activity contains a large 
number of early-stage projects and it is more efficient to focus on the 
most material projects and treat the remaining ones as eligible but

338
338

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

non-aligned. This situation can also arise when assets are acquired
late in the reporting cycle and there is insufficient time to conduct a 
high-quality screening, or when it has not been possible to obtain 
information about a non-operated asset from joint-venture partners. 
Such assets are treated as eligible but non-aligned by default. 

Assets that do not have eligible turnover, capex or opex to report 
are non-eligible and are not subject to technical screening. In practice, 
many early-stage projects are non-eligible because they have no 
turnover or capex to report, while feasibility expenditures incurred 
prior to a final investment decision (FID) are non-eligible under the 
opex performance indicator. Technical screening outcomes described 
in this disclosure apply only to eligible assets that have been screened 
in 2023.

Where some assets or products in scope of an economic activity are 
assessed as fully aligned with the technical screening criteria while 
others are not, an allocation method is applied so that only the aligned 
portion is included. For example, this can occur when some biofuels 
or biogas production is assessed as taxonomy-aligned and some 
is assessed as non-aligned. 

Where there is uncertainty with regard to how to interpret or apply any 
of the technical screening criteria in our alignment screening process, 
the relevant assets are assessed as non-aligned. In such cases, we 
intend to monitor future developments and update our approach 
as appropriate.

Substantial Contribution
The Substantial Contribution criteria are designed to ensure that an 
economic activity either has a substantial positive impact on one of the 
environmental objectives or substantially reduces negative impacts on 
the environment. The criteria vary from activity to activity.

Shell screened its eligible economic activities against all relevant 
environmental objectives. For five activities, assets in scope for 
screening were assessed as aligned with the Substantial Contribution 
criteria for climate mitigation, including solar, wind, hydrogen 
manufacturing, storage of electricity and infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport. For a sixth activity, manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels, some elements were assessed as aligned and some as non-
aligned, based on the proportion of feedstock meeting the Substantial 
Contribution criteria. 

Assets in scope for our remaining activities were assessed as non-
aligned. For two activities, alignment could not be established due to 
uncertainty about how to interpret and apply the technical screening 
criteria. This was the case for carbon transport and storage, where 
there are questions as to whether local standards are equivalent to 
the international and EU standards referenced by the criteria, and 
for conservation forestry, where the technical criteria differ from 
internationally recognised carbon credit standards.

Do No Significant Harm
The Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria are designed to ensure 
that an economic activity does not impede other environmental 
objectives being reached. The combination of the Substantial 
Contribution and Do No Significant Harm criteria is intended to ensure 
coherence between the taxonomy's objectives and to avoid progress 
towards one objective being made at the expense of another.

The DNSH criteria for activities contributing to climate change 
mitigation include detailed requirements for climate change 
adaptation, water, circular economy, pollution prevention and 
biodiversity. The criteria vary for each environmental objective 
and activity.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Shell screened its eligible economic activities against all relevant 
environmental objectives. For five activities, assets in scope for 
screening were assessed as aligned with the DNSH criteria for climate 
mitigation, including solar, wind, hydrogen manufacturing, storage of 
electricity and infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport. Some 
elements of our manufacture of biogas and biofuels activities were 
assessed as aligned and some as non-aligned.

In 2023 we carried out a review of physical climate risks for our eligible 
activities in line with the requirements of the Generic criteria for Do No 
Significant Harm to Climate Change Adaptation (Appendix A). The 
completion of this review made it possible to report several activities 
that were close to alignment in 2022 as aligned in 2023. For more 
information, see "Climate Related Physical Risk" on page 92.

concerned. This can be up to a maximum of 10 years. The justification for 
a longer transition period must feature in the Capex Plan and be included 
in the disclosure. If the Capex Plan fails to meet the conditions within 
the specified timeframe, previously published KPIs must be restated.

A lack of consensus exists in the market about how to interpret various 
aspects of the technical screening criteria. There is also uncertainty 
about how the criteria might apply to future performance conditions. 
Shell has therefore decided not to recognise any capex or opex as 
aligned under the Capex Plan provision in 2023.

Enabling and transitional activities 
The taxonomy designates a subset of aligned activities as "enabling" 
or "transitional". 

In assessing alignment with the DNSH criteria, we were required to 
apply judgement to our electric vehicle charging activities. Electric 
vehicle charging is referenced by multiple economic activities in the 
taxonomy, each of which has a different set of technical screening 
criteria. There is a lack of consensus in the market about which one 
to apply. Shell categorised all its electric vehicle charging businesses 
under the activity with the most stringent criteria, "6.15 Infrastructure 
Enabling Low-Carbon Road Transport and Public Transport".

Transitional activities are those for which low-carbon alternatives are 
not yet available and which:
￮ have greenhouse gas emission levels that correspond to the best 

performance in the sector or industry;

￮ do not hamper the development and deployment of low-carbon 

alternatives; and

￮ do not lead to a lock-in of carbon-intensive assets, considering the 

economic lifetime of those assets. 

For this activity, we assessed the DNSH criteria for waste management 
to be more applicable to medium- or large-scale infrastructure projects 
than to distributed, small-scale electric vehicle charging infrastructure 
with a small construction footprint. Our operating standards for electric 
vehicle charging include measures to limit waste generation and 
encourage re-use and recycling, which we assess as materially 
equivalent.

Enabling activities are those which directly enable others to make a 
substantial contribution to an environmental objective, provided they:
￮ do not lead to a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term 

environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those 
assets; and

￮ have a substantial positive impact on the basis of life-cycle 

considerations. 

Our remaining eligible activities were assessed as non-aligned with one 
or more of the DNSH criteria. In several cases, we assessed ourselves 
as non-aligned due to uncertainty about how to interpret various 
aspects of the technical screening criteria.

An economic activity is only transitional or enabling if it complies 
with the technical screening criteria. In 2023, two of Shell's activities, 
storage of electricity and infrastructure enabling low-carbon road 
transport, qualified as enabling. 

Minimum safeguards
The taxonomy defines the minimum safeguards as procedures 
implemented by a company to ensure alignment with the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, including the eight fundamental 
conventions identified in the Declaration of the International Labour 
Organisation on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the 
International Bill of Human Rights.

Respect for human rights is embedded in the Shell General 
Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. We have an integrated 
approach to human rights that is embedded into our policies and 
processes, which are applicable to all employees and contractors. 
This approach is informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights.

Calculating the key performance indicators
The taxonomy KPIs consist of separate measures for eligible and 
aligned turnover, capex and opex. Each measure is calculated as 
the amount associated with eligible or aligned economic activities 
(numerator) divided by the total (denominator). In 2023, there was 
no change in the approach to calculate KPIs.

Turnover
The turnover KPI comprises the Revenue line from the Consolidated 
Statement of Income. This measure is reconciled as follows.

EU Taxonomy turnover 2023

2023

$ million

2022

We assessed our taxonomy-eligible activities as compliant with the 
minimum safeguards. For more information, see "Human Rights" 
on page 127.

Revenue from other sources

Total EUT Turnover

15,607 

11,708 

316,620 

381,314 

Revenue from contracts with customers

301,013 

369,606 

Capex Plan assessment
As specified in the Disclosures Delegated Act, capex and opex can be 
treated as aligned when such expenditures form part of a Capex Plan 
aimed at expanding an aligned activity or upgrading an eligible 
activity to enable it to become aligned. 

To qualify, a Capex Plan must be approved by management and 
disclosed at the economic activity aggregated level. The expansion 
or upgrade must take place within five years unless a longer period 
is justified by the specific features of the activity and the upgrade 

339
339

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell's reporting of revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income 
follows the IFRS definition, under which realised and unrealised gains 
and losses from hedging are recognised in revenue. We follow the 
same principles when calculating the numerator and denominator for 
the turnover KPI. In 2023, excluding hedging effects would have an 
immaterial impact on the numerator and denominator. 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Capex
The capex KPI comprises the Additions line from the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" Note 10 – Goodwill and other intangible assets; 
and the Additions line from the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 
Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment. Goodwill is excluded from 
the measure.

When business combinations involving an eligible activity occur in a 
prior reporting period but Purchase Price Allocation takes place within 
the current period, we recognise the resulting movements to property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets as an addition. These 
amounts are contained within Note 10 – Goodwill and other intangible 
assets and Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment in the Sales, 
retirements and other movements line and are added to the numerator 
and denominator.

EU Taxonomy opex 2023

Production and manufacturing expenses

Selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses

Research and development

Total operating expenses*

Less: Non-maintenance expenses

Less: Selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses

Add: Expenses relating to short-term leases

Total EUT Opex

2023

25,240 

13,433 

1,287 

39,960 

21,689 

13,433 

495 

5,333 

$ million

2022

25,518 

12,883 

1,075 

39,476 

22,211 

12,883 

552 

4,934 

This measure is reconciled as follows.

EU Taxonomy capex 2023

Additions to property, plant and equipment

Additions to goodwill and other intangible 
assets

Less: Goodwill

Add: Other movements

Total EUT Capex

2023

25,831 

6,994 

1,436 

83 

$ million

2022

28,254 

5,555 

1,954 

445 

31,472 

32,300 

The numerator for aligned capex comprises the part of eligible capex 
that is (a) associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities; (b) 
part of a Capex Plan to expand an aligned activity or to enable a non-
aligned activity to become aligned; and (c) related to the purchase of 
output from taxonomy-eligible activities. Due to limited guidance about 
how (c) should be calculated, our reporting focuses on (a) and (b) only. 

The capex KPI as defined by the EU Taxonomy Regulation differs from 
Shell's cash capital expenditure measure. The latter monitors investing 
activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease additions, 
which do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the period. This 
measure comprises the following lines from the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows: Capital expenditure, investments in joint ventures and 
associates and investments in equity securities. The cash capex 
measure is presented on page 368.

Opex
The taxonomy defines the opex KPI as costs associated with 
maintenance and repair, research and development and short-term 
leases. This is narrower than Shell's definition of operating expenses 
and does not capture all of our expenditure on otherwise eligible 
activities. This measure is reconciled as follows:

* Non-GAAP measure (see page 365).

The numerator for aligned opex comprises the part of eligible opex that 
is (a) associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities; (b) part of 
a Capex Plan to expand an aligned activity or to enable a non-aligned 
activity to become aligned; and (c) related to the purchase of output 
from taxonomy-eligible activities. Due to limited guidance about how 
(c) should be calculated, our reporting focuses on (a) and (b) only.

Other accounting policies
Eligibility and alignment are calculated separately for each 
economic activity. 

The reporting boundary for each economic activity is determined by 
the description contained in the relevant delegated act. This boundary 
frequently differs from our integrated value chains and segmental 
reporting. As a result, various adjustments are needed to calculate the 
required figures. For example, we exclude sales of third-party products 
as well as trading and retailing from the calculation of the KPIs. These 
are significant for Shell's integrated business model but are not eligible 
for the taxonomy. Although intra-group sales are non-eligible, sales to 
our trading business are used in certain circumstances to calculate the 
turnover attributable to eligible parts of the value chain. 

When a reporting entity is engaged in multiple economic activities, 
an allocation method is applied so that only the appropriate part is 
included. Reconciliation is made to total turnover, capex and opex 
to avoid double counting.

In some cases, a subsidiary or other related undertaking may have 
interests in more than one economic activity but there insufficient data 
are available to disaggregate turnover, capex and opex. In these 
cases, we allocate the KPIs to the activity that best describes the 
primary business of the entity. 

Shell's eligible and aligned turnover, capex and opex are presented on 
pages 343-345 in accordance with templates specified in Annex II of 
the Disclosures Delegated Act as amended. Disclosures concerning our 
gas-related activities are presented on pages 346-349 in accordance 
with the requirements of the Disclosures Delegated Act, Articles 8(6) 
and (7), including the templates specified in Annex XII.

340
340

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Contextual information on the KPIs
This section provides additional contextual information to accompany 
the presentation of the turnover, capex and opex KPIs on pages 
343-345.

Turnover
In 2023, Shell's taxonomy-eligible turnover was $8,445 million or 2.7% 
of the total, which was a decrease in absolute terms of $3,541 million 
compared with 2022. The economic activities that made the biggest 
contribution to eligible turnover were chemicals and plastics, 
renewable power (including wind, solar and installation of renewable 
energy technologies) and manufacture of biogas and biofuels.

Eligible turnover for renewable power increased to $842 million 
in 2023 from $462 million in 2022. Additional eligible revenue of 
$246 million was generated by manufacture of biogas and biofuels. 
The main drivers for increases were acquisitions and organic growth 
of the above businesses, offset by lower prices and lower demand 
for Chemicals products.

Aligned turnover of $542 million was generated by renewable power, 
low-carbon road transport and manufacture of biogas and biofuels.

Capex
In 2023, Shell's taxonomy-eligible capex was $6,032 million or 
19.2% of the total, which was comparable to capex reported in 2022. 
The economic activities that made the biggest contribution to eligible 
capex included manufacture of biogas and biofuels, low-carbon road 
transport, chemicals and renewable power (solar and wind).

Eligible capex for biogas and biofuels was $2,078 million in 2023 
compared with $580 million in 2022 driven by the business acquisition 
and the construction of the biofuels facility in Rotterdam. Solar and 
wind was a combined $1,596 million in 2023 compared with $2,862 
million in 2022 due to capital relocation in the renewable power 
business compared with material acquisitions in 2022. Eligible capex 
for low-carbon transport, which includes electric vehicle charging and 

hydrogen mobility, was $ 991 million in 2023 compared with $346 
million in 2022, driven by acquisitions and organic growth. Eligible 
capex for hydrogen was $199 million in 2023 compared to $139 
million in 2022. Eligible capex for plastics fell to $131 million in 2023 
from $1,914 million in 2022, reflecting the completion of construction 
activity at our Shell Polymers Monaca polyethylene production facility 
in Pennsylvania. A new activity, Storage of electricity, was added in 
2023 due to the development of new power storage projects, which 
added additional capex of $82 million. 

Aligned capex of $4,173 million was mainly driven by acquisition of 
the biogas business and growth of the biofuels business, by low-carbon 
road transport via its further growth and acquisitions, and by further 
developments in renewable power and manufacture of hydrogen. 

Capex additions related to acquisitions through business combinations 
are aggregated with other capex additions.

Opex
In 2023, Shell's taxonomy-eligible opex was $1,382 million or 25.9% 
of the total, which was higher by $586 million compared with 2022. 
The economic activities that made the biggest contribution to eligible 
opex include chemicals and plastics, biofuels and hydrogen. Our 
chemicals business is relatively mature compared with our other eligible 
activities and therefore accounts for the largest share of opex.

Eligible opex for chemicals increased to $776 million in 2023 from 
$658 million in 2022. Opex for plastics increased to $357 million due 
to commencement of operations at the Shell Polymers Monaca 
polyethylene production facility in Pennsylvania. An increase in 
opex in biofuels and hydrogen was mainly related to research 
and development expenditure.

Aligned opex of $30 million was incurred by wind power generation 
and low-carbon road transport and related to research and 
development work.

341
341

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Scope of taxonomy-eligible activities

No

1.4

Economic activity

Conservation forestry

Scope

Nature-based solutions projects that meet the EU taxonomy activity 
description for conservation forestry and generate capital assets.

Notes

[A], [B], [C]

3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen

Development and operation of hydrogen manufacturing assets.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [E]

3.14 Manufacture of organic basic chemicals

Manufacture of taxonomy-eligible chemical products.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [F]

3.17 Manufacture of plastics in primary form

Manufacture of polyethylene.

[A], [B], [C], [D]

4.1

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Development and operation of solar photovoltaic power assets.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [G], [H]

4.3

Electricity generation from wind power

Development and operation of wind power assets.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [G], [H]

4.10

Storage of electricity 

Development and operation of utility-scale facilities that store 
electricity.

[A], [B], [C], [G]

4.13 Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 

transport and of bioliquids

Development and operation of assets for the manufacture of biogas 
and biofuels for use in transport.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [I]

4.29

Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels

Development and operation of gas-fired power assets.

[A], [B], [C], [D], [J], [K]

5.11

Transport of CO2

Development and operation of CO2 transport assets.

Underground permanent geological storage of CO2 Development and operation of CO2 storage assets.

[A], [B], [L], [M]

[A], [B], [L], [M]

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and 
public transport

Development and operation of electric vehicle charging points and 
hydrogen infrastructure for road transport.

[A], [B], [G]

Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable 
energy technologies

Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy 
technologies, on site.

[A], [B], [H]

5.12

6.15

7.6

[A] Excludes interests in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates.
[B] Excludes feasibility expenses incurred prior to final investment decision.
[C] Excludes trading activity.
[D] Excludes sales of third-party products.
[E] Excludes integrated hydrogen units whose outputs are primarily intended for internal consumption, such as desulphurisation in refineries.
[F] Excludes taxonomy non-eligible chemical products.
[G] Excludes B2B/B2C retail sales of electricity.
[H] Excludes expenditure on renewable power projects to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions for taxonomy non-eligible target activities.
[I] Excludes ventures engaged in the development of feedstocks for biofuels manufacturing.
[J] Does not include integrated generation or cogeneration units whose outputs are primarily intended for internal consumption. 
[K] Does not include upstream exploration and production, midstream, LNG or GTL.
[L] Excludes carbon capture, subject to the remarks in Note [M].
[M] For integrated CCS projects where it is not practically possible to distinguish carbon capture, transport and/or storage, the "Storage of CO₂" activity is used.

342
342

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Turnover KPI

Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities - 2023 [A]

Financial year

2023

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria ('Do No Significant 
Harm')

)
3
1
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
4
1
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

Y/N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
4
(
3
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
3
(

r
e
v
o
n
r
u
T

Code (2)

)
5
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
6
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
1
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

)
9
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

)
0
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
7
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
8
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
2
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

Economic activities (1)

$ million

%

Y; N; N/EL

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of hydrogen 

CCM 3.10

— 

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Electricity generation from wind power

Storage of electricity 

CCM 4.1

CCM 4.3

125

170

CCM 4.10

— 

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 4.13

99

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

147

 — 

 — 

 0.1 %

 — 

 — 

 — 

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities 
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 

Of which Enabling

Of which Transitional

542 

 0.2 %  100 %

147 

— 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)

EL; N/EL

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Conservation forestry

Manufacture of hydrogen

CCM 1.4

CCM 3.10

— 

— 

 — 

 — 

Manufacture of organic basic chemicals

CCM 3.14

  6,756 

 2.1 %

Manufacture of plastics in primary form

CCM 3.17

326 

 0.1 %

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Electricity generation from wind power

Storage of electricity 

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 4.1

CCM 4.3

CCM 4.10

CCM 4.13

Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels

CCM 4.29  

Transport of CO2

CCM 5.11

Underground permanent geological storage of 
CO2

CCM 5.12

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

— 

— 

— 

147 

114 

— 

12 

— 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

Installation, maintenance and repair of 
renewable energy technologies

CCM 7.6

547 

 0.2 %

Turnover of taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 

  7,902 

 2.5 %

A.Turnover of taxonomy-eligible activities (A1 + A2)

8,445 

 2.7 %

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Turnover of taxonomy non-eligible activities

TOTAL

  308,175 

 97.3 %

  316,620 

 100 %

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

r
o
)
.
1
.
A

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

-

a
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
t

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
7
1
(

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

)
6
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
5
1
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
8
1
(
2
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

,
r
e
v
o
n
r
u
t

)
.
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e

%

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

)
9
1
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

E

E

E

E

)
0
2
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
t

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

T

T

 — 

 — 

 3.0 %

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 0.1 %

 3.1 %

 3.1 %

[A] The taxonomy's reporting basis differs from that used in Shell's financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, 
result in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared with our other disclosures. 

343
343

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Capex KPI

Proportion of capex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities - 2023 [A]

Financial year

2023

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria ('Do No Significant 
Harm')

)
3
1
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
4
1
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

Y/N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
4
(
3
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

x
e
p
a
c

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
3
(

x
e
p
a
C

)
5
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
6
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
1
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

)
9
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

)
0
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
7
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
8
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
2
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

Economic
activities (1)

Code (2)

$ million

%

Y; N; N/EL

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of hydrogen

CCM3.10

199 

 0.6 %

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

CCM 4.1

738 

 2.3 %

Electricity generation from wind power

CCM 4.3

700 

 2.2 %

Storage of electricity

CCM 4.10

82 

 0.3 %

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 4.13

1,487 

 4.7 %

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

968 

 3.1 %

Y

Capex of environmentally sustainable activities 
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)

Of which Enabling

Of which Transitional

4,173 

 13.3 %  100 %

1,050 

 3.3 %

— 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)

EL; N/EL

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Conservation forestry

Manufacture of hydrogen

CCM 1.4

CCM 3.10

11 

— 

 — 

 — 

Manufacture of organic basic chemicals

CCM 3.14

868 

 2.8 %

Manufacture of plastics in primary form

CCM 3.17

131 

 0.4 %

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Electricity generation from wind power

CCM 4.1

CCM 4.3

133 

 0.4 %

25 

 0.1 %

Storage of electricity

CCM 4.10

— 

 — 

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 4.13

591 

 1.9 %

Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels

CCM 4.29  

Transport of CO2

CCM 5.11

9 

— 

 — 

 — 

Underground permanent geological storage of 
CO2

CCM 5.12

35 

 0.1 %

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

23 

 0.1 %

Installation, maintenance and repair of 
renewable energy technologies

CCM 7.6

33 

 0.1 %

Capex of taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)

1,859 

 5.9 %

A.Capex of taxonomy-eligible activities (A1+A2)

  6,032 

 19.2 %

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Capex of taxonomy non-eligible activities

TOTAL

  25,440 

 80.8 %

  31,472 

 100 %

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

r
o
)
.
1
.
A

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

-

a
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
t

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
7
1
(

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

)
6
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
5
1
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
8
1
(
2
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

,
x
e
p
a
c

)
.
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e

%

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

)
9
1
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

E

E

E

E

)
0
2
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
t

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

T

T

 — 

 0.4 %

 2.5 %

 5.9 %

 5.4 %

 3.4 %

 — 

 1.9 %

 0.1 %

 — 

 0.1 %

 1.1 %

 0.1 %

 20.9 %

 20.9 %

[A] The taxonomy's reporting basis differs from that used in Shell's financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, 
result in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared with our other disclosures. 

344
344

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Opex KPI

Proportion of opex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities - 2023 [A]

Financial year

2023

Substantial contribution criteria

DNSH criteria ('Do No Significant 
Harm')

)
3
1
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
4
1
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

Y/N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
4
(
3
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

x
e
p
o

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
3
(

x
e
p
O

Code (2)

)
5
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
6
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
1
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
g
i
t
i

)
9
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

)
0
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
7
(

r
e
t
a
W

)
8
(
n
o
i
t
u

l
l

o
P

m
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

)
2
1
(
n
o
i
t
a
t
p
a
d
a
e
g
n
a
h
c
e
t
a
m

i
l

C

$ million

%

Y; N; N/EL

Economic
activities (1)

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)

Manufacture of hydrogen

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Electricity generation from wind power

Storage of electricity

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 3.10

CCM 4.1

CCM 4.3

CCM 4.10

CCM 4.13

— 

— 

 — 

 — 

25 

 0.5 %

— 

— 

 — 

 — 

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

5 

 0.1 %

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Opex of environmentally sustainable activities 
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)

Of which Enabling

Of which Transitional

30 

 0.6 %  100 %

5 

— 

 0.1 %

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)

EL; N/EL

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Conservation forestry

CCM 1.4

— 

 — 

Manufacture of hydrogen

CCM 3.10

61 

 1.1 %

Manufacture of organic basic chemicals

CCM 3.14

776 

 14.6 %

Manufacture of plastics in primary form

CCM 3.17

357 

 6.7 %

Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology

Electricity generation from wind power

CCM 4.1

CCM 4.3

2 

 — 

17 

 0.3 %

Storage of electricity

CCM 4.10

4 

 0.1 %

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids

CCM 4.13

129 

 2.4 %

Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels

CCM 4.29  

Transport of CO2

CCM 5.11

— 

— 

 — 

 — 

Underground permanent geological storage of 
CO2

CCM 5.12

5 

 0.1 %

Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport

CCM 6.15

Installation, maintenance and repair of 
renewable energy technologies

CCM 7.6

Opex of taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable 
activities (not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)

A.Opex of taxonomy-eligible activities (A1+A2)

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Opex of taxonomy non-eligible activities

TOTAL

— 

— 

 — 

 — 

1,352 

 25.4 %

1,382 

 25.9 %

3,951 

 74.1 %

  5,333 

 100 %

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

EL

r
o
)
.
1
.
A

(
d
e
n
g

i
l

-

a
y
m
o
n
o
x
a
t

f

o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P

)
7
1
(

s
d
r
a
u
g
e
f
a
s
m
u
m
n
M

i

i

)
6
1
(

y
t
i
s
r
e
v
d
o
B

i

i

)
5
1
(

y
m
o
n
o
c
e
r
a
u
c
r
i

l

C

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

)
0
2
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a

l

a
n
o
i
t
i
s
n
a
r
t

y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

T

T

)
9
1
(

y
t
i
v
i
t
c
a
g
n

i
l

b
a
n
e
y
r
o
g
e
t
a
C

E

E

)
8
1
(
2
2
0
2
r
a
e
y

,
x
e
p
o
)
.
2
A

.

l

(
e
b
g

i

i
l

e

%

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

 — 

E

 — 

E

 — 

 1.1 %

 13.3 %

 0.1 %

 — 

 0.3 %

 — 

 1.1 %

 — 

 — 

 0.1 %

 0.1 %

 — 

 16.1 %

 16.1 %

[A] The taxonomy's reporting basis differs from that used in Shell's financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, 
result in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared with our other disclosures. 

345
345

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Disclosures for nuclear and fossil gas activities

Template 1: Nuclear and fossil gas related activities

Row

Nuclear energy related activities

1

2

3

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity 
generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or 
process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety 
upgrades, using best available technologies.

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, 
including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety 
upgrades.

Fossil gas related activities

4

5

6

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity 
using fossil gaseous fuels.

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power 
generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.

The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce 
heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.

2023

No

No

No

Yes

No [A]

No [A]

[A] Shell's facilities include integrated gas-fired heating, cooling and power generation units which support one or more primary activities. Such units do not operate on a stand-alone basis and 

are not treated as a separate economic activity for reporting purposes. 

Template 2: Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (denominator), 2023

Turnover

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + CCA

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

Capex

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

CCM + 
CCA

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

$ million, except where indicated

Opex

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

CCM + 
CCA

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

0

 0 %

0

 0 %

—

—

0

 0 %

0

 0 %

—

—

0

0%

0

0%

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

542

0.2%

542

0.2%

—

—

4,173 13.3% 4,173 13.3%

—

—

30

0.6%

30

0.6%

—

—

Row Economic activities

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible 
but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity 
referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II 
to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of other 
taxonomy-aligned economic activities 
not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in 
the denominator of the applicable KPI

8

Total applicable KPI

316,620 100% 316,620 100%

—

—

31,472 100% 31,472 100%

—

—

5,333 100% 5,333 100%

—

—

346
346

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Template 3: Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator), 2023

$ million, except where indicated

Turnover

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + 
CCA

CCM + CCA

Capex

Opex

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + 
CCA

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
% A

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

%

%

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

0

 0 %

0

 0 %

—

—

0

 0 %

0

 0 %

—

—

0

0%

0

0%

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

542 0.2% 542

0.2%

—

—

4,173

13.3% 4,173

13.3%

—

—

30

0.6% 30

0.6%

—

—

542 0.2% 542

0.2%

—

—

4,173

13.3% 4,173

13.3%

—

—

30

0.6% 30

0.6%

—

—

Row Economic activities

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 
of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-
aligned economic activities not referred to 
in rows 1 to 6 above in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI

Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-
aligned economic activities in the numerator 
of the applicable KPI

347
347

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Template 4: Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2023

$ million, except where indicated

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Turnover

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + CCA

Capex

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + CCA

Opex

Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)

Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)

CCM + CCA

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
A

t
n
u
o
m
A

%

%

%

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

114 

 0.0% 

114 

 0.0% 

9 

 0.0% 

9 

 0.0% 

0 

 0% 

0 

 0% 

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

7,788

2.5% 7,788

2.5%

—

—

1,850

5.9% 1,850

5.9%

—

—

1,352 25.4% 1,352 25.4%

—

—

7,902

2.5% 7,902

2.5%

—

—

1,859

5.9% 1,859

5.9%

—

—

1,352 25.4% 1,352 25.4%

—

—

Row Economic activities

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.26 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.27 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.28 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.29 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.30 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.31 of 
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of other 
taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activities not 
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI

Total amount and proportion of 
taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activities in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI

348
348

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure continued

Template 5: Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities, 2023

Row Economic activities

Amount

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI [A]

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Amount and proportion of other taxonomy non-eligible 
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above 
in the denominator of the applicable KPI

Total amount and proportion of taxonomy non-eligible 
economic activities in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI

Turnover

Capex

Opex

$ million, except where indicated

%

— 

— 

— 

 0 %

— 

— 

Amount

— 

— 

— 

0

— 

— 

%

— 

— 

— 

 0 %

— 

— 

Amount

— 

— 

— 

0

— 

— 

%

— 

— 

— 

 0 %

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

0

— 

— 

308,175 

 97.3 %

25,440 

 80.8 %

3,951 

 74.1 %

308,175 

 97.3 %

25,440 

 80.8 %

3,951 

 74.1 %

[A] The scope of this requirement cannot be determine based on current EU guidance. Shell intends to monitor future developments and update our approach as appropriate.

349
349

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements

Parent Company
Financial Statements

The Parent Company Financial Statements have not been audited in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States of America). 

351

351

351

Statement of Income

Statement of Comprehensive Income

Balance Sheet

352 Statement of Changes in Equity

352 Statement of Cash Flows

353 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements

353 Note 1 Basis of preparation

353 Note 2 Material accounting policies

354 Note 3 Interest and other income/expense

354 Note 4 Investments in subsidiaries

355 Note 5 Accounts receivable

355 Note 6 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

355 Note 7 Taxation

356 Note 8 Financial instruments

356 Note 9 Share capital

358 Note 10 Other reserves

358 Note 11 Dividends

358 Note 12 Legal proceedings and other contingencies

358 Note 13 Directors and Senior Management

358 Note 14 Related parties

359 Note 15 Auditor's remuneration

359 Note 16 Post-balance sheet events

350

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Statement of Income
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Dividend income

Interest and other income

Administrative expenses

Interest and other expense

Income before taxation

Taxation credit/(charge)

Income for the period

Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Income for the period

Comprehensive income for the period

Balance Sheet
as at December 31, 2023

Assets

Non-current assets

Investments in subsidiaries

Deferred tax asset

Current assets

Accounts receivable

Tax receivables

Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

Total liabilities

Equity

Share capital

Other reserves

Retained earnings

Total equity

Total liabilities and equity

Signed on behalf of the Board

/s/ Sinead Gorman

Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer
March 13, 2024

351
351

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Notes

2023

$ million

2022

3  

3  

7  

28,498 

20,200 

321 

(340)   

— 

117 

(326) 

(2) 

28,479 

19,989 

(14)   

22 

28,465 

20,011 

2023

28,465 

28,465 

$ million

2022

20,011 

20,011 

$ million

Notes Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

4  

7  

257,694 

257,455 

2 

1

257,696 

257,456 

5  

11,638 

6,077 

35 

— 

34 

— 

11,673 

6,111 

269,369 

263,567 

6  

1,874 

1,874 

2,087 

2,087 

9  

544 

584 

10  

235,929 

235,721 

31,022 

25,175 

267,495 

261,480 

269,369 

263,567 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Parent Company Financial Statements continued

Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2023

Comprehensive income for the period

Dividends

Repurchases of shares [A]

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Comprehensive income for the period

Dividends

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2022

Notes

Share 
capital

Other
reserves

584 

235,721 

Retained
earnings

25,175 

28,465 

$ million

Total
equity

261,480 

28,465 

(8,387)   

(8,387) 

(14,571)   

(14,571) 

340 

508 

— 

— 

40 

168 

235,929 

31,022 

267,495 

235,488 

30,478 

266,607 

— 

— 

57 

176 

20,011 

20,011 

(7,283)   

(7,283) 

(18,547)   

(18,547) 

516 

692 

235,721 

25,175 

261,480 

11

9  

10  

11

9  

10  

— 

— 

(40)   

— 

544 

641 

— 

— 

(57)   

— 

584 

[A] Includes shares committed to repurchase under an irrevocable contract and repurchases subject to settlement at the end of the year (see Note 9).

Notes

2023

28,479 

$ million

2022

19,989 

(28,498)   

(20,200) 

(320)   

(114) 

— 

13 

(185)   

(511)   

2 

7 

219 

(97) 

28,498 

20,200 

14  

(5,559)   

5,445 

320 

256 

114 

182 

23,515 

25,941 

11  

(8,387)   

(7,405) 

(14,617)   

(18,437) 

— 

(2) 

(23,004)   

(25,844) 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended December 31, 2023

Income before taxation for the period

Adjustment for:

Dividend income

Interest income

Interest expense

Share-based compensation

(Increase)/decrease in net working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

Dividends received

(Increase)/decrease in deposits with subsidiary undertakings

Interest received

Share-based compensation

Cash flow from investing activities

Cash dividends paid

Shares repurchased

Interest and other expenses paid

Cash flow from financing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

352
352

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements

1. Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of Shell plc (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
and with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under those standards. As applied to Shell, there 
are no material differences from International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB); therefore, the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.

As described in the material accounting policies in Note 2, the Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, 
except for certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods.

The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, as set out in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (see page 249).

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company's accounting policies. Actual results may differ from those estimates. 

The financial results of the Company are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 244-316. The financial results of the 
Company incorporate the results of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the "Trust").

The Company's principal activity is being the parent company for Shell, as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(see page 249).

2. Material accounting policies 
The Company's accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 249-259. 
The following are Company-specific policies. 

Presentation and functional currency 
The Company's presentation and functional currency is US dollars (dollars). 

Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, net of any impairment. Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for those investments may not be recoverable. For the purposes of determining whether 
impairment of investments in subsidiaries has occurred, and the extent of any impairment loss or its reversal, management performs an assessment 
of value in use or fair value less costs of disposal. Management's conclusion may be determined by using one or both of these methodologies as 
appropriate. For key judgements applied in reaching management's conclusion, please see Note 4.

The original cost of the Company's investment in Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (Royal Dutch) was based on the fair value of the shares 
transferred to the Company by the former shareholders of Royal Dutch in exchange for A shares in the Company during the public exchange offer 
in 2005. The original cost of the Company's investment in The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading 
Company Limited (Shell Transport), was the fair value of the shares held by the former shareholders of The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company 
p.l.c., transferred in consideration for the issuance of B shares as part of the Scheme of Arrangement in 2005. The Company's investments in Royal 
Dutch and Shell Transport subsequently became an investment in Shell Petroleum N.V., now Shell Petroleum B.V. (Shell Petroleum); this change 
had no impact on the cost of investments in subsidiaries. On February 15, 2016, the Company acquired all the voting rights in BG Group plc via 
the issuance of shares and cash payments of a total fair value of $53,086 million. In September 2016, the Company's shares in BG Group Limited 
(BG), formerly BG Group plc, were exchanged for an increased investment in Shell Petroleum. This change had no impact on the cost of 
investment in subsidiaries. 

On October 16, 2023, the Company contributed its investment in Shell Petroleum to another subsidiary, Shell Group Holding Limited, in 
exchange for the issuance of 99 shares with a nominal value of $1 issued at a premium of $257,493 million by Shell Group Holding Limited to 
the Company, reflecting the carrying amount of the Company's investment in Shell Petroleum. This transaction had no impact on the cost of 
investment in subsidiaries.

Dividend income 
Dividends are recognised on a paid basis unless the dividend has been confirmed by a general meeting of Shell Petroleum, in which case income 
is recognised on the date at which receipt is deemed virtually certain. 

Share-based compensation plans 
The fair value of share-based compensation for equity-settled plans granted to employees of subsidiaries under the Company's plans is recognised 
as an investment in subsidiaries from the date of grant over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. 

In the year of vesting of a plan, the costs for the actual deliveries are charged to the relevant employing subsidiaries. This is recognised as a 
realisation of the investment originally booked. If the actual vesting costs are higher than the cumulatively recognised share-based compensation 
charge, the difference is recognised in income. 

See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 309) for information on the Company's principal plan. 

Taxation 
The Company is tax-resident in the UK (see Note 7).

353
353

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

2. Material accounting policies continued
Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except that tax attributable to an item of income or expense recognised as other comprehensive income is also 
recognised directly in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.

On December 20, 2021, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion 
and Profit Shifting (BEPS) released the Pillar Two Model Rules (Pillar Two or Pillar Two income taxes) aimed to address the tax challenges of the 
digitalisation of the economy. The Pillar Two rules are designed to ensure large multinational enterprises (meeting certain conditions) pay a 
minimum level of tax on the income arising in each jurisdiction where they operate. 

In May 2023, amendments to IAS 12 were published and adopted from that date. The amendments introduce a temporary mandatory relief from 
accounting for deferred taxes arising from the jurisdictional implementation of the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on BEPS Pillar Two Model 
Rules.

On June 20, 2023, the UK substantively enacted Pillar Two. Shell has established a Group-wide Pillar Two Project, with oversight from senior 
executives, to prepare and implement these new tax rules. Shell has applied the exception, as set out in the amendment to IAS 12, to recognising 
and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes. The adoption of Pillar Two by the 
jurisdictions in which Shell operates is not expected to have a significant impact. 

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance 
sheet date. This represents income tax payable to tax authorities, or income tax loss Group relief to be surrendered to or to be received from other 
Group undertakings, and for which payment is expected.

Provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the expected value, whichever method is more 
appropriate. Generally, uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except where they are expected to be settled collectively. 
It is assumed that taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the right to do so and that they have full knowledge of the relevant 
information.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts in the 
financial statements at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward can be utilised. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using corporation tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected 
to reverse and are based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented separately except where there is a legally enforceable right and an intention to settle such 
balances on a net basis.

IAS 12 amendments, published in May 2021, were adopted as from January 1, 2023. These amendments require companies to recognise deferred 
tax on particular transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal amounts of taxable and deductible temporary differences. The 
amendments typically apply to transactions where assets and liabilities are recognised from a single transaction, such as leases for the lessee 
and decommissioning and restoration provisions. The amendments had no impact on the on the financial statements of the Company.

Amounts relating to deferred tax are undiscounted.

3. Interest and other income/expense

Interest and other income:

Interest income

Foreign exchange gains

Total

Interest and other expenses:

Interest expense

Foreign exchange losses

Total

4. Investments in subsidiaries

At January 1

Share-based compensation

Recovery of vested share-based compensation

At December 31

354
354

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

320 

1 

321 

—   

— 

—   

$ million

2022

114 

3 

117 

(2) 

— 

(2) 

2023

$ million

2022

257,455 

256,953 

705 

(466)   

805 

(303) 

257,694 

257,455 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

4. Investment in subsidiaries continued
As at December 31, 2023, the market capitalisation of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the "Group") was less than
the Company's carrying value of its investment in the Group. Management has therefore performed an impairment test to determine whether 
recoverable amount exceeded the cost of investment recognised. 

Recoverable amount was assessed by reference to fair value less costs of disposal. This was calculated by comparing the cost of investment with 
the Group's market capitalisation, adjusted to reflect a control premium. In determining the premium and costs of disposal, available data from 
recent market transactions in comparable industries, conducted at arm's length for similar assets, have been taken into account.

This resulted in a recoverable amount exceeding the cost of investment recognised and is consistent with management's expectation of the future 
recoverability of the Company's investment in the Group. As fair value less costs of disposal exceeded cost, no separate value in use calculation 
was undertaken.

The recoverability of the Company's investment in the Group may be influenced by the risk factors of the Group, including commodity prices, 
market supply and demand, expected production volumes and developments related to climate change and the energy transition (see Note 4
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 259-269).

On October 16, 2023, the Company contributed its investment in Shell Petroleum to another subsidiary, Shell Group Holding Limited (see 
Note 2).

5. Accounts receivable

Amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 14)

Other receivables

Total

6. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

Amounts due to subsidiaries (see Note 14)

Accruals and other liabilities

Unclaimed dividends

Total

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

11,633 

6,074 

5 

3 

11,638 

6,077 

$ million

Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022

920 

943 

11 

1,874 

1,088 

989 

10 

2,087 

Accruals and other liabilities at December 31, 2023, principally comprise commitments for share repurchases undertaken on the Company's behalf 
under irrevocable, non-discretionary arrangements of $904 million (2022: $947 million).

7. Taxation

Current tax:

Charge/(credit) in respect of current period

(Credit)/charge in respect of prior period

Total

Deferred tax:

Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences

Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation

Total

Taxation charge/(credit)

2023

$ million

2022

16 

(1)   

15 

(1)   

— 

(1)   

14 

(21) 

— 

(21) 

(1) 

— 

(1) 

(22) 

In 2023, a current tax charge of $15 million has been recognised in the Company's accounts. It primarily comprises a $4 million receipt from 
other UK Group companies for tax losses surrendered and $19 million payment to the tax authorities in respect of profits apportioned under 
UK Controlled Foreign Companies regulations which cannot not be offset by losses.

355
355

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

7. Taxation continued

Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rate to taxation charge

Income before taxation

Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 23.52% (2022: 19%)

Derecognition of deferred tax assets

Tax effects of:

Income not subject to tax at statutory rates

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

Controlled Foreign Companies charge

Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Other

Taxation charge/(credit)

Deferred tax assets

At January 1

Recognised in income statement

Other movements

At December 31

2023

28,479 

6,698 

— 

$ million

2022

19,989 

3,798 

— 

(6,703)   

(3,837) 

1 

19 

(1)   

— 

14 

2 

15 

— 

— 

(22) 

2023

1 

1 

— 

2 

$ million

2022

— 

1 

— 

1 

The UK corporate income tax rate applicable for the year ended December 31, 2023, is 23.52%. Deferred taxes on the Balance Sheet have been 
measured at 25%, which represents the future corporate income tax rate that was enacted at the balance sheet date. The Finance Act 2021 
(enacted on May 24, 2021) increased the main rate of UK corporate income tax to 25% with effect from April 1, 2023.

8. Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost in the Company's Balance Sheet comprise amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 14) 
and certain amounts reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 6). The fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
measured at amortised cost at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, approximates their carrying amount.

Information on financial risk management is presented in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 302-305). Foreign 
currency derivatives are used by the Company to manage foreign exchange risk, which arises when certain transactions are denominated in a 
currency that is not the Company's functional currency. No derivative financial instruments were held at December 31, 2023, or December 31, 
2022.

9. Share capital

Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]

At January 1, 2023

Repurchases of shares

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Number of shares

B

Ordinary
shares

— 

 7,003,503,393 

—    (479,394,344) 

— 

  6,524,109,049 

A

— 

— 

— 

B

— 

— 

— 

A

— 

— 

— 

Nominal value $ million

Ordinary 
shares

584 

Total

584 

(40)   

(40) 

— 

— 

345 

— 

296 

(3)   

544 

— 

— 

Repurchases of shares before assimilation

— 

(34,106,548)   

  4,101,239,499 

 3,582,892,954 

Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into 
ordinary shares

Repurchases of B shares on January 27 and 
28, 2022, cancelled as ordinary shares on 
February 2 and 3, 2022 

Repurchases of shares after assimilation

At December 31, 2022

 (4,101,239,499)   (3,548,786,406)   7,650,025,905 

(345)   

(293)   

638 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(507,742) 

  (646,014,770) 

 7,003,503,393 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

(54)   

584 

[A] Share capital at December 31, 2022, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each, which were redeemed on March 27, 2023. Upon redemption, the 

sterling deferred shares were treated as cancelled and the Company's issued share capital was reduced by the nominal value of the shares redeemed in accordance with section 688 
of the UK Companies Act 2006.

356
356

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

544 

641 

(3) 

— 

— 

(54) 

584 

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

9. Share capital continued
On January 29, 2022, as part of the simplification announced on December 20, 2021, the Company's A and B shares were assimilated into a 
single line of ordinary shares. This is reflected in the above table.

At the Company's Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 23, 2023, the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of approximately 
€161 million (representing approximately 2,307 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. 
This authority expires at the earlier of the close of business on August 22, 2024, and the end of the AGM to be held in 2024, unless previously 
renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting.

At the May 23, 2023 AGM, shareholders granted the Company the authority to repurchase (i) up to 692 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less the number of ordinary shares purchased or committed to be purchased under the buyback contracts 
("off-market"), made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 692 million ordinary shares off-market, less any on-market purchases made under the 
authority in (i).

In the case of both on-market and off-market purchases of the ordinary shares, the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for 
an ordinary share is €0.07 and the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount 
equal to 5% above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid in relation to ordinary shares on the trading 
venues where the purchase is carried out. The authorities for both on-market and off-market purchases of the ordinary shares will expire at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 22, 2024, and the end of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2024. Ordinary shares purchased 
by the Company pursuant to these authorities will either be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares are shares in the Company which are 
owned by the Company itself.

All shares repurchased in 2023 under the Company's share buyback programme were cancelled except for repurchases on December 28 and 
December 29 which were cancelled in January 2024. 

For information on the number of shares in the Company held by Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities to meet delivery 
commitments under employee share plans, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 309). 

Assimilation of A and B shares
On January 29, 2022, the Company completed the assimilation of A and B shares into a single class of share, following the change in tax 
residence to the UK with effect from December 31, 2021. After this date, dividend payments made by the Company with the use of the dividend 
access mechanism were restricted to the settlement of amounts unclaimed in respect of dividends declared on Class B shares prior to assimilation.

Description of dividend access mechanism prior to the assimilation of A and B shares
Shell Transport and BG have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as Trustee. The Company, Shell 
Transport and BG can procure the termination of the dividend access mechanism at any time. Pursuant to a declaration of trust, the Trustee 
arranges for disbursement of dividends to holders of B shares when claimed. Interest and other income earned on unclaimed dividends will be for 
the account of Shell Transport and BG and any dividends which are unclaimed after 12 years will revert to Shell Transport and BG once forfeited. 
Holders of B shares did not have any interest in either dividend access share and did not have any rights against Shell Transport and BG as issuers 
of the dividend access shares. The only assets held on trust for the benefit of the holders of B shares were dividends paid to the Trustee in respect 
of the dividend access shares.

The declaration and payment of dividends on the dividend access shares required board action by Shell Transport and BG (as applicable) and 
was subject to any applicable limitations in law or in the Shell Transport or BG (as appropriate) articles of association in effect. In no event was 
the aggregate amount of the dividend paid by Shell Transport and BG under the dividend access mechanism for a particular period to exceed 
the aggregate of the dividend announced by the Board of the Company on B shares in respect of the same period (after giving effect to 
currency conversions).

In particular, under their respective articles of association, Shell Transport and BG were each only able to pay a dividend on their respective 
dividend access shares which represented a proportional amount of the aggregate of any dividend announced by the Company on the B shares 
in respect of the relevant period, where such proportions were calculated by reference to, in the case of Shell Transport, the number of B shares in 
existence prior to completion of the Company's acquisition of BG and, in the case of BG, the number of B shares issued as part of the acquisition, 
in each case as against the total number of B shares in issue immediately following completion of the acquisition of BG. No further dividends are 
expected to be declared in respect of the dividend access shares.

Operation of the dividend access mechanism prior to the assimilation of A and B shares
If, in connection with the announcement of a dividend by the Company on B shares, the Board of Shell Transport and/or the Board of BG elected 
to declare and pay a dividend on their respective dividend access shares to the Trustee, the holders of B shares were beneficially entitled to 
receive their share of those dividends pursuant to the declaration of trust (and arrangements were made to ensure that the dividend was paid 
in the same currency in which they would have received a dividend from the Company). 

357
357

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

9. Share capital continued
If any amount was paid by Shell Transport or BG by way of a dividend on the dividend access shares and paid by the Trustee to any holder of B 
shares, the dividend which the Company would otherwise have paid on B shares was reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such 
holders of B shares by the Trustee.

The Company would have had a full and unconditional obligation, in the event that the Trustee did not pay an amount to holders of B shares 
on a cash dividend payment date (even if that amount had been paid to the Trustee), to pay immediately the dividend announced on B shares. 
The right of holders of B shares to receive distributions from the Trustee would have been reduced by an amount equal to the amount of any 
payment actually made by the Company on account of any dividend on B shares.

If for any reason no dividend was paid on the dividend access shares, holders of B shares would only have received dividends from the 
Company directly.

Operation of the dividend access mechanism subsequent to the assimilation of A and B shares
As a result of the assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share of the Company the dividend access mechanism no longer 
operates to pay dividends to the holders of B shares and amounts paid through the dividend access mechanism will be limited to the settlement 
of amounts unclaimed in respect of dividends declared prior to assimilation of B shares.

At the Company's Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 23, 2023, the Articles of Association were amended to reduce the period after which 
unclaimed dividends are forfeited, from 12 years to six years. This change is reflected in the unclaimed dividend liability as at December 31, 2023.

10. Other reserves

At January 1, 2023

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2023

At January 1, 2022

Repurchases of shares

Share-based compensation

At December 31, 2022

Share
premium
reserve

Capital
redemption
reserve

Share
plan
reserve

$ million

Total

154 

— 

— 

154 

154 

— 

— 

154 

196 

40 

— 

236 

139 

57 

— 

196 

1,140 

235,721 

— 

168 

40 

168 

1,308 

235,929 

964 

— 

176 

235,488 

57 

176 

1,140 

235,721 

Merger
reserve

234,231 

— 

— 

234,231 

234,231 

— 

— 

234,231 

The merger reserve was established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal Dutch and Shell Transport 
and represented the difference between the cost of the investment in those companies and the nominal value of shares issued in exchange for 
those investments as required by the prevailing legislation at that time, section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. On February 15, 2016, the 
Company acquired all shares in BG Group plc by means of a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Act, via the issuance of 218.7 million
A shares and 1,305.1 million B shares and cash payments. This resulted in an increase in the merger reserve, representing the difference between 
the fair value and the nominal value of the shares issued by the Company. 

On January 6, 2006, loan notes were converted into 4,827,974 A shares. The difference between the carrying value of the loan notes and the 
nominal value of the new shares issued was credited to the share premium reserve. The capital redemption reserve was established in connection 
with repurchases of shares of the Company. The share plan reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 27 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements) and movement in share-based compensation for the year is the net of the charge to equity and the release 
as a result of vested awards.

11. Dividends
See Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 312).

12. Legal proceedings and other contingencies
See Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 312-314).

13. Directors and Senior Management
See Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 315) for the remuneration of Directors of the Company. In 2023, the Company 
recognised $14 million (2022: $14 million) in administrative expenses for the compensation of Directors and Senior Management.

358
358

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued

14. Related parties
Information about the Company's subsidiaries, and whether these are held directly or indirectly, and other related undertakings (all of which 
are held indirectly), at December 31, 2023, is set out in "Appendix 1: Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited)". 

Shell Petroleum

Shell Treasury Centre Limited

The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited 

Other

Total

Amounts due from subsidiaries 
(see Note 5)

Amounts due to subsidiaries
(see Note 6)

$ million

2023

— 

11,625 

— 

8 

2022

— 

6,066 

— 

8 

11,633 

6,074 

2023

820 

— 

94 

6 

920 

2022

797 

— 

291 

— 

1,088 

The amount due from Shell Treasury Centre Limited (STCL) comprises call deposits and overdrafts in dollars, sterling and euros. Interest is 
calculated using arm's-length benchmark 3-day median quotes on dollar, sterling and euro balances. Net interest income in 2023 from STCL
was $320 million (2022: $114 million). 

Other transactions and balances 
The Company periodically enters into forward and spot foreign currency contracts with Treasury companies, which are subsidiaries. There were 
no open foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2023, or December 31, 2022. 

The Company settles general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor's remuneration.

The Company has guaranteed contractual payments totalling $48,356 million at December 31, 2023 (December 31, 2022: $50,981 million), and 
related interest, in respect of listed debt issued by Shell International Finance B.V. The fair value of this guarantee was considered to be immaterial 
at initial recognition and since the likelihood of default is considered remote no subsequent expected credit losses have been recognised.

On January 11, 2023, the Company has guaranteed contractual payments totalling $2,932 million at December 31, 2023, and related interest, 
in respect of listed debt issued by BG Energy Capital plc, in place of the previous guarantor, BG Energy Holdings Limited. Both entities are 
subsidiaries of the Company. The fair value of this guarantee was considered to be immaterial at initial recognition and since the likelihood 
of default is considered remote no subsequent expected credit losses have been recognised.

15. Auditor's remuneration
See Note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 316).

16. Post-balance sheet events
On February 1, 2024, Shell announced the commencement of a $3,500 million share buyback programme covering an aggregate contract term 
of approximately three months (the "programme"). The purpose of the programme is to reduce the issued share capital of the Company. All shares 
repurchased as part of the programme will be cancelled. It is intended that, subject to market conditions, the programme will be completed prior 
to the Company's first quarter 2024 results announcement, scheduled for May 2, 2024. The Company has entered into an arrangement with 
a single broker consisting of three irrevocable, non-discretionary contracts, to enable the purchase of ordinary shares.

359
359

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
Information

361

365

373

vii

v

Shareholder information

Non-GAAP measures reconciliations

Appendix: Significant subsidiaries and other related 
undertakings (audited)

Financial calendar

About this Report

360

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Share capital
Below we provide information on our share capital as at December 31, 
2023. 

Share capital as at December 31, 2023

The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company at 
December 31, 2023, was as follows: 

Ordinary shares of €0.07 each

  6,524,109,049 

€456,687,633

Issued and fully paid

Number

Nominal value

Share capital as at February 19, 2024

The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company at February 19, 
2024, was as follows: 

Ordinary shares of €0.07 each

  6,477,243,319 

  €453,407,032 

Issued and fully paid

Number

Nominal value

The Directors may only allot new ordinary shares if they have authority 
from shareholders to do so. The Company seeks to renew this authority 
annually at its AGM. Under the resolution passed at the Company's 
2023 AGM, the Directors were granted authority to allot ordinary 
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equivalent to 
approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (in line with the guidelines issued by institutional investors).

The following is a summary of the material terms of the Company's 
ordinary shares, including brief descriptions of the provisions contained 
in the Articles of Association (the Articles) and applicable laws of 
England and Wales in effect on the date of this document. This 
summary does not purport to include complete statements of these 
provisions:
￮ upon issuance, the ordinary shares are fully paid and free from 
all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interest of 
the Company and not subject to calls of any kind;

￮ all ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions

on ordinary share capital; and

￮ all ordinary shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK 

Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the market for listed 
securities of the London Stock Exchange. Ordinary shares are also 
admitted to trading on Euronext Amsterdam. ADSs are listed on 
the New York Stock Exchange.

At December 31, 2023, trusts and trust-like entities holding shares 
for the benefit of employee share plans of Shell held (directly and 
indirectly) 38 million shares of the Company with an aggregate market 
value of $1,244 million and an aggregate nominal value of €3 million.

Additional Information
Shareholder information

Shell plc (the Company) was incorporated in England and Wales on 
February 5, 2002, as a private company under the Companies Act 
1985, as amended. On October 27, 2004, the Company was re-
registered as a public company limited by shares and changed its 
name from Forthdeal Limited to Royal Dutch Shell plc. On January 21, 
2022, the Company changed its name from Royal Dutch Shell plc to 
Shell plc. The Company is registered at Companies House, Cardiff, 
under company number 4366849. The Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) 
issued by the London Stock Exchange is 21380068P1DRHMJ8KU70. 
The business address for the Directors and Senior Management is 
Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA.

On December 31, 2021, the Company became tax resident in the 
United Kingdom. Its primary objective is to carry on the business of a 
holding company. It is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by 
another corporation or by any government and does not know of any 
arrangements that may result in a change of control of the Company.

Nature of trading market
On January 29, 2022, the Company established one single line of 
ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of €0.07. All shares are 
listed and able to trade at Euronext Amsterdam and the London Stock 
Exchange. Furthermore, all shares are transferable between these two 
markets. This makes both these exchanges primary exchanges for the 
ordinary shares. 

Ordinary shares are traded in registered form. 

The Company's American Depositary Shares (ADSs) are listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange [A]. A depositary receipt is a certificate 
that evidences ADSs. Depositary receipts are issued, cancelled and 
exchanged at the office of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., 383 Madison 
Avenue, New York, New York 10179, USA, as depositary (the 
Depositary), under Second Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement 
and Amendment No. 1 thereto (Deposit Agreement) between the 
Company, the Depositary and the holders of ADSs. Each ADS is 
equivalent to two ordinary shares of Shell plc deposited under the 
Deposit Agreement. All ordinary shares are capable of being 
deposited with the Depository in exchange for the corresponding 
amount of ADSs which may be traded at the New York Stock 
Exchange. This makes the New York Stock Exchange the primary 
exchange for the Company's American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). 
More information relating to ADSs is given on page 362.
[A] At February 19, 2024, 552,715,284 ADSs were outstanding, representing 17.07% of the 
ordinary share capital, held by holders of record with an address in the USA. In addition 
to holders of ADSs, at February 19, 2024, 888,197 ordinary shares of €0.07 each were 
outstanding, representing 0.0137% of the ordinary share capital, held by 2,993 holders 
of record registered with an address in the USA. 

Listing information

Euronext 
Amsterdam

London Stock 
Exchange

Ordinary share

Ordinary share

Primary

SHELL

Primary

SHEL

NYSE

ADS [A]

Primary

SHEL

GB00BP6MXD84 GB00BP6MXD84 US7802593050

BP6MXT4

BP6MXD8

BPK3CG3

G80827 101

G80827 101

780259 305

 AEX: 14.72%

FTSE: 8.77%  

— 

Identifiers

Market

Ticker symbol 

ISIN 

SEDOL

CUSIP

Index weight at 
December 31, 
2023

[A] Each ADS represents two ordinary shares of €0.07 each.

361
361

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Shareholder information continued

Significant shareholdings
The Company's ordinary shares have voting rights on all matters that 
are subject to shareholder approval, including the election of directors. 
The Company's major shareholders do not have different voting rights.

Notification of major shareholdings 
The Company received three notifications pursuant to Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 5 during the year and up to 
February 19, 2024, (being a date not more than one month prior to 
the date of the Company's Notice of Annual General Meeting).

Investor

Norges Bank [A] 

Ordinary shares

Number

  197,118,319 

%

 2.98 

[A] The Company received three notifications from Norges Bank relating to its voting rights 
on November 1, 2023: Notification 1 - as a result of an acquisition of shares with the 
percentage of voting rights in Shell exceeding 3% on August 15, 2022; Notification 2 – 
correcting errors in Notification 1; and Notification 3 – notifying that Norges Bank's 
shareholding had fallen below a notifiable threshold (below 3% of the voting rights in 
Shell) on October 30, 2023). The Company announced receipt of such notifications on 
November 3, 2023.

Designation of the Netherlands as EU Home Member 
State for regulatory purposes
Following the exit of the UK from the EU and the end of the transition 
period, the Company announced that the EU Home Member State of 
the Company for the purposes of the EU Transparency Directive would 
be the Netherlands as from January 1, 2021. As a consequence, the 
Company files Transparency Directive and Market Abuse Regulation-
related regulatory information with the Netherlands Authority for the 
Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten, or AFM). Major 
shareholders are required to report substantial holdings in Shell to the 
AFM in accordance with applicable Dutch law, in addition to their 
ongoing disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules (DTR).

Method of holding shares or an interest in shares
There are several ways in which Shell plc registered shares or an 
interest in these shares can be held, including:
￮ directly as registered shares either in uncertificated form or in 

certificated form in a shareholder's own name;

￮ indirectly through Euroclear Nederland (in respect of which the 

Dutch Securities Giro Act (Wet giraal effectenverkeer) is applicable);

￮ through the Shell Corporate Nominee Service;
￮ through another third-party nominee or intermediary company; and 
￮ as a direct or indirect holder of either ADS with the Depositary.

American Depositary Shares
The Depositary is the registered shareholder of the shares underlying 
the ADSs and enjoys the rights of a shareholder under the Articles. 
Holders of ADSs will not have shareholder rights. The rights of the 
holder of an ADS are specified in the Deposit Agreement with the 
Depositary and are summarised below.

The Depositary will receive all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions made on the deposited shares underlying the ADSs 
and, where possible and on a reasonable basis, will distribute such 
dividends and distributions to holders of ADSs. Rights to purchase 
additional shares will also be made available to the Depositary 
who may make such rights available to holders of ADSs. All other 
distributions made on the Company's shares will be distributed by the 
Depositary in any means that the Depositary thinks is equitable and 
practical. The Depositary may deduct its fees and expenses and the 
amount of any taxes owed from any payments to holders and it may 
sell a holder's deposited shares to pay any taxes owed. The Depositary 
is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make 
a distribution available to holders of ADSs.

The Depositary will notify holders of ADSs of shareholders' meetings
of the Company and will arrange to deliver voting materials to such 
holders of ADSs if requested by the Company. Upon request by a 
holder, the Depositary will endeavour to appoint such holder as proxy 
in respect of such holder's deposited shares entitling such holder 
to attend and vote at shareholders' meetings. Holders of ADSs may 
also instruct the Depositary to vote their deposited securities and the 
Depositary will try, as far as practical and lawful, to vote deposited 
shares in accordance with such instructions. The Company cannot 
ensure that holders will receive voting materials or otherwise learn 
of an upcoming shareholders' meeting in time to ensure that holders 
can instruct the Depositary to vote their shares.

Upon payment of appropriate fees, expenses and taxes: 
(i) shareholders may deposit their shares with the Depositary and 
receive the corresponding class and amount of ADSs; and (ii) holders 
of ADSs may surrender their ADSs to the Depositary and have the 
corresponding class and amount of shares credited to their account.

Further, subject to certain limitations, holders may, at any time, cancel 
ADSs and withdraw their underlying shares or have the corresponding 
class and amount of shares credited to their account.

Fees paid by holders of ADSs 
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs 
directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for 
the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. 
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors 
by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling 
a portion of distributable property to pay the fees. The Depositary 
may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees 
for those services are paid. See page 363.

Payments by Depositary to the Company 
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Depositary, has agreed to share 
with the Company portions of certain fees collected, less ADS 
programme expenses paid by the Depositary. For example, these 
expenses include the Depositary's annual programme fees, transfer 
agency fees, custody fees, legal expenses, postage and envelopes for 
mailing annual and interim financial reports, printing and distributing 
dividend cheques, electronic filing of US federal tax information, 
mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and 
telephone calls and the standard out-of-pocket maintenance 
costs for the ADSs. From January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, 
the Company received $1,405,209.34 from the Depositary.

362
362

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
Additional Information
Shareholder information continued

Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay:

For:

$5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs)

￮ Issuance of ADSs, including those resulting from a distribution of shares, rights 

Registration and transfer fees

Expenses of the Depositary

or other property;

￮ Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of their withdrawal, including if the 

Deposit Agreement terminates. An additional transaction fee per cancellation 
request and any applicable delivery expenses may also be charged by the 
Depositary; and 

￮ Distribution of securities to holders of deposited securities by the Depositary to 

ADS registered holders.

￮ Registration and transfer of shares on the share register to or from the name of 

the Depositary or its agent when they deposit or withdraw shares.

￮ Cable, telex and facsimile transmissions (when expressly provided in the 

Deposit agreement); and

￮ Converting foreign currency into dollars.

Taxes and other governmental charges the Depositary or the custodian has to 
pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, share transfer taxes, 
stamp duty or withholding taxes

￮ As necessary.

In addition to the above, the Depositary may charge: (i) a dividend 
fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) for cash 
dividends or issuance of ADSs resulting from share dividends and (ii) 
an administrative fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 
ADSs) per calendar year. The Company and Depositary have agreed 
not to charge these fees at this time.

Taxation 
General
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales. The Company 
changed tax residence from the Netherlands to the UK on December 
31, 2021.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited, part of the same group of companies 
as the Company's Registrar, Equiniti Limited, operates a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) which enables Shell plc shareholders to elect 
to have their dividend payments used to purchase Shell plc ordinary 
shares. More information can be found at shareview.co.uk/info/drip 
or by contacting Equiniti.

ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. also operate 
dividend reinvestment options. More information can be found by 
contacting the relevant provider.

Exchange controls and other limitations affecting 
security holders 
Other than restrictions affecting those individuals, entities, government 
bodies, corporations, or activities that are targeted by European Union 
(EU) or UK sanctions for example, regarding Syria, Russia or North 
Korea, and the general EU prohibition to transfer funds to and from 
for example, North Korea or Syria and the more recent EU financial 
restrictions affecting Russia, we are not aware of any other legislative 
or other legal provision currently in force in the UK, the Netherlands, 
the EU or arising under the Articles restricting remittances to holders 
of the Company's ordinary shares who are non-residents of the UK, 
or affecting the import or export of capital.

As a tax resident of the Netherlands, it is generally required by Dutch 
law to withhold tax at a rate of 15% on dividends on its ordinary shares 
and ADSs, subject to the provisions of any applicable tax convention 
or domestic law. Depending on their particular circumstances, non-
Dutch tax-resident holders may be entitled to a full or partial refund of 
Dutch withholding tax. The following sets forth the operation of other 
provisions on dividends on the Company's various ordinary shares and 
ADSs to UK and US holders, as well as certain other tax rules pertinent 
to holders during or prior to the 2021 financial year. Holders should 
consult their own tax adviser if they are uncertain as to the tax 
treatment of any dividend.

Dividends paid on the dividend access shares
As part of the Simplification, the A ordinary shares and B ordinary 
shares were assimilated into one single line of ordinary shares. Prior 
to the assimilation, there was no Dutch withholding tax on dividends 
on B shares or B ADSs, provided that such dividends are paid on the 
dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend access mechanism (see 
dividend access mechanism for B shares on page 357). Dividends paid 
on the dividend access shares are treated as UK-source for tax 
purposes and there is no UK withholding tax on them.

In 2021, all dividends with respect to B shares and B ADSs were 
paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend 
access mechanism.

363
363

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
Additional Information
Shareholder information continued

Dutch withholding tax 
On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through 
assimilation of each A share and each B share into one single line of 
ordinary shares of the Company. This assimilation had no impact on 
voting rights or dividend entitlements. Dutch dividend withholding tax, 
applied previously on dividends on A shares, no longer applies on 
dividends paid on the now assimilated ordinary shares following 
the move of the Company's tax residence to the UK. 

The following applies to dividends paid in 2021 and prior financial 
years and is included in the report for reference:

When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to a US holder 
(that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B shares or B ADSs 
that are not paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the 
dividend access mechanism), the US holder will be subject to Dutch 
withholding tax at the rate of 15%. A US holder who is entitled to the 
benefits of the 1992 Double Taxation Convention (the Convention) 
between the USA and the Netherlands as amended by the protocol 
signed on March 8, 2004, will be entitled to a reduction in the Dutch 
withholding tax, either by way of a full or a partial exemption at source 
or by way of a partial refund or a credit as follows:
￮ if the US holder is an exempt pension trust as described in article 35 
of the Convention, or an exempt organisation as described in article 
36 thereof, the US holder will be exempt from Dutch withholding tax; 
or 

￮ if the US holder is a company that holds directly at least 10% of the 

voting power in the Company, the US holder will be subject to Dutch 
withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 5%.

In general, the entire dividend (including any amount withheld) will 
be dividend income to the US holder and the withholding tax will 
be treated as a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit against 
the US holder's income tax liability or a deduction subject to certain 
limitations. A "US holder" includes, but is not limited to, a citizen or 
resident of the USA, or a corporation or other entity organised under 
the laws of the USA or any of its political subdivisions.

When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to UK tax-
resident holders (that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B 
shares or B ADSs that are not paid on the dividend access shares 
pursuant to the dividend access mechanism), the dividend will typically 
be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 15%. Such UK tax-resident 
holder may be entitled to a credit (not repayable) for withholding tax 
against their UK tax liability. However, certain corporate shareholders 
are, subject to conditions, exempt from UK tax on dividends. 
Withholding tax suffered cannot be offset against such exempt 
dividends. UK tax-resident holders should also be entitled to claim a 
refund of one-third of the Dutch withholding tax from the Dutch tax 
authorities in reliance on the tax convention between the Netherlands 

and the UK. Pension plans meeting certain defined criteria can, 
however, be entitled to claim a full refund or exemption at source of 
the dividend tax withheld. Also, UK tax-resident corporate shareholders 
holding at least a 5% shareholding and meeting other defined criteria 
are exempted at source from dividend tax.

For holders who are tax-resident in any other country, the availability 
of a whole or partial exemption or refund of Dutch withholding tax is 
governed by Dutch tax law and/or the tax convention, if any, between 
the Netherlands and the country of the holder's residence.

There may be other grounds on which holders who are tax-resident in 
the UK, the USA or any other country can obtain a full or partial refund 
of the Dutch withholding tax, depending on their particular 
circumstances; see "Taxation: General" above.

Dutch capital gains taxation
Capital gains on the sale of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by 
a US holder are generally not subject to taxation by the Netherlands 
unless the US holder has a permanent establishment therein and the 
capital gain is derived from the sale of shares that are part of the 
business property of the permanent establishment.

Dutch succession duty and gift taxes
Shares of a Dutch tax-resident company held by an individual 
who is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands 
will generally not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands
on the individual's death.

A gift of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by an individual who 
is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally 
not subject to Dutch gift tax.

UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
Sales or transfers of the Company's ordinary shares within a clearance 
service (such as Euroclear Nederland) or of the Company's ADSs within 
the ADS depositary receipts system will not give rise to a stamp duty 
reserve tax (SDRT) liability and should not in practice require the 
payment of UK stamp duty.

The transfer of the Company's ordinary shares to a clearance service 
(such as Euroclear Nederland) or to an issuer of depositary shares 
(such as ADSs) will generally give rise to a UK stamp duty or SDRT 
liability at the rate of 1.5% of consideration given or, if none, of the 
value of the shares. A sale of the Company's ordinary shares that are 
not held within a clearance service (for example, settled through the 
UK's CREST system of paperless transfers) will generally be subject 
to UK stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount of the 
consideration, normally paid by the purchaser.

Capital gains tax 
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, the market values [A] of the shares of the former public parent companies of the Shell Group at the 
relevant dates were:

Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (N.V. Koninklijke Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij) which ceased to exist on December 
21, 2005

The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. which delisted on July 19, 2005

March 31, 1982

July 20, 2005

£

1.1349 

17.6625 

1.4502 

Not
applicable

[A] Restated where applicable to reflect all capitalisation issues since the relevant date. This includes the change in the capital structure in 2005, when Shell plc (at the time known as Royal Dutch 
Shell plc) became the single parent company of Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and of The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company 
Limited, and one share in Royal Dutch Petroleum Company was exchanged for two Royal Dutch Shell plc A shares and one share in The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. was 
exchanged for 0.287333066 Royal Dutch Shell plc B shares. 

364
364

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations

These non-GAAP measures, also known as alternative performance measures, are financial measures other than those defined in International 
Financial Reporting Standards, which Shell considers provide useful information. 

Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings), which is the earnings measure used by the Chief Executive 
Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance. On this basis, the purchase price of volumes 
sold during the period is based on the current cost of supplies during the same period after making allowance for the tax effect. CCS earnings 
therefore exclude the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts. The current cost of supplies adjustment does not impact 
cash flow from operating activities in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". For "Reconciliation of CCS earnings to income for the period", 
please refer to Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Adjusted Earnings per share
Adjusted Earnings per share were calculated as Adjusted Earnings (see below), divided by the weighted average number of shares used as the 
basis for basic earnings per share (see Note 30 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements"). Adjusted Earnings per share were $4.20 in 2023 
(2023 Adjusted Earnings: $28,250 million; 2023 weighted average number of shares 6,733.5 million) and $5.43 in 2022 (2022 Adjusted 
Earnings $39,870 million; 2022 weighted average number of shares: 7,347.5 million).

Adjusted Earnings, Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA), and Cash flow 
from operating activities
The "Adjusted Earnings" measure is presented on a CCS basis and aims to facilitate a comparative understanding of Shell's financial performance 
from period to period by removing the effects of oil price changes on inventory carrying amounts and removing the effects of identified items 
adjusted for current cost of supplies. These items are in some cases driven by external factors and may, either individually or collectively, hinder 
the comparative understanding of Shell's financial results from period to period.

The "Adjusted EBITDA" measure is presented on a CCS basis and used by management to evaluate Shell's performance in the period and over 
time. We define "Adjusted EBITDA" as "Income/(loss) for the period" adjusted for current cost of supplies; identified items; tax charge/(credit); 
depreciation, amortisation and depletion; exploration well write-offs and net interest expense. All items include the non-controlling interest 
component. 

Adjusted Earnings, Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) and Cash flow 
from operating activities 

2023

CCS Earnings [A]

Less: Identified items

Adjusted Earnings - segments

Integrated 
Gas

Total

Upstream Marketing

$ million

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate 

  20,281 

7,046 

8,528 

2,950 

1,530 

(8,252)   

(6,861)   

(1,267)   

(229)   

(2,160)   

3,038 

2,333 

(2,811) 

(69) 

13,907 

9,794 

3,180 

3,690 

705 

(2,742) 

Less: CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest

Add: Identified items attributable to non-controlling interest

Adjusted Earnings

Add: Non-controlling interest 

273 

(11) 

  28,250 

284 

Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest

  28,534 

13,907 

Add: Taxation charge/(credit) excluding tax impact of identified items

  13,674 

Add: Depreciation, depletion and amortisation excluding impairments

  23,106 

Add: Exploration well write-offs

Add: Interest expense excluding identified items

Less: Interest income

Adjusted EBITDA 

3,834 

5,756 

121 

146 

6 

9,794 

8,277 

11,309 

746 

507 

27 

3,180 

900 

1,916 

49 

9 

3,690 

303 

3,714 

61 

57 

705 

324 

392 

4 

12 

(2,742) 

35 

19 

3,902 

2,201 

867 

  4,669 

2,313 

  68,538 

23,759 

30,607 

6,037 

7,710 

1,413 

(987) 

Less: Current cost of supplies adjustment before taxation

Joint ventures and associates (dividends received less profit)

848 

79 

241 

(692)   

221 

126 

Derivative financial instruments

(6,142)   

(4,668)   

51 

(25)   

627 

300 

529 

102 

(1,988)   

Taxation paid

Other

(Increase)/decrease in working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

[A] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

  (13,712)   

(3,574)   

(8,470)   

(744)   

(484)   

(762)   

(1,558)   

(261)   

(374)   

  7,838 

2,023 

329 

42 

873 

(1,052)   

609 

  54,191 

17,520 

21,450 

6,088 

6,987 

496 

3,723 

2,984 

3 

(41) 

322 

(410) 

281 

(832) 

365
365

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated 
Gas

Total

Upstream Marketing

$ million

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate 

  41,562 

22,212 

16,222 

2,133 

4,515 

(1,059)   

(2,461) 

6,075 

16,137 

(1,096)   

(622)   

(204)   

(2,805)   

(90) 

17,319 

2,754 

4,719 

1,745 

(2,371) 

Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

2022

CCS Earnings [A]

Less: Identified items

Adjusted Earnings - segments

Less: CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest

Add: Identified items attributable to non-controlling interest

Adjusted Earnings

Add: Non-controlling interest 

Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest

1,259 

449 

15 

  39,870 

434 

  40,304 

881 

3,181 

1,046 

Add: Taxation charge/(credit) excluding tax impact of identified items

  18,578 

Add: Depreciation, depletion and amortisation excluding impairments

  22,393 

Add: Exploration well write-offs

Add: Interest expense excluding identified items

Less: Interest income

Adjusted EBITDA 

16,137 

4,704 

5,544 

142 

84 

43 

17,319 

11,831 

11,889 

738 

345 

22 

2,754 

952 

1,573 

45 

— 

4,719 

841 

3,004 

22 

24 

1,745 

(2,371) 

346 

365 

2 

(2)   

(96) 

18 

— 

2,683 

959 

(725) 

  84,289 

26,569 

42,100 

5,324 

8,561 

2,459 

Less: Current cost of supplies adjustment before taxation

(1,755) 

(568)   

(1,187) 

Joint ventures and associates (dividends received less profit)

(2,157)   

(522)   

(2,650)   

Derivative financial instruments

624 

6,104 

(35)   

233 

3 

694 

85 

4 

(219)   

(4,998)   

(230) 

Taxation paid

Other

(Increase)/decrease in working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

[A] See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2021

CCS Earnings [A]

Less: Identified items

Adjusted Earnings - segments

  (13,120)   

(2,824)   

(9,423)   

(494)   

(288)   

  2,456 

(223)   

486 

(185)   

2,212 

(27)   

(237)   

(64) 

403 

(5,435)   

(1,412)   

(835)   

(3,074)   

757 

(3,676)   

2,805 

  68,414 

27,692 

29,641 

2,376 

12,906 

(6,394)   

2,192 

Integrated 
Gas

Total

  17,482 

8,060 

(2,235)   

(988)   

9,048 

$ million

Chemicals 
and 
Products

Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions

Corporate 

Upstream Marketing

9,603 

1,587 

8,015 

3,535 

404 

(1,514)   

(2,606) 

68 

(1,712)   

(1,272)   

81 

3,468 

2,115 

(243)   

(2,686) 

Less: CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest

Add: Identified items attributable to non-controlling interest

Adjusted Earnings

Add: Non-controlling interest 

Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest

410 

(19) 

  19,289 

429 

19,718 

Add: Taxation charge/(credit) excluding tax impact of identified items

  8,482 

Add: Depreciation, depletion and amortisation excluding impairments

  23,071 

Add: Exploration well write-offs

Add: Interest expense excluding identified items

Less: Interest income

Adjusted EBITDA 

9,048 

2,231 

5,389 

15 

71 

— 

8,015 

5,662 

12,574 

624 

331 

37 

3,468 

955 

1,575 

— 

26 

3 

2,115 

277 

3,235 

— 

44 

36 

(243)   

(2,686) 

(55)   

(588) 

281 

— 

— 

4 

17 

— 

3,135 

431 

639 

  3,607 

511 

  55,004 

16,754 

27,170 

6,021 

5,635 

(21)   

(554) 

Less: Current cost of supplies adjustment before taxation

(3,956) 

(643)   

(3,313) 

Joint ventures and associates (dividends received less profit)

(488)   

(64)   

(334)   

(78)   

(58)   

47 

Derivative financial instruments

  2,633 

(1,594)   

73 

18 

83 

4,534 

Taxation paid

Other

(Increase)/decrease in working capital

Cash flow from operating activities

[A] See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(5,476)   

(747)   

(3,832)   

(556)   

(95)   

(158)   

(44)   

(854)   

(372)   

574 

(94)   

47 

  (10,366)   

(1,094)   

(662)   

(657)   

(5,744)   

(4,063)   

  45,104 

13,210 

21,562 

5,019 

3,709 

451 

(1) 

(482) 

(152) 

491 

1,853 

1,154 

366
366

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

Identified items

The objective of identified items is to remove material impacts 
on net income/loss arising from transactions which are generally 
uncontrollable and unusual (infrequent or non-recurring) in nature 
or giving rise to a mismatch of accounting and economic results, 
or certain transactions that are generally excluded from underlying 
results in the industry.

Identified items comprise: divestment gains and losses, impairments, 
redundancy and restructuring, provisions for onerous contracts, fair 
value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts 
and the impact of exchange rate movements on certain deferred tax 
balances, and other items. Identified items in the table below are 
presented on a net basis.

Identified items included in Income/(loss) before taxation

Divestment gains/(losses)

Impairment reversals/(impairments)

Redundancy and restructuring

Provisions for onerous contracts

Fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts

Other

Total identified items included in Income/(loss) before taxation

Less: total identified items included in Taxation charge/(credit)

Identified items included in Income/(loss) for the period

Divestment gains/(losses)

Impairment reversals/(impairments)

Redundancy and restructuring

Provisions for onerous contracts

Fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts

Impact of exchange rate movements on tax balances

Other

Impact on CCS earnings

Of which:

Integrated Gas

Upstream

Marketing

Chemicals and Products

Renewables and Energy Solutions

Corporate

Impact on CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest

Impact on CCS earnings attributable to Shell plc shareholders

The identified items categories above may include after-tax impacts 
of identified items of joint ventures and associates which are fully 
reported within "Share of profit of joint ventures and associates" in 
the Consolidated Statement of Income, and fully reported as identified 
items included in Income/(loss) before taxation in the table above. 
Identified items related to subsidiaries are consolidated and reported 
across appropriate lines of the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Only pre-tax identified items reported by subsidiaries are taken into 
account in the calculation of underlying operating expenses.

Provisions for onerous contracts: Provisions for onerous contracts 
that relate to businesses that Shell has exited or to redundant assets 
or assets that cannot be used.

Fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas 
contracts: In the ordinary course of business, Shell enters into contracts 
to supply or purchase oil and gas products, as well as power and 
environmental products. Shell also enters into contracts for tolling, 
pipeline and storage capacity. Derivative contracts are entered into for 
mitigation of resulting economic exposures (generally price exposure) 
and these derivative contracts are carried at period-end market price 
(fair value), with movements in fair value recognised in income for the 
period. Supply and purchase contracts entered into for operational 
purposes, as well as contracts for tolling, pipeline and storage 

367
367

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

2023

2022

257 

(8,300)   

(329)   

(24)   

(419)   

657 

2,260 

44 

(508)   

3,244 

82   

(1,519)   

(8,732)   

4,178 

(481)   

2,919   

(8,252)   

1,259 

277 

(6,219)   

(241)   

(18)   

418 

725 

43 

(487)   

$ million

2021

5,996 

(3,884) 

(227) 

(340) 

(3,249) 

(621) 

(2,326) 

(91) 

(2,235) 

4,632 

(2,993) 

(140) 

(299) 

(1,284)   

3,421 

(2,764) 

(355)   

(412)   

(57)   

(2,804)   

(128) 

(543) 

(8,252)   

1,259 

(2,235) 

(6,861)   

(1,267)   

(229)   

(2,160)   

6,075 

(1,096)   

(622)   

(204)   

2,333   

(2,805)   

(69)   

(11) 

(8,240)   

(90)   

15 

1,243 

(988) 

1,587 

68 

(1,712) 

(1,272) 

81 

(19) 

(2,216) 

capacity, are, by contrast, recognised when the transaction occurs; 
furthermore, inventory is carried at historical cost or net realisable 
value, whichever is lower. As a consequence, accounting mismatches 
occur because: (a) the supply or purchase transaction is recognised in 
a different period, or (b) the inventory is measured on a different basis. 
In addition, certain contracts are, due to pricing or delivery conditions, 
deemed to contain embedded derivatives or written options and are 
also required to be carried at fair value even though they are entered 
into for operational purposes. The accounting impacts are reported 
as identified items.

Impacts of exchange rate movements on tax balances represent the 
impact on tax balances of exchange rate movements arising on (a) the 
conversion to dollars of the local currency tax base of non-monetary 
assets and liabilities, as well as losses (this primarily impacts the 
Upstream and Integrated Gas segments) and (b) the conversion of 
dollar-denominated inter-segment loans to local currency, leading to 
taxable exchange rate gains or losses (this primarily impacts the 
Corporate segment).

Other identified items represent other credits or charges that based on 
Shell management's assessment hinder the comparative understanding 
of Shell's financial results from period to period.

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

Cash capital expenditure 
Cash capital expenditure monitors investing activities on a cash basis, 
excluding items such as lease additions which do not necessarily result 
in cash outflows in the period. The measure comprises the following 
lines from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: Capital 
expenditure, Investments in joint ventures and associates and 
Investments in equity securities. The reconciliation of "Capital 
expenditure" to "Cash capital expenditure" is presented in Note 7 
to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Operating expenses and underlying operating expenses
Operating expenses is a measure of Shell's cost management 
performance, comprising the following items from the "Consolidated 
Statement of Income": production and manufacturing expenses; selling, 
distribution and administrative expenses; and research and 
development expenses. See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" for reconciliation of total operating expenses. 

Underlying operating expenses is a measure aimed at facilitating 
a comparative understanding of performance from period to period 
by removing the effects of identified items, which, either individually 
or collectively, can cause volatility, in some cases driven by 
external factors.

Operating expenses and underlying operating expenses

$ million

2023

2022

2021

Total spend on goods and services 

$ million

2023

2022

2021

Capital Expenditure

  22,993 

  22,600 

  19,000 

Add: Underlying Operating Expenditure [A]

  39,201 

  39,456 

  35,309 

Less: Employee costs [B]

  13,629 

  13,971 

  12,092 

Total spend on goods and services 

  48,565 

  48,085 

  42,217 

[A] See "Operating expenses and underlying operating expenses" table above. 
[B] See Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".

Structural cost reduction
The structural cost reduction target was introduced during Capital 
Markets Day in 2023 for the purpose of demonstrating how 
management drives cost discipline across the entire organisation, 
simplifying our processes, portfolio and streamlining the way we work.

Structural cost reduction describes decrease in underlying operating 
expenses as a result of operational efficiencies, divestments, workforce 
reductions and other cost-saving measures that are expected to be 
sustainable compared with 2022 levels. 

The total change between periods in underlying operating expenses 
will reflect both structural cost reductions and other changes in spend, 
including market factors, such as inflation and foreign exchange 
impacts, as well as changes in activity levels and costs associated 
with new operations. 

Operating expenses, of which:

  39,960 

  39,476 

  35,965 

Production and manufacturing 
expenses

Selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses

  25,240 

  25,518 

  23,822 

13,433 

12,883 

11,328 

Research and development expenses

1,287 

1,075 

815 

Estimates of cumulative annual structural cost reduction may be revised 
depending on whether cost reductions realised in prior periods are 
determined to be sustainable compared to 2022 levels. Structural cost 
reductions are stewarded internally to support management's oversight 
of spending over time. 2025 target reflects annualised saving achieved 
by end-2025.

Of which identified items:

Redundancy and restructuring 
(charges)/reversal

(Provisions)/reversal

Other

Identified items

Structural cost reduction 

(325)   

(434)   

46 

77 

(226) 

(254) 

Underlying Operating expenses 2023

— 

(143)   

(175) 

Underlying Operating expenses 2022

(758)   

(21)   

(655) 

Total decrease in Underlying operating expenses

Underlying operating expenses

  39,201 

  39,456 

  35,309 

Of which:

$ million

39,201 

39,456 

(255) 

(987) 

732 

Structural cost reduction

Increase of underlying operating expenses except 
structural cost reduction

Return on average capital employed
Return on average capital employed ("ROACE") measures the 
efficiency of Shell's utilisation of the capital that it employs. Shell uses 
two ROACE measures: ROACE on a Net income basis and ROACE on 
an Adjusted Earnings plus Non-controlling interest basis, both adjusted 
for after-tax interest expense. 

Both measures refer to Capital employed which consists of total equity, 
current debt and non-current debt. 

Total spend on goods and services
Total spend on goods and services represents the amounts paid to our 
suppliers globally and is comprised of both Capital Expenditure and 
Operating Expenditure. Employee costs are excluded from Operating 
costs as these do not relate to 3rd party/supplier spend. 

The total spend on goods and services is used to demonstrate the 
company's societal contribution towards suppliers, contractors and 
communities where Shell operates and is disclosed annually in the 
Sustainability Report.

The calculation of Total spend on goods and services has changed, 
with data published in previous years being limited to spend for 
Operated assets that has been contracted with the support of the 
Contracting and Procurement team, calculated on a cash 
payments basis.

368
368

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

ROACE on a Net income basis

Net debt and gearing

$ million

2023

2022

2021

Income for the period

  19,636 

  42,874 

  20,630 

Interest expense after tax

  3,271 

  2,290 

  2,741 

Income before interest expense

  22,909 

  45,164 

  23,371 

Capital employed - opening

 276,392 

 264,413 

 266,551 

Capital employed - closing

 269,902 

 276,392 

 264,413 

Capital employed - average

 273,147 

 270,402 

 265,482 

ROACE

 8.4 %

 16.7 %

 8.8 %

ROACE on an Adjusted Earnings plus Non-controlling 
interest (NCI) basis

Adjusted Earnings 

Add: Income/(loss) attributable to Non-
controlling interest 

Add: Current cost of supplies adjustment 
attributable to Non-controlling interest 

Less: Identified items attributable to Non-
controlling interest 

$ million

2023

2022

2021

  28,250 

 39,870 

 19,289 

277 

565 

  529 

(5)   

(116)   

(119) 

(11)   

15 

(19) 

Adjusted Earnings plus Non-controlling interest 
excluding identified items

  28,534 

 40,304 

  19,718 

Add: Interest expense after tax

  3,271 

  2,290 

  2,741 

Adjusted Earnings plus Non-controlling interest 
excluding identified items before interest 
expense 

  31,805 

 42,593 

 22,459 

Capital employed - average

 273,147 

 270,402   265,482 

ROACE on an Adjusted Earnings plus Non-
controlling interest basis

 11.6 %

 15.8 %

 8.5 %

Net debt and gearing
Net debt is defined as the sum of current and non-current debt, less 
cash and cash equivalents, adjusted for the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange and interest 
rate risk relating to debt, and associated collateral balances. 
Management considers this adjustment useful because it reduces the 
volatility of net debt caused by fluctuations in foreign exchange and 
interest rates, and eliminates the potential impact of related collateral 
payments or receipts. Debt-related derivative financial instruments are 
a subset of the derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities 
presented on the balance sheet. Collateral balances are reported 
under "Trade and other receivables" or "Trade and other payables" 
as appropriate. See also Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements". 

Gearing is a measure of Shell's capital structure and is defined as 
net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) as a percentage 
of total capital (net debt plus total equity). 

Current debt

Non-current debt

Total debt

2023

2022

9,931 

9,001 

$ million

2021

8,218 

  71,610 

  74,794 

  80,868 

81,541 

  83,795 

  89,086 

Of which lease liabilities

  27,709 

  27,643 

  27,507 

Add: Debt-related derivative financial 
instruments: net liability / (asset)

Add: Collateral on debt-related: net 
liability / (asset)

1,835 

3,071 

424 

(1,060)   

(1,783)   

16 

Less: Cash and cash equivalents

  (38,774)    (40,246)    (36,970) 

Net Debt

Add: Total equity

Total capital

Gearing

  43,542 

  44,837 

  52,556 

  188,362 

  192,597 

  175,326 

  231,902 

  237,434 

  227,882 

 18.8 %

 18.9 %

 23.1 %

Cash flow from operating activities excluding working 
capital movements 
Working capital movements are defined as the sum of the following 
items in the Statement of Cash Flows: (increase) or decrease in 
inventories, (increase) or decrease in current receivables, and 
increase or (decrease) in current payables.

Cash flow from operating activities excluding working capital 
movements is a measure used by Shell to analyse its operating 
cash generation over time excluding the timing effects of changes 
in inventories and operating receivables and payables from period 
to period.

Cash flow from operating activities excluding working 
capital movements

$ million

2023

2022

2021

Cash flow from operating activities

  54,191 

  68,414 

  45,104 

(Increase)/decrease in inventories

  6,325 

  (8,360)   

(7,319) 

(Increase)/decrease in current receivables

  12,401 

  (8,989)   (20,567) 

Increase/(decrease) in current payables

  (10,888)   

11,915    17,519 

(Increase)/decrease in working capital

  7,838 

  (5,435)   (10,366) 

Cash flow from operating activities excluding 
working capital movements

  46,354 

  73,848 

  55,471 

Shareholder distribution and Shareholder distribution 
as percentage of CFFO
Shareholder distribution is used to evaluate the level of cash 
distribution to shareholders. It is defined as the sum of Cash dividends 
paid to Shell plc shareholders and Repurchases of shares, both of 
which are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 

Shareholder distribution as percentage of CFFO is a new target 
introduced during Capital Markets Day 2023 that is used to measure 
the company's progress on increasing returns to shareholders. 

This measure is calculated by dividing the Shareholder distribution 
by the annual CFFO as presented in the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows.

369
369

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Price-normalised free cash flow growth and Price-
normalised free cash flow growth per share
Price-normalised free cash flow growth (of 6% average growth over the 
2022 - 2030 period) and Price-normalised free cash flow growth per share 
(of 10% average per annum over the 2022 - 2030 period) are business 
targets introduced during Capital Markets Day (CMD) in 2023 for the 
purposes of demonstrating progress in value creation towards achieving 
our Powering Progress strategy, to be reported on an annual basis. 

Price-normalisation refers to the process of removing the impact of 
macroeconomic price movements, so as to determine a more 
comparable basis for calculating the growth in free cash flow year on 
year. Shell believes this is a more meaningful basis for investors to be 
able to assess the Company's performance over time.

Price-normalised cash flow from operating activities (CFFO) is 
determined by normalising the actual cash flow for the period by 
applying the price set communicated during CMD of: Brent, Henry Hub 
and related gas markers on a real term 2022 basis, based on business 
plan 2022 long term price guidance till 2030 and, historical average 
Refining Margin $4-$6 per tonne (nominal) and historical average 
Chemicals Margin $150-$250 per tonne (nominal). The Price-
normalised CFFO is added to Cash flow from Investments to 
achieve the Price-normalised free cash flow.

Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

Shareholder distribution and Shareholder distribution as 
percentage of CFFO

$ million

2023

2022

2021

Cash dividends paid to Shell plc shareholders

8,393

7,405

6,253

Repurchases of shares

Shareholder distribution

CFFO

14,617

18,437

23,010

25,842

2,889

9,142

  54,191 

  68,414 

  45,104 

Shareholder distribution as % CFFO

 42 %

 38 %

 20 %

Divestment proceeds
Divestment proceeds represent cash received from divestment activities 
in the period. Management regularly monitors this measure as a key 
lever to deliver sustainable cash flow. 

Divestment proceeds

$ million

2023

2022

2021

  2,565 

1,431 

  14,233 

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 
equipment and businesses

Proceeds from joint ventures and associates 
from sale, capital reduction and repayment of 
long-term loans

Proceeds from sale of equity securities

Divestment proceeds

  3,091 

  2,059 

15,113 

Free cash flow and organic free cash flow
Free cash flow is used to evaluate cash available for financing 
activities, including shareholder distributions and debt servicing, 
after investment in maintaining and growing our business. 

Organic free cash flow is defined as Free cash flow excluding the 
cash flows from acquisition and divestment activities. It is a measure 
used by management to evaluate generation of cash flow without 
these activities. 

474 

51 

511 

117 

584 

296 

The Price-normalised free cash flow growth is determined by comparing the 
Price-normalised free cash flow of the current year to the previous year.

The Price-normalised free cash flow growth per share is calculated by 
first dividing the Price-normalised free cash flow for the year by the 
number of shares outstanding at the end of the period (the number of 
shares excludes shares held in trust), then comparing the current year 
Price-normalised free cash flow growth per share to the previous year.

Price-normalised free cash flow growth

$ million

2023

2022

  54,191 

  68,414 

 (17,734)   (22,448) 

  36,457 

  45,965 

  (11,500)   (26,000) 

  24,957 

  19,965 

  4,992 

 25 %

Cash flow from operating activities

Cash flow from investing activities

Free cash flow and Organic free cash flow

Free cash flow

Cash flow from operating activities

  54,191 

  68,414 

  45,104 

Price-normalised free cash flow growth

Cash flow from investing activities

 (17,734)   (22,448)   

(4,761) 

Price-normalised free cash flow growth %

$ million

Price-normalisation [A]

2023

2022

2021

Price-normalised free cash flow 

Free cash flow

  36,457 

  45,965 

  40,343 

[A] Rounded to the nearest half billion. See below for explanation of how the Price-

Less: Divestment proceeds [A]

  3,091 

  2,059 

15,113 

Add: Tax paid on divestments (reported under 
"Other investing cash outflows")

— 

17 

188 

normalisation impact is calculated.

Price-normalised free cash flow growth per share

Add: Cash outflows related to inorganic 
capital expenditure [B]

  2,522 

  4,205 

1,658 

Price-normalised free cash flow ($ million)

Organic free cash flow

  35,888 

  48,128 

  27,076 

Shares outstanding (million)

[A] Cash inflows related to divestments includes Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 

Price-normalised free cash flow per share ($)

equipment and businesses, Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital 
reduction and repayment of long-term loans, and Proceeds from sale of equity securities as 
reported in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows".

[B] Cash outflows related to inorganic capital expenditure includes portfolio actions which 
expand Shell's activities through acquisitions and restructuring activities as reported in 
capital expenditure lines in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 

Price-normalised free cash flow growth per share

2023

2022

  24,957 

  19,965 

  6,486 

  6,971 

2.86 

3.85 

 34 %

370
370

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued

Shares outstanding

Price sensitivities applied

number of shares 
(million)

Number of shares outstanding as at December 31

2023

2022

Ordinary shares [A]

Less: Shares held in trust [B]

Shares outstanding 

  6,524 

  7,004 

(38)   

(33) 

  6,486 

  6,971 

[A] See Note 26 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements".
[B] See Note 27 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". Each ADS represents 2 ordinary 

shares.

Calculation of the price-normalisation
For each of the price markers shown in the table below, a comparison 
is made between the average prices for the period (published on our 
website Shell.com) against the price set shown below, which is based 
on the prices published at CMD.

The price sensitivities shown in the table following, indicate the 
estimated impact in CFFO for the change in each price marker. The 
price sensitivities are applied to the price variance of each price marker 
to determine the impact on CFFO.

No price adjustments are made for Marketing and Renewables and 
Energy Solutions.

Upstream

$10/bbl Brent

$1/MMbtu Henry Hub

$1/MMbtu EU TTF

Integrated Gas

$10/bbl Brent

$10/bbl JCC - 3 months

Chemicals and Products 

$ million

2023

2022

  2,600 

  3,000 

150 

110 

325 

150 

1,300 

1,000 

1,400 

1,200 

$30/tonne indicative chemical earnings margin

$1/bbl indicative refining earnings margin

750 

400 

700 

425 

Taxes paid and collected 
Taxes paid and collected represents the total taxes paid to 
governments as disclosed in the annual Tax Contribution Report. It 
comprises Corporate income tax and government royalties as well 
as excise duties, sales taxes and similar levies on our fuel and products 
that are collected on behalf of the governments. 

Price set applied

Brent [A]

Henry Hub [A]

EU TTF [A]

JCC - 3 months [A]

Taxes paid and collected 

2023

2022

$66.3/bbl

$65/bbl

Corporate income tax [A] 

  14,134 

13,411 

  5,956 

$ million

2023

2022

2021

$4.1/MMBtu

$4/MMBtu

Royalties [B]

  6,073 

  8,189 

  6,551 

$7.7/MMBtu

$7.5/MMBtu

$64.7/bbl

$63.5/bbl

Excise duties, sales taxes and similar levies [C]

  47,160 

  46,642 

  46,104 

Taxes paid and collected 

  67,367 

  68,242 

  58,611 

Indicative chemical earnings margin [B]

$200 per tonne

$200 per tonne

Indicative refining earnings margin [B]

$5 per tonne

$5 per tonne

[A] Real term 2022, as per Group business plan 2022 long-term price guidance until 2030.
[B] Mid-point of CMD guidance.

[A] We paid $13.7 billion in corporate income taxes and accrued $0.4 billion of withholding 
taxes. Withholding tax charge is part of "Other" of ($0.5) billion in the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows. 

[B] Royalties is part of Purchases of $212.9 billion as included in the Consolidated Statement 

of Income.

[C] This amount has been derived from regulatory filings submitted to the relevant 

governments. 

371
371

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information

Appendix

372

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information
Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited)

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings at December 31, 2023, are set out below. These are included in the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on pages 244-316. Shell's percentage of share capital is shown to the nearest whole number. Subsidiaries are disclosed 
separately from all other undertakings. Subsidiaries directly held by the Company are marked with the annotation [a]. A number of the entities 
listed are dormant or not yet operational. Entities that are proportionately consolidated are identified by the annotation [b]. Shell-owned shares 
are ordinary (voting) shares unless identified with one of the following annotations against the company name: [c] Membership interest; [d] 
Partnership capital; [e] Non-redeemable; [f] Ordinary, Partnership capital; [g] Ordinary, Redeemable; [h] Ordinary, Redeemable, Non-
redeemable; and [i] Redeemable, Non-redeemable.

Subsidiaries including Shell plc Direct Holdings

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

ARGENTINA

AVENIDA PTE. ROQUE SÁENZ PENA 788, 2ND FLOOR, CIUDAD DE BUENOS AIRES, 
1035

Shell Argentina S.A.

AUSTRALIA

275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE

Condamine 3 Pty Ltd

QCLNG Pty Ltd

275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, 11000

BC 789 Holdings Pty Ltd

BG CPS Pty Limited

BNG (SURAT) PTY. LTD.

Condamine 1 Pty Ltd

Condamine 2 Pty Ltd

Condamine 4 Pty Ltd

Condamine Power Station Pty Ltd

E.R.M. Oakey Power Pty Ltd

ERM Employee Share Plan Administrator Pty Ltd

ERM Energy Solutions Holdings Pty Ltd

ERM Financial Services Pty Ltd

ERM Holdings Pty Ltd

ERM Land Holdings Pty Ltd

ERM Neerabup Power Pty Ltd

ERM Power International Pty Ltd

ERM Power Investments Pty Ltd

ERM Power Utility Systems Pty Ltd

Gangarri Solar Farm Pty Ltd

Greensense Pty Ltd

Lumaled Pty Ltd

NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS PTY LTD

New South Oil Pty Ltd

Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd

PENRITH SMART BATTERY HOLDCO PTY LIMITED

Penrith Smart Battery Pty Limited

Petroleum Resources (Thailand) Pty. Limited

Powermetric Metering Pty Ltd

Powershop Australia Pty Ltd

Pure Energy Resources Pty Limited

QGC (B7) Pty Ltd

QGC (Exploration) Pty Ltd

QGC (Infrastructure) Pty Ltd

QGC Common Facilities Company Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 2 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 3 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 4 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 5 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 6 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 7 Pty Ltd

373
373

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

QGC Holdings 8 Pty Ltd

QGC Holdings 9 Pty Ltd

QGC Midstream Holdings Pty Ltd

QGC Midstream Investments Pty Ltd

QGC Midstream Land Pty Ltd

QGC Midstream Limited Partnership

QGC Midstream Services Pty Ltd

QGC Northern Forestry Pty Ltd

QGC Pty Limited

QGC Sales Qld Pty Ltd

QGC Train 1 Pty Ltd

QGC Train 1 Tolling Pty Ltd

QGC Train 1 UJV Manager Pty Ltd

QGC Train 2 Pty Ltd

QGC Train 2 Tolling No.2 Pty Ltd

QGC Train 2 Tolling Pty Ltd

QGC Train 2 UJV Manager Pty Ltd

QGC Upstream Finance Pty Ltd

QGC Upstream Holdings Pty Ltd

QGC Upstream Investments Pty Ltd

QGC Upstream Limited Partnership

QUEENSLAND ELECTRICITY INVESTORS PTY. LTD.

Richmond Valley Solar Thermal Pty Ltd

Roma Petroleum Pty Limited

Select Carbon Pty Ltd

SGA (Queensland) Pty Ltd

SGAI Pty Limited

Shell Energy Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Neerabup Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd

SHELL ENERGY OPERATIONS NO. 2 HOLDINGS PTY LTD

Shell Energy Operations No. 2 Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Operations Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Power Generation Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Retail Finance Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Retail Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Wallerawang 9 BESS Pty Ltd

Shell New Energies Australia Pty Ltd

Shell QGC Pty Ltd

Starzap Pty Ltd

Sunshine 685 Pty Limited

Walloons Coal Seam Gas Company Pty Limited [g]

275 GEORGE STREET, LEVEL 30, BRISBANE, 11000

ERM Wellington 1 Holdings Pty Ltd

LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, 111 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000

QUEENSLAND GAS COMPANY PTY LIMITED

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

75

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

AUSTRALIA continued

LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, 11000

OME RESOURCES AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.

Shell Energy Retail Markets Pty Ltd

LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000

QCLNG Operating Company Pty Ltd [g]

QGC LIMITED, LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, 11000

CCM Energy Solutions Pty Ltd

ERM Braemar 3 Power Pty Ltd

ERM Braemar 3 Pty Ltd

ERM Innovation Labs Pty Ltd

ERM Power Services Pty Ltd

Shell Energy BESS 1 Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Certificate Trading Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Engineering Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Environmental Products Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Power Developments Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Projects Pty Ltd

SHELL HOUSE, 562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH

Shell Energy Holdings Australia Limited

SHELL HOUSE, 562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH, 11000

North West Shelf LNG Pty Ltd

Shell Australia FLNG Pty Ltd

Shell Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Australia Services Company Pty Ltd

Shell Development (PSC19) Pty Ltd

Shell Development (PSC20) Pty Ltd

Shell Global Solutions Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Tankers Australia Pty Ltd

Trident LNG Shipping Services Pty Ltd

SHELL HOUSE,562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH, WA 6000

SASF PTY. LTD.

TENANCY 6, LIONSGATE BUSINESS PARK, 180 PHILIP HIGHWAY, ELIZABETH SOUTH, 
SA 5112

Sonnen Australia Pty Limited

AUSTRIA

FRANZ-JOSEFS-KAI 27, VIENNA, 11000

Next Kraftwerke AT GmbH

SCHULHOF 6/1. STOCK, VIENNA, 11000

Shell China Holding GmbH

TECH GATE, DONAU-CITY-STR, 1 VIENNA, 11000

Rheinland Kraftstoff Österreich GmbH

TECH GATE, DONAU-CITY-STR. 1, VIENNA, 11000

SHELL AUSTRIA GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H.

BAHAMAS

2 BAYSIDE EXECUTIVE PARK, WEST BAY STREET & BLAKE ROAD, NASSAU, 11000

Shell Western Supply and Trading Limited

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Shell Bahamas Power Company Inc.

BARBADOS

THE FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRE, BISHOP'S COURT HILL, ST, MICHAEL, BARBADOS, 
11000

SHELL TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO RESOURCES SRL

BELGIUM

BORSBEEKSEBRUG 34/1, 2600 ANTWERPEN, 11000

Shell EV Charging Solutions Belgium

CANTERSTEEN 47, BRUSSELS, 1000

Belgian Shell

374
374

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

PALEIZENSTRAAT 153 RUE DES PALAIS, GEBOUW/BÂTIMENT: LUSTRERIE, BRUSSELS, 
1030

Next Kraftwerke Belgium BV

PANTSERSCHIPSTRAAT 331, GENT, 9000

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Belgium

BERMUDA

3RD FLOOR CONTINENTAL BUILDING, 25 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON

Solen Life Insurance Limited

3RD FLOOR CONTINENTAL BUILDING, 25 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON, HM 12

Gas Investments & Services Company Limited

Qatar Shell GTL Limited

Shell Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Shell Oman Trading Limited

Shell Petroleum (Malaysia) Ltd

Shell Saudi Arabia (Refining) Limited

Shell Trust (Bermuda) Limited

SHELL MARKETS MIDDLE EAST LIMITED FZE

BOLIVIA 

ABDON SAAVEDRA N° 2265, SOPOCACHI, LA PAZ

Pennzoil Bolivia S.A.

BRAZIL

3.311 AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA, ITAIM BIBI, SAO PAULO, ITAIM BIBI

Shell Trading Brasil Ltda.

330 AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE, RIO DE JANEIRO, 11000

SHELL BRASIL PETROLEO LTDA.

Shell Energy do Brasil Gás Ltda.

340 CONJ 182, LETRA B, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO

Prex Participacoes Societarias Ltda.

340 CONJ 182, LETRA B, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 01333-010

Ativa Energia E Participacoes Societarias Ltda

Exata Energia Consultoria e Comercio Ltda.

Facite Participacoes Societarias Ltda.

Prime Energy Comercializadora de Gas Ltda.

100

100

75

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Prime Energy Consultoria e Comercio de Energia Ltda.

100

Prime Energy Comercializadora de Energia Ltda.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

340 CONJ 182, LETRA C, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 
01333-010

Exata Energia Comercializadora Ltda

340, CONJ 181, LETRA C, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, RUA 
CINCINATO BRAGA

Ativa Operacao, Manutencao e Consultoria Ltda

340, CONJ 181, LETRA D, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO

MLE Comercializadora Varejista de Energia Ltda

340, CONJ 182, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 01333-010

Ativa Esco Servicos de Eficiencia Energetica Ltda.

711, RUA DOUTOR JOAO PINHEIRO, JUIZ DE FORA, 36015-040

Arion Otimizacao Em Energia Ltda.

ÁREA RURAL DE JANAÚBA, S/Nº, CITY OF JANAÚBA PROPERTIES, 11000

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE II LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE III LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IV LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IX LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE V LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VI LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VII LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VIII LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE X LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XI LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XII LTDA.

%

100

100

100

85

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

PALEIZENSTRAAT 153 RUE DES PALAIS, GEBOUW/BÂTIMENT: LUSTRERIE, BRUSSELS, 

BRAZIL continued

Shell Trading Canada [d]

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XIII LTDA.

100

BOUL. LAPINIÈRE, BROSSARD, J4Z3H8

AV REPUBLICA DO CHILE 330, BLC 2 SAL 3201, RIO DE JANEIRO

Nature Energy Canada New Ventures 2 Inc

Shell Brasil Renewables & Energy Solutions Ltda

AV REPUBLICA DO CHILE, 330 BLC 2 SAL 2401, RIO DE JANEIRO, 11000

Seapos Ltda.

AV REPUBLICA DO CHILE, 330, BLC 2 SAL 2301, RIO DE JANEIRO, 11000

Pecten Do Brasil Servicos De Petroleo, LTDA.

AV. REPUBLICA DO CHILE, NO 330, 23O ANDAR PARTE, TORRE 2 - CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 11000

BG PETROLEO & GAS BRASIL LTDA

AV. REPUBLICA DO CHILE, NO 330, 23O ANDAR, TORRE 2 - CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, TORRE 2 - CENTRO

BG Comercio e Importacao Ltda.

AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA, 3311, CONJUNTO 82, ITAIM BIBI, SAO PAULO, 
11000

Shell Energy do Brasil Ltda.

SHELL MARKETS MIDDLE EAST LIMITED FZE

AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE, 330, BLC 2, SAL 2401, RIO DE JANEIRO, 11000

Heze Holding II LTDA.

NO 330, ROOM 2301,AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE, BUILDING 2, RIO DE JANEIRO, 
11000

Heze I Holding S.A.

BRUNEI

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Nature Energy Construction Canada Inc

BOUL. LAPINIÈRE, QUEBEC, J4Z3H8

Nature Energy Canada Inc.

Nature Energy Canada New Ventures 3 Inc

Nature Energy Farnham Inc.

CAYMAN ISLANDS

CAMPBELLS, FLOOR 4, WILLOW HOUSE, CRICKET SQUARE, GEORGE TOWN, 
GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-9010

BG Exploration and Production India Limited

FLOOR 4, WILLOW HOUSE, CRICKET SQUARE, PO BOX 268, GEORGE TOWN, 11000

BG EGYPT SA

OCORIAN TRUST (CAYMAN), LIMITED OF WINDWARD 3, REGATTA OFFICE PARK, PO 
BOX 1350, GRAND CAYMAN, 11000

Beryl North Sea Limited

Schiehallion Oil & Gas Limited

OCORIAN TRUST (CAYMAN), LIMITED OF WINDWARD 3, REGATTA OFFICE PARK, PO 
BOX 1350, GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1108

Shell North Sea Holdings Limited

PICCADILLY CENTRE, 28 ELGIN AVENUE, SUITE 201, P.O. BOX 2570, GEORGE TOWN, 
GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1103

C/O BSP HEAD OFFICE, NDCO BLOCK, GROUND FLOOR, JALAN UTARA, PANAGA 
SERIA, 11000

Shell Bolivia Corporation

Shell Borneo Sendirian Berhad

BULGARIA

48, SITNYAKOVO BLVD., SERDIKA OFFICES, 8TH FLOOR, SOFIA, 1505

Shell Bulgaria Ead

CAMBODIA

OFFICE NO. 186 C, STREET 155 SANGKAT TOUL TUMPOUNG I, KHAN 
CHAMKAMORN, PHNOM PENH

Shell Company of Cambodia Limited S.A.

CANADA

2100-855 2 ST SW, CALGARY, T2P 4J8

1745844 Alberta Ltd.

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, 11000

10084751 Canada Limited

7026609 Canada Inc.

7645929 Canada Limited

Cansolv Technologies Inc.

Coral Cibola Canada Inc.

Shell Canada Services Limited

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Canada Inc.

Shell Energy North America (Canada) Inc.

Shell Global Solutions Canada Inc.

Zeco Systems (Canada) Inc.

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Shell Americas Funding (Canada) Limited

Shell Canada BROS Inc.

400 BOUL DE MAISONNEUVE OUEST, MONTREAL, 11000

Shell Quebec Limitee

400, 4 AVENUE SOUTHWEST, CALGARY, 11000

Canadian Mobility Services Limited

4000 – 500 CENTRE STREET SE, CALGARY, 11000

SCL Pipeline Inc.

Shell Canada Energy [c]

Shell Canada Limited

Shell Canada OP Inc.

Shell Canada Products [d]

Shell Chemicals Canada [d]

100

SCORER LIMITED, 5TH FLOOR BERMUDA HOUSE, DR. ROY'S DRIVE, GEORGE TOWN, 
GRAND CAYMAN

Gas Resources Limited

CHILE

100

C/O CAREY Y CIA ABOGADOS, MIRAFLORES 222, PISO 28, SANTIAGO

Shell Chile S.A.

CHINA

100

186, NO.1, 16TH FLOOR, DONGHUA BUILDING, NO. 5, DONGCHENG EAST ROAD, 
GANGBEI COMMUNITY, DONGCHENG STREET, DONGGUAN CITY, 11000

DONGGUAN SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

198 TIMES CITY, 263 HONGMING ROAD, LILIAN STREET, HUANGPU DISTRICT, 
GUANGZHOU, 11000

GUANGZHOU SHELL YADI NEW ENERGY CO., LTD

30/F, CHINA WORLD TOWER B, NO.1 JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, BEIJING

Shell (China) Limited

401 FLOOR 4, BUILDING 1, YARD 1, ZHONGHE ROAD, BEIJING, 11000

Beijing Shell Information Technology Co., Ltd.

50 DONGHAI WEST ROAD, QINGDAO

Qingdao Shell Oil Co., Ltd.

8/F, BUILDING 1, NO. 818 SHENCHANG ROAD, MINHANG DISTRICT, SHANGHAI, 
201106

Shell Management and Consulting Company Limited

Shell Ventures Company Limited

8TH FLOOR, NO. 1 BUILDING, NO. 818 OF SHENCHANG ROAD, MINHANG 
DISTRICT, SHANGHAI, 11000

Shell (Shanghai) Petroleum Company Limited

BUILDING 4, JIN CHUANG BUILDING, NO. 4560, JIN KE ROAD, PILOT FREE TRADE 
ZONE, SHANGHAI, 11000

Shell (Shanghai) Technology Limited

F7, NO. 1 BUILDING, HEADQUARTER PARK, CAIJIA FREE TRADE ZONE, NO. 60 
SHENGHE ROAD, CHONGQING CITY, 11000

Chongqing Shell Energy Company Limited

FLOOR 23, CHINA LIFE INSURANCE ANHUI FINANCIAL CENTER, LUZHOU AVENUE, 
BAOBINHU NEW AREA, HEFEI CITY, 11000

Anhui Shell Energy Company Limited

FLOOR 27, BUILDING A, SHANDONG CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING, NO.51, 
WEI SECOND ROAD, SHIZHONG DISTRICT, JINAN CITY, 250001

Shandong Shell Oil Co., Ltd.

FLOOR 56 AND 57, PHASE 1 OF XIN DI CENTER, NO. 188, LUSHAN ROAD, JIANYE 
DISTRICT, NANJING CITY, 11000

Jiangsu Shell Energy Company Limited

50

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

AUSTRALIA continued

LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, 11000

OME RESOURCES AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.

Shell Energy Retail Markets Pty Ltd

LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000

QCLNG Operating Company Pty Ltd [g]

QGC LIMITED, LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, 11000

CCM Energy Solutions Pty Ltd

ERM Braemar 3 Power Pty Ltd

ERM Braemar 3 Pty Ltd

ERM Innovation Labs Pty Ltd

ERM Power Services Pty Ltd

Shell Energy BESS 1 Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Certificate Trading Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Engineering Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Environmental Products Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Power Developments Pty Ltd

Shell Energy Projects Pty Ltd

SHELL HOUSE, 562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH

Shell Energy Holdings Australia Limited

SHELL HOUSE, 562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH, 11000

North West Shelf LNG Pty Ltd

Shell Australia FLNG Pty Ltd

Shell Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Australia Services Company Pty Ltd

Shell Development (PSC19) Pty Ltd

Shell Development (PSC20) Pty Ltd

Shell Global Solutions Australia Pty Ltd

Shell Tankers Australia Pty Ltd

Trident LNG Shipping Services Pty Ltd

FRANZ-JOSEFS-KAI 27, VIENNA, 11000

Next Kraftwerke AT GmbH

SCHULHOF 6/1. STOCK, VIENNA, 11000

Shell China Holding GmbH

TECH GATE, DONAU-CITY-STR, 1 VIENNA, 11000

Rheinland Kraftstoff Österreich GmbH

TECH GATE, DONAU-CITY-STR. 1, VIENNA, 11000

SHELL AUSTRIA GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H.

BAHAMAS

Shell Western Supply and Trading Limited

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Shell Bahamas Power Company Inc.

BARBADOS

11000

BELGIUM

SHELL TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO RESOURCES SRL

BORSBEEKSEBRUG 34/1, 2600 ANTWERPEN, 11000

Shell EV Charging Solutions Belgium

CANTERSTEEN 47, BRUSSELS, 1000

Belgian Shell

100

100

75

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

1030

Next Kraftwerke Belgium BV

PANTSERSCHIPSTRAAT 331, GENT, 9000

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Belgium

BERMUDA

3RD FLOOR CONTINENTAL BUILDING, 25 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON

Solen Life Insurance Limited

3RD FLOOR CONTINENTAL BUILDING, 25 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON, HM 12

Gas Investments & Services Company Limited

Qatar Shell GTL Limited

Shell Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Shell Oman Trading Limited

Shell Petroleum (Malaysia) Ltd

Shell Saudi Arabia (Refining) Limited

Shell Trust (Bermuda) Limited

ABDON SAAVEDRA N° 2265, SOPOCACHI, LA PAZ

BOLIVIA 

Pennzoil Bolivia S.A.

BRAZIL

3.311 AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA, ITAIM BIBI, SAO PAULO, ITAIM BIBI

Shell Trading Brasil Ltda.

330 AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE, RIO DE JANEIRO, 11000

SHELL BRASIL PETROLEO LTDA.

Shell Energy do Brasil Gás Ltda.

340 CONJ 182, LETRA B, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO

Prex Participacoes Societarias Ltda.

340 CONJ 182, LETRA B, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 01333-010

Ativa Energia E Participacoes Societarias Ltda

Exata Energia Consultoria e Comercio Ltda.

Facite Participacoes Societarias Ltda.

Prime Energy Comercializadora de Gas Ltda.

Prime Energy Consultoria e Comercio de Energia Ltda.

340 CONJ 182, LETRA C, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 

01333-010

Exata Energia Comercializadora Ltda

340, CONJ 181, LETRA C, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, RUA 

CINCINATO BRAGA

Ativa Operacao, Manutencao e Consultoria Ltda

340, CONJ 181, LETRA D, 18 ANDAR, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO

MLE Comercializadora Varejista de Energia Ltda

340, CONJ 182, RUA CINCINATO BRAGA, SÃO PAULO, 01333-010

Ativa Esco Servicos de Eficiencia Energetica Ltda.

711, RUA DOUTOR JOAO PINHEIRO, JUIZ DE FORA, 36015-040

ÁREA RURAL DE JANAÚBA, S/Nº, CITY OF JANAÚBA PROPERTIES, 11000

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE II LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE III LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IV LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE V LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VI LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VII LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VIII LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE X LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XI LTDA.

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XII LTDA.

%

100

100

100

85

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

SHELL HOUSE,562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH, WA 6000

TENANCY 6, LIONSGATE BUSINESS PARK, 180 PHILIP HIGHWAY, ELIZABETH SOUTH, 

SASF PTY. LTD.

SA 5112

AUSTRIA

Sonnen Australia Pty Limited

100

Prime Energy Comercializadora de Energia Ltda.

2 BAYSIDE EXECUTIVE PARK, WEST BAY STREET & BLAKE ROAD, NASSAU, 11000

Arion Otimizacao Em Energia Ltda.

THE FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRE, BISHOP'S COURT HILL, ST, MICHAEL, BARBADOS, 

BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IX LTDA.

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

80

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

374

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

375
375

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

CHINA continued

DENMARK

LONGSHAN SEVENTH ROAD, WEST DAYA BAY, HUIZHOU, 11000

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, DENMARK, ODENSE, 5220

HUIZHOU SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

80

Nature Energy Hemmet ApS

NANJIN WAN, GAOLAN DAO, ZHUHAI, 11000

Nature Energy Sdr. Vium ApS

Shell (Zhuhai) Lubricants Company Limited

100

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, DENMARK, 11000

NO. 1 WANGJIABA, XINMIAOZHI VILLAGE, PUYUAN TOWN, TONGXIANG, JIAXING, 
ZHEJIANG, 314502

Shell (Zhejiang) Petroleum Trading Limited

NO. 286 NANSAN ROAD, TIANJIN HARBOUR NANJIANG DEV. ZONE, TIANJIN, 
11000

Nature Energy Denmark ApS

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, ODENSE, 11000

100

Nature Energy Falster ApS

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, ODENSE, 5220

Shell (Tianjin) Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited

100

Nature Energy Bånlev A/S

NO. 3, SOUTHERN RING ROAD, ZHENJIANG DISTRICT, SHAOGUAN CITY, 11000

Nature Energy Bånlev Transport A/S

SHAOGUAN SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

80

Nature Energy Korskro A/S

NO. 304-5, 3RD FLOOR, BUILDING B AND OTHER 3 INNER PODIUMS, NUMBER 
A2,WORKERS STADIUM NORTH ROAD, BEIJING, 11000

Shell (Beijing) New Energy Technology Co., Ltd

NO. 4, 5, 12/F, UNIT A, OCEANWIDE INTERNATIONAL CENTER OFFICE, WUHAN, 
11000

Hubei Shell Energy Company Limited

NO.19 OF DAGANG HANQIAO ROAD, ZHENJIANG NEW DISTRICT, JIANGSU, 11000

Shell Road Solutions (Zhenjiang) Co. Ltd

NO.723, BUILDING A1, CHUANGGU INDUSTRIAL PARK, 568 QUEYUAN ROAD, 
TIANXIN DISTRICT, CHANGSHA CITY, 11000

CHANGSHA SHELL YADI NEW ENERGY CO., LTD

NORTH TO GANG BEI ROAD & EAST TO HAI GANG ROAD, NANGANG INDUSTRIAL 
ZONE, TIANJIN ECONOMIC-TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT AREA, TIANJIN, 11000

Shell (Tianjin) Lubricants Company Limited

RM 1503, BUILDING 2, PLAZA OF ZBA, NO. 939 MINHE ROAD, NINGWEI STREET, 
XIAOSHAN, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 311215

Zhejiang Shell Energy Development Company Limited

ROOM 2407-2409, BUILDING 15, FANGMAOYUAN (PHASE II), CHANGSHA, 11000

Hunan Shell Energy Company Limited

ROOM 327, OFFICE BUILDING NO. 2, YADI ROAD, NEW INDUSTRIAL PARK, XILIU 
STREET, HIGH-TECH ZONE, XI 'AN, SHAANXI, 11000

XI'AN SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

ROOM 530, 5TH FLOOR, BUILDING 1, NO. 239 GANG'AO ROAD, SHANGHAI, 11000

Shell Energy (China) Limited

ROOM 611,6TH FLOOR, BUILDING B, VITALITY BUSINESS SQUARE, SUZHOU, 215100

Suzhou Yiwei NewEnergy Technology Company Limited

ROOM A1503-1504, INNOVATION PLAZA, LIULIAN COMMUNITY, PINGSHAN SUB-
DISTRICT, PINGSHAN DISTRICT, SHENZHEN, 11000

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

80

100

100

Nature Energy Kværs A/S

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, ODENSE, 11000

Nature Energy Vaarst A/S

Nature Energy Videbæk A/S

NGF Denmark Holding ApS

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, ODENSE, 5220

Nature Energy 1 A/S

Nature energy Biogas A/S

Nature Energy Construction A/S

Nature Energy Glansager A/S

Nature Energy Green Gas Sales A/S

Nature Energy Green Hydrogen A/S

Nature Energy Green Transport A/S

Nature Energy Holbæk ApS

Nature Energy International A/S

Nature Energy Løgumkloster ApS

Nature Energy Lolland ApS

Nature Energy Månsson A/S

Nature Energy Midtfyn A/S

Nature Energy Nordfyn A/S

Nature Energy Ørbæk A/S

Nature Energy Trekanten A/S

Nordliq A/S

ØRBÆKVEJ, ODENSE, 5220

Nature Energy Holsted A/S

Shenzhen Shell and BYD Electric Vehicle Investment Company Limited

80

EGYPT

RUNXIANG BUSINESS CENTER A707D, ZHELU STREET, JINGHU DISTRICT, WUHU, 
241000

BUILDING 79, ROAD 90 SOUTH, FIFTH SETTLEMENT- NEW CAIRO, CAIRO, 11000

Wuhu Shell Energy Company Limited

THE PORT OF ZHAPU, JIAXING MUNICIPALITY, ZHEJIANG

Zhejiang Shell Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited

UNIT 01, 32/F, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 COURTYARD, JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 
CHAOYANG DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100004

Shell (Beijing) Real Estate Consulting Ltd.

UNIT 01-08, LEVEL 31, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 
BEIJING, 11000

100

100

100

Shell Egypt Trading

Shell Lubricants Egypt

EL SALVADOR

BLVDLOS PROCERES FRENTEA REPARTO, LOS HEROES, E/S SHELL MONUMENTAL, 
SAN SALVADOR, SV

Shell Química de El Salvador S.A.

FINLAND

TEKNOBULEVARDI 3-5, VANTAA, 11000

Shell (China) Projects & Technology Limited

100

Shell Aviation Finland Oy

UNIT 1502 BUILDING A, ZHONGCHU PLAZA, XINHUA DISTRICT, SHIJIAZHUANG, 
11000

FRANCE

Hebei Shell Oil Sales Co., Ltd.

COLOMBIA

CALLE 90 NO. 19 - 41, OFICINA 702- EDIFICIO QUANTUM, BOGOTA, 11000

Shell Comercializadora Colombia S.A.S.

CL 90 NO. 19 - 41 OF 702, EDIFICIO QUANTUM, BOGOTÁ D.C., 11000

Shell Colombia S.A.

CZECH REPUBLIC

ANTALA STAŠKA 2027/77, PRAGUE, 11000

Shell Czech Republic a.s.

10 PLACE DE CATALOGNE, PARIS, 75014

Centrale Photovoltaïque Bouches-du-Rhône 1

Ferme Eolienne Flottante Stenella Rhône

Parc Eolien Côtes Armor 1

4 RUE DE MARIVAUX, PARIS, 11000

Volta France SARL

75 AVENUE PARMENTIER, PARIS, 75544

Centrales Next S.A.S

100

100

100

100

376
376

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

%

100

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

60

100

80

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

CHINA continued

DENMARK

FRANCE continued

TERRA INNOVA 1, BUREAU 102 ETAGE 1, 10 ALLÉE GEORGES NOÉ, SAINT AIGNAN 
GRANDLIEU, 44860

Nature Energy Chamarandes Choignes SAS

Nature Energy Construction France SAS

Nature Energy France SAS

TOUR PACIFIC, 11/13 COURS VALMY - LA DÉFENSE, PUTEAUX, 11000

Shell EV Charging Solutions France SAS

TOUR PACIFIC, 11/13 COURS VALMY - LA DÉFENSE, PUTEAUX, 92800

Avitair SAS

Shell France SAS

Shell Retraites SAS

Société de Gestion Mobilière et Immobilière SAS

GERMANY

10_3 BREUNINGER STRAßE, SACHSENHEIM, 74343

enersol GmbH

24 IM GEWERBEPARK, OBERKRÄMER, 16727

Energieinsel GmbH

ALTER KIRCHENWEG 83, HANDEWITT, 24983

Nature Energy Germany GmbH

AM HAUPTTOR, GEBÄUDE 8322, LEUNA, 11000

CRI Deutschland GmbH

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Leuna GmbH

AM RIEDBACH 1, WILDPOLDSRIED, 87499

Sonnen eServices Deutschland GmbH

Sonnen eServices GmbH

Sonnen GmbH

Sonnen Holding GmbH

AUF DEM SCHOLLBRUCH 24-26, GELSENKIRCHEN, 45899

Rheinland Kraftstoff Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter Haftung

C/O THE FACTORY, LOHMÜHLENSTRASSE 65, BERLIN, 11000

Volta Charging Germany GmbH

EUREF-CAMPUS 7-8, BERLIN, 10829

Ubimeter GmbH

Ubitricity Gesellschaft für verteilte Energiesysteme mbH

HOHE-SCHAAR-STRAßE 36, HAMBURG, 21107

Shell Global Solutions (Deutschland) GmbH

HÜNXER STRAßE 149, DINSLAKEN, 11000

SBRS Consulting GmbH

HÜNXER STRAßE, DINSLAKEN, 46537

SBRS GmbH

KOPERNIKUSSTRAßE 35, BERLIN, 11000

Shell EV Charging Solutions Germany GmbH

LICHTSTRAßE 43G, KOELN, 50825

Next Kraftwerke GmbH

ST.-LEONHARD-STRAßE 26, BALZHAUSEN, 86483

Energeticum Energiesysteme GmbH

SUHRENKAMP 71 - 77, HAMBURG, 22335

Shell Deutschland GmbH

SUHRENKAMP 71-77, D-22335, HAMBURG, 11000

Carissa Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Deutsche Shell Holding GmbH

euroShell Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG

euroShell Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Shell Deutschland Additive GmbH

Shell Deutschland RES GmbH

Shell Deutschland Wasserstoff GmbH

Shell Energy Deutschland GmbH

Shell Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH

Shell Erdgas Marketing GmbH & Co. KG

Shell Exploration and Production Colombia GmbH

Shell Exploration and Production Libya GmbH

Shell Exploration New Ventures One GmbH

Shell Hydrogen Deutschland GmbH

Shell Tunisia Offshore GmbH

Shell Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Erdgasbeteiligungen mbH

SUHRENKAMP 71-77, D-22335, HAMBURG, D-22335

Shell Exploration et Production du Maroc GmbH

WILLINGHUSENER WEG 5 D - E, OSTSTEINBEK, 11000

CARISSA GmbH

GHANA

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

8TH FLOOR, ONE AIRPORT SQUARE, AIRPORT BYPASS ROAD, AIRPORT, ACCRA, 11000

Shell Energy Ghana Limited

100

BLOCK 13, SECTION 103, TEMA MOTORWAY INDUSTRIAL AREA EXTENSION, ACCRA, 
6217

Daystar Power Group Ltd (Ghana)

100

GUAM

643 CHALAN SAN ANTONIO, SUITE 100, TAMUNING, GU 96911

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Guam, Inc.

HONG KONG

35/F AIA KOWLOON TOWER, LANDMARK EAST, 100 HOW MING STREET, KWUN 
TONG, KOWLOON

Ocean Century Tf Limited [g]

35/F AIA KOWLOON TOWER, LANDMARK EAST, KWUN TONG, KOWLOON, 11000

Fulmart Limited

Shell Developments (HK) Limited [g]

Shell Hong Kong Limited

Shell Korea Limited

Shell Macau Limited

HUNGARY

BOCSKAI ÚT 134-146., BUDAPEST, 11000

Shell Mobility Hungary Korlátolt Felelősségű Társaság "végelszámolás alatt"

BOCSKAI ÚT 134-146., BUDAPEST, 1113

Shell Hungary Zrt.

INDIA

2ND FLOOR, CAMPUS 4A, RMZ MILLENIA BUSINESS PARK II, 143 DR MGR ROAD, 
KANDHANCHAVADI, PERUNGUDI, CHENNAI, 11000

Shell India Markets Private Limited

301 WORLD TRADE TOWER, BARAKHAMBA LANE, NEW DELHI, 11000

BG India Energy Private Limited

BG India Energy Services Private Limited

BG India Energy Solutions Private Limited

BG LNG Regas India Private Limited

7, BANGALORE HARDWARE PARK, DEVANAHALLI INDUSTRIAL PARK, BANGALORE, 
11000

Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association

8-2-293/82/A/732 SASI ICON, ROAD NO.36, JUBILEE HILLS, HYDERABAD, 
TELANGANA, 500033

Machine Max India Private Limited

OFFICE NO 2008, WESTGATE - D BLOCK, NR YMCA CLUB, AHMEDABAD, GUJARAT, 
11000

Hazira Port Private Limited

Shell Energy India Private Limited

OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT CENTRE, NEW DELHI, 110025

Sprng Agnitra Private Limited

Sprng Akshaya Urja Private Limited

Sprng Green Power Private Limited

Sprng Photovoltaic Private Limited

Sprng Renewable Energy Private Limited

Sprng Soura Kiran Vidyut Private Limited

LONGSHAN SEVENTH ROAD, WEST DAYA BAY, HUIZHOU, 11000

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, DENMARK, ODENSE, 5220

HUIZHOU SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

80

Nature Energy Hemmet ApS

NANJIN WAN, GAOLAN DAO, ZHUHAI, 11000

Nature Energy Sdr. Vium ApS

Shell (Zhuhai) Lubricants Company Limited

100

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, DENMARK, 11000

NO. 1 WANGJIABA, XINMIAOZHI VILLAGE, PUYUAN TOWN, TONGXIANG, JIAXING, 

Nature Energy Denmark ApS

ZHEJIANG, 314502

Shell (Zhejiang) Petroleum Trading Limited

NO. 286 NANSAN ROAD, TIANJIN HARBOUR NANJIANG DEV. ZONE, TIANJIN, 

11000

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, ODENSE, 11000

100

Nature Energy Falster ApS

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, 5220 ODENSE SØ, ODENSE, 5220

Shell (Tianjin) Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited

100

Nature Energy Bånlev A/S

NO. 3, SOUTHERN RING ROAD, ZHENJIANG DISTRICT, SHAOGUAN CITY, 11000

Nature Energy Bånlev Transport A/S

SHAOGUAN SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

80

Nature Energy Korskro A/S

NO. 304-5, 3RD FLOOR, BUILDING B AND OTHER 3 INNER PODIUMS, NUMBER 

Nature Energy Kværs A/S

A2,WORKERS STADIUM NORTH ROAD, BEIJING, 11000

Shell (Beijing) New Energy Technology Co., Ltd

NO. 4, 5, 12/F, UNIT A, OCEANWIDE INTERNATIONAL CENTER OFFICE, WUHAN, 

11000

Hubei Shell Energy Company Limited

NO.19 OF DAGANG HANQIAO ROAD, ZHENJIANG NEW DISTRICT, JIANGSU, 11000

Shell Road Solutions (Zhenjiang) Co. Ltd

NO.723, BUILDING A1, CHUANGGU INDUSTRIAL PARK, 568 QUEYUAN ROAD, 

TIANXIN DISTRICT, CHANGSHA CITY, 11000

CHANGSHA SHELL YADI NEW ENERGY CO., LTD

NORTH TO GANG BEI ROAD & EAST TO HAI GANG ROAD, NANGANG INDUSTRIAL 

ZONE, TIANJIN ECONOMIC-TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT AREA, TIANJIN, 11000

Shell (Tianjin) Lubricants Company Limited

RM 1503, BUILDING 2, PLAZA OF ZBA, NO. 939 MINHE ROAD, NINGWEI STREET, 

XIAOSHAN, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 311215

Zhejiang Shell Energy Development Company Limited

ROOM 2407-2409, BUILDING 15, FANGMAOYUAN (PHASE II), CHANGSHA, 11000

Hunan Shell Energy Company Limited

ROOM 327, OFFICE BUILDING NO. 2, YADI ROAD, NEW INDUSTRIAL PARK, XILIU 

STREET, HIGH-TECH ZONE, XI 'AN, SHAANXI, 11000

XI'AN SHELL YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD

ROOM 530, 5TH FLOOR, BUILDING 1, NO. 239 GANG'AO ROAD, SHANGHAI, 11000

Shell Energy (China) Limited

ROOM 611,6TH FLOOR, BUILDING B, VITALITY BUSINESS SQUARE, SUZHOU, 215100

Suzhou Yiwei NewEnergy Technology Company Limited

ROOM A1503-1504, INNOVATION PLAZA, LIULIAN COMMUNITY, PINGSHAN SUB-

DISTRICT, PINGSHAN DISTRICT, SHENZHEN, 11000

UNIT 01-08, LEVEL 31, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 

UNIT 1502 BUILDING A, ZHONGCHU PLAZA, XINHUA DISTRICT, SHIJIAZHUANG, 

241000

Wuhu Shell Energy Company Limited

THE PORT OF ZHAPU, JIAXING MUNICIPALITY, ZHEJIANG

Zhejiang Shell Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited

CHAOYANG DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100004

Shell (Beijing) Real Estate Consulting Ltd.

BEIJING, 11000

Shell (China) Projects & Technology Limited

11000

COLOMBIA

Hebei Shell Oil Sales Co., Ltd.

Shell Colombia S.A.

CZECH REPUBLIC

ANTALA STAŠKA 2027/77, PRAGUE, 11000

Shell Czech Republic a.s.

CALLE 90 NO. 19 - 41, OFICINA 702- EDIFICIO QUANTUM, BOGOTA, 11000

Shell Comercializadora Colombia S.A.S.

CL 90 NO. 19 - 41 OF 702, EDIFICIO QUANTUM, BOGOTÁ D.C., 11000

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, ODENSE, 11000

Nature Energy Vaarst A/S

Nature Energy Videbæk A/S

NGF Denmark Holding ApS

ØRBÆKVEJ 260, ODENSE, 5220

Nature Energy 1 A/S

Nature energy Biogas A/S

Nature Energy Construction A/S

Nature Energy Glansager A/S

Nature Energy Green Gas Sales A/S

Nature Energy Green Hydrogen A/S

Nature Energy Green Transport A/S

Nature Energy Holbæk ApS

Nature Energy International A/S

Nature Energy Løgumkloster ApS

Nature Energy Lolland ApS

Nature Energy Månsson A/S

Nature Energy Midtfyn A/S

Nature Energy Nordfyn A/S

Nature Energy Ørbæk A/S

Nature Energy Trekanten A/S

Nordliq A/S

ØRBÆKVEJ, ODENSE, 5220

Nature Energy Holsted A/S

Shell Egypt Trading

Shell Lubricants Egypt

EL SALVADOR

SAN SALVADOR, SV

Shell Química de El Salvador S.A.

TEKNOBULEVARDI 3-5, VANTAA, 11000

100

Shell Aviation Finland Oy

FINLAND

FRANCE

10 PLACE DE CATALOGNE, PARIS, 75014

Centrale Photovoltaïque Bouches-du-Rhône 1

Ferme Eolienne Flottante Stenella Rhône

Parc Eolien Côtes Armor 1

4 RUE DE MARIVAUX, PARIS, 11000

Volta France SARL

75 AVENUE PARMENTIER, PARIS, 75544

Centrales Next S.A.S

Shenzhen Shell and BYD Electric Vehicle Investment Company Limited

80

EGYPT

RUNXIANG BUSINESS CENTER A707D, ZHELU STREET, JINGHU DISTRICT, WUHU, 

BUILDING 79, ROAD 90 SOUTH, FIFTH SETTLEMENT- NEW CAIRO, CAIRO, 11000

UNIT 01, 32/F, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 COURTYARD, JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 

BLVDLOS PROCERES FRENTEA REPARTO, LOS HEROES, E/S SHELL MONUMENTAL, 

%

100

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

60

100

80

100

100

100

80

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

75

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

376

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

377
377

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

INDIA continued

Sprng Suryoday Energy Private Limited

Sprng Ujjvala Energy Private Limited

Sprng Wind Energy Private Limited

Sprng Transform Sun Energy Private Limited

PLATINA TOWER MG ROAD, NEAR SIKANDARPUR METRO STATION, SECTION, 
HARYANA, GURUGRAM, 122001

SHELL EV CHARGING SOLUTION ASIA LLP

SHELL CENTRE, COMMERZONE , BLOCK II, NO.2,200 FEET RADIAL ROAD, 
PALLIKARANAI, KANCHIPURAM, TAMBARAM, , INDIA, 600100, CHENNAI, TAMIL 
NADU, 11000

Sprng Energy Private Limited

UNIT NO 811, 8TH FLOOR, LOGIX CITY CENTRE, SECTOR 2, GAUTAM BUDDH 
NAGAR, NOID, P-201301

FIRST NAMES HOUSE, VICTORIA ROAD, DOUGLAS, IM2 4DF

100

100

100

100

100

100

Petrolon Europe Limited

Petrolon International Limited

ITALY

137 VIA VITTORIO VENETO, ROVIGO, 11000

Elios Energy S.r.l.

55, VIA GIOVANNI GIOLITTI, TORINO, 10123

MSTS Consorzio [c]

GALLERIA VINTLER 17, BOLZANO, 39100

Anagni S.r.l.

Barberio S.r.l.

Baroni S.r.l.

M&I Materials India Private Ltd.

100

Baroninuovi S.r.l

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 
CENTRE, INDIA, NEW DELHI, 110025

Sprng Vayu Vidyut Private Limited

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 
CENTRE, NEW DELHI, 110025

Arinsun Clean Energy Private Limited

Sprng Natural Power Source Private Limited

Sprng Ojas Private Limited

Sprng Pavana Urja Private Limited

Sprng Power Earth Private Limited

Sprng Power Private Limited

Sprng Powerinfra Private Limited

Sprng Renewable Resources Private Limited

Sprng Solar Energy Private Limited

Sprng Solar India Private Limited

Sprng Solar Plus Private Limited

Sprng Solren Private Limited

Sprng Urja Private Limited

Sprng Vaayu Urja Private Limited

Sprng Vayu Kiran Private Limited

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 
CENTRE, , INDIA, NEW DELHI, 11000

Sprng Alt Energy Private Limited

UNIT NOS. 401 TO 1401, BLOCK 2 COMMERZONE PALLIKARANAI, NO.2, 200 FEET 
RADIAL ROAD, PALLIKARANAI, PALLIKARANAI, CHENNAI, 11000

Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited

INDONESIA

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 
JAKARTA SELATAN, JAKARTA, 12430

PT. Gresik Distribution Terminal

PT. Shell Solar Indonesia

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 
JAKARTA, 11000

PT. Shell Manufacturing Indonesia

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 
JAKARTA, 12430

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

GENOVA (GE) VIA FELICE ROMANI 9/5, GENOVA, 11000

Ego Data S.r.l

Ego Energy S.r.l

Ego S.r.l

PIAZZA SAN SILVESTRO 8, ROME, 11000

Shell Italia E&P S.p.A.

VIA AUTOSTRADA 32, BERGAMO, 24126

Sonnen eServices Italia S.R.L.

Sonnen S.R.L.

VIA CLELIA BERTINI ATTILJ 34/D, ROME, 11000

Centrali Next Srl

VIA SUSA 40, TORINO, 10138

Shell Fleet Solutions Consorzio

VIA VITTOR PISANI 16, MILANO (MI), 11000

Adria Solar S.r.l.

Alle S.R.L.

Aquila S.p.A.

Civita Solar S.r.l.

Cumiana Solar S.r.l.

Development S.R.L.

Marco Polo Solar 2 S.R.L.

Marco Polo Solar S.R.L.

Ramacca Solar S.R.L

Sardinia Solar Energy S.R.L.

Shell Energy Italia S.R.L.

Shell Italia Holding S.p.A.

Shell Italia Oil Products S.R.L.

Shell Mobility Italia S.r.l.

Suncore 5 Amaranto 1 S.r.l.

VIALE AMEDEO DUCA D'AOSTA 51, BOLZANO, 11000

Bonacaro S.r.l.

Carlucci S.r.l.

Colangelo S.r.l.

PT. Shell Indonesia

100

Depalma S.r.l.

WISMA GKBI, 39TH FLOOR, JL. JENDERAL SUDIRMAN KAV. 28, BENDUNGAN HILIR, 
TANAH ABANG, CENTRAL JAKARTA, 11000

PT EcoOils Jaya Indonesia

IRELAND

1ST FLOOR, TEMPLE HALL, TEMPLE ROAD, BLACKROCK, DUBLIN, A94 K3K0

Asiatic Petroleum Company (Dublin) Limited

Irish Shell Trust Designated Activity Company

ISLE OF MAN

EUROMANX HOUSE, FREEPORT, BALLASALLA, IM9 2AP

Shell Marine Personnel (I.O.M.) Limited

Shell Ship Management Limited

Dimassa S.r.l.

Guarini S.r.l.

Mesagne S.r.l.

Natuzzi S.r.l.

Ottobiano S.r.l.

Paliano S.r.l.

Ricchiuti S.r.l.

Rotello S.r.l.

Sanfrancesco S.r.l.

Sasso S.r.l.

Serracapriola S.r.l.

100

100

100

100

100

378
378

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

ITALY continued

Sicilia S.r.l.

Teodoro S.r.l.

Tuturano S.r.l.

Vulci S.r.l.

Zamboni S.r.l.

VIALE EDISON 110, SESTO SAN GIOVANNI, MILANO

BG Italia Power S.r.l

JAPAN

1-11-1 MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO

Nagaoka Power Generation Limited

12F PACIFIC CENTURY PLACE MARUNOUCHI, 1-11-1, MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, 
TOKYO, 100-6212

Shell Lubricants Japan K.K.

12F PACIFIC CENTURY PLACE MARUNOUCHI, 1-11-1, MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, 
TOKYO, 11000

Shell Japan Limited

Sonnen Japan Kabushiki Kaisha

13F FUKOKU SEIMEI BUILDING, 2-2-2 UCHISAIWAI-CHO, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 
100-0011

K.K. Red and Yellow

2-1-13, MOTOAZABU, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 106-0046

Fukuoka Offshore Wind Power No. 1 K.K

4052-2 NAKATSU, AIKAWA-CHO, KANAGAWA, 11000

K.K. SVC Tokyo

PACIFIC CENTURY PLACE MARUNOUCHI, 1-11-1 MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, 
TOKYO, 11000

Shell Solar Japan G.K.

JERSEY

13 CASTLE STREET, ST HELIER, JERSEY, 11000

Shell Service Station Properties Limited

KENYA

LR 209/4266 KAMPALA ROAD, P.O. BOX 46644, NAIROBI, 100

Shell Bitumen East Africa Limited

SHELL & BP HOUSE, HARAMBEE AVENUE, P.O. BOX 43561, NAIROBI, 100

Shell Chemicals East Africa Limited

LUXEMBOURG

7, RUE DE L'INDUSTRIE, BERTRANGE, LUXEMBOURG, L-8005

Shell Luxembourgeoise Sarl

MACAO

876 AVENIDA DA AMIZADE, EDIFICIO MARINA GARDENS, MACAU, 11000

Shell Macau Petroleum Company Limited

MALAYSIA

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Shell Timur Sdn. Bhd.

LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, KUALA 
LUMPUR, WILAYAH PERSEKUTUAN, 11000

EcoOils Sdn. Bhd.

Shell MDS (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad

LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, WILAYAH 
PERSEKUTUAN, KUALA LUMPUR, 50470

Shell New Ventures Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. [g]

MAURITIUS

33 EDITH CAVELL STREET, PORT LOUIS, 11324

Pennzoil Products International Company

C/O IMARA TRUST COMPANY (MAURITIUS) LIMITED, LEVEL 2, ALEXANDER HOUSE, 
SILICON AVENUE, EBENE CYBERCITY

Daystar Power Group

C/O OCORIAN CORPORATE SERVICES LTD, 6TH FLOOR TOWER A, 1 CYBERCITY, 
EBENE, 11000

BG Mauritius LNG Holdings Ltd

BG Mumbai Holdings Limited

LES CASCADES EDITH CAVELL STREET, PORT LOUIS

Solenergi Power Private Limited

LEVEL 2, ALEXANDER HOUSE, SILICON AVENUE, EBENE CYBERCITY, 72201

Daystar Power Mauritius

MEXICO

AV. PASEO DE LAS PALMAS 340, 1ST FLOOR, COLONIA LOMAS DE CHAPULTEPEC, 
DELEGACIÓN MIGUEL HIDALGO, CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 11000

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

80

Gas Del Litoral, S. de R.L. de C.V.

100

Shell Energy Mexico, S.A. de C.V

Shell México Gas Natural, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Shell México, S.A. de C.V.

Shell Servicios México, S.A. de C.V.

Shell Solutions Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Shell Trading México, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Shell Exploracion y Extraccion de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

AVENIDA EJÉRCITO NACIONAL NO. 125, AHUEHUETES ANÁHUAC, MIGUEL 
HIDALGO, MEXICO CITY, 11000

GPDC Estaciones de Servicio, S.A. de C.V.

BOULEVARD JOSE MARIA MORELOS 3702, CAÑADA DE ALFARO, LEON, 
GUANAJUATO, 11000

Operadora de Combustibles NMG, S.A. de C.V.

NETHERLANDS

601, VONDELINGENWEG, VONDELINGENPLAAT ROTTERDAM, 11000

Shell MSPO 2 Holding B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 16, THE HAGUE, 11000

Shell International Exploration and Production B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, GRAVENHAGE, 2596 HR

Aramis CCS B.V.

Aramis S1 B.V.

100

100

100

100

100

100

70

KENSINGTON GARDENS, NO. U1317, LOT 7616, JALAN JUMIDAR BUYONG, 
LABUAN, 11000

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, S-GRAVENHAGE

BJSA Exploration and Production B.V.

Shell Treasury Malaysia (L) Limited

100

Chosun Shell B.V.

LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, 50470 
KUALA LUMPUR, WILAYAH PERSEKUTUAN, KUALA LUMPUR, 11000

EcoInnovation Sdn. Bhd.

EcoOils (Negeri Sembilan) Sdn. Bhd.

Pertini Vista Sdn. Bhd.

Provista Ventures Sdn. Bhd.

Sarawak Shell Berhad

Shell Brunei Operations Sdn Bhd.

Shell Business Service Centre Sdn. Bhd.

Shell Global Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Shell Malaysia Trading Sdn Bhd

Shell People Services Asia Sdn. Bhd.

Shell Sabah Selatan Sendirian Berhad

Pottendijk Zon B.V.

Shell Albania Block 4 B.V.

Shell E and P Offshore Services B.V.

Shell EP Russia Investments (III) B.V.

Shell EP Russia Investments (V) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (82) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXXI) B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 2 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 6 B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, S-GRAVENHAGE, 11000

Attiki Gas B.V.

B.V. Dordtsche Petroleum Maatschappij

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

INDIA continued

Sprng Suryoday Energy Private Limited

Sprng Ujjvala Energy Private Limited

Sprng Wind Energy Private Limited

FIRST NAMES HOUSE, VICTORIA ROAD, DOUGLAS, IM2 4DF

Petrolon Europe Limited

Petrolon International Limited

ITALY

Sprng Transform Sun Energy Private Limited

137 VIA VITTORIO VENETO, ROVIGO, 11000

PLATINA TOWER MG ROAD, NEAR SIKANDARPUR METRO STATION, SECTION, 

Elios Energy S.r.l.

HARYANA, GURUGRAM, 122001

SHELL EV CHARGING SOLUTION ASIA LLP

SHELL CENTRE, COMMERZONE , BLOCK II, NO.2,200 FEET RADIAL ROAD, 

PALLIKARANAI, KANCHIPURAM, TAMBARAM, , INDIA, 600100, CHENNAI, TAMIL 

55, VIA GIOVANNI GIOLITTI, TORINO, 10123

MSTS Consorzio [c]

GALLERIA VINTLER 17, BOLZANO, 39100

UNIT NO 811, 8TH FLOOR, LOGIX CITY CENTRE, SECTOR 2, GAUTAM BUDDH 

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 

GENOVA (GE) VIA FELICE ROMANI 9/5, GENOVA, 11000

Anagni S.r.l.

Barberio S.r.l.

Baroni S.r.l.

100

Baroninuovi S.r.l

Ego Data S.r.l

Ego Energy S.r.l

Ego S.r.l

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 

NADU, 11000

Sprng Energy Private Limited

NAGAR, NOID, P-201301

M&I Materials India Private Ltd.

CENTRE, INDIA, NEW DELHI, 110025

Sprng Vayu Vidyut Private Limited

CENTRE, NEW DELHI, 110025

Arinsun Clean Energy Private Limited

Sprng Natural Power Source Private Limited

Sprng Ojas Private Limited

Sprng Pavana Urja Private Limited

Sprng Power Earth Private Limited

Sprng Power Private Limited

Sprng Powerinfra Private Limited

Sprng Renewable Resources Private Limited

Sprng Solar Energy Private Limited

Sprng Solar India Private Limited

Sprng Solar Plus Private Limited

Sprng Solren Private Limited

Sprng Urja Private Limited

Sprng Vaayu Urja Private Limited

Sprng Vayu Kiran Private Limited

CENTRE, , INDIA, NEW DELHI, 11000

Sprng Alt Energy Private Limited

INDONESIA

JAKARTA SELATAN, JAKARTA, 12430

PT. Gresik Distribution Terminal

PT. Shell Solar Indonesia

JAKARTA, 11000

PT. Shell Manufacturing Indonesia

JAKARTA, 12430

PT. Shell Indonesia

PT EcoOils Jaya Indonesia

IRELAND

PIAZZA SAN SILVESTRO 8, ROME, 11000

Shell Italia E&P S.p.A.

VIA AUTOSTRADA 32, BERGAMO, 24126

Sonnen eServices Italia S.R.L.

Sonnen S.R.L.

VIA CLELIA BERTINI ATTILJ 34/D, ROME, 11000

Centrali Next Srl

VIA SUSA 40, TORINO, 10138

Shell Fleet Solutions Consorzio

VIA VITTOR PISANI 16, MILANO (MI), 11000

Adria Solar S.r.l.

Alle S.R.L.

Aquila S.p.A.

Civita Solar S.r.l.

Cumiana Solar S.r.l.

Development S.R.L.

Marco Polo Solar 2 S.R.L.

Marco Polo Solar S.R.L.

Ramacca Solar S.R.L

Sardinia Solar Energy S.R.L.

Shell Energy Italia S.R.L.

Shell Italia Holding S.p.A.

Shell Italia Oil Products S.R.L.

Shell Mobility Italia S.r.l.

Suncore 5 Amaranto 1 S.r.l.

UNIT NO FF-48 A, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT 

UNIT NOS. 401 TO 1401, BLOCK 2 COMMERZONE PALLIKARANAI, NO.2, 200 FEET 

RADIAL ROAD, PALLIKARANAI, PALLIKARANAI, CHENNAI, 11000

Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 

VIALE AMEDEO DUCA D'AOSTA 51, BOLZANO, 11000

TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 

WISMA GKBI, 39TH FLOOR, JL. JENDERAL SUDIRMAN KAV. 28, BENDUNGAN HILIR, 

TANAH ABANG, CENTRAL JAKARTA, 11000

1ST FLOOR, TEMPLE HALL, TEMPLE ROAD, BLACKROCK, DUBLIN, A94 K3K0

Asiatic Petroleum Company (Dublin) Limited

Irish Shell Trust Designated Activity Company

ISLE OF MAN

EUROMANX HOUSE, FREEPORT, BALLASALLA, IM9 2AP

Shell Marine Personnel (I.O.M.) Limited

Shell Ship Management Limited

100

Depalma S.r.l.

Bonacaro S.r.l.

Carlucci S.r.l.

Colangelo S.r.l.

Dimassa S.r.l.

Guarini S.r.l.

Mesagne S.r.l.

Natuzzi S.r.l.

Ottobiano S.r.l.

Paliano S.r.l.

Ricchiuti S.r.l.

Rotello S.r.l.

Sanfrancesco S.r.l.

Sasso S.r.l.

Serracapriola S.r.l.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

72

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

75

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

378

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

379
379

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

NETHERLANDS continued

B.V. Petroleum Assurantie Maatschappij

BG Gas Brazil E&P 12 B.V.

BG Gas Brazil Holdings B.V.

BG GAS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS BV

BG Gas Netherlands Holdings B.V.

BG Gas Sao Paulo Investments B.V.

Energiepark Pottendijk B.V.

Jordan Oil Shale Company B.V.

LNG Shipping Operation Services Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands Alng Holding Company B.V.

NoordzeeWind B.V.

NoordzeeWind C.V. [d]

Pottendijk Energie B.V.

Pottendijk Wind B.V.

POWER LINE UTILISING GRID B.V.

PTC Kampen B.V.

RESCO B.V.

Rotterdam Hydrogen Company B.V.

Shell Abu Dhabi B.V.

Shell Additives Holdings (I) B.V.

Shell Additives Holdings (II) B.V.

Shell Brazil Holding B.V.

Shell Business Development Central Asia B.V.

Shell Caspian B.V.

Shell Caspian Pipeline Holdings B.V.

Shell China B.V.

Shell China Holdings B.V.

Shell Deepwater Tanzania B.V.

Shell Development Iran B.V.

Shell Energy Europe B.V.

Shell EP Holdings (EE&ME) B.V.

Shell EP Middle East Holdings B.V.

Shell EP Somalia B.V.

Shell EP Wells Equipment Services B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (100) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (101) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (102) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (103) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (84) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (89) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (92) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (93) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (94) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (96) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (99) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LVIII) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXII) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXV) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXVI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXXV) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Brunei B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Holdings B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Investments B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C10) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C19) B.V.

380
380

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Exploration and Production Services (RF) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production South Africa B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (I) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (II) B.V.

Shell Exploration B.V.

Shell Exploration Company (West) B.V.

Shell Exploration Company B.V.

Shell Exploration Venture Services B.V.

Shell Finance (Netherlands) B.V.

Shell Gas & Power Developments B.V.

Shell Gas (LPG) Holdings B.V.

Shell Gas B.V.

Shell Gas Iraq B.V.

Shell Gas Nigeria B.V.

Shell Gas Venezuela B.V.

Shell Generating (Holding) B.V.

Shell Geothermal B.V.

Shell Global Solutions (Eastern Europe) B.V.

Shell Global Solutions International B.V.

Shell Global Solutions Services B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 1 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 3 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 4 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 5 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 6 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 7 B.V.

Shell HKW-B B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 1 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 3 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 4 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 7 B.V.

Shell Information Technology International B.V.

Shell Integrated Gas Oman B.V.

Shell International B.V.

Shell Internationale Research Maatschappij B.V.

Shell Internet Ventures B.V.

Shell Iraq Petroleum Development B.V.

Shell Iraq Services B.V.

Shell Kazakhstan B.V.

Shell Kazakhstan Development B.V.

Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V.

Shell LNG Bunkering B.V.

Shell LNG Port Spain B.V.

Shell Manufacturing Services B.V.

Shell Mozambique B.V.

Shell Namibia Upstream B.V.

Shell Nanhai B.V.

Shell Nederland B.V.

Shell New Energies NL B.V.

Shell Offshore (Personnel) Services B.V.

Shell Offshore Services B.V.

Shell Offshore Upstream South Africa B.V.

Shell OKLNG Holdings B.V.

Shell Oman Exploration and Production B.V.

Shell Overseas Investments B.V.

Shell Project Development (VIII) B.V.

Shell RDS Holding B.V.

Shell Renewables and Energy Solutions Europe B.V.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

NETHERLANDS continued

Shell Sakhalin Holdings B.V.

Shell Sakhalin Services B.V.

Shell Salym Development B.V.

Shell Sao Tome and Principe B.V.

Shell Services Oman B.V.

Shell Shared Services (Asia) B.V.

Shell Trademark Management B.V.

Shell Trading Russia B.V.

Shell Upstream Albania B.V.

Shell Upstream Development B.V.

Shell Upstream Indonesia Services B.V.

Shell Upstream Turkey B.V.

Shell Ventures Investments B.V.

Shell Western LNG B.V.

Shell Windenergy Netherlands B.V.

Shell Windenergy NZW I B.V.

Solar-EP I B.V.

Solar-EP II B.V.

The Green Near Future 5 B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR

HKN LP 1 B.V.

HKN LP 2 B.V.

HKN LP 3 B.V.

HKN LP 4 B.V.

HKN LP 5 B.V.

HKN LP 6 B.V.

KE STP Company B.V.

KE Suriname B.V.

Portfolio Holdings B.V.

Shell Deepwater Borneo B.V.

Shell Egypt N.V. [e]

Shell EP Oman B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (107) B.V.

Shell Exploration Company (East) B.V.

Shell Low Carbon Fuels B.V.

Shell Netherlands Canada Financing B.V.

Shell New Energies Holding Europe B.V.

Shell Olie OG Gas Holding B.V. [i]

Shell Overseas Holdings (Oman) B.V.

Shell South Syria Exploration B.V.

Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. [h]

SHELL HYDROGEN OPERATIONS & PRODUCTION B.V

SHELL VENTURES B.V.

Shell International Finance B.V. [a]

Shell Petroleum B.V. 

CHEMIEWEG 25, P.O. BOX 6060, MOERDIJK, 4780 LN

Shell Nederland Chemie B.V. [g]

GRAAF ENGELBERTLAAN 75, BREDA, 4837DS

Next Kraftwerke Benelux B.V.

PAPENDORPSEWEG 100, UTRECHT, 3528 BJ

Nature Energy Construction Netherlands B.V.

Nature Energy Netherlands B.V

Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C10) B.V.

Shell RDS Holding B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C19) B.V.

Shell Renewables and Energy Solutions Europe B.V.

RIGAKADE 20, 1013 BC AMSTERDAM, AMSTERDAM, 11000

Shell EV Charging Solutions B.V.

SIGNATURE BY REGUS CENTRAL PARK, 27-29 STADSPLATEAU, OFFICE 10.01, UTRECHT, 
NL-3521 AZ

Groen Gas Almere B.V.

Nature Energy Coevorden B.V.

380

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

381
381

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

VONDELINGENWEG 601, VONDELINGENPLAAT, VONDELINGENPLAAT ROTTERDAM, 
11000

Shell Nederland Raffinaderij B.V.

WEENA 505, ROTTERDAM, 11000

Euroshell Cards B.V.

MS Europe B.V.

Shell Chemicals Europe B.V.

Shell Downstream Services International B.V.

Shell Lubricants Supply Company B.V.

Shell TapUp B.V.

Shell Trading Rotterdam B.V.

Snijders Olie B.V.

WEENA 505, ROTTERDAM, 3013 AL

Shell Energy Retail B.V.

Shell Nederland Verkoopmaatschappij B.V. [c]

WEESPERSTRAAT 61, AMSTERDAM, 11000

Rakko Holding B.V.

Volta Rakko B.V.

NEW ZEALAND

C/O BAKER TILLY STAPLES RODWAY TARANAKI LIMITED, 109-113 POWDERHAM 
STREET, P.O. BOX 146, NEW PLYMOUTH, TARANAKI, 4340

Energy Holdings Offshore Limited

Shell (Petroleum Mining) Company Limited

C/O BAKER TILLY STAPLES RODWAY TARANAKI, 109-113 POWDERHAM STREET, P.O. 
BOX 146, NEW PLYMOUTH, 11000

Energy Finance NZ Limited

Shell Energy Asia Limited

Shell Investments NZ Limited

Southern Petroleum No Liability

MERCER (N.Z.) LIMITED, FLOOR 2, 20 CUSTOMHOUSE QUAY, WELLINGTON, 6011

Shell New Zealand Pensions Limited

NIGERIA

ADEYEMI BERO CRESCENT, ILUPEJU INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, LAGOS

Daybreak Power Solutions Limited

FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, LAGOS

BG Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited

BG Upstream A Nigeria Limited

FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, LAGOS, P.M.B. 2418

Shell Nigeria Infrastructure Development Limited

Shell Nigeria Upstream Ventures Limited

FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, LAGOS, P.M.B.2418

SHELL NIGERIA SUPPORT SERVICES LTD

FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, P.M.B. 2418, LAGOS

Delta Business Development Limited

Shell Exploration and Production Africa Limited

Shell Nigeria Business Operations Limited

Shell Nigeria Closed Pension Fund Administrator Ltd

Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Ltd

Shell Nigeria Exploration Properties Charlie Limited

Shell Nigeria Gas Ltd (SNG)

Shell Nigeria Oil Products Limited (SNOP)

Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Limited

Shell Thrift & Loan Fund Trustees Nig Ltd

FREEMAN HOUSE, NO 21/22 MARINA, LAGOS

All on Partnerships for Energy Access Limited by Guarantee

SHELL INDUSTRIAL AREA, P.O. BOX 263, RIVERS STATE, PORT HARCOURT, 500272

The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited

NORWAY

LØKKEVEIEN 103, STAVANGER, 11000

A/S Norske Shell

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

65

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

NETHERLANDS continued

B.V. Petroleum Assurantie Maatschappij

BG Gas Brazil E&P 12 B.V.

BG Gas Brazil Holdings B.V.

BG GAS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS BV

BG Gas Netherlands Holdings B.V.

BG Gas Sao Paulo Investments B.V.

Energiepark Pottendijk B.V.

Jordan Oil Shale Company B.V.

LNG Shipping Operation Services Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands Alng Holding Company B.V.

NoordzeeWind B.V.

NoordzeeWind C.V. [d]

Pottendijk Energie B.V.

Pottendijk Wind B.V.

POWER LINE UTILISING GRID B.V.

PTC Kampen B.V.

RESCO B.V.

Rotterdam Hydrogen Company B.V.

Shell Abu Dhabi B.V.

Shell Additives Holdings (I) B.V.

Shell Additives Holdings (II) B.V.

Shell Brazil Holding B.V.

Shell Caspian B.V.

Shell Caspian Pipeline Holdings B.V.

Shell China B.V.

Shell China Holdings B.V.

Shell Deepwater Tanzania B.V.

Shell Development Iran B.V.

Shell Energy Europe B.V.

Shell EP Holdings (EE&ME) B.V.

Shell EP Middle East Holdings B.V.

Shell EP Somalia B.V.

Shell Business Development Central Asia B.V.

Shell EP Wells Equipment Services B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (100) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (101) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (102) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (103) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (84) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (89) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (92) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (93) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (94) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (96) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (99) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LVIII) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXII) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXV) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXVI) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production (LXXV) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Brunei B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Holdings B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Investments B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Services (RF) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production South Africa B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (I) B.V.

Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (II) B.V.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Exploration B.V.

Shell Exploration Company (West) B.V.

Shell Exploration Company B.V.

Shell Exploration Venture Services B.V.

Shell Finance (Netherlands) B.V.

Shell Gas & Power Developments B.V.

Shell Gas (LPG) Holdings B.V.

Shell Gas B.V.

Shell Gas Iraq B.V.

Shell Gas Nigeria B.V.

Shell Gas Venezuela B.V.

Shell Generating (Holding) B.V.

Shell Geothermal B.V.

Shell Global Solutions (Eastern Europe) B.V.

Shell Global Solutions International B.V.

Shell Global Solutions Services B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 1 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 3 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 4 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 5 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 6 B.V.

Shell HKW-A LP 7 B.V.

Shell HKW-B B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 1 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 3 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 4 B.V.

Shell HKW-B LP 7 B.V.

Shell Information Technology International B.V.

Shell Integrated Gas Oman B.V.

Shell International B.V.

Shell Internationale Research Maatschappij B.V.

Shell Internet Ventures B.V.

Shell Iraq Petroleum Development B.V.

Shell Iraq Services B.V.

Shell Kazakhstan B.V.

Shell Kazakhstan Development B.V.

Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V.

Shell LNG Bunkering B.V.

Shell LNG Port Spain B.V.

Shell Manufacturing Services B.V.

Shell Mozambique B.V.

Shell Namibia Upstream B.V.

Shell Nanhai B.V.

Shell Nederland B.V.

Shell New Energies NL B.V.

Shell Offshore (Personnel) Services B.V.

Shell Offshore Services B.V.

Shell Offshore Upstream South Africa B.V.

Shell OKLNG Holdings B.V.

Shell Oman Exploration and Production B.V.

Shell Overseas Investments B.V.

Shell Project Development (VIII) B.V.

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

99

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

OMAN

SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS

P O BOX 38, MINA AL FAHAL, MINA AL FAHAL, 11000

Shell Oman Marketing Company SAOG

49

P.O. BOX 398, SOHAR FREE ZONE, NORTH AL BATINAH GOVERNORATE, SOHAR, 
11000

TRIDENT TRUST COMPANY (NEVIS) LIMITED, MAIN STREET, SUITE 556, HUNKINS 
WATERFRONT PLAZA, CHARLESTOWN, 11000

Shell Oil & Gas (Malaysia) LLC

SAINT LUCIA

Sohar Solar Qabas (FZC) LLC

100

MERCURY COURT, CHOC ESTATE, CASTRIES

P.O. BOX 74, BAIT SALAM, SALAM SQUARE, MUSCAT, 11000

BG Atlantic 2/3 Holdings Limited

Shell Development Oman LLC

PAKISTAN

100

SENEGAL

SUITE 302-IMMEUBLE ALIOUNE DIOP, HANN-MARISTE, DAKAR

SHELL HOUSE, 6 CH. KHALIQUZZAMAN ROAD, KARACHI, 75530

Daystar Power Senegal SUARL

Shell Energy Pakistan (Private) Limited

Shell Pakistan Limited

PERU

CALLE DEAN VALDIVIA 111, OFICINA 802, SAN ISIDRO, LIMA, 11000

Shell GNL Peru S.A.C.

Shell Operaciones Peru S.A.C.

PHILIPPINES

41ST FLOOR, THE FINANCE CENTER, 26TH STREET CORNER 9TH AVENUE, 
BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, MANILA, 11000

Shell Chemicals Philippines, Inc.

Shell Energy Philippines Inc

Shell Gas and Energy Philippines Corporation

Shell Pilipinas Corporation

SUBIC BAY FREE PORT ZONE, OLANGAPO CITY, 11000

Shell Gas Trading (Asia Pacific), Inc.

POLAND

ASTORIA, PRZESKOK 2, WARSAW, 00-032

Next Kraftwerke Sp. z o.o.

BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 ROKU 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

Amber Baltic Wind 1 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 10 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 11 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 2 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 3 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 4 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 5 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 6 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 7 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 8 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 9 Sp z o.o.

100

77

100

100

100

100

100

55

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

SINGAPORE

1 COMMONWEALTH LANE, #09-30, ONE COMMONWEALTH, SINGAPORE, 149544

Zeco Systems Pte. Ltd.

9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, 45298, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

EcoOils Pte. Ltd.

Shell Gas Marketing Pte. Ltd.

9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

BG Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd.

9 NORTH BUONA, VISTA DRIVE, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

BG INSURANCE COMPANY (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD.

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, #07-01, 
SINGAPORE, #07-01

Shell Myanmar Energy Pte. Ltd.

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, #07-01, 
SINGAPORE, 11000

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Pte. Ltd.

Shell Chemicals Seraya Pte. Ltd.

Shell Integrated Gas Thailand Pte. Limited

Shell International Shipping Services (Pte) Ltd

Shell Tankers (Singapore) Private Limited

Shell Treasury Centre East (Pte) Ltd

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 
138588

SHELL SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. [g]

Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Ltd

THE METROPOLIS, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 11000

BG ASIA PACIFIC HOLDINGS PTE. LIMITED

BG Exploration & Production Myanmar Pte. Ltd.

BG Myanmar Pte. Ltd.

SLOVAKIA

EINSTEINOVA 23, BRATISLAVA, 851 01

UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 R. NR 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

Shell Polska Sp. z o.o.

SHELL Slovakia s.r.o.

100

SLOVENIA

UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920R. 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

BRAVNICARJEVA ULICA 13, LJUBLJANA, 1000

Shell Mobility Polska Sp. z o.o.

PUERTO RICO

P.O. BOX 186, YABUCOA, PR 00767-0186

Station Managers of Puerto Rico, Inc.

QATAR

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Qatar Shell Service Company W.L.L.

QATAR SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY PARK TECH1, OFFICE 101, DOHA, 11000

Qatar Shell Research & Technology Centre QSTP-LLC

ROMANIA

ING. GEORGE CONSTANTINESCU STREET, NO. 4B AND 2-4, BUILDING A, FLOOR 7, 
BUCHAREST, 11000

Shell Romania S.R.L.

RUSSIA

LETNIKOVSKAYA ST. 2, BLD. 1, MOSCOW, 11000

Limited Liability Company "Shell Neftegaz Development (V)"

LLC Shell NefteGaz Development

382
382

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

100

Shell Adria d.o.o.

SOUTH AFRICA

2 ALEXANDRA AVENUE, CRAIGHALL, SANDTON, GAUTENG 2196

100

M&I Materials South Africa Proprietary Ltd.

57 SLOANE STREET, TWICKENHAM BUILDING, THE CAMPUS, BRYANSTON, 
JOHANNESBURG, 11000

K2022822444 (SOUTH AFRICA)

Shell Downstream South Africa (Pty) Ltd

Shell South Africa Energy (Pty) Ltd

Shell South Africa Exploration (Pty) Limited

Shell South Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd

57 SLOANE STREET, TWICKENHAM BUILDING, THE CAMPUS, BRYANSTON, 
JOHANNESBURG, 2021

Daystar Power South Africa (PTY) LTD

TWICKENHAM, THE CAMPUS, 57 SLOANE STREET, EPSOM DOWNS, BRYANSTON, 
2021

STISA (Pty) Limited

100

100

100

100

100

%

90

100

100

99

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

72

72

100

100

100

100

72

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

SOUTH KOREA

164 JANGCHUN-RO, JUNG-GU, ULSAN, 11000

Panolin New Holding AG

STEIGERHUBELSTRASSE 8, BERN, 3008

MunmuBaram Co.,Ltd.

80

Shell Lubricants Switzerland AG

7FL., CHONGKUNDANG BUILDING, 8, CHOONGJEONG-RO, SEOUL, 3742

TAIWAN

Shell Renewables Korea Co., Ltd.

100

333 KEELUNG ROAD SECTION 1, TAIPEI, 110, 11000

NO. 250, SINSUN-RO, NAM-GU, BUSAN, 48561

Hankook Shell Oil Co., Ltd

SPAIN

2 FLOOR 18 TORRE SEVILLA, PLAZA ALCALDE SANCHEZ MONTESEIRIN, SEVILLA

SHELL DESARROLLO 4, S.L.U.

2 FLOOR 18 TORRE SEVILLA, PLAZA ALCALDE SANCHEZ MONTESEIRIN, SEVILLA, 41092

Shell Desarrollo 5, S.L.

SHELL DESARROLLO 7, S.L.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 10, S.L.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 11, S.L.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 14, S.L.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 1, S.L.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 2, S.L.U.

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, #07-01, 

Shell Desarrollo 3 S.L.

2 FLOOR 18 TORRE SEVILLA, PLAZA ALCALDE SANCHEZ MONTESEIRIN, SEVILLA, PLAZA 
ALCALDE SANCHEZ MONTESEIRIN

6TH FLOOR, PASEO DE LA CASTELLANA 257, MADRID, 11000

BG ENERGY IBERIAN HOLDINGS S.L.

Shell Dev 15 S.L.

Shell Dev 16 S.L.

Shell Dev 17 S.L.

Shell Dev 18 S.L.

Shell Dev 19 S.L.

Shell Dev 20 S.L.

Shell Dev 21 S.L.

Shell Dev 22 S.L.

Shell Dev 23 S.L.

Shell Dev 24 S.L.

Shell Dev 25 S.L.

Shell Dev 26 S.L.

Shell España, S.A.

Shell Spain LNG, S.A.U.

SHELL DESARROLLO 12, S.L.U.

AVENIDA DE GIRONA 2, 17800 OLOT, GIRONA

SONNEN IBÉRICA, S.L.

SECOND FLOOR, 11 ESCLUSA, SEVILLA, 11000

Exanergía, S.L.U.

SWEDEN

28 VASAGATAN, STOCKHOLM, 11000

Shell Aviation Sweden AB

Shell Taiwan Limited

54

TANZANIA

1ST FLOOR KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369, TOURE DRIVE, OYSTER BAY, P.O. BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM

Shell Tanzania Limited

1ST FLOOR KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369, TOURE DRIVE, OYSTER BAY, PO BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM, 11000

Tanzania LNG Limited

MJINI MAGHARIBI, UNGUJA, URBAN, NEARBY A'RAHMA HOSPITAL, KILIMANI

Daystar Power Zanzibar Limited

PLOT NO 193, 14112 MIKOCHENI, KINONDONI DISTRICT, DAR ES SALAAM

Daystar Power Tanzania Limited

THAILAND

10 SOONTHORNKOSA ROAD, KLONGTOEY, KLONGTOEY, 10110

Pattanadhorn Company Limited

Sahapanichkijphun Company Limited

Unitas Company Limited

10 SOONTHORNKOSA ROAD, KLONGTOEY, KLONGTOEY, 11000

Shell Global Solutions (Thailand) Limited

Shell Global Solutions Holdings (Thailand) Limited

Shell Global Solutions Service (Thailand) Company Limited

90 CYBERWORLD TOWER A, ROOM A 2401, 24TH FLOOR, RATCHADAPISEK ROAD 
KWAENG HUAYKWANG, KHET HUAY KWANG, BANGKOK METROPOLIS, 11000

Thai Energy Company Limited

TOGO

27, RUE KHRA, 06 B.P., 62210 LOME, QUARTIER DES ETOILES, LOME, 62210

Daystar Power Group SARL U

TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

5 ST CLAIR AVENUE,PORT OF SPAIN,TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, 11000

SHELL RENEWABLES CARIBBEAN LIMITED

5 ST SAINT CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN

Shell Trinidad Central Block Limited

5 ST SAINT CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN, 11000

Shell Gas Supply Trinidad Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell LNG T&T Ltd

100

Shell Manatee Limited

Shell Trinidad North Coast Limited

100

5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD

TRINLING Limited

5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD, 11000

100

Shell T&T Investments Limited

BOX 5747 GERNANDT & DANIELSSON ADVOKATBYRÅ KB, STOCKHOLM, 11187

SHELL ENERGY HOUSE, 5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN

Nature Energy Sweden AB

SWITZERLAND

BAARERMATTE, BAAR

Evpass SA

Shell (Switzerland) AG

Solen Versicherungen AG

BAARERMATTE, BAAR, 6340

Shell Brands International AG

Shell Trading Switzerland AG

BAHNHOFSTR. 10, ZURICH, 8001

Suisse Next GmbH

BLASIMUHLE 2-6, MADETSWIL, 11000

Panolin Distribution AG

100

Shell Trinidad Ltd

TUNISIA

MOVENPICK HOTEL, RUE DU LAC HURON LES BERGES DU LAC, LES BERGES DU LAC, 
TUNIS, 1053

Shell Tunisia LPG S.A.

Tunisian Processing S.A.

TURKEY

B, 18 KARAMANCILAR IS MERKEZI, SALIH TOZAN SK, ŞIŞLI/İSTANBUL, 11000

Shell Petrol A.S.

GULBAHAR MAH.SALIH TOZAN SOK., KARAMANCILAR IS MERKEZI B BLOK NO:18, 
ESENTEPE, SISLI, ISTANBUL, 34394

Shell & Turcas Petrol A.S.

Shell Enerji A.S.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

OMAN

11000

P O BOX 38, MINA AL FAHAL, MINA AL FAHAL, 11000

Shell Oman Marketing Company SAOG

P.O. BOX 398, SOHAR FREE ZONE, NORTH AL BATINAH GOVERNORATE, SOHAR, 

SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS

TRIDENT TRUST COMPANY (NEVIS) LIMITED, MAIN STREET, SUITE 556, HUNKINS 

WATERFRONT PLAZA, CHARLESTOWN, 11000

49

Shell Oil & Gas (Malaysia) LLC

SAINT LUCIA

Sohar Solar Qabas (FZC) LLC

100

MERCURY COURT, CHOC ESTATE, CASTRIES

P.O. BOX 74, BAIT SALAM, SALAM SQUARE, MUSCAT, 11000

BG Atlantic 2/3 Holdings Limited

100

SENEGAL

SUITE 302-IMMEUBLE ALIOUNE DIOP, HANN-MARISTE, DAKAR

SHELL HOUSE, 6 CH. KHALIQUZZAMAN ROAD, KARACHI, 75530

Daystar Power Senegal SUARL

Shell Energy Pakistan (Private) Limited

SINGAPORE

CALLE DEAN VALDIVIA 111, OFICINA 802, SAN ISIDRO, LIMA, 11000

9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, 45298, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

41ST FLOOR, THE FINANCE CENTER, 26TH STREET CORNER 9TH AVENUE, 

BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, MANILA, 11000

BG Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd.

SUBIC BAY FREE PORT ZONE, OLANGAPO CITY, 11000

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, #07-01, 

1 COMMONWEALTH LANE, #09-30, ONE COMMONWEALTH, SINGAPORE, 149544

Zeco Systems Pte. Ltd.

EcoOils Pte. Ltd.

Shell Gas Marketing Pte. Ltd.

9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

9 NORTH BUONA, VISTA DRIVE, THE METROPOLIS, SINGAPORE, 11000

BG INSURANCE COMPANY (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD.

SINGAPORE, #07-01

Shell Myanmar Energy Pte. Ltd.

SINGAPORE, 11000

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Pte. Ltd.

Shell Chemicals Seraya Pte. Ltd.

Shell Integrated Gas Thailand Pte. Limited

Shell International Shipping Services (Pte) Ltd

Shell Tankers (Singapore) Private Limited

Shell Treasury Centre East (Pte) Ltd

138588

SHELL SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. [g]

Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Ltd

BG ASIA PACIFIC HOLDINGS PTE. LIMITED

BG Exploration & Production Myanmar Pte. Ltd.

BG Myanmar Pte. Ltd.

SLOVAKIA

EINSTEINOVA 23, BRATISLAVA, 851 01

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 

THE METROPOLIS, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 11000

Shell Development Oman LLC

PAKISTAN

Shell Pakistan Limited

PERU

Shell GNL Peru S.A.C.

Shell Operaciones Peru S.A.C.

PHILIPPINES

Shell Chemicals Philippines, Inc.

Shell Energy Philippines Inc

Shell Gas and Energy Philippines Corporation

Shell Pilipinas Corporation

Shell Gas Trading (Asia Pacific), Inc.

POLAND

ASTORIA, PRZESKOK 2, WARSAW, 00-032

Next Kraftwerke Sp. z o.o.

BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 ROKU 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

Amber Baltic Wind 1 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 10 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 11 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 2 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 3 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 4 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 5 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 6 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 7 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 8 Sp z o.o.

Amber Baltic Wind 9 Sp z o.o.

UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 R. NR 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

Shell Polska Sp. z o.o.

UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920R. 7A, WARSAW, 02-366

BRAVNICARJEVA ULICA 13, LJUBLJANA, 1000

SHELL Slovakia s.r.o.

100

SLOVENIA

100

Shell Adria d.o.o.

SOUTH AFRICA

Shell Mobility Polska Sp. z o.o.

PUERTO RICO

P.O. BOX 186, YABUCOA, PR 00767-0186

Station Managers of Puerto Rico, Inc.

QATAR

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

Qatar Shell Service Company W.L.L.

QATAR SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY PARK TECH1, OFFICE 101, DOHA, 11000

Qatar Shell Research & Technology Centre QSTP-LLC

ROMANIA

BUCHAREST, 11000

Shell Romania S.R.L.

RUSSIA

LETNIKOVSKAYA ST. 2, BLD. 1, MOSCOW, 11000

Limited Liability Company "Shell Neftegaz Development (V)"

LLC Shell NefteGaz Development

2 ALEXANDRA AVENUE, CRAIGHALL, SANDTON, GAUTENG 2196

100

M&I Materials South Africa Proprietary Ltd.

57 SLOANE STREET, TWICKENHAM BUILDING, THE CAMPUS, BRYANSTON, 

JOHANNESBURG, 11000

K2022822444 (SOUTH AFRICA)

Shell Downstream South Africa (Pty) Ltd

Shell South Africa Energy (Pty) Ltd

Shell South Africa Exploration (Pty) Limited

Shell South Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd

JOHANNESBURG, 2021

Daystar Power South Africa (PTY) LTD

2021

STISA (Pty) Limited

TWICKENHAM, THE CAMPUS, 57 SLOANE STREET, EPSOM DOWNS, BRYANSTON, 

ING. GEORGE CONSTANTINESCU STREET, NO. 4B AND 2-4, BUILDING A, FLOOR 7, 

57 SLOANE STREET, TWICKENHAM BUILDING, THE CAMPUS, BRYANSTON, 

100

77

100

100

100

100

100

55

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

90

100

100

99

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

72

72

100

100

100

100

72

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

42

42

43

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

70

70

100

382

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

383
383

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

UK

1 ALTENS FARM ROAD, NIGG, ABERDEEN, 11000

Shell Trustee Solutions Limited

10 YORK ROAD, LONDON, 11000

BG Kenya L10B Limited

BG LNG Investments Limited

100

BG Mongolia Holdings Limited

BG North Sea Holdings Limited

Shell EV Charging Solutions UK Limited

100

BG OKLNG Limited

16 GREAT QUEEN STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON, 11000

BG Overseas Holdings Limited

Ubitricity Distributed Energy Systems UK Limited

100

BG Rosetta Limited

16 GREAT QUEEN STREET, LONDON, WC2B 5AH

BG South East Asia Limited

SONNEN UK LIMITED

30 FINSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, 11000

BG CENTRAL HOLDINGS LIMITED

BG Group Employee Shares Trustees Limited

BG Norge Limited

BG Subsea Well Project Limited

B-Snug Limited

Corallian Energy Limited

Glossop Limited

Limejump Intermediate 1 Limited

Limejump Virtual 10 Limited

Limejump Virtual 11 Limited

Limejump Virtual 13 Limited

Limejump Virtual 3 Limited

Limejump Virtual 4 Limited

Limejump Virtual 5 Limited

Limejump Virtual 6 Limited

Limejump Virtual 7 Limited

Limejump Virtual 8 Limited

Limejump Virtual 9 Limited

SHELL COMPANY (HELLAS) LIMITED

The Shell Company of Hong Kong Limited

The Shell Company of India Limited

100

BG Tanzania Holdings Limited

BG Trinidad LNG Limited

BG UK Holdings Limited

Brazil Shipping I Limited

CRI Catalyst Company Europe Limited

Derivatives Trading Atlantic Limited

Enterprise Oil Limited

Enterprise Oil Middle East Limited

Enterprise Oil Norge Limited

Enterprise Oil U.K. Limited

First Telecommunications Limited

First Utility Limited

Gainrace Limited

GOGB Limited

Impello Limited

Limejump Energy Limited

Limejump Virtual 1 Limited

Limejump Virtual 14 Limited

Limejump Virtual 15 Limited

Limejump Virtual 2 Limited

Machine Max Limited

Methane Services Limited

Murphy Schiehallion Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

823 SALISBURY HOUSE, 29 FINSBURY CIRCUS, LONDON, EC2M 5QQ

Private Oil Holdings Oman Limited

Nature Energy UK Ltd

100

Sabah Shell Petroleum Company Limited

HIBERNIA WAY, TRAFFORD PARK, MANCHESTER, 11000

Dielectric Fluids Holdings Ltd.

M&I Materials Development Ltd,

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON

BG Energy Capital Plc

BG Great Britain Limited

BG Overseas Limited

Shell Pension Reserve Company (SIPF) Limited

Shell Pension Reserve Company (SOCPF) Limited

Shell Trading International Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, 11000

BG Cyprus Limited

BG Delta Limited

BG Energy Holdings Limited

BG Energy Marketing Limited

BG Equatorial Guinea Limited

BG Gas Services Limited

BG General Holdings Limited

BG GROUP LIMITED

BG Group Pension Trustees Limited

BG Group Trustees Limited

BG Intellectual Property Limited

BG International Limited

BG Karachaganak Limited

BG Kenya L10A Limited

384
384

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Saxon Oil Limited

Saxon Oil Miller Limited

SELAP LIMITED

SHELL AIRCRAFT LIMITED

Shell Aviation Limited

Shell Business Development Middle East Limited

Shell Caribbean Investments Limited

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Limited

Shell Chemical Company of Eastern Africa Limited

Shell Chemicals Limited

Shell Chemicals U.K. Limited

Shell China Exploration and Production Company Limited

Shell Clair UK Limited

Shell Club Corringham Limited

Shell Company (Pacific Islands) Limited

SHELL COMPANY OF TÜRKIYE LIMITED

Shell Corporate Director Limited

Shell Corporate Secretary Limited

Shell Distributor (Holdings) Limited

Shell Employee Benefits Trustee Limited

Shell Energy Europe Limited

Shell Energy Investments Limited

Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited

Shell Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited

Shell Finance GB Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

85

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

UK continued

Shell Gas Holdings (Malaysia) Limited

Shell Gas Marketing U.K Limited

Shell Global LNG Limited

Shell Group Holding Limited [a]

Shell Hasdrubal Limited

Shell Information Technology International Limited

Shell International Gas Limited

Shell International Limited

Shell International Petroleum Company Limited

Shell International Trading and Shipping Company Limited

Shell Malaysia Limited

Shell Marine Products Limited

Shell New Energies Holding Limited

Shell Overseas Holdings Limited

Shell Overseas Services Limited

Shell Pension Reserve Company (UK) Limited

Shell Pensions Trust Limited

Shell Property Company Limited

Shell QGC Midstream 2 Limited

Shell QGC Upstream 1 Limited

Shell QGC Upstream 2 Limited

Shell Research Limited

Shell Response Limited

Shell South Asia LNG Limited

Shell Supplementary Pension Plan Trustees Limited

Shell Tankers (U.K.) Limited

Shell Treasury UK Limited

Shell Trinidad 5(A) Limited

Shell Trinidad and Tobago Limited

Shell Trinidad Block E Limited

Shell Tunisia Upstream Limited

Shell U.K. Limited

Shell U.K. North Atlantic Limited

Shell U.K. Oil Products Limited

Shell Ventures New Zealand Limited

Shell Ventures U.K. Limited

Synthetic Chemicals (Northern) Limited

Telegraph Service Stations Limited

The Mexican Eagle Oil Company Limited

The Shell Company (W.I.) Limited

The Shell Company of Nigeria Limited

The Shell Company of Thailand Limited

The Shell Company of The Philippines Limited

The Shell Marketing Company of Borneo Limited

Thermocomfort Limited

UK Shell Pension Plan Trust Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, SE1 7NA

Shell QGC Midstream 1 Limited [g]

STT (Das Beneficiary) Limited [a]

ASIATIC PETROLEUM COMPANY (THE)

Winterton Solar Limited

Shell QGC Holdings Limited

Shell Treasury Centre Limited

Shell Treasury Dollar Company Limited

The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited

SHELL CENTRE, YORK ROAD, LONDON, 11000

CSE23 Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

75

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Iddenshall Solar Limited

Limejump Virtual 12 Limited

Shell Energy UK Limited

Shell Group Limited

Shell Holdings (U.K.) Limited

Shell New Energies UK Ltd

Shell Upstream Overseas Services (I) Limited

The Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Company Limited

The Shell Petroleum Company Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, 11000

Limejump Ltd

UKRAINE

100 CHERVONOARMIYSKA STR, 8TH FLOOR, KYIV, 11000

Shell Energy Ukraine LLC

MYKOLY HRINCHENKA STR, 4-B, KYIV, 11000

Shell Oil Products Ukraine [c]

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

LB10032, JEBEL ALI FREEZONE, DUBAI, 11000

Shell International Trading Middle East Limited FZE

URUGUAY

LA CUMPARSITA, 1373 4TH FLOOR, MONTEVIDEO, 11000

BG (URUGUAY) S.A.

USA

1013 CENTRE ROAD, COUNTY OF NEW CASTLE, DELAWARE, WILMINGTON, DE 
19805

Zeco Holdings, Inc.

Zeco Systems, Inc.

11111 WILCREST GREEN, SUITE 100, HOUSTON, TX 77042

Texas Petroleum Group, LLC [c]

1209 ORANGE STREET, COUNTY OF NEWCASTLE, DELAWARE, WILMINGTON, 19801

Nature Energy Construction US LLC

126 HYDE STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, 94102

Thermotest, Inc.

1501 S MOPAC EXPY, SUITE 220, AUSTIN, 78746

M&I Materials Inc.

2048 WEEMS ROAD, BLDG C, TUCKER, GA 30084

SONNEN INC.

210 S. WEST STREET, LEBANON, 45036

Allied Reliability Inc.

3202 MERCER, HOUSTON

T. F. Hudgins, Incorporated

422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY

CATTLE STAR ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

GOLDEN SPIRIT ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

MCI WESTLAKE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

THREEFORKS LAND HOLDINGS, LLC [c]

422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY, MO 64106

ACADIAN SUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Adams Creek Solar Project, LLC [c]

ADMIRAL BLVD LAND GROUP, LLC [c]

East Setauket Energy Storage, LLC [c]

FALCON PALM ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Farm Bell Energy Center, LLC [c]

Five Oaks Solar Project, LLC [c]

Golden Cactus Developments, LLC [c]

Golden Grass Energy Center, LLC [c]

JUMPING CACTUS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Keller Solar Project, LLC [c]

MADISON FIELDS CLASS B MEMBER, LLC [c]

UK

1 ALTENS FARM ROAD, NIGG, ABERDEEN, 11000

Shell Trustee Solutions Limited

10 YORK ROAD, LONDON, 11000

BG Kenya L10B Limited

BG LNG Investments Limited

100

BG Mongolia Holdings Limited

BG North Sea Holdings Limited

Shell EV Charging Solutions UK Limited

100

BG OKLNG Limited

16 GREAT QUEEN STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON, 11000

BG Overseas Holdings Limited

Ubitricity Distributed Energy Systems UK Limited

100

BG Rosetta Limited

16 GREAT QUEEN STREET, LONDON, WC2B 5AH

BG South East Asia Limited

100

BG Tanzania Holdings Limited

823 SALISBURY HOUSE, 29 FINSBURY CIRCUS, LONDON, EC2M 5QQ

Private Oil Holdings Oman Limited

Nature Energy UK Ltd

100

Sabah Shell Petroleum Company Limited

SONNEN UK LIMITED

30 FINSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, 11000

BG CENTRAL HOLDINGS LIMITED

BG Group Employee Shares Trustees Limited

BG Norge Limited

BG Subsea Well Project Limited

B-Snug Limited

Corallian Energy Limited

Glossop Limited

Limejump Intermediate 1 Limited

Limejump Virtual 10 Limited

Limejump Virtual 11 Limited

Limejump Virtual 13 Limited

Limejump Virtual 3 Limited

Limejump Virtual 4 Limited

Limejump Virtual 5 Limited

Limejump Virtual 6 Limited

Limejump Virtual 7 Limited

Limejump Virtual 8 Limited

Limejump Virtual 9 Limited

SHELL COMPANY (HELLAS) LIMITED

The Shell Company of Hong Kong Limited

The Shell Company of India Limited

HIBERNIA WAY, TRAFFORD PARK, MANCHESTER, 11000

Dielectric Fluids Holdings Ltd.

M&I Materials Development Ltd,

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON

BG Energy Capital Plc

BG Great Britain Limited

BG Overseas Limited

Shell Pension Reserve Company (SIPF) Limited

Shell Pension Reserve Company (SOCPF) Limited

Shell Trading International Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, 11000

BG Cyprus Limited

BG Delta Limited

BG Energy Holdings Limited

BG Energy Marketing Limited

BG Equatorial Guinea Limited

BG Gas Services Limited

BG General Holdings Limited

BG GROUP LIMITED

BG Group Pension Trustees Limited

BG Group Trustees Limited

BG Intellectual Property Limited

BG International Limited

BG Karachaganak Limited

BG Kenya L10A Limited

BG Trinidad LNG Limited

BG UK Holdings Limited

Brazil Shipping I Limited

CRI Catalyst Company Europe Limited

Derivatives Trading Atlantic Limited

Enterprise Oil Limited

Enterprise Oil Middle East Limited

Enterprise Oil Norge Limited

Enterprise Oil U.K. Limited

First Telecommunications Limited

First Utility Limited

Gainrace Limited

GOGB Limited

Impello Limited

Limejump Energy Limited

Limejump Virtual 1 Limited

Limejump Virtual 14 Limited

Limejump Virtual 15 Limited

Limejump Virtual 2 Limited

Machine Max Limited

Methane Services Limited

Murphy Schiehallion Limited

Saxon Oil Limited

Saxon Oil Miller Limited

SELAP LIMITED

SHELL AIRCRAFT LIMITED

Shell Aviation Limited

Shell Business Development Middle East Limited

Shell Caribbean Investments Limited

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Limited

Shell Chemical Company of Eastern Africa Limited

Shell Chemicals Limited

Shell Chemicals U.K. Limited

Shell China Exploration and Production Company Limited

Shell Clair UK Limited

Shell Club Corringham Limited

Shell Company (Pacific Islands) Limited

SHELL COMPANY OF TÜRKIYE LIMITED

Shell Corporate Director Limited

Shell Corporate Secretary Limited

Shell Distributor (Holdings) Limited

Shell Employee Benefits Trustee Limited

Shell Energy Europe Limited

Shell Energy Investments Limited

Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited

Shell Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited

Shell Finance GB Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

85

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

384

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

385
385

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

USA continued

MADISON FIELDS TAX EQUITY HOLDCO, LLC [c]

Marengo Starr Solar Project, LLC [c]

MOONLIT BAYOU ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

NEW SHEPHERD ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

North Hill Land Holdings, LLC [c]

OXBOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Painted Rock Solar Project, LLC [c]

Pilot Range Energy Center, LLC [c]

Port Jefferson Energy Storage, LLC [c]

PRAIRIE NOON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RED BATON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RED BRANCH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RIVER TURN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Sand Flat Energy Center, LLC [c]

Sandy Loam Energy Center, LLC [c]

Saratoga Solar Project, LLC [c]

Savannah Oaks Solar Project, LLC

SAVION CONSTRUCTION HOLDCO, LLC [c]

Savion Construction Management, LLC [c]

SAVION EQUITY, LLC [c]

Savion LLC [c]

Savion Solar Equipment, LLC

SILVER THUNDER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SILVERBELL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SOLSTICE SUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Southwest Michigan Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sugar Tree Solar Project, LLC

Sun Cactus Solar Project, LLC

SUN FLATS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Superior Solar Project, LLC [c]

TANNIN VINE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

WILD PEACH ENERGY CENTER, LLC

WILD VIOLET ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY, MO/64106

ANABRANCH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ATHENS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Bankson Solar Project, LLC [c]

BELL BRANCH SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Between The Rows, LLC [c]

Black Hawk Solar Project, LLC [c]

BLACKS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Bluegrass Plains Solar Project, LLC [c]

Bogalusa West Pv i, LLC [c]

Bronx Shores Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Buchanan County Solar Project, LLC [c]

BUFFALO GRASS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUFFALO MEADOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

CALLOWAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

CANADIAN COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Cane Flats Solar Project, LLC [c]

CASS COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Centennial Sky Solar Project, LLC [c]

Centerville Pike Solar Project, LLC [c]

Choctaw County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Choctaw Fields Solar Project, LLC [c]

CLEAR MOUNTAIN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Crab Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

386
386

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Crane Brook Solar Project, LLC [c]

CRAY FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Cumberland Road North Solar Project, LLC [c]

Cumberland Road South Solar Project, LLC [c]

DAKOTA PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Dale County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Dove Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

EASTSIDE PLAINS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Elkhart County Solar Project, LLC [c]

EMERGENT VALLEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Energy Pastures Solar Project, LLC [c]

Escambia County Solar Project, LLC [c]

FALKIRK FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Farnham Solar Project, LLC [c]

Fentress Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Flickertail Solar Project, LLC [c]

FOGHORN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Free State Solar Project, LLC [c]

Gold Harvest Solar Project, LLC [c]

Goose Creek Solar Project, LLC [c]

GOOSE QUILL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Great River Solar Project, LLC [c]

GRID BALANCE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Gsd Farming Co. LLC [c]

Gunlock Solar Project, LLC [c]

Hancock County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Haycraft Solar Project, LLC [c]

Headland-Wiregrass Solar Project, LLC [c]

Herman Solar Project, LLC [c]

HERRINGTON SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

High Oasis II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Hill Tucker Solar Project, LLC [c]

Holbrook Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Holtsville Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Huckleberry Line Solar Project, LLC [c]

Irwin Solar I, LLC [c]

K RIVER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Kcr Rto Da, LLC [c]

Kidman Solar Project, LLC [c]

Kings Fork Solar Project, LLC [c]

Kiowa County Solar Project, LLC [c]

KLAMATH FALLS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Lake County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Lawrence County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Levy Solar I, LLC [c]

Liberty Creek Energy Center, LLC [c]

LITTLEJOHNS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

LIZARD SPIN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Longnecker Solar Project, LLC [c]

LOPEZ CANYON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Macon Parkway Solar Project, LLC [c]

Madison County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Madison Fields Solar Project, LLC [c]

Manor River Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Maple Pv I, LLC [c]

Marion County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Marquette County Solar Project, LLC [c]

MARTHA FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

USA continued

Martin County II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Martin County Solar Project, LLC [c]

MASAVA ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

May Valley Solar Project, LLC [c]

Mchenry County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Mercer County II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Mercer County III Solar Project, LLC [c]

Mercer County Solar Project, LLC [c]

MICHAELS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

MIDLAND VALLEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Muscatine County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Mustang Country Solar Project, LLC [c]

NEW MOON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Nicholas County Solar Project, LLC [c]

NORTH ALMOND ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

North Seneca Solar Project, LLC [c]

Oak Ridge Solar Project, LLC [c]

Oak Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

ONNERUD ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Orangeburg South Solar Project, LLC [c]

Orangeburg West Solar Project, LLC [c]

ORCHARD GROVE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ORCHARD STAND ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

OZARK PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Page Street Development, LLC [c]

Payne County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Pike County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Pine Flats Solar Project, LLC [c]

PLANO SKIES ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Portage County Solar Project, LLC [c]

POWERS BUTTE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Prairie Canyon Solar Project, LLC [c]

Qmb 1 Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Qmb 2 Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Queen Flats Solar Project, LLC [c]

Quogue Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Randolph County Solar Project, LLC [c]

RANEGRAS PLAINS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Rayos Del Sol II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Red Clover Solar Project, LLC [c]

RED CYPRESS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RIVER DUNE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ROLLING BLUFF ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SAGE MEADOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SARAH LAKE SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Savion Chesapeake Solar Project, LLC [c]

Setauket Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Sherburne County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sheridan Solar Project, LLC [c]

SHIPBUILDER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SOSA ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SOUTH HILL SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

South Peak Land Holdings, LLC [c]

South Suffolk Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Southern Plains Solar Project, LLC [c]

Spinning Reel Energy Center, LLC [c]

St. Clair County Solar Project, LLC [c]

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Stamp Bainbridge Solar Project, LLC [c]

Stamp Hilltop Solar Project, LLC [c]

STEADY GRID ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Steel Branch Solar Project, LLC [c]

STEEL RAIL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

STILLY WAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

STOCKGROWER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Stony Landing Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Stony Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

STORING ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

STRAWBERRY ACRES ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Sturgeon Solar Project, LLC [c]

Su Ranch Solar Project, LLC [c]

Suffolk County Energy Storage II, LLC [c]

Suffolk County Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Sugar Harvest Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sun Park Solar, LLC [c]

Sunflower Sky Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sunflower Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sunny Plains Energy Center, LLC [c]

SUNSET PRAIRIE SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Sutherland Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sweeney Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

SWEET VALLEY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

The Bootheel Solar Project, LLC [c]

The Panhandle Solar Project, LLC [c]

Thibodaux Solar Project, LLC [c]

TONTOGANY PLAINS SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Tri-State II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Tri-State Solar Project, LLC [c]

TWENTY-SIX MILE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

VALERIA ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Washington Vines Solar Project, LLC [c]

West Babylon Energy Storage, LLC [c]

WHISTLE STOP ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

White Moon Solar Project, LLC [c]

WIDGEON FLATS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

WILD PLUM ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Wild Rose Solar Project, LLC [c]

Wild Rye Energy Center, LLC [c]

Wildwood Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Wolfe County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Yaphank Energy Storage, LLC [c]

YELLOW FEATHER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

YELLOW ROSEBUSH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, 11000

DGSP2 LLC

Distributed Generation Solutions LLC

Distributed Generation Solutions Prime LLC

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, 75201-3136

EPP LLC [c]

MP2 Energy LLC [c]

MP2 Energy NE LLC [c]

MP2 Energy NY LLC [c]

MP2 Energy Retail Holdings LLC [c]

MP2 Energy Texas LLC [c]

MP2 Generation LLC [c]

MP2 Mesquite Creek Wind LLC [c]

Noble Assurance Company

USA continued

MADISON FIELDS TAX EQUITY HOLDCO, LLC [c]

Marengo Starr Solar Project, LLC [c]

MOONLIT BAYOU ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

NEW SHEPHERD ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

North Hill Land Holdings, LLC [c]

OXBOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Painted Rock Solar Project, LLC [c]

Pilot Range Energy Center, LLC [c]

Port Jefferson Energy Storage, LLC [c]

PRAIRIE NOON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RED BATON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RED BRANCH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

RIVER TURN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Sand Flat Energy Center, LLC [c]

Sandy Loam Energy Center, LLC [c]

Saratoga Solar Project, LLC [c]

Savannah Oaks Solar Project, LLC

SAVION CONSTRUCTION HOLDCO, LLC [c]

Savion Construction Management, LLC [c]

SAVION EQUITY, LLC [c]

Savion LLC [c]

Savion Solar Equipment, LLC

SILVER THUNDER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SILVERBELL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

SOLSTICE SUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Southwest Michigan Solar Project, LLC [c]

Sugar Tree Solar Project, LLC

Sun Cactus Solar Project, LLC

SUN FLATS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Superior Solar Project, LLC [c]

TANNIN VINE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

WILD PEACH ENERGY CENTER, LLC

WILD VIOLET ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ANABRANCH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ATHENS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Bankson Solar Project, LLC [c]

BELL BRANCH SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Between The Rows, LLC [c]

Black Hawk Solar Project, LLC [c]

BLACKS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Bluegrass Plains Solar Project, LLC [c]

Bogalusa West Pv i, LLC [c]

Bronx Shores Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Buchanan County Solar Project, LLC [c]

BUFFALO GRASS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUFFALO MEADOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

CALLOWAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Cane Flats Solar Project, LLC [c]

CASS COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Centennial Sky Solar Project, LLC [c]

Centerville Pike Solar Project, LLC [c]

Choctaw County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Choctaw Fields Solar Project, LLC [c]

CLEAR MOUNTAIN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Crab Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

Crane Brook Solar Project, LLC [c]

CRAY FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Cumberland Road North Solar Project, LLC [c]

Cumberland Road South Solar Project, LLC [c]

DAKOTA PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Dale County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Dove Run Solar Project, LLC [c]

EASTSIDE PLAINS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Elkhart County Solar Project, LLC [c]

EMERGENT VALLEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

Energy Pastures Solar Project, LLC [c]

Escambia County Solar Project, LLC [c]

FALKIRK FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Farnham Solar Project, LLC [c]

Fentress Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Flickertail Solar Project, LLC [c]

FOGHORN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Free State Solar Project, LLC [c]

Gold Harvest Solar Project, LLC [c]

Goose Creek Solar Project, LLC [c]

GOOSE QUILL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Great River Solar Project, LLC [c]

GRID BALANCE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Gsd Farming Co. LLC [c]

Gunlock Solar Project, LLC [c]

Hancock County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Haycraft Solar Project, LLC [c]

Headland-Wiregrass Solar Project, LLC [c]

Herman Solar Project, LLC [c]

HERRINGTON SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

High Oasis II Solar Project, LLC [c]

Hill Tucker Solar Project, LLC [c]

Holbrook Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Holtsville Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Irwin Solar I, LLC [c]

K RIVER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Kcr Rto Da, LLC [c]

Kidman Solar Project, LLC [c]

Kings Fork Solar Project, LLC [c]

Kiowa County Solar Project, LLC [c]

KLAMATH FALLS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Lake County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Lawrence County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Levy Solar I, LLC [c]

Liberty Creek Energy Center, LLC [c]

LITTLEJOHNS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

LIZARD SPIN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Longnecker Solar Project, LLC [c]

Macon Parkway Solar Project, LLC [c]

Madison County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Madison Fields Solar Project, LLC [c]

Manor River Energy Storage, LLC [c]

Maple Pv I, LLC [c]

Marion County Solar Project, LLC [c]

Marquette County Solar Project, LLC [c]

MARTHA FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY, MO/64106

Huckleberry Line Solar Project, LLC [c]

CANADIAN COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [c]

LOPEZ CANYON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

386

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

387
387

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

USA continued

BG North America, LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, SUITE 900

BG US Services, Inc.

Shell Legacy Holdings LLC [c]

100

California Western Grid Development, LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201

Concha Chemical Pipeline LLC [c]

ERM Business Energy LLC [c]

Source Operations Group LLC [c]

Source Power & Gas LLC [c]

SPG Energy Group LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201-3136

Mpower2 LLC [c]

Oryx Caspian Pipeline L.L.C. [c]

100

100

100

100

100

100

Pecten Brazil Exploration Company

Pecten Midstream LLC [c]

Pecten Orient Company LLC [c]

Pecten Producing Company

Pecten Trading Company

Pecten Victoria Company

Pecten Yemen Masila Company

C/O ALLIED SERVICES GROUP, 6730 ROOSEVELT BLVD., FRANKLIN, 45005

Sand Dollar Pipeline LLC [c]

Allied Services Group LLC [c]

100

Shell Downstream Inc.

CORPORATE SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 
WILMINGTON, 19808

Allied Reliability Group, Inc.

ARG Acquisition Company, Inc.

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, 
DELAWARE, 11000

ADAMS BROOK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ANGEL CITY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BADGER PAW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BEAVER BAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Blackjack Plains Solar Project, LLC

BLUE FROST ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUCK HOLLOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUFFALO PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE DEN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE FLATS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE RUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DEEP LAKE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DESERT SENNA ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DIABLO CAMPO ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DOVE WING ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, NEW 
CASTLE, DE, 19808

Volta Inc.

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 
WILMINGTON, NEW CASTLE, 19808

Allied Reliability Group Intermediate Holdings, Inc.

CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 ORANGE STREET, NEW CASTLE COUNTY, 
WILMINGTON, DE 19801

Shell Thailand E&P Inc.

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1200 SOUTH PINE ISLAND ROAD, PLANTATION, 33324

Shell MS Fuel Card, LLC [c]

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 701 S. CARSON ST, SUITE 200, CARSON CITY, NV 
89701

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell International Exploration and Production Inc.

Shell Marine Products (US) Company

Shell Midstream LP Holdings LLC [c]

Shell New Energies US LLC [c]

Shell Trading (US) Company

TFH Reliability Group, LLC [c]

Triton Terminaling LLC [c]

Ventura Reliability Project LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, 9801

Shell Pipeline GP LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER

Shell Energy Holding GP LLC [c]

Shell Mobility & Convenience US LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

RK Caspian Shipping Company, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, DE, 19801

Sonoma Reliability Project LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION TRUST 
CENTER, WILMINGTON, 19801

Shell Midstream Operating LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON

Shell NA Gas & Power Holding Company

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 1209 ORANGE STREET

Shell Lake Charles Operations, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 19801

Equilon Enterprises LLC [c]

Impact Recon, LLC [c]

PQS Recycled Lubes LLC [c]

Pennzoil-Quaker State Nominee Company

100

TFH Reliability, LLC [c]

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 7700 E ARAPAHOE RD, STE 220, CENTENNIAL, CO 
80112-1268

Positive Energies, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY , CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 19801

Volta Charging Services LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON

Pecten Orient Company

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, 19801

BG Brasilia, LLC [c]

BG Energy Merchants, LLC [c]

BG Gulf Coast LNG, LLC [c]

BG LNG Services, LLC [c]

388
388

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Volta Charging Industries, LLC [c]

Volta Charging, LLC [c]

Volta Media LLC [c]

Maricopa Energy Center, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

100

100

BG LNG Trading, LLC

100

CRI Sales and Services Inc.

CRI Zeolites Inc.

Ellwood Land Holdings, LLC [c]

Enterprise Oil North America Inc.

Hyder Energy Center, LLC [c]

Inspire Digital Services California, LLC [c]

Inspire Digital Services PJM, LLC [c]

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201-3136

Pecten Trading Company

Pennzoil-Quaker State International Corporation

USA continued

Inspire Digital Services USA, LLC [c]

Inspire Energy Capital, LLC

Inspire Energy Holdings, LLC [c]

Inspire Energy Technologies, LLC [c]

Jiffy Lube International, Inc.

Odyssey Pipeline L.L.C. [c]

Pennzoil-Quaker State Company

Power Limited Partnership [d]

PR Microgrids LLC [c]

Premium Velocity Auto LLC [c]

Pulse Power, LLC [c]

Quaker State Investment Corporation

S T Exchange, Inc.

SCOGI GP [d]

Shell (US) Gas & Power M&T Holdings, Inc.

Shell California Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Americas LP [d]

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Company

Shell Catalysts & Technologies Holdings Inc.

Shell Catalysts & Technologies LP [d]

Shell Catalysts & Technologies US LP [d]

Shell Catalysts Ventures Inc.

Shell Chemical Appalachia LLC [c]

Shell Chemical LP [d]

Shell Chemicals Arabia L.L.C. [c]

Shell Communications, Inc.

Shell Deepwater Royalties Inc.

Shell Energy Company

Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. [d]

Shell Energy Resources Company

Shell Enterprises LLC [c]

Shell EP Holdings Inc.

Shell Expatriate Employment US Inc.

Shell Exploration & Production Company

Shell Exploration Company Inc.

Shell Frontier Oil & Gas Inc.

Shell Gas Gathering Corp. #2

Shell Global Solutions (US) Inc.

Shell GOM Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Shell Gulf of Mexico Inc.

Shell Information Technology International Inc.

Shell Leasing Company

Shell Midstream Partners GP LLC [c]

Shell Midstream Partners, L.P.

Shell NA LNG LLC [c]

Shell North America Gas & Power Services Company

Shell Offshore and Chemical Investments Inc.

Shell Offshore Inc.

Shell Offshore Response Company LLC [c]

Shell Oil Company Investments Inc.

Shell Oil Products Company LLC [c]

Shell Pipeline Company LP [d]

Shell Retail and Convenience Operations LLC [c]

Shell RSC Company

Shell Trademark Management Inc.

Shell Trading North America Company

388

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

389
389

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Trading Risk Management, LLC [c]

Shell Trading Services Company

Shell Transportation Holdings LLC [c]

Shell Treasury Center (West) Inc.

Shell US E&P Investments LLC [c]

Shell US Gas & Power LLC [c]

Shell US Hosting Company

Shell US LNG, LLC [c]

Shell Ventures LLC [c]

Shell WindEnergy Inc.

Shell WindEnergy Services Inc.

SOI Finance Inc.

SOPC Holdings East LLC [c]

SOPC Holdings West LLC [c]

SOPC Southeast Inc. (f/k/a Motiva Company)

SWEPI LLC [c]

Tejas Coral GP, LLC [c]

Tejas Coral Holding, LLC [c]

Tejas Power Generation, LLC [c]

Texas-New Mexico Pipe Line Company

The Valley Camp Coal Company

TMR Company LLC [c]

Triton Diagnostics Inc.

Triton West LLC [c]

Zydeco Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Think Onward LLC [c]

Shell Petroleum Inc.

Shell USA, Inc.

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, ORANGE 
STREET, WILMINGTON, NEW CASTLE, HOUSTON, 19801

TFH Buyer, Inc.

TFH TopCo, Inc.

VENEZUELA

AV. ORINOCO, EDIF.CENTRO EMPRESARIAL, PREMIUM PISO 2 OFICINA 2-B, 
URBANIZACIÓN LAS MERCEDES, CARACAS, 11000

Shell Venezuela Productos, C.A.

AV. ORINOCO, EDIF.CENTRO EMPRESARIAL, PREMIUM PISO 2 OFICINAS 2-A Y 2-B, 
URBANIZACIÓN LAS MERCEDES, CARACAS, 11000

Shell Venezuela, S.A.

VIETNAM

GO DAU INDUSTRIAL ZONE, PHUOC THAI COMMUNE, LONG THANH DISTRICT, 
DONG NAI PROVINCE

Shell Vietnam Ltd

100

100

100

100

100

71

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

USA continued

BG North America, LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, SUITE 900

BG US Services, Inc.

Shell Legacy Holdings LLC [c]

100

California Western Grid Development, LLC [c]

C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201

Concha Chemical Pipeline LLC [c]

C/O ALLIED SERVICES GROUP, 6730 ROOSEVELT BLVD., FRANKLIN, 45005

Sand Dollar Pipeline LLC [c]

Allied Services Group LLC [c]

100

Shell Downstream Inc.

CORPORATE SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 

Shell International Exploration and Production Inc.

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, 

ERM Business Energy LLC [c]

Source Operations Group LLC [c]

Source Power & Gas LLC [c]

SPG Energy Group LLC [c]

Mpower2 LLC [c]

Oryx Caspian Pipeline L.L.C. [c]

WILMINGTON, 19808

Allied Reliability Group, Inc.

ARG Acquisition Company, Inc.

DELAWARE, 11000

ADAMS BROOK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

ANGEL CITY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BADGER PAW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BEAVER BAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

Blackjack Plains Solar Project, LLC

BLUE FROST ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUCK HOLLOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

BUFFALO PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE DEN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE FLATS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

COYOTE RUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DEEP LAKE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DESERT SENNA ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DIABLO CAMPO ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

DOVE WING ENERGY CENTER, LLC [c]

CASTLE, DE, 19808

Volta Inc.

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION TRUST 

100

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 

ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 1209 ORANGE STREET

Shell Lake Charles Operations, LLC [c]

100

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 

ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 19801

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Pecten Brazil Exploration Company

Pecten Midstream LLC [c]

Pecten Orient Company LLC [c]

Pecten Producing Company

Pecten Victoria Company

Pecten Yemen Masila Company

Shell Marine Products (US) Company

Shell Midstream LP Holdings LLC [c]

Shell New Energies US LLC [c]

Shell Trading (US) Company

TFH Reliability Group, LLC [c]

Triton Terminaling LLC [c]

Ventura Reliability Project LLC [c]

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, 9801

Shell Pipeline GP LLC [c]

Shell Energy Holding GP LLC [c]

Shell Mobility & Convenience US LLC [c]

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

RK Caspian Shipping Company, LLC [c]

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, DE, 19801

Sonoma Reliability Project LLC [c]

CENTER, WILMINGTON, 19801

Shell Midstream Operating LLC [c]

ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON

Shell NA Gas & Power Holding Company

100

Equilon Enterprises LLC [c]

Impact Recon, LLC [c]

PQS Recycled Lubes LLC [c]

100

TFH Reliability, LLC [c]

100

Volta Charging, LLC [c]

Volta Media LLC [c]

Maricopa Energy Center, LLC [c]

BG LNG Trading, LLC

100

CRI Sales and Services Inc.

100

100

100

100

Ellwood Land Holdings, LLC [c]

Enterprise Oil North America Inc.

Hyder Energy Center, LLC [c]

Inspire Digital Services California, LLC [c]

Inspire Digital Services PJM, LLC [c]

Allied Reliability Group Intermediate Holdings, Inc.

100

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, NEW 

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 

WILMINGTON, NEW CASTLE, 19808

CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 ORANGE STREET, NEW CASTLE COUNTY, 

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1200 SOUTH PINE ISLAND ROAD, PLANTATION, 33324

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 701 S. CARSON ST, SUITE 200, CARSON CITY, NV 

Pennzoil-Quaker State Nominee Company

WILMINGTON, DE 19801

Shell Thailand E&P Inc.

Shell MS Fuel Card, LLC [c]

89701

80112-1268

Positive Energies, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY , CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 

ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 19801

Volta Charging Services LLC [c]

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON

Pecten Orient Company

BG Brasilia, LLC [c]

BG Energy Merchants, LLC [c]

BG Gulf Coast LNG, LLC [c]

BG LNG Services, LLC [c]

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 7700 E ARAPAHOE RD, STE 220, CENTENNIAL, CO 

Volta Charging Industries, LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

100

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 

ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 

CRI Zeolites Inc.

TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, 19801

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Other related undertakings

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

ARGENTINA

AVENIDA PTE. ROQUE SÁENZ PENA 788, 2ND FLOOR, CIUDAD DE BUENOS AIRES, 
1035

199 BAY STREET, 5300 COMMERCE COURT WEST, COMMERCE COURT WEST, 
TORONTO, M5L 1B9

SFJ Inc.

Bandurria Sur Investments S.A.

50

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2P 0J4

DON BOSCO 3672, 6TH FLOOR, CIUDAD AUTONOMA DE BUENOS AIRES

LNG Canada Development Inc. [b]

Gas Link S.A.

AUSTRALIA

5 TULLY ROAD, EAST PERTH, 6004

OVIDRIVE APPLABS PTY LTD

C/- FORESIGHT AUSTRALIA FUNDS MANAGEMENT, SUITE 3, LEVEL 5, 20 HUNTER 
STREET, SYDNEY, 2000

Kondinin Renewables Holdings Pty Ltd ATF Kondinin Renewables Holdings Trust

C/O JEFFERY ZIVIN, UNIT 4, 4 GEORGE STREET, CAMBERWELL, VIC 3124

Solpod Pty Ltd

INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL GROUP, LEVEL 15 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, NSW 2000

NewGen Neerabup Pty Ltd [b]

NewGen Power Neerabup Pty Ltd [b]

LEVEL 16 ALLUVION, 58 MOUNTS BAY ROAD, PERTH, WA 6000

26

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

FP Solutions Corporation

4600 8TH AVE PLACE EAST, 525 8TH AVE SW, CALGARY,ALBERTA, T2P 1G1

50

FORGE Hydrocarbons Corporation

5305 MCCALL WAY N.E., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2E 7N7

Alberta Products Pipe Line Ltd.

50

24

50

50

830 HIGHWAY NO. 6 NORTH, FLAMBOROUGH, ONTARIO, L0R 2H0

Sun-Canadian Pipe Line Company Limited

VOGEL ROAD, RICHMOND HILL, ONTARIO, RICHMOND HILL, ONTARIO, L4B 3P6

Trans-Northern Pipelines Inc.

CHINA

18TH FLOOR, TOWER 1, YONGLI INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CENTRE, JINYE NO. 1 
ROAD, HIGH-TECH DISTRICT, XI'AN, 710075

North West Shelf Gas Pty Ltd

20

Yanchang and Shell Petroleum Company Limited

LEVEL 16, 25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, NSW 2000

Corporate Carbon Group Pty Ltd

LEVEL 39, 111 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000

Arrow Energy Holdings Pty Ltd

LEVEL 4, 459 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC 3000

1st Energy Pty Ltd

OFFICE 4, 17 GOODE STREET, GISBORNE, VIC 3437

WestWind Energy Development Pty Ltd

AUSTRIA

INNSBRUCKER BUNDESSTRASSE 95, SALZBURG, 5020

Salzburg Fuelling GmbH

KIENBURG 11, MATREI IN OSTTIROL, 9971

Transalpine Ölleitung in Österreich GmbH

RETTENLACKSTRASSE 3, SALZBURG, 5020

TBG Tanklager Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H.

BERMUDA

CLARENDON HOUSE, 2 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON HM 11, HAMILTON, 11000

Egypt LNG Shipping Limited

MELBOURNE HOUSE, 3RD FLOOR, 11 PARLIAMENT STREET, HAMILTON, 11000

Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd

BRAZIL

AV IBIRAPUERA 2907, CONJ 109 PARTE, INDIANOPOLIS, SÃO PAULO, 04029-200

CARBONEXT HOLDING S.A

AVENIDA DAS ALMIRANTE BARROSO, Nº 81, 36º ANDAR, SALA 36A104, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-004

Raizen S.A.

AVENIDA PAULISTA, 1274, 8º ANDAR, CONJUNTO 23, SALA B, BELA VISTA, SÃO 
PAULO, 01310-100

Marlim Azul Energia S.A.

BRUNEI

BRUNEI LNG SDN BHD, LUMUT, KUALA BELAIT, KC2935

Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad

BRUNEI SHELL PETROLEUM COMPANY, SENDIRIAN BERHAD, SERIA, KB2933

Brunei Shell Marketing Company Sendirian Berhad

JALAN UTARA, PANAGA, SERIA, KB2933

Brunei Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad

CANADA

1400, HOLLIS STREET, HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, B3J 3M8

Sable Offshore Energy Inc.

390
390

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

25

50

30

49

33

15

50

25

28

25

50

30

25

50

50

23F, YANLORD SQUARE, SECTION 2, RENMIN SOUTH ROAD, CHENGDU, SICHUAN, 
610016

Yanchang and Shell (Sichuan) Petroleum Company Limited

39TH FLOOR, LEATOP PLAZA, NO. 32 EAST ZHUJIANG ROAD, ZHUJIANG NEW 
TOWN, TIANHE DISTRICT, GUANGDONG, ZHUJIANG NEW TOWN, TIANHE 
DISTRICT

Yanchang and Shell (Guangdong) Petroleum Co., Ltd.

BAISHA, HEKOU, SANSHUI DISTRICT, FOSHAN, GUANGDONG, 528133

Shell Road Solutions Xinyue (Foshan) Co. Ltd.

BLOCK 10, NO.860 XINYANG ROAD, LINGANG SPECIAL AREA, PILOT FREE TRADE 
ZONE, SHANGHAI, 201413

Shanghai Shenergy and Shell New Energy Company Limited

BUILDING NO. 2, HEBEI GUOKONG NORTHERN SILICON VALLEY HIGH-TECH NEW 
CITY, NO. 28 EAST ZHANQIAN STREET, QIAODONG DISTRICT, ZHANGJIAKOU, 
75000

Zhangjiakou City Transport and Shell New Energy Co., Ltd

DAYAWAN PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIAL PARK, HUIZHOU, GUANGDONG, 516086

CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited

NO. 1 DONGXIN ROAD, JIANGSU YANGTZE RIVER INTERNATIONAL, CHEMICAL 
INDUSTRY PARK, ZHANGJIAGANG, JIANGSU, 215600

Infineum (China) Co. Ltd.

NO. 100, XINGANG DADAO, NANJING ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL 
DEVELOPMENT ZONE, NANJING, JIANGSU, 210000

Sinopec and Shell (Jiangsu) Petroleum Marketing Company Limited

NO. 358 ZHUHUI ROAD, SUZHOU, 215000

Suzhou Liyuan Retail Site Management Co., Ltd.

ROOM 2103, NORTH TOWER, YEFENG MODERN CENTER, NO. 161, SHAOXING 
ROAD, XIACHENG DISTRICT, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 310004

Zhejiang Shell Fuels Company Limited

ROOM 518, 5TH FLOOR, OFFICE BUILDING, TIANJIN FOOD GROUP COMPANY LTD, 
NO. 96, QIXIANGTAI ROAD, HEXI DISTRICT, TIANJIN, 300074

Shell Huabei Petroleum Group Co., Ltd.

ROOM 609, BUILDING NO. 1, NO. 388 NORTH MU HUA ROAD, FENGXIAN DIST, 
SHANGHAI, 200120

Climate Bridge (Shanghai) Ltd.

UNIT 1101-1104, LEVEL 11, BUILDING 1, NO. 19 CHAOYANG PARK ROAD, CHAOYANG 
DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100125

Beijing Shell Petroleum Company Ltd.

UNIT 604, 6/F, BUILDING C, NO. 3 YUNAN FOURTH ROAD, FTPZ XIAMEN SUB-
ZONE (TARIFF-FREE ZONE), XIAMEN, 361000

Fujian Xiangyu and Shell Petroleum Company Limited

CÔTE D'IVOIRE

14, BLVD CARDE, IMM. LES HEVEAS, PLATEAU, ABIDJAN, BP V 194

33

Cote d'Ivoire GNL

%

50

40

33

37

20

45

33

45

45

49

60

50

48

50

50

40

50

49

49

49

49

49

15

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

LEVEL 16 ALLUVION, 58 MOUNTS BAY ROAD, PERTH, WA 6000

ROAD, HIGH-TECH DISTRICT, XI'AN, 710075

North West Shelf Gas Pty Ltd

20

Yanchang and Shell Petroleum Company Limited

Other related undertakings

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

AVENIDA PTE. ROQUE SÁENZ PENA 788, 2ND FLOOR, CIUDAD DE BUENOS AIRES, 

199 BAY STREET, 5300 COMMERCE COURT WEST, COMMERCE COURT WEST, 

TORONTO, M5L 1B9

SFJ Inc.

Bandurria Sur Investments S.A.

50

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2P 0J4

DON BOSCO 3672, 6TH FLOOR, CIUDAD AUTONOMA DE BUENOS AIRES

LNG Canada Development Inc. [b]

ARGENTINA

1035

Gas Link S.A.

AUSTRALIA

C/- FORESIGHT AUSTRALIA FUNDS MANAGEMENT, SUITE 3, LEVEL 5, 20 HUNTER 

5305 MCCALL WAY N.E., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2E 7N7

5 TULLY ROAD, EAST PERTH, 6004

OVIDRIVE APPLABS PTY LTD

STREET, SYDNEY, 2000

Solpod Pty Ltd

NewGen Neerabup Pty Ltd [b]

NewGen Power Neerabup Pty Ltd [b]

Kondinin Renewables Holdings Pty Ltd ATF Kondinin Renewables Holdings Trust

C/O JEFFERY ZIVIN, UNIT 4, 4 GEORGE STREET, CAMBERWELL, VIC 3124

INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL GROUP, LEVEL 15 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, NSW 2000

LEVEL 16, 25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, NSW 2000

Corporate Carbon Group Pty Ltd

LEVEL 39, 111 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000

Arrow Energy Holdings Pty Ltd

LEVEL 4, 459 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC 3000

1st Energy Pty Ltd

OFFICE 4, 17 GOODE STREET, GISBORNE, VIC 3437

WestWind Energy Development Pty Ltd

AUSTRIA

Salzburg Fuelling GmbH

KIENBURG 11, MATREI IN OSTTIROL, 9971

Transalpine Ölleitung in Österreich GmbH

RETTENLACKSTRASSE 3, SALZBURG, 5020

TBG Tanklager Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H.

BERMUDA

CLARENDON HOUSE, 2 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON HM 11, HAMILTON, 11000

Egypt LNG Shipping Limited

MELBOURNE HOUSE, 3RD FLOOR, 11 PARLIAMENT STREET, HAMILTON, 11000

Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd

BRAZIL

AV IBIRAPUERA 2907, CONJ 109 PARTE, INDIANOPOLIS, SÃO PAULO, 04029-200

AVENIDA DAS ALMIRANTE BARROSO, Nº 81, 36º ANDAR, SALA 36A104, RIO DE 

AVENIDA PAULISTA, 1274, 8º ANDAR, CONJUNTO 23, SALA B, BELA VISTA, SÃO 

CARBONEXT HOLDING S.A

JANEIRO, 20031-004

Raizen S.A.

PAULO, 01310-100

Marlim Azul Energia S.A.

BRUNEI

BRUNEI LNG SDN BHD, LUMUT, KUALA BELAIT, KC2935

Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad

BRUNEI SHELL PETROLEUM COMPANY, SENDIRIAN BERHAD, SERIA, KB2933

Brunei Shell Marketing Company Sendirian Berhad

JALAN UTARA, PANAGA, SERIA, KB2933

Brunei Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad

CANADA

1400, HOLLIS STREET, HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, B3J 3M8

Sable Offshore Energy Inc.

26

400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, T2P 0J4

FP Solutions Corporation

4600 8TH AVE PLACE EAST, 525 8TH AVE SW, CALGARY,ALBERTA, T2P 1G1

50

FORGE Hydrocarbons Corporation

Alberta Products Pipe Line Ltd.

830 HIGHWAY NO. 6 NORTH, FLAMBOROUGH, ONTARIO, L0R 2H0

Sun-Canadian Pipe Line Company Limited

VOGEL ROAD, RICHMOND HILL, ONTARIO, RICHMOND HILL, ONTARIO, L4B 3P6

Trans-Northern Pipelines Inc.

CHINA

18TH FLOOR, TOWER 1, YONGLI INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CENTRE, JINYE NO. 1 

23F, YANLORD SQUARE, SECTION 2, RENMIN SOUTH ROAD, CHENGDU, SICHUAN, 

Yanchang and Shell (Sichuan) Petroleum Company Limited

39TH FLOOR, LEATOP PLAZA, NO. 32 EAST ZHUJIANG ROAD, ZHUJIANG NEW 

50

TOWN, TIANHE DISTRICT, GUANGDONG, ZHUJIANG NEW TOWN, TIANHE 

610016

DISTRICT

Yanchang and Shell (Guangdong) Petroleum Co., Ltd.

BAISHA, HEKOU, SANSHUI DISTRICT, FOSHAN, GUANGDONG, 528133

Shell Road Solutions Xinyue (Foshan) Co. Ltd.

BLOCK 10, NO.860 XINYANG ROAD, LINGANG SPECIAL AREA, PILOT FREE TRADE 

ZONE, SHANGHAI, 201413

BUILDING NO. 2, HEBEI GUOKONG NORTHERN SILICON VALLEY HIGH-TECH NEW 

CITY, NO. 28 EAST ZHANQIAN STREET, QIAODONG DISTRICT, ZHANGJIAKOU, 

75000

Zhangjiakou City Transport and Shell New Energy Co., Ltd

DAYAWAN PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIAL PARK, HUIZHOU, GUANGDONG, 516086

CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited

NO. 1 DONGXIN ROAD, JIANGSU YANGTZE RIVER INTERNATIONAL, CHEMICAL 

INDUSTRY PARK, ZHANGJIAGANG, JIANGSU, 215600

Infineum (China) Co. Ltd.

NO. 100, XINGANG DADAO, NANJING ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL 

DEVELOPMENT ZONE, NANJING, JIANGSU, 210000

Sinopec and Shell (Jiangsu) Petroleum Marketing Company Limited

NO. 358 ZHUHUI ROAD, SUZHOU, 215000

Suzhou Liyuan Retail Site Management Co., Ltd.

ROOM 2103, NORTH TOWER, YEFENG MODERN CENTER, NO. 161, SHAOXING 

ROAD, XIACHENG DISTRICT, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 310004

Zhejiang Shell Fuels Company Limited

ROOM 518, 5TH FLOOR, OFFICE BUILDING, TIANJIN FOOD GROUP COMPANY LTD, 

NO. 96, QIXIANGTAI ROAD, HEXI DISTRICT, TIANJIN, 300074

ROOM 609, BUILDING NO. 1, NO. 388 NORTH MU HUA ROAD, FENGXIAN DIST, 

Shell Huabei Petroleum Group Co., Ltd.

SHANGHAI, 200120

Climate Bridge (Shanghai) Ltd.

DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100125

Beijing Shell Petroleum Company Ltd.

UNIT 1101-1104, LEVEL 11, BUILDING 1, NO. 19 CHAOYANG PARK ROAD, CHAOYANG 

UNIT 604, 6/F, BUILDING C, NO. 3 YUNAN FOURTH ROAD, FTPZ XIAMEN SUB-

ZONE (TARIFF-FREE ZONE), XIAMEN, 361000

Fujian Xiangyu and Shell Petroleum Company Limited

CÔTE D'IVOIRE

14, BLVD CARDE, IMM. LES HEVEAS, PLATEAU, ABIDJAN, BP V 194

33

Cote d'Ivoire GNL

50

24

50

50

25

30

49

33

15

50

25

28

25

50

30

25

50

50

INNSBRUCKER BUNDESSTRASSE 95, SALZBURG, 5020

Shanghai Shenergy and Shell New Energy Company Limited

%

50

40

33

37

20

45

33

45

45

49

60

50

48

50

50

40

50

49

49

49

49

49

15

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

CYPRUS

FRANZÖSISCHE STRAßE 33 A-C, BERLIN, 10117

METOCHIOU STR, 37, AGIOS ANDREAS, NICOSIA, CY-1101

Toll4Europe GmbH

Rosneft-Shell Caspian Ventures Limited

49

GODORFER HAUPTSTRASSE 186, KÖLN, 50997

DENMARK

Rhein-Main-Rohrleitungstransportgesellschaft mbH [b]

BREDGADE 30, KØBENHAVN K, 1260

NEUSSER LANDSTRAßE 16, KÖLN, 50735

TetraSpar Demonstrator ApS

KOLDINGVEJ 19, RIBE, 6760

Ribe Biogas A/S

NÆRUM HOVEDGADE 8, NAERUM, 2850

DCC & Shell Aviation Denmark A/S

EGYPT

28 ROAD 270, MAADI, CAIRO

Burullus Gas Company S.A.E. [b]

38 STREET NO. 270, MAADI, CAIRO

Rashid Petroleum Company S.A.E. [b]

CITY OF RASHID, EL BEHERA GOVERNORATE

El Behera Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E.

IDKU Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E.

The Egyptian LNG Company S.A.E.

THE EGYPTIAN OPERATING COMPANY FOR NATURAL GAS LIQUEFACTION 
PROJECTS S.A.E.

FRANCE

10 PLACE DE CATALOGNE, PARIS, 75014

Eolfi Offshore France

Ferme Eolienne Flottante de Groix & Belle-Ile

135, BD BINEAU, NEUILLY SUR SEINE, 92200

Soc. de. Part. Dans "SPITP" Sarl

3 RUE DES VIGNES, A, TREMBLAY EN FRANCE, 93290

66

Deutsche Infineum GmbH & Co. KG

Infineum Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

20

PASSOWER CHAUSSEE 111, SCHWEDT/ODER, 16303

PCK Raffinerie GmbH [b]

49

PAUL WASSERMANN STR. 3, MUNICH, 81829

Deutsche Transalpine Oelleitung GmbH

VAHRENWALDER STRASSE 238, HANNOVER, 30179

25

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH & Co. KG [b]

Erdoel-Raffinerie Deurag-Nerag GmbH

50

ZUM OELHAFEN 207, WILHELMSHAVEN, 26384

36

38

36

36

10

30

53

Nord-West Oelleitung GmbH [b]

GIBRALTAR

57/63 LINE WALL ROAD, GIBRALTAR

Shell LNG Gibraltar Limited

GREECE

151 KIFISIAS AVE., MAROUSI, ATHENS, 15124

Shell & MOH Aviation Fuels A.E.

HONG KONG

3 SCENIC ROAD, CHEK LAP KOK, LANTAU

AFSC Operations Limited

AFSC Refuelling Limited

ESSO TSING YI TERMINAL, LOT 46 TSING YI ROAD, TSING YI ISLAND, NEW 
TERRITORIES

Societe Immobilière Petroliere de Gestion

13

Hong Kong Response Limited

4 BOULEVARD DE BEAUREGARD, LONGVIC, 21600

INDIA

SAS Sécalia Chatillonais

60

102, PRESTIGE SIGMA, VITTAL MALLYA ROAD, BANGALORE, 560001

AÉROPORT ROISSY CHARLES DE GAULLE, ZONE DE FRÊT 1, 3 RUE DES VIGNES, 
TREMBLAY-EN-FRANCE, 93290

Groupement Pétrolier Aviation SNC

CHEMIN DE LIVRY, CHENNEVIÈRES-LES-LOUVRES, 95380

Societe De Manutention De Carburants Aviation (S.A.)

Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels and Services Limited

20

17

ENKING EMBASSY, PLOT 48, SCHEME 78 PART-2, VIJAY NAGAR, INDORE, 452010

Amrut Nature Solutions Private Limited

TIKI TAR INDUSTRIES VILLAGE ROAD, NEAR BHANDUP VILLAGE, BHANDUP WEST 
MUMBAI, MUMBAI, MH 400078

CHEMIN DEPARTMENTAL 54, 13130, BERRE L'ETANG, 13130

Tiki Tar and Shell India Private Limited

Infineum France

DOMAINE DE LALAUS, RIOM, 63200

Bio Valo SAS

50

IRAQ

KHOR AL ZUBAIR, BASRAH

20

Basrah Gas Company

LA VERGNIERE, COUCUÉ SUR LOGNE, 44650

IRELAND

SAS Metha Herbauges Corcoué

40

SUITE 7 NORTHWOOD HOUSE, NORTHWOOD BUSINESS PARK, SANTRY, DUBLIN, 9

ORLY SUD NO. 144 - BAT. 438, ORLY AEROGARES, 94541

Shell and Topaz Aviation Ireland Limited

Service Aviation Paris SNC

33

ISRAEL

ROUTE D'ARLES, LA FENOUILLÈRE, FOS-SUR-MER, 13270

DERECH ABA HILEL 16, RAMAT GAN, 5250608

Ste du Pipeline Sud Européen S.A.

GERMANY

21

Ravin AI Ltd.

ITALY

BERGHAUSENER STRAßE 96, LANGENFELD, 40764

STRADA DI SCORRIMENTO 2, VADO LIGURE, SAVONA, 17047

AGES Maut System GmbH & Co. KG

BROOK 2, BLOCK H, HAMBURG, 20457

OLF Deutschland GmbH

BRUEHLER STR. 95, WESSELING, 50389

25

Infineum Italia S.R.L.

VIA ANTONIO MALFANTE 73, ROMA, 147

50

Bloomfleet S.p.A.

VIA GIORGIO RIBOTTA 51, ROME, 144

Wasserbeschaffungsverband Wesseling-Hersel

35

Societa' Oleodotti Meridionali S.p.A.

CAFFAMACHERREIHE 5, HAMBURG, 20335

VIA MUGGIA #1, SAN DORLIGO DELLA VALLE, TRIESTE, 34147

BEB Holding GmbH [b]

DEA-SCHOLVEN-STR., KARLSRUHE, 76187

Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein Verwaltungs GmbH

Oberrheinische Mineraloelwerke GmbH [b]

EUREF-CAMPUS 10-11, BERLIN, 10829

H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH and Co. KG

50

Societa Italiana per l'Oleodotto Transalpino S.p.A.

JAPAN

32

42

1-1-5 WAKAMIYA-CHO, SUMA-KU, KOBE-SHI, HYOGO, 654-0049

Y.K. Nishi-Kobe Bosai Center

72-34, HORIKAWA-CHO, SAIWAI-KU, KAWASAKI, KAWASAKI, 212-8585

17

Next Kraftwerke Toshiba Corporation

%

15

63

50

50

38

19

50

50

20

51

51

11

11

25

50

49

50

44

50

36

50

40

30

19

33

49

390

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

391
391

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

JAPAN continued

HERIKERBERGWEG 238, AMSTERDAM, 1101 CM

7F KOKURYU SHIBA KOEN BUILDING 2-6-15, SHIBA KOEN, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 
105-0011

CO2-free Hydrogen Energy Supply-chain TRA

KAZAKHSTAN

PROMZONA, BURLINSKI DISTRICT, AKSAI TOWN, WEST KAZAKHSTAN OBLAST

Karachaganak Petroleum Marketing, LLP

LUXEMBOURG

412F, ROUTE D'ESCH, LUXEMBOURG, L-2086

Denham International Power SCSp [d]

MALAYSIA

LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, 50470 
KUALA LUMPUR, KUALA LUMPUR, 46200

P S Terminal Sendirian Berhad

LEVEL 30, TOWER 1, PETRONAS TWIN TOWERS, KLCC, KUALA LUMPUR/FEDERAL 
TERRITORY, KLCC

P S Pipeline Sendirian Berhad

LEVEL 8, SYMPHONY HOUSE, BLOCK D13, PUSAT DAGANGAN DANA 1, JALAN PJU 
1A/46, SELANGOR, 46200

Bonuskad Loyalty Sdn. Bhd. [g]

LOT 7689 AND LOT 7690, SECTION 64, KUCHING TOWN LAND DISTRICT, JALAN 
PENDING, KUCHING, SARAWAK, 93450

IOT Management Sdn. Bhd.

NO. 20 & 21, WISMA KAFAZ, JALAN TUN DATUK PATINGGI HAJI ABDUL RAHMAN, 
YA'KUB, KUCHING, SARAWAK, YA'KUB, KUCHING

Tanjung Manis Oil Terminal Management Sdn. Bhd.

SUITE 13.03, 13 FLOOR, MENARA TAN & TAN, 207 TUN RAZAK, KUALA LUMPUR/
FEDERAL TERRITORY, 50400

Kebabangan Petroleum Operating Company Sdn. Bhd. [b]

WISMA GOSHEN, 2ND FLOOR, 60, 62 & 64, JALAN SS22/21, DAMANSARA JAYA, 
47400 PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR, PETALING JAYA, 47400

Pixelbyte Sdn Bhd

MEXICO

AVENIDA CERRO GORDO DEL CAMPESTRE, NUMBER 201, INTERIOR 202, OF 
COLONIA LAS QUINTAS, LEÓN, GUANAJUATO, 37125

Mega Gasolineras SA de CV

GUILLERMO GONZÁLEZ CAMARENA NO. 400, SANTA FE, LVARO OBREGÓN, 
CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210

Concilia S DE RL DE CV

PROLONGACION PAESO DE LA REFOMA NO. 600, SANTA FE, ALVARO OBREGÓN, 
CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210

COMERCIAL IMPORTADORA S DE RL DE CV

NETHERLANDS

AMSTERDAMSEWEG 55, 1182 GP AMSTELVEEN, P.O. BOX 75650, LUCHTHAVEN 
SCHIPHOL, 1118 ZS

Amsterdam Schiphol Pijpleiding Beheer B.V.

ANTARESLAAN 39, P.O. BOX 3068, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JE

Multi Tank Card B.V.

BUTAANWEG 215, VONDELINGPLAAT, ROTTERDAM, 3196 KC

N.V. Rotterdam-Rijn Pijpleiding Maatschappij [b]

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, S-GRAVENHAGE, 11000

BJS Oil Operations B.V.

Bogstone Holding B.V.

Cicerone Holding B.V.

Shell and Vivo Lubricants B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR

Ecowende Beheer B.V. [b]

Ecowende C.V. [b]

Geocombinatie Leeuwarden B.V.

Tamba B.V.

DR. HUB VAN DOORNEWEG 183, TILBURG, 5026RD

Travis Road Services International B.V.

EUROPAWEG 975, MAASVLAKTE, ROTTERDAM, 3199 LC

Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. [d]

392
392

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

25

29

32

35

50

33

7

14

30

50

50

50

50

40

30

56

80

97

97

50

60

60

30

50

34

16

Infineum Holdings B.V.

HOFPLEIN 20, ROTTERDAM, 3032AC

CrossWind Beheer B.V. [b]

Crosswind C.V. [b] [d]

LAAN VAN BARCELONA 800, DORDRECHT, 3317 DD

GeoThermie Delft B.V.

LAARDERHOOGTWEG 18, AMSTERDAM, 1101 EA

Aecorsis B.V.

MUIDERSTRAAT 1, AMSTERDAM, 1011 PZ

Caspi Meruerty Operating Company B.V. [b]

OOSTDUINLAAN 2, THE HAGUE, 2596 JM

North Caspian Operating Company N.V. [b]

OOSTERHORN 36, FARMSUM, 9936 HD

Zeolyst C.V.

P.O. BOX 477, GRONINGEN, 9700 AL

Gasterra B.V.

POLARIS AVENUE 81, P.O. BOX 2047, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JH

Loyalty Management Netherlands B.V.

REACTORWEG 301, UNIT 1.3, UTRECHT, 3542 AD

Paqell B.V.

SCHEPERSMAAT 2, ASSEN, 11000

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.

SCHEPERSMAAT 2, ASSEN, 9405 TA

NAM Offshore B.V.

STATIONSPLEIN 45, 4TH FLOOR, ROTTERDAM, 3013 AK

Investancia Group B.V. [b]

Quadriz B.V

STRAWINSKYLAAN 1343, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX

Shell & AMG Recycling B.V [d]

STRAWINSKYLAAN 1725, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX

Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B.V. [b]

VONDELINGENWEG 601, VONDELINGENPLAAT, VONDELINGENPLAAT ROTTERDAM, 
11000

Ellba B.V. [b]

Ellba C.V. [b] [d]

VOORSTRAAT 67, GROOT-AMMERS, 2964AJ

BlueAlp Holding B.V.

WEENA 762, 9E VERDIEPING, ROTTERDAM, 3014 DA

Guara B.V.

Iara B.V.

Lapa Oil & Gas B.V.

Libra Oil & Gas B.V.

Tupi B.V.

WEENA 788, ROTTERDAM, 3014 DA

Blauwwind II C.V. [b] [d]

Blauwwind Management II B.V. [b]

WIJNAND VAN ARNHEMVEG 8, OOSTERBEEK, 6862 XM

iLNG B.V.

ZEELANDSESTRAAT 1, MILLINGEN AAN DE RIJN, 6566 DE

SolarNow B.V.

NIGERIA

CORPORATE OFFICE, INTELS ABA ROAD ESTATE, KM16 ABA EXPRESSWAY, PORT 
HARCOURT, 500211

Nigeria LNG Limited

NLNG Shipping Management Limited

NORWAY

BYFJORDPARKEN 15, STAVANGER, 4007

Northern Lights JV DA [d]

%

50

80

80

15

23

40

17

50

25

40

50

50

50

30

56

50

29

50

50

21

30

4

30

20

23

20

20

28

47

26

20

33

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

NORWAY continued

KRISTIAN AUGUSTS GATE 13, OSLO, 164

Aviation Fuelling Services Norway AS

MONGSTAD 71A, MONGSTAD, 5954

Technology Centre Mongstad DA

NYHAMNA, AUKRA, 6480

Ormen Lange Eiendom DA

OMAN

P.O. BOX 560, MINA AL FAHAL, MUSCAT, 116

Oman LNG LLC

P.O. BOX 81, MINA AL FAHAL, MUSCAT, 113

Petroleum Development Oman LLC

PAKISTAN

50 RAFFLES PLACE #06-00, SINGAPORE LAND TOWER, SINGAPORE, 48623

Orb Energy Pte Ltd.

THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, #07-01, 
SINGAPORE, 138588

Connected Freight Pte. Ltd.

QPI and Shell Petrochemicals (Singapore) Pte Ltd

SOUTH AFRICA

HONSHU ROAD, DURBAN, 4001

Blendcor (Pty) Ltd. [b]

INANDA GREENS BUSINESS PARK, ST ANDREWS BUILDING 9, 1ST FLOOR, 54 
WIERDA ROAD WEST SANDTON, GAUTENG, 2196

Sekelo Oil Trading (Pty) Limited

REUNION, DURBAN, 4001

Shell & BP South African Petroleum Refineries (Pty) Limited [b]

50

9

18

30

33

OFFICE NO 8, LEVEL 3, GROUND FLOOR, SERENA BUSINESS COMPLEX, KHAYABAN-
E-SUHRDWARDY, G-5/1, ISLAMABAD, 44000

TWICKENHAM, THE CAMPUS, 57 SLOAN STREET, EPSOM DOWNS, BRYANSTON, 
2021

Pak Arab Pipeline Company Limited

PHILIPPINES

20

Bituguard Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd

SOUTH KOREA

2ND FLOOR, BONIFACIO TECHNOLOGY CENTER, 31ST STREET CORNER 2ND 
AVENUE, BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, MANILA, 1635

#704-3, TOWER B.HYUNDAI KNOWLEDGE INDUSTRIAL CENTER, 70 DUSAN-RO, 
GEUMCHEON-GU, SEOUL, 8584

LOT 7689 AND LOT 7690, SECTION 64, KUCHING TOWN LAND DISTRICT, JALAN 

Loyalty Management Netherlands B.V.

Bonifacio Gas Corporation

LEVEL 3B, 111 PASEO DE ROXAS BLDG., PASEO DE ROXAS AVE, LEGASPI VILLAGE, SAN 
LORENZO, MAKATI CITY, LEGASPI VILLAGE, SAN LORENZO

Tablas Strait Offshore Wind Power Corporation [b]

NDC BLDG., 116 TORDESILLAS ST., SALCEDO VILLAGE, MAKATI CITY, METRO MANILA, 
1227

24

39

Korea Impact Carbon Corporation

640-6, DAEJUK-RI, DAESAN-EUP, SEOSAN-SHI, CHUNGCHONGNAM-DO, 356-713

Hyundai and Shell Base Oil Co., Ltd

SPAIN

CALLE SAN LUCAS, 6, SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE, 38003

Kamayan Realty Corporation

22

CMD Aeropuertos Canarios, S.L.

UNIT 1, 9TH FLOOR, ORE CENTRAL TOWER, 31ST STREET CORNER 9TH AVENUE, 
BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG CITY, FOURTH DISTRICT, FORT BONIFACIO

Greenlight Renewables Holding Inc [b]

UNIT D 9TH FLOOR INOZA TOWER, 40TH STREET, NORTH BONIFACIO, BONIFACIO 
GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, MANILA, 1634

Tabangao Realty, Inc.

QATAR

1ST FLOOR, AL-MIRQAB TOWER, DOHA

Marine LNG Solutions LLC [b]

P.O. BOX 22666, DOHA

QatarEnergy LNG N(4)

QATARENERGY HQ TOWER 4, PODIUM LEVEL, BUILDING NO. 4, STREET NO. 951, 
DOHA, ZONE 63

QatarEnergy LNG NFE(2)

QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) [f]

SAUDI ARABIA

P.O. BOX 41467, RIYADH, 11521

Al Jomaih and Shell Lubricating Oil Co.Ltd.

SINGAPORE

SWEDEN

40

P.O. BOX 135, STOCKHOLM, 190 46

A Flygbränslehantering Aktiebolag

P.O. BOX 2154, GOTHENBURG, 438 14

40

Gothenburg Fuelling Company AB

P.O. BOX 85, STOCKHOLM-ARLANDA, 190 45

Stockholm Fuelling Services AB

STURUP FLYGPLATS, P.O. BOX 22, MALMÖ, 230 32

Malmö Fuelling Services AB

SWITZERLAND

AUTOSTRADA A2 (DIREZIONE GOTTARDO), HOTEL BELLINZONA SUD, MONTE 
CARASSO, 6513

Stazioni Autostradali Bellinzona SA

ROUTE DE PRÉ-BOIS 17, COINTRIN, 1216

Saraco SA

50

30

25

25

ROUTE DE VERNIER 132, VERNIER, 1214

50

SOGEP Sociéte Genevoise des Pétroles SA

ZWÜSCHETEICH, RÜMLANG, 8153

1 HARBOURFRONT AVENUE, #08-01/08, KEPPEL BAY TOWER, SINGAPORE, 98632

UBAG - Unterflurbetankungsanlage Flughafen Zürich AG

Infineum Singapore LLP

100 AYER MERBAU ROAD, SINGAPORE, 628277

PCS Pte Ltd

100 PECK SEAH STREET, #10-18 PS100, SINGAPORE, 79333

LRDTECH PTE LTD

15, AIRLINE ROAD, SINGAPORE, 819828

Changi Airport Fuel Hydrant Installation Pte. Ltd.

160 TUAS SOUTH AVENUE 5, SINGAPORE, 637364

Singapore Lube Park Pte. Ltd. [b]

CORPORATE OFFICE, INTELS ABA ROAD ESTATE, KM16 ABA EXPRESSWAY, PORT 

25 CHURCH STREET, 03-04 CAPITAL SQUARE THREE, SINGAPORE, 49482

Cleantech Renewable Assets Pte Ltd

5 BENOI PLACE, #02, SINGAPORE, 629926

Best Petrol and Diesel Supply Pte. Ltd. [d]

50 GUL ROAD, SINGAPORE, 629351

Fuelng Pte. Ltd [b]

50

SYRIA

CHAM CENTRE COMPLEX, MAYSALOON STREET, P.O. BOX 7660, DAMASCUS

Al Furat Petroleum Company

DAMASCUS NEW SHAM WESTERN DUMMAR, ISLAND NO. 1 - PROPERTY 2299, P.O. 
BOX 7660, DAMASCUS

Al Badiah Petroleum Company

TAIWAN

NO. 2, TSO-NAN ROAD, NAN-TZE DISTRICT, P.O. BOX 25-30, KAOHSIUNG, 811

CPC Shell Lubricants Co. Ltd

TANZANIA

1ST FLOOR KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369, TOURE DRIVE, OYSTER BAY, PO BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM, 11000

26

50

11

44

49

Fahari Gas Marketing Company Limited

45

Ruvuma Pipeline Company Limited

1ST FLOOR, KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369 TOURE DRIVE, OYSTERBAY, P.O BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM, 11000

50

Mzalendo Gas Processing Company Limited

392

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

393
393

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

7F KOKURYU SHIBA KOEN BUILDING 2-6-15, SHIBA KOEN, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 

Infineum Holdings B.V.

PROMZONA, BURLINSKI DISTRICT, AKSAI TOWN, WEST KAZAKHSTAN OBLAST

LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, 50470 

LEVEL 30, TOWER 1, PETRONAS TWIN TOWERS, KLCC, KUALA LUMPUR/FEDERAL 

OOSTERHORN 36, FARMSUM, 9936 HD

LEVEL 8, SYMPHONY HOUSE, BLOCK D13, PUSAT DAGANGAN DANA 1, JALAN PJU 

JAPAN continued

105-0011

KAZAKHSTAN

CO2-free Hydrogen Energy Supply-chain TRA

Karachaganak Petroleum Marketing, LLP

LUXEMBOURG

412F, ROUTE D'ESCH, LUXEMBOURG, L-2086

Denham International Power SCSp [d]

MALAYSIA

KUALA LUMPUR, KUALA LUMPUR, 46200

P S Terminal Sendirian Berhad

TERRITORY, KLCC

P S Pipeline Sendirian Berhad

1A/46, SELANGOR, 46200

Bonuskad Loyalty Sdn. Bhd. [g]

PENDING, KUCHING, SARAWAK, 93450

IOT Management Sdn. Bhd.

NO. 20 & 21, WISMA KAFAZ, JALAN TUN DATUK PATINGGI HAJI ABDUL RAHMAN, 

YA'KUB, KUCHING, SARAWAK, YA'KUB, KUCHING

Tanjung Manis Oil Terminal Management Sdn. Bhd.

SUITE 13.03, 13 FLOOR, MENARA TAN & TAN, 207 TUN RAZAK, KUALA LUMPUR/

FEDERAL TERRITORY, 50400

Kebabangan Petroleum Operating Company Sdn. Bhd. [b]

WISMA GOSHEN, 2ND FLOOR, 60, 62 & 64, JALAN SS22/21, DAMANSARA JAYA, 

47400 PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR, PETALING JAYA, 47400

AVENIDA CERRO GORDO DEL CAMPESTRE, NUMBER 201, INTERIOR 202, OF 

COLONIA LAS QUINTAS, LEÓN, GUANAJUATO, 37125

Pixelbyte Sdn Bhd

MEXICO

Mega Gasolineras SA de CV

CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210

Concilia S DE RL DE CV

CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210

NETHERLANDS

SCHIPHOL, 1118 ZS

Amsterdam Schiphol Pijpleiding Beheer B.V.

ANTARESLAAN 39, P.O. BOX 3068, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JE

Multi Tank Card B.V.

BUTAANWEG 215, VONDELINGPLAAT, ROTTERDAM, 3196 KC

N.V. Rotterdam-Rijn Pijpleiding Maatschappij [b]

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, S-GRAVENHAGE, 11000

BJS Oil Operations B.V.

Bogstone Holding B.V.

Cicerone Holding B.V.

Shell and Vivo Lubricants B.V.

Ecowende Beheer B.V. [b]

Ecowende C.V. [b]

Geocombinatie Leeuwarden B.V.

Tamba B.V.

CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR

DR. HUB VAN DOORNEWEG 183, TILBURG, 5026RD

Travis Road Services International B.V.

EUROPAWEG 975, MAASVLAKTE, ROTTERDAM, 3199 LC

Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. [d]

HERIKERBERGWEG 238, AMSTERDAM, 1101 CM

HOFPLEIN 20, ROTTERDAM, 3032AC

CrossWind Beheer B.V. [b]

Crosswind C.V. [b] [d]

LAAN VAN BARCELONA 800, DORDRECHT, 3317 DD

GeoThermie Delft B.V.

LAARDERHOOGTWEG 18, AMSTERDAM, 1101 EA

Aecorsis B.V.

MUIDERSTRAAT 1, AMSTERDAM, 1011 PZ

Caspi Meruerty Operating Company B.V. [b]

OOSTDUINLAAN 2, THE HAGUE, 2596 JM

North Caspian Operating Company N.V. [b]

Zeolyst C.V.

Gasterra B.V.

P.O. BOX 477, GRONINGEN, 9700 AL

POLARIS AVENUE 81, P.O. BOX 2047, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JH

REACTORWEG 301, UNIT 1.3, UTRECHT, 3542 AD

Paqell B.V.

SCHEPERSMAAT 2, ASSEN, 11000

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.

SCHEPERSMAAT 2, ASSEN, 9405 TA

NAM Offshore B.V.

STATIONSPLEIN 45, 4TH FLOOR, ROTTERDAM, 3013 AK

Investancia Group B.V. [b]

Quadriz B.V

STRAWINSKYLAAN 1343, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX

Shell & AMG Recycling B.V [d]

STRAWINSKYLAAN 1725, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX

Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B.V. [b]

11000

Ellba B.V. [b]

Ellba C.V. [b] [d]

Guara B.V.

Iara B.V.

Lapa Oil & Gas B.V.

Libra Oil & Gas B.V.

Tupi B.V.

iLNG B.V.

SolarNow B.V.

NIGERIA

HARCOURT, 500211

Nigeria LNG Limited

WEENA 788, ROTTERDAM, 3014 DA

Blauwwind II C.V. [b] [d]

Blauwwind Management II B.V. [b]

WIJNAND VAN ARNHEMVEG 8, OOSTERBEEK, 6862 XM

ZEELANDSESTRAAT 1, MILLINGEN AAN DE RIJN, 6566 DE

NLNG Shipping Management Limited

NORWAY

BYFJORDPARKEN 15, STAVANGER, 4007

Northern Lights JV DA [d]

25

29

32

35

50

33

7

14

30

50

50

50

50

40

30

56

80

97

97

50

60

60

30

50

34

16

GUILLERMO GONZÁLEZ CAMARENA NO. 400, SANTA FE, LVARO OBREGÓN, 

VONDELINGENWEG 601, VONDELINGENPLAAT, VONDELINGENPLAAT ROTTERDAM, 

PROLONGACION PAESO DE LA REFOMA NO. 600, SANTA FE, ALVARO OBREGÓN, 

COMERCIAL IMPORTADORA S DE RL DE CV

AMSTERDAMSEWEG 55, 1182 GP AMSTELVEEN, P.O. BOX 75650, LUCHTHAVEN 

VOORSTRAAT 67, GROOT-AMMERS, 2964AJ

BlueAlp Holding B.V.

WEENA 762, 9E VERDIEPING, ROTTERDAM, 3014 DA

%

50

80

80

15

23

40

17

50

25

40

50

50

50

30

56

50

29

50

50

21

30

4

30

20

23

20

20

28

47

26

20

33

%

24

80

51

36

43

36

36

40

40

10

25

33

25

33

50

20

34

20

20

22

51

53

53

53

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

1 INTERNATIONAL DRIVE, WESTMOORINGS

The International School of Port of Spain Limited

5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN

Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited

PRINCES COURT, CORNER OF KEATE AND PEMBROKE STREETS, PORT OF SPAIN

Atlantic LNG 2/3 Company of Trinidad and Tobago Unlimited

TUNISIA

IMMEUBLE MEZGHENNI, RUE DU LAC WINDERMERE, LES BERGES DU LAC, TUNIS, 
1053 - BP 36

25

81

58

Manchester Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited

The Consolidated Petroleum Company Limited

SHELL INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM CO LTD, SHELL CENTRE, 8 YORK ROAD, 
LONDON, 11000

SM Realisations Limited

UKRAINE

M. HRINCHENKO, 4, KYIV, 11000

Alliance Holding LLC [d]

Invest-Region LLC [d]

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

Amilcar Petroleum Operations S.A.

50

EMDAD AVIATION FUEL STORAGE FZCO, P.O. BOX 261781, JEBEL ALI, DUBAI, JEBEL ALI

TURKEY

DILOVASI ORGANIZE SANAYI BOLGESI 1.KISIM, 1004 SOKAK NO:10, DILOVASI, 
KOCAELI

Samsun Akaryakit VE Depolama A.S.

LIMAN MAHALLESI 60. SOKAK NO. 25, KONYAALTI, ANTALYA, 7070

Cekisan Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti.

SULTANKOY MAHALLESI MALTEPE SOKAK NO:66, MARMARA EREGLISI, TEKIRDAG, 
59750

Emdad Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO

P.O. BOX 665, ABU DHABI

Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Limited (GASCO)

URUGUAY

LA CUMPARSITA, 1373 4TH FLOOR, MONTEVIDEO

Dinarel S.A.

Gasoducto Cruz del Sur S.A.

35

46

Marmara Depoculuk Hizmetleri A.S.

35

USA

YAKUPLU MAH. GENCOSMAN CAD. NO:7, BEYLIKDUZU, ISTANBUL, 34524

1013 CENTRE ROAD SUITE 403B, WILMINGTON, DE 19805

Ambarli Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti.

35

Statiq Mobility, Inc.

UK

10346 BRECKSVILLE RD, BRECKSVILLE, OH 44141

50 LOTHIAN ROAD, FESTIVAL SQUARE, EDINBURGH, EH3 9WJ

True North Energy LLC

CAMPIONWIND LIMITED [b]

MARRAMWIND LIMITED [b]

5-7 ALEXANDRA ROAD, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE, HP2 5BS

West London Pipeline and Storage Limited [b]

5-7 ALEXANDRA ROAD, SHELL-MEX HOUSE, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE, HP2 
5BS

British Pipeline Agency Limited

United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited [b]

Walton-Gatwick Pipeline Company Limited [b]

ATHENA HOUSE, TACHBROOK PARK, WARWICK, CV34 6RL

Autogas Limited

BUILDING 1204, SANDRINGHAM ROAD, HEATHROW AIRPORT, HOUNSLOW, 
MIDDLESEX, TW6 3SH

Heathrow Airport Fuel Company Limited

BUILDING 1204, SANDRINGHAM ROAD, HEATHROW AIRPORT, HOUNSLOW, 
MIDDX, LONDON, TW6 3SH

Heathrow Hydrant Operating Company Limited

EXXONMOBIL HOUSE, ERMYN WAY, LEATHERHEAD, LEATHERHEAD, KT22 8UX

Stansted Fuelling Company Limited

JOHNSTON CARMICHAEL OFFICE, G08 (GROUND FLOOR) BIRCHIN COURT, 20 
BIRCHIN LANE, LONDON, EC3V9DU

Kite Power Systems Limited

LEVEL 39, ONE CANADA SQUARE, LONDON, E14 5AB

Applied Blockchain Ltd

MAIN ROAD, WATERSTON, MILFORD HAVEN, PEMBROKESHIRE, SA73 1DR

Dragon LNG Group Limited [b]

Dragon LNG Limited [b]

ONE BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE, LONDON, EC1A 7BL

Gatwick Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited

PANNONE CORPORATE LLP, 378-380 DEANSGATE, CASTLEFIELD, MANCHESTER, M3 
4LY

Steama Company Limited

PO BOX 1, MILTON HILL, ABINGDON, OXFORDSHIRE, OX13 6BB

Infineum International Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, 11000

SHELL MEX AND B.P. LIMITED

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, SE1 7NA

Eastham Refinery Limited [b]

394
394

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

50

50

38

50

48

52

50

14

10

17

34

22

50

50

13

33

50

60

50

1191 2ND AVE, SUITE 1900, SEATTLE, WA 98101

Airbiquity Inc.

150 N. DAIRY ASHFORD, HOUSTON, TX, 77079

Brazos Wind Holdings, LLC [b] [c]

15445 INNOVATION DRIVE, SAN DIEGO, CA, 92128

Mid-Atlantic Offshore Development, LLC [c]

1740 ED TEMPLE BLVD, NASHVILLE, TN 37208

Tri Star Energy LLC

1900 EAST LINDEN AVENUE, LINDEN, NJ 07036

Infineum USA Inc

2050 PLAINFIELD PIKE, CRANSTON, RI 02921

Colbea Enterprises, LLC

2100 GENG ROAD, SUITE 210, SANTA CLARA, PALO ALTO, CA 94303

D.Light Design Inc.

2237 HATCHER HILL ROAD, BACONTON, GA 31716

Baconton Power LLC [c]

3450 E. COMMERCIAL CT., MERIDIAN, ID 83642

Pacwest Energy, LLC.

3500 S DUPONT HWY, DOVER, 19901

Carbon Informatics LLC [c]

4080 WEST JONATHAN MOORE PIKE, COLUMBUS, IN 47201

RDK Ventures, LLC

41805 ALBRAE STREET, FREMONT, CA 94538

Au Energy, LLC

850 NEW BURTON ROAD, SUITE 201, DOVER, DE 19904

Eleox LLC [c]

930 WHITMORE DRIVE, ROCKWALL, 75087

Shell & Whitmore Reliability Solutions, LLC [c]

BECHTEL ENTERPRISES, 12011 SUNSET HILLS ROAD, RESTON, VA 20190

Maple Power Holdings LLC [b]

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, DELAWARE, DE 19808

West Shore Pipe Line Company

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, DE 
19808

Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, LLC [c]

Bengal Pipeline Company LLC

Colonial Pipeline Company

%

25

50

60

97

97

33

15

50

40

28

50

20

40

50

33

50

50

34

35

50

49

50

50

17

50

68

19

50

58

16

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Additional Information | Appendix

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Additional Information | Appendix
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued

Amilcar Petroleum Operations S.A.

50

EMDAD AVIATION FUEL STORAGE FZCO, P.O. BOX 261781, JEBEL ALI, DUBAI, JEBEL ALI

DILOVASI ORGANIZE SANAYI BOLGESI 1.KISIM, 1004 SOKAK NO:10, DILOVASI, 

P.O. BOX 665, ABU DHABI

Company by country and address of incorporation

%

Company by country and address of incorporation

Manchester Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited

The Consolidated Petroleum Company Limited

SHELL INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM CO LTD, SHELL CENTRE, 8 YORK ROAD, 

LONDON, 11000

SM Realisations Limited

UKRAINE

M. HRINCHENKO, 4, KYIV, 11000

Alliance Holding LLC [d]

Invest-Region LLC [d]

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

Emdad Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO

Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Limited (GASCO)

URUGUAY

Dinarel S.A.

LA CUMPARSITA, 1373 4TH FLOOR, MONTEVIDEO

Gasoducto Cruz del Sur S.A.

35

USA

10346 BRECKSVILLE RD, BRECKSVILLE, OH 44141

1191 2ND AVE, SUITE 1900, SEATTLE, WA 98101

Airbiquity Inc.

Mid-Atlantic Offshore Development, LLC [c]

1740 ED TEMPLE BLVD, NASHVILLE, TN 37208

Tri Star Energy LLC

Infineum USA Inc

1900 EAST LINDEN AVENUE, LINDEN, NJ 07036

2050 PLAINFIELD PIKE, CRANSTON, RI 02921

Colbea Enterprises, LLC

YAKUPLU MAH. GENCOSMAN CAD. NO:7, BEYLIKDUZU, ISTANBUL, 34524

1013 CENTRE ROAD SUITE 403B, WILMINGTON, DE 19805

Ambarli Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti.

35

Statiq Mobility, Inc.

50 LOTHIAN ROAD, FESTIVAL SQUARE, EDINBURGH, EH3 9WJ

True North Energy LLC

5-7 ALEXANDRA ROAD, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE, HP2 5BS

150 N. DAIRY ASHFORD, HOUSTON, TX, 77079

West London Pipeline and Storage Limited [b]

Brazos Wind Holdings, LLC [b] [c]

5-7 ALEXANDRA ROAD, SHELL-MEX HOUSE, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE, HP2 

15445 INNOVATION DRIVE, SAN DIEGO, CA, 92128

CAMPIONWIND LIMITED [b]

MARRAMWIND LIMITED [b]

UK

5BS

BUILDING 1204, SANDRINGHAM ROAD, HEATHROW AIRPORT, HOUNSLOW, 

D.Light Design Inc.

2100 GENG ROAD, SUITE 210, SANTA CLARA, PALO ALTO, CA 94303

TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

1 INTERNATIONAL DRIVE, WESTMOORINGS

The International School of Port of Spain Limited

5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN

Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited

PRINCES COURT, CORNER OF KEATE AND PEMBROKE STREETS, PORT OF SPAIN

Atlantic LNG 2/3 Company of Trinidad and Tobago Unlimited

IMMEUBLE MEZGHENNI, RUE DU LAC WINDERMERE, LES BERGES DU LAC, TUNIS, 

TUNISIA

1053 - BP 36

TURKEY

KOCAELI

Samsun Akaryakit VE Depolama A.S.

LIMAN MAHALLESI 60. SOKAK NO. 25, KONYAALTI, ANTALYA, 7070

SULTANKOY MAHALLESI MALTEPE SOKAK NO:66, MARMARA EREGLISI, TEKIRDAG, 

Cekisan Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti.

59750

Marmara Depoculuk Hizmetleri A.S.

British Pipeline Agency Limited

United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited [b]

Walton-Gatwick Pipeline Company Limited [b]

ATHENA HOUSE, TACHBROOK PARK, WARWICK, CV34 6RL

Autogas Limited

MIDDLESEX, TW6 3SH

Heathrow Airport Fuel Company Limited

MIDDX, LONDON, TW6 3SH

Heathrow Hydrant Operating Company Limited

BUILDING 1204, SANDRINGHAM ROAD, HEATHROW AIRPORT, HOUNSLOW, 

EXXONMOBIL HOUSE, ERMYN WAY, LEATHERHEAD, LEATHERHEAD, KT22 8UX

JOHNSTON CARMICHAEL OFFICE, G08 (GROUND FLOOR) BIRCHIN COURT, 20 

Stansted Fuelling Company Limited

BIRCHIN LANE, LONDON, EC3V9DU

Kite Power Systems Limited

LEVEL 39, ONE CANADA SQUARE, LONDON, E14 5AB

Applied Blockchain Ltd

MAIN ROAD, WATERSTON, MILFORD HAVEN, PEMBROKESHIRE, SA73 1DR

Dragon LNG Group Limited [b]

Dragon LNG Limited [b]

ONE BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE, LONDON, EC1A 7BL

Gatwick Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited

PANNONE CORPORATE LLP, 378-380 DEANSGATE, CASTLEFIELD, MANCHESTER, M3 

PO BOX 1, MILTON HILL, ABINGDON, OXFORDSHIRE, OX13 6BB

4LY

Steama Company Limited

Infineum International Limited

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, 11000

SHELL MEX AND B.P. LIMITED

SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, SE1 7NA

Eastham Refinery Limited [b]

25

81

58

35

46

50

50

38

50

48

52

50

14

10

17

34

22

50

50

13

33

50

60

50

2237 HATCHER HILL ROAD, BACONTON, GA 31716

Baconton Power LLC [c]

3450 E. COMMERCIAL CT., MERIDIAN, ID 83642

Pacwest Energy, LLC.

3500 S DUPONT HWY, DOVER, 19901

Carbon Informatics LLC [c]

4080 WEST JONATHAN MOORE PIKE, COLUMBUS, IN 47201

RDK Ventures, LLC

41805 ALBRAE STREET, FREMONT, CA 94538

Au Energy, LLC

Eleox LLC [c]

850 NEW BURTON ROAD, SUITE 201, DOVER, DE 19904

930 WHITMORE DRIVE, ROCKWALL, 75087

Shell & Whitmore Reliability Solutions, LLC [c]

BECHTEL ENTERPRISES, 12011 SUNSET HILLS ROAD, RESTON, VA 20190

Maple Power Holdings LLC [b]

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, DELAWARE, DE 19808

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, DE 

West Shore Pipe Line Company

19808

Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, LLC [c]

Bengal Pipeline Company LLC

Colonial Pipeline Company

%

25

50

60

97

97

33

15

50

40

28

50

20

40

50

33

50

50

34

35

50

49

50

50

17

50

68

19

50

58

16

Company by country and address of incorporation

USA continued

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, 
DELAWARE, 19808

Quantico Energy Solutions, Inc.

Vision Bioenergy Oilseeds LLC [b]

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, 
DELAWARE, DE 19808

Cumulus Digital Systems, Inc.

CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 
WILMINGTON, DE 19808

Infineum USA L.P. [f]

CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 ORANGE STREET, 1209 ORANGE STREET, 
WILMINGTON, DELAWARE, 19801

Blue Tide Environmental LLC [d]

CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 330 N. BRAND BLVD., SUITE 700, GLENDALE, 91203-2336

Cabazon Wind Partners, LLC [c]

RL&F SERVICE CORP, 920 N. KING STREET, FLOOR 2, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

Atlantic 1 Holdings LLC [c]

Atlantic 2/3 Holdings LLC [c]

Atlantic 4 Holdings LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, 1209 ORANGE STREET, CORPORATION 
TRUST CENTER, WILMINGTON, 19801

Amberjack Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Caesar Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c]

Endymion Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c]

Mattox Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Proteus Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c]

Ship Shoal Pipeline Company LLC [c]

URSA Oil Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Brazos Wind Ventures, LLC [b] [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, 19801

Explorer Pipeline Company

Southcoast Wind Energy LLC [c]

THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, DE 19801

Crestwood Permian Basin LLC

Diamond Energy. LLC [c]

Husk Power Systems, Inc.

LOCAP LLC

LOOP LLC

Mars Oil Pipeline Company LLC [c]

Peru LNG Company LLC [c]

Poseidon Oil Pipeline Company, LLC

Rock River I, LLC [c]

Silicon Ranch Corporation

Three Wind Holdings, LLC [c]

Whitewater Hill Wind Partners, LLC [c]

VENEZUELA

AVENIDA LEONARDO DA VINCI, EDIFICIO PDV SERVICIOS, CARACAS, DISTRITO 
CAPITAL

Sucre Gas, S.A.

ZAMBIA

7TH FLOOR, NATIONAL SAVINGS & CREDIT BANK BUILDING, NORTH END, CAIRO 
ROAD, LUSAKA

Shell Zambia Limited

ZIMBABWE

BLOCK 1, TENDESEKA OFFICE PARK, CNR SAMORA MACHEL AVENUE, RENFREW 
ROAD, HARARE

Central African Petroleum Refineries (Private) Limited

%

28

66

21

50

51

50

51

58

51

63

15

10

79

10

43

45

40

39

50

50

50

20

41

46

72

20

36

50

44

50

50

30

72

21

394

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

395
395

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Notes

396

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023Financial calendar in 2024

The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 21, 2024.

Results announcements

Interim dividend timetable

Announcement date

Ex-dividend date for SHEL ADS [D]

Ex-dividend date for SHEL ordinary shares

Record date

Closing of currency election date [E]

Pounds sterling and euro equivalents announcement date

Payment date

2023 Fourth 
quarter [A]

2024 First
quarter [B]

2024 Second 
quarter [B]

2024 Third 
quarter [B]

February 1

May 2

August 1

October 31

February 1 [C]

February 15

February 15

February 16

March 1

March 11

March 25

May 2

May 16

May 16

May 17

August 1

October 31

August 16

November 15

August 15

November 14

August 16

November 15

June 3

September 2

November 29

June 10

September 9

December 9

June 24

September 23

December 19

[A] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2023.
[B] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2024.
[C] The Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2023.
[D] On February 15, 2023, the SEC published its final rule, Shortening the Securities Transactions Settlement Cycle, reducing the standard U.S. trade settlement cycle for Depository Trust 
Company (DTC) eligible securities to T+1 from T+2 and setting the compliance date to May 28, 2024. European markets will keep the current T+2 settlement cycle. As a result, 
beginning with Q2 2024, ex-dividend date and record date for SHEL ADSs will be the same date. Ex-dividend date for SHEL shares will be a day prior to ex-dividend date for and SHEL 
ADSs. Record dates will not change. The timings of these are detailed above.

[E] A different currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. This may 
also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Shareholders can contact 
their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election deadline that applies.

Contact Us
The best way to get in touch is via the "Contact us" section of the Shell website shell.com/investors. From here questions are properly directed 
to the Shell team that can assist. In addition, we have introduced an automated question response tool to assist with the most popular 
questions that we receive and reviewed and updated the "Frequently asked Questions" section of our website to provide the most time 
efficient information for our investors.

Registered Office and HQ
Shell plc
Shell Centre
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom

Registered in England and Wales
Company number 4366849

Share registration
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
0800 169 1679 
customer@equiniti.com

For online information about your holding
and to change the way you receive your
company documents:
shareview.co.uk

Investor Relations
Shell plc
PO Box 162
2501 AN The Hague
The Netherlands

or

Shell Oil Company
Investor Relations
150 N Dairy Ashford
Houston, TX 77079
USA
shell.com/investors

Report ordering
shell.com/order
Annual Report/20-F service for
US residents
+1 888 301 0504

American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
USA

Overnight correspondence to:
Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
USA
+1 888 737 2377 (USA only)
+1 651 453 2128 (International)
Email: shareowneronline.com/informational/
contact-us/
adr.com/shareholder

vii

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

 
 
About this Report

About this Report continued

information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, 

results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred 

from the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. 

Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.

This Report contains references to Shell's website, the Shell Sustainability 

Report, Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution 

Report, Shell Climate and Energy Lobbying Report 2023 and our report 

on Payments to Governments. These references are for the readers' 

convenience only. Shell is not incorporating by reference into this Report 

any information posted on shell.com or in the Shell Sustainability Report, 

Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution Report, 

Shell Climate and Energy Lobbying Report or our report on Payments to 

Governments. The content of any other websites referred to in this Report 

does not form part of this Report. 

With effect from January 29, 2022, Shell's A shares and B shares 

were assimilated into a single line of ordinary shares. Shell's A and B 

American Depositary Shares (ADSs) were assimilated into a single line 

of ADSs on the same date. This Report continues to refer to A shares, 

B shares, A ADSs and B ADSs when describing the position prior to 

January 29, 2022.

Shell V-Power and Shell LiveWire are Shell trademarks. 

Documents on display 

This Report is also available, free of charge, at shell.com/annualreport 

or at the offices of Shell in London, United Kingdom and The Hague, the 

Netherlands. Copies of this Report also may be obtained, free of charge, 

by mail.

The Shell plc Annual Report (this "Report") serves as the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with UK requirements for the year ended 
December 31, 2023, for Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as "Shell"). This Report presents the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 244-316) and the Parent Company 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 350-359). Except for these Financial 
Statements, the numbers presented throughout this Report may not sum 
precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect 
the absolute figures due to rounding.

The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc and its subsidiaries 
contained in this Report have been prepared in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
of the UK Companies Act 2006 (the "Act"), and therefore in accordance 
with UK-adopted international accounting standards. As applied to Shell, 
there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS as 
defined above includes interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations 
Committee. Financial reporting terms used in this Report are in 
accordance with IFRS. 

This Report contains certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such 
as cash capital expenditure. We are unable to provide a reconciliation 
of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable 
GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to 
reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP 
financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are 
outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and 
exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the 
required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is 
extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable 
effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot 
be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are 
calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies 
applied in Shell plc's consolidated financial statements. 

The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments 
are separate legal entities. In this report "Shell", "Shell Group" and 
"Group" are sometimes used for convenience where references are made 
to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words "we", "us" 
and "our" are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general 
or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no 
useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. 
"Subsidiaries", "Shell subsidiaries" and "Shell companies" as used in this 
report refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has 
control. The term "joint venture", "joint operations", "joint arrangements", 
and "associates" may also be used to refer to a commercial arrangement 
in which Shell has a direct or indirect ownership interest with one or more 
parties. The term "Shell interest" is used for convenience to indicate the 
direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or 
unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party 
interest.

As used in this Report, "Accountable" is intended to mean: required or 
expected to justify actions or decisions. The Accountable person does not 
necessarily implement the action or decision (implementation is usually 
carried out by the person who is Responsible) but must organise the 
implementation and verify that the action has been carried out as 
required. This includes obtaining requisite assurance from Shell companies 
that the framework is operating effectively. "Responsible" is intended to 
mean: required or expected to implement actions or decisions. Each Shell 
company and Shell-operated venture is responsible for its operational 
performance and compliance with the Shell General Business Principles, 
Code of Conduct, Statement on Risk Management and Risk Manual, 
and Standards and Manuals. This includes responsibility for the 
operationalisation and implementation of Shell Group strategies 
and policies.

Shell's "net carbon intensity" referred to in this Report includes Shell's 
carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our 
suppliers' carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production, 
and our customers' carbon emissions associated with their use of the 
energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of 

v

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

the term "Net Carbon Intensity" is for convenience only and not intended 
to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries.

Shell's operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a 10-year 
period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic 
environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next 
ten years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and NCI targets 
over the next 10 years. However, Shell's operating plans cannot reflect 
our 2050 net-zero emissions target, as this target is currently outside 
our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero 
emissions, we expect Shell's operating plans to reflect this movement. 
However, if society is not net zero in 2050 as of today, there would 
be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. 

Except where indicated, the figures shown in the tables in this Report are 
in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any non-controlling 
interest. However, the term "Shell share" is used for convenience to refer 
to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced, processed or sold 
through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. All of a subsidiary's 
production, processing or sales volumes (including the share of joint 
operations) are included in the Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 
100% of the subsidiary. In the case of joint ventures and associates, 
however, Shell-share figures are limited only to Shell's entitlement. In 
all cases, royalty payments in kind are deducted from the Shell share. 

Except where indicated, the figures shown in this Report are stated in 
US dollars. As used herein all references to "dollars" or "$" are to the 
US currency. 

This Report contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial 
condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements 
other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, 
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of 
future expectations that are based on management's current expectations 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking 
statements include, among other things, statements concerning the 
potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing 
management's expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and 
assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use 
of terms and phrases such as "aim", "ambition", "anticipate", "believe", 
"could", "estimate", "expect", "goals", "intend", "may", "milestones", 
"objectives", "outlook", "plan", "probably", "project", "risks", "schedule", 
"seek", "should", "target", "will" and similar terms and phrases. There are 
a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and 
could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the 
forward-looking statements included in this Report, including (without 
limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes 
in demand for Shell's products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and 
production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and 
industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks 
associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition 
properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such 
transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and 
countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal 
and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing 
climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various 
countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation 
and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, 
delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the 
reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of 
pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, regional 
conflicts, such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and a significant cyber 
security breach; and (n) changes in trading conditions. Also see "Risk 
factors" on pages 14-28 for additional risks and further discussion. No 
assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed 
previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in 
this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary 
statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not 
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-
looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report. Neither the 
Company nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly 
update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new 

About this Report continued

information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, 
results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred 
from the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. 

Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.

This Report contains references to Shell's website, the Shell Sustainability 
Report, Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution 
Report, Shell Climate and Energy Lobbying Report 2023 and our report 
on Payments to Governments. These references are for the readers' 
convenience only. Shell is not incorporating by reference into this Report 
any information posted on shell.com or in the Shell Sustainability Report, 
Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution Report, 
Shell Climate and Energy Lobbying Report or our report on Payments to 
Governments. The content of any other websites referred to in this Report 
does not form part of this Report. 

With effect from January 29, 2022, Shell's A shares and B shares 
were assimilated into a single line of ordinary shares. Shell's A and B 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) were assimilated into a single line 
of ADSs on the same date. This Report continues to refer to A shares, 
B shares, A ADSs and B ADSs when describing the position prior to 
January 29, 2022.

Shell V-Power and Shell LiveWire are Shell trademarks. 

Documents on display 
This Report is also available, free of charge, at shell.com/annualreport 
or at the offices of Shell in London, United Kingdom and The Hague, the 
Netherlands. Copies of this Report also may be obtained, free of charge, 
by mail.

vi

Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2023

Financial calendar in 2024

The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 21, 2024.

Results announcements

Interim dividend timetable

Announcement date

Ex-dividend date for SHEL ADS [D]

Ex-dividend date for SHEL ordinary shares

Record date

Closing of currency election date [E]

Pounds sterling and euro equivalents announcement date

Payment date

[A] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2023.

[B] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2024.

[C] The Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2023.

2023 Fourth 

quarter [A]

2024 First

quarter [B]

2024 Second 

quarter [B]

2024 Third 

quarter [B]

February 1

May 2

August 1

October 31

February 1 [C]

February 15

February 15

February 16

March 1

March 11

March 25

May 2

May 16

May 16

May 17

August 1

October 31

August 16

November 15

August 15

November 14

August 16

November 15

June 3

September 2

November 29

June 10

September 9

December 9

June 24

September 23

December 19

[D] On February 15, 2023, the SEC published its final rule, Shortening the Securities Transactions Settlement Cycle, reducing the standard U.S. trade settlement cycle for Depository Trust 

Company (DTC) eligible securities to T+1 from T+2 and setting the compliance date to May 28, 2024. European markets will keep the current T+2 settlement cycle. As a result, 

beginning with Q2 2024, ex-dividend date and record date for SHEL ADSs will be the same date. Ex-dividend date for SHEL shares will be a day prior to ex-dividend date for and SHEL 

ADSs. Record dates will not change. The timings of these are detailed above.

[E] A different currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. This may 

also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Shareholders can contact 

their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election deadline that applies.

Contact Us

The best way to get in touch is via the "Contact us" section of the Shell website shell.com/investors. From here questions are properly directed 

to the Shell team that can assist. In addition, we have introduced an automated question response tool to assist with the most popular 

questions that we receive and reviewed and updated the "Frequently asked Questions" section of our website to provide the most time 

efficient information for our investors.

Registered Office and HQ

Share registration

Shell plc

Shell Centre

London SE1 7NA

United Kingdom

Registered in England and Wales

Company number 4366849

Equiniti

Aspect House

Spencer Road

Lancing

West Sussex BN99 6DA

United Kingdom

0800 169 1679 

customer@equiniti.com

For online information about your holding

and to change the way you receive your

company documents:

shareview.co.uk

Investor Relations

Shell plc

PO Box 162

2501 AN The Hague

The Netherlands

or

Shell Oil Company

Investor Relations

150 N Dairy Ashford

Houston, TX 77079

USA

shell.com/investors

American Depositary Shares (ADSs)

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

Shareowner Services

P.O. Box 64504

St. Paul, MN 55164-0504

USA

USA

Overnight correspondence to:

Shareowner Services

1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101

Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100

+1 888 737 2377 (USA only)

+1 651 453 2128 (International)

Email: shareowneronline.com/informational/

contact-us/

adr.com/shareholder

Report ordering

shell.com/order

Annual Report/20-F service for

US residents

+1 888 301 0504

Check our latest news

Shell.com

  www.facebook.com/shell

  linkedin.com/company/shell

All our reports are available online at
Shell.com/annual-publications

 • Comprehensive financial information 
on our activities throughout 2023
 • Detailed information on Shell’s taxes
 • Report on our progress in contributing 

to sustainable development

 • Report on how Shell has progressed 

with its energy transition

 • Energy Transition Strategy 2024

A

n

n

u

a

l

R

e

p

o

r

t

a

n

d

A

c

c

o

u

n

t

s

f

o

r

t

h

e

y

e

a

r

e

n

d

e

d

D

e

c

e

m

b

e

r

3

1

,

2

0

2

3

R

O

Y

A

L

D

U

T

S

C

h

H

e

S

l

H

l

E

L

p

L

l

P

c

L

C

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
